SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 GR OW I NG N E W GOLD RE S P ONS I BLY New Gold is an intermediate gold mining company. The Company has a portfolio of three producing assets and three significant development projects. New Gold’s most immediate development Cerro San Pedro miners have QUESTIONS, project, New Afton, is scheduled to begin production in mid-2012 worked 475 daysOR COMMENTS with-out a Lost Time Incident. New Afton FEEDBACK? and together with the Mesquite Mine in the United States, the continues strong safety record Cerro San Pedro Mine in Mexico and Peak Gold Mines in Australia, We invite your comments about this despite report. significant To learn increase more, please in visit our the Company is forecasting between 405,000 and 445,000 ounces personal on site. website www.newgold.com or contact: sustainability@newgold.com of gold production in 2012. In addition, New Gold owns 30% of the world-class El Morro Project located in Chile and 100% of the Blackwater Project in Canada. May 2012 All currency is in United States dollars (USD) unless otherwise noted. Unless otherwise noted, tables and figures are a compilation of information from across all sites. Specific mines’ programs are described in the text section of this report. While every effort has been made to ensure accuracy of the information presented, please note that all figures are unaudited. This report includes our major achievements and highlights by our production and development projects in 2011. Contents 2 About This Report New Gold proudly presents our fourth annual Sustainability Report. 4 Growing Our Properties Our three producing mines and our three significant development projects. 6 Message from the President 23 and CEO A review of our sustainability performance in 2011 and our future goals. 8 Scorecard – Measuring Our Progress Our performance against 2011 sustainability targets and our new targets for 2012. 13 Health, Safety, Environment and Community Our approach to health, safety, environment, community, human rights and ethics. 17 Growing Our People 6 13 Our performance in occupational health and safety, emergency response, labour practices, and our policies on workplace diversity and non-discrimination. 23 Our Environmental Practices and Policies Our approach to environmental management and materials stewardship, and our performance in 2011. 37 Growing Our Communities Our commitment to engagement and interaction with local communities, and our approach to social responsibility. 43 In Closing 37 44 GRI Index 48 Third Party Application Level Check Statement 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT New Gold is proud to present our clarity and comparability, and that fourth annual Sustainability Report, a applying GRI standards demonstrates our comprehensive resource on our corporate commitment to transparent reporting, policies and achievements in the areas especially in those categories that are most of health, safety, the environment and important to our stakeholders. social responsibility. This year, we have sought to report fully This report includes a compilation of on 31 GRI 3.1 Performance Indicators, data reported by our production and including four GRI Mining and Metals development projects and highlights our Sector Supplement indicators. A GRI major achievements and challenges in Reference Table is provided at the end of 2011. This is the first Sustainability Report this report, specifying which indicators are featuring the Blackwater Project in British reported and where information pertaining Columbia (BC), Canada, which we acquired to all GRI elements can be found. in June 2011. There are no other significant An internal assurance process was changes from previous reporting periods. instituted to confirm adherence to Cerro “NewSan GoldPedro miners have is committed While each site has its own policies New Gold internal policies and external worked and procedures and works within local to long-term, disciplineda Lost 475 days with-out regulations, all follow company-wide commitments, and to ensure the reliability Time Incident. growth, within New theAfton concept of reported information. While we did not principles and commitments regarding continues strong safety record seek external assurance for this report, we of “growing responsibly”. sustainability, ethical behaviour and have engaged with Canadian Business for despite significantthat We understand increase our in responsible actions. Social Responsibility (CBSR) to provide a personal on site. success is inextricably linked All New Gold mining operations and Third Party Application Level Check of our the New Afton Project produce their report against GRI requirements. CBSR to, and that our prosperity own annual Sustainability Reports that concurs with our self-declaration that we depends on, the longprovide in-depth discussion on each site’s have achieved a GRI reporting level B. term economic, social and sustainability performance. They are made United Nations Global Compact and environmental sustainability available on the New Gold website at Other Standards and Guidelines www.newgold.com. of the communities in which New Gold is a signatory to, and business As a public company, New Gold’s participant member of, the United Nations we work and live.” financial results are audited annually (UN) Global Compact. The principles and reported on a regular basis. Our of the UN Global Compact guide our Management’s Discussion and Analysis corporate policies and principles regarding and the Annual Financial Review are human rights, labour standards, the available on our website and also via environment and anti-corruption, and set SEDAR at www.sedar.com. Less emphasis the framework for our Code of Conduct. thus has been placed on economic We are a member of the Mining performance in this report. Association of Canada (MAC) and are Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) working towards alignment with the Declaration principles of MAC’s Towards Sustainable This report strives for the Global Reporting Mining (TSM) initiative at all our sites. The Initiative (GRI) level B standard (selfTSM Guiding Principles demonstrate our declared). The GRI is an independent sector’s commitment to support advocacy, institution that has developed voluntary stewardship and collaboration. guidelines for sustainability reporting. For reporting purposes, New Gold applies We believe that GRI guidelines help us to the greenhouse gas emissions protocols maintain a high standard of transparency, of the World Resources Institute and 2 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY New Gold aims to develop safe, World Business Council for Sustainable Report Content profitable, environmentally responsible Development. New Gold is a member of Our determination on materiality is mines while ensuring local communities CBSR, a non-profit, member-led, globallybased on feedback from stakeholders, our benefit from our success. To achieve recognized organizations for corporate internal and external commitments, and this, we have adopted values that are social responsibility. the understanding of the major social, incorporated in everything we do. environmental and economic impacts of Our Stakeholders our operations and projects. INTEGRITY – Do what’s right This report is written for New Gold employees and their families, our • Safety in all we do The main topics and specific issues host communities, our shareholders, • Be honest, trustworthy and ethical discussed in this report – Health and legislators and government officials, • Demonstrate environmental and Safety, Labour Practices, Environmental analysts, suppliers to or purchasers stakeholder responsibility Stewardship, and Our Communities from our operations, and the media. Our (including socio-economic contributions CREATIVITY – Lead with innovation stakeholder groups also include traditional to host communities) – were identified • Seek continuous improvement leaders, civic, special-interest and nonas key interests of our stakeholders • Implement positive change governmental advocacy organizations through regular engagement activities • Encourage creative thinking and other interested parties. These are and from feedback we have received on • Be bold – think outside of the box individuals or organizations that can past reports and our website. With the impact, or are impacted, by our operations understanding of our stakeholders’ key COMMITMENT – Deliver and projects. interests and concerns at each site and • Do what you say you are going to do at the corporate level, and considering • Be accountable, take personal Every New Gold operation and project corporate goals as well as our commitment responsibility uses stakeholder mapping and regular to the United Nations Global Compact, the • Agree on goals and measure results engagement activities to identify and corporate Health, Safety, Environment and • Be persistent in the pursuit of our goals understand external stakeholders and how Community (HSEC) management team they are impacted by our work, and strives DEVELOP OUR EMPLOYEES – selected and prioritized the GRI Indicators to understand and address their concerns Commitment to personal development and specific issues reported this year. and interests. Using this information, • E veryone will have a development plan and based on the different needs and The GRI Reference Table at the end of this • Access to relevant training circumstances at each site, we define report also refers to material information • Regular constructive dialogue on job and implement a specific engagement which can be found in other corporate performance and development program to determine priorities, methods communications such as our financial and schedules for engagement. We also reports and website. TEAMWORK – Leverage our engage with stakeholders at the corporate collective skills Through the upcoming development of • T he whole is greater than the sum level, most notably with and through our social responsibility strategy we will of its parts international organizations and initiatives, review our process to assess materiality. • Working to common goals joint venture partners and industry The corporate HSEC team in collaboration • Trust associations. We are often approached with key internal stakeholders and the • Respect for one another by individuals and groups regarding corresponding site teams will develop • Leveraging individual contribution the various aspects of our performance a formal materiality analysis and risk corporately or at a particular site. We We work hard to keep our mine assessment process. This process will openly respond to inquiries and requests workers, contractors and corporate be the basis for the development of a for information as a means to maintain staff safe and healthy. We support framework for addressing material issues open dialogue with individual or groups them with educational and health and assigning priorities. The future who have interest in our work. benefits, environmental protection and Sustainability Report content (including We maintain a dedicated email address for indicators) will be guided by these material contributions to their communities. sustainability-related questions and feedback, issues and priorities. In 2012, we will begin to develop a social and we invite comment and suggestions at responsibility strategy. We will refine our sustainability@newgold.com. vision, priority and goals. 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 G R O W I N G O U R P R O P E RT I E S BLACKWATER – Exploration/Development Project 100% New Gold Southwest of Prince George, BC, Canada 66 employees Potential open pit, gold, silver mine NEW AFTON – Development Project 100% New Gold West of Kamloops, BC, Canada 385 employees Underground copper, gold and silver mine Start-up scheduled for mid-2012 MESQUITE – Operation 100% New Gold Imperial County, CA (Northwest of Yuma, AZ), USA 279 employees Open pit, run-of-mine, heap-leach gold mine In production since 2008 CERRO SAN PEDRO – Operation 100% New Gold Cerro San Pedro (Northeast of San Luis Potosí), Mexico 435 employees Open pit, run-of-mine, heap-leach gold and silver mine In production since 2007 EL MORRO – Development Project 30% New Gold, 70% Goldcorp Inc. (operator) East of Vallenar, Northern Chile No New Gold employees Open pit copper and gold project – in development For Corporate Social Responsibility information regarding El Morro, see http://csr.goldcorp.com PEAK GOLD MINES – Operation 100% New Gold Cobar, New South Wales, Australia 297 employees Underground gold and copper mine In production since 1992 4 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROPERTY STATUS LEGEND Production Development 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 M essage from the president and ceo Growing New Gold RESPONSIBLY At New Gold, we know that our growth and success depend on the long-term economic, social and environmental sustainability of each of the communities in which we work and live. We continually strive to be welcomed This year’s reporting standards have Cerro San Pedro miners “We continually seek new have in our host communities, through ensured consistency across our operations, worked 475 days with-out a our Lost our contributions to their social and in greater compliance with the Global strategies for enhancing economic growth and our respect for Reporting Initiative. Time Incident. New environmental Afton performance, cultural and environmental values. This continues includingstrong safetytorecord programs report demonstrates our commitment to Health and Safety despite significant increase in Throughout the Company we are committed improve energy efficiency, disclosing our challenges as well as our to promoting and protecting the welfare of personal on site. achievements in labour, health and safety, reduce our carbon footprint our employees through safety-first work the environment and community relations. and minimize our use of practices, staff training, and equitable One of the year’s major accomplishments hiring and development practices. In water and other resources.” was the formulation of “15 Guiding all significant areas our safety records Principles of Health and Safety, improved in 2011. For more information Environment and Community”. These see page 17. There were no fatalities, principles establish company-wide and reportable and lost time accident guidelines to ensure our business frequencies decreased. We created a contributes lasting benefits to society new position, Corporate Director of by considering the health, safety, social, Occupational Health and Safety, with a environmental, ethical and economic mandate to define, implement and monitor implications of our decisions and activities. company-wide systems and standards For details see page 14. for accident prevention. We have also committed to achieving certification This year we are able to provide four years at all sites under the International of metrics, allowing comparison of our Standards Organization (ISO) 14001 performance as the Company has grown. 6 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT environmental management system as Conservancy of Canada through a covenant At Cerro San Pedro, we reached clarity well as the Occupational Health and Safety registered on 260 hectares of the historic on the long-standing, complex land-use Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 health Philip Ranch. dispute. A land use plan for Cerro de San and safety standard. Pedro has been developed through an In 2011, we acquired the Blackwater open and transparent process, designating I would like to recognize two of our Project in British Columbia. We have taken the land where we may operate to extract operations for their excellent safety significant steps to ensure this project resources. In August 2011, we received records: Cerro San Pedro recorded no is developed with high environmental approval for a new Environmental Impact lost-time accidents in the past year and standards and best practices in biodiversity Statement. This provides legal certainty on New Afton recorded only one. New Afton management. We started a cone collection the mine’s ability to operate continuously. deserves special mention because it is an system as part of the Whitebark Pine underground project where the majority of Management Plan for seedling propagation Our Future employees are new to the mining industry. and re-establishment of this vulnerable Our goals for the near future – in addition species. We also modified the exploration to making progress toward ISO 14001 In last year’s report I announced a companyprogram to protect an adjacent protected and OHSAS 18001 certification at all wide safety audit and gap analysis, which area, and established a Northern Caribou operations, and ICMC certification at was completed in 2011. I also announced Management Plan. Peak and Cerro San Pedro – will be that we would standardize our safety to develop a company-wide social practices and procedures across all Community responsibility strategy that includes operations. This continues under our new We continue to expend significant priorities, goals and evaluation metrics and Director of Occupational Health and Safety. resources to maintain and strengthen our is aligned with the ISO 26000 (Guidance community engagement; our progress Environment Standard on Social Responsibility). This is described on page 37 to 42. We will We continually seek new strategies to strategy will help us focus and improve advance the Blackwater Project through enhance our environmental performance performance in the medium and long term. technical and economic assessment along by reducing our carbon footprint and As CEO, I remain committed to the ten with a comprehensive permitting process. our consumption of energy, water and principles of the UN Global Compact and Central to any approval will be meaningful other resources. We maintain progressive I look forward to continued improvements consultation with the First Nations whose reclamation and re-vegetation activities, to our corporate culture of safety, respect traditional territories overlap the project including the rehabilitation of historic and responsibility to each other, our area or may be impacted by the project. mining areas. Details on each operation’s communities and the environment. Since our first days at Blackwater, we performance are on page 24 to 35. have been actively engaged with the First Everyone, in every New Gold operation, As a gold producer, we are always alert Nations. With the lessons learned at our has contributed to our collective efforts in to the hazards of cyanide and the need New Afton Project, where we worked with health, safety, environmental stewardship for continuous vigilance in its storage, the Tk’emlúps and Skeetchestn Bands to and socio-economic sustainability, and management and use. I am pleased to develop a mutually beneficial Participation I extend my gratitude to them all for our report that in 2011 the Mesquite Mine Agreement, we are now in discussions continued high standards of performance. achieved certification with the voluntary and with the First Nations near Blackwater rigorous International Cyanide Management to establish agreements that will cover Code (ICMC). We expect that both Cerro many aspects of our relationship, from Sincerely, San Pedro and Peak Gold Mines will achieve employment and training, to contracting certification by no later than 2013. opportunities, educational programs and more. In 2011, New Afton made a significant financial contribution to the creation of At New Afton, we worked with the the Warner Philip Conservation Area in Tk’emlúps and Skeetchestn Bands to Robert Gallagher the rolling native grasslands of the Nicola review the Participation Agreement, President and CEO, New Gold Inc. Valley in the Thompson Okanagan Region updated some terms, and mutually signed of British Columbia. The Conservation for an extended duration. Area was established under the Nature 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 P rogress S corecard Measuring our Progress Priorities Our Target 2011 • Continue to increase gold production and improve margins. • Advance New Afton towards production in mid-2012. • Continue to evaluate and act upon strategic acquisition opportunities. Economic Corporate Strategy • Continue to demonstrate the application of HSEC policy objectives. Policy • Report on 20 or more GRI performance indicators. Metrics • Continue our commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact. Standards & •P  rogressively certify operations under the International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC). Guidelines • Strive for zero harm. Health & Safety • Identify improvement opportunities via third-party safety assessments. • Attract the best, the brightest, and the most qualified candidates. Our People Employment •C  ontinue to reinforce the value of teamwork and personal responsibility for safety and productivity. Teamwork •B  roaden economic diversification opportunity through local purchases, Our educational programs and enterprise initiatives. Economic Impacts Communities 8 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We have achieved 13 of the 16 2011 targets. Two targets were partially achieved and one was not achieved. We have set new targets for most priorities and expect that in 2012 our Scorecard categories will be revised. Our Performance 2011 Our Target 2012 Achieved. Starting in 2012, our sustainability reporting will focus on Gold production increased by 4,244 ounces to 387,155 in 2011, economic impacts and will not include targets for corporate representing the Company’s highest ever annual production. economic performance. The average realized margin for 2011 was $1,014 per ounce, up 30% from the 2010 average realized margin of $776 per ounce. New Afton is on track to start production mid-2012. Blackwater Project acquired in June 2011. Achieved. Advance in our commitment to UN Global Compact by Application of HSEC policy objectives have been demonstrated in developing Human Rights policy. accomplishments discussed throughout this report. Partially achieved. Achieve Level B GRI Reporting. An independent review determined that 17 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Performance Indicators were fully reported, and 10 were partially reported. Achieved. Advance New Gold towards alignment to ISO 26000 Our UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (Guidance Standard on Social Responsibility). was submitted. Progress Cerro San Pedro and Peak towards ICMC certification Mesquite achieved ICMC certification. Cerro San Pedro and in 2013. Peak completed pre-certification audit requirements. Partially achieved. Implement the standard safety system at all sites while Zero harm not achieved. achieving a 10% year on year reduction in Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate and an 85% completion of target leading Third party safety assessment completed. indicators during the second through fourth quarters of the year. Achieved. Implement performance and development plans for 90% New Afton’s training partnership with the BC Aboriginal Mining of employees. Training Association resulted in almost 40 Aboriginal people trained for the operation and 80 new hires. In December 2011 New Afton reached 107 Aboriginal employees – more than 25% of employees. At Blackwater, we increased the workforce by 100% since taking ownership of the project. Achieved. Continue to reinforce the value of teamwork and personal Intra-site meetings facilitate best practice improvement for health responsibility for safety and productivity. and safety, human resources and operational performance. Cerro San Pedro, New Afton and Peak’s mine rescue teams were awarded for their competition performance. Achieved. Develop Cerro San Pedro Sustainable Development Program. New Afton preferentially purchased services from local First Nations bands. In 2011, payments were made to over 20 Secwépemc businesses totalling nearly $7.0 million. The Cobar Enterprise Facilitation initiative at Peak continued to provide knowledge and support to create new small businesses and expand existing ones. 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 P rogress S corecard Measuring our Progress (continued) Priorities Our Target 2011 •P  repare and make available sustainability reports from all sites to their local stakeholders. Further promote interactive engagement with all Our Communities Engagement stakeholders. •S  olicit local community feedback to further improve the effectiveness of procedures to receive and address their concerns and suggestions. Complaints •C  ontinue to reinforce all-incidents reporting and root-cause analysis, to improve environmental awareness and emergency response. Incidents •C  ontinue to seek water conservation opportunities through improvements in technology and operating practices. Water •C  ontinue additional energy efficiency assessment and implementation of practical conservation initiatives. Energy Our Environment •C  ontinue assessment with some GHG reduction expected from energy conservation initiatives. GREEN HOUSE GASES (GHG) •C  ontinue to identify opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle nonprocess waste streams. WASTE MANAGEMENT •C  ontinue progressive reclamation whenever disturbed land becomes available. RECLAMATION 10 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Performance 2011 Our Target 2012 Achieved. Update stakeholder maps of all operations. Site sustainability reports published by Cerro San Pedro, Develop stakeholder map for Blackwater. Mesquite, New Afton and Peak. Community engagement facilitated by public meetings, open houses and newsletters. Achieved. Formalize external grievance procedures at New Afton Peak’s complaints hot line received no complaints in 2011. and Mesquite. Community feedback at Peak’s annual community meeting and Open House continue to be very positive. A grievance mechanism established and is operational at Cerro San Pedro. Achieved. Review and update all sites’ risk registries. No major incidents. Moderate incidents declined from four to three spill incidents. Minor incidents increased at New Afton with increased development activity. Achieved. Identify targets and build plans into budget cycle for 2013. Investigations at all sites pursued water conservation efficiencies through process improvements and re-use potential. At Cerro San Pedro, over 800 m3 of local domestic wastewater was treated and used for irrigation or by local wildlife using strategically placed watering containers. Achieved. Identify targets and build plans into budget cycle for 2013. Energy conservation projects implemented at Mesquite, Peak and New Afton. Energy audit completed at Cerro San Pedro. Not achieved. Identify targets and build plans into budget cycle for 2013. We continue to assess opportunities for GHG reductions. However, GHG emissions from direct fuel consumption increased 16.9% due to development activity. Indirect GHG emissions from purchased power increased 2.9%. Achieved. Identify targets and build plans into budget cycle for 2013. Recycling opportunities continued to be identified at all sites. While volume of used oil recycle declined 19.4% from 2010, other non-process materials recycle increased by 36.4% with decreased quantities only experienced at Peak. Achieved. Continue progressive reclamation whenever disturbed land Legacy site reclamation performed at Peak and New Afton and becomes available. planned at Cerro San Pedro. Cerro San Pedro reforested nearly 63 hectares in Monte Caldera, planting over 68,000 plants. The on-site nursery has produced over 135,000 plants of various species. 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 Peak’s Senior Environmental Officer with a Kultarr, a native and endangered species in New South Wales. Health, safety, environment and community New Gold owns and operates businesses in several countries, each with their own unique cultures. By the nature of our business, our activities have an effect on people, the environment and their communities. As stated in our Health, Safety, At New Gold, our Health, Safety, Cerro “We have San Pedro miners have an overriding Environment and Community (HSEC) Environment and Community objectives worked commitment475 daysto with-out a Lost sustainable Policy, we have an overriding commitment are guided by our HSEC Policy. Time Incident. New Afton to sustainable development. We seek development.” to ensure that our business contributes In 2011, we defined 15 HSEC Guiding continues strong safety record Principles to provide a risk-based HSEC lasting benefits to society through the despite significant increase in management system framework. These consideration of health, safety, social, principles provide a clear direction for the personal on site. environmental, ethical and economic development and application of HSEC aspects in all our decisions and activities. management systems at all levels in In this section we discuss our management New Gold. Although HSEC matters are approach to HSEC and Human Rights and interrelated and co-dependent, we recognize Ethics, and our performance regarding that the skills and processes required to these topics. We also discuss New Gold’s manage issues may vary according to the social responsibility governance and context. In 2012, we will disseminate the compliance with laws and regulations. Guiding Principles and plan for NEW GOLD HEALTH, SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY POLICY Our corporate responsibility objectives are to: • m aintain a responsible mine closure plan that considers the • operate in a responsible manner future needs of the local communities • minimize the environmental impact of our operations • continuously improve our health, safety and environmental • ensure the health and safety of our employees, contractors and systems by establishing and reviewing our objectives and targets visitors to the workplace through evaluation, auditing and development of performance • prevent pollution and practice the progressive rehabilitation of improvement plans affected areas • educate and train our employees and contractors and inform • demonstrate our commitment to fostering sustainable surrounding communities to promote the application of Health, communities Safety, Environment and Community principles • seek and adopt sustainable practices in the use of natural To achieve these objectives, every New Gold resources taking into consideration the protection of the local operation will: and regional biodiversity where we operate • a pply a proactive risk management approach using best practices • maximize the reuse of materials and recycling of waste and appropriate to the local conditions and needs that will meet our minimize the use of consumables and raw materials legal obligations at a minimum • promote economic prosperity in our surrounding communities, • identify and engage with our stakeholders and work to take their both during and post mining operations, by fostering local views, customs and culture into account throughout the life entrepreneurship cycle of the operation 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 H ealth , S afety, E nvironment and community implementation across the organization and Management Approach to Human authorizations. Regular communication review and update the current HSEC policy, Rights and Ethics takes place between the mine management which was created in 2009. Following the guidance of the UN Global responsible for security personnel and the Compact and in observation of the local police authorities. The Guiding Principles of Health and Safety, Voluntary Principles on Security and Environment and Community will provide New Gold’s Code of Business Conduct and Human Rights, New Gold respects guidance in these 15 key areas: Ethics reflects the principles under which internationally proclaimed human rights, we conduct our business. All employees of 1. Leadership and accountability and strives to ensure that we are not New Gold and its subsidiaries must review 2. Legal requirements, commitments and complicit in human rights abuses. the Code and confirm compliance annually. document control For our business, we consider as the key Our corporate Whistleblower Policy 3. Risk and change management human rights concerns the areas of provides a confidential email address which 4. Planning, goals and targets non-discrimination, freedom of association any employee can use to communicate a 5. Awareness, competence and behaviour and collective bargaining, indigenous rights concern or complaint, and expect a timely and security practices. We discuss the first 6. Health and hygiene response, with the assurance that there will two concerns under Labour Practices. Most 7. Communication, consultation be no retribution or negative consequences. of our sites are in proximity to, or within and participation The Policy is available on our website at indigenous traditional territories and there www.newgold.com. 8. Business conduct, human rights have been no incidents of violations and community involving indigenous rights reported. HSEC Governance 9. Design, construction and The Board of Directors (“Board”) has Since our sites mine, process and store commissioning the responsibility for the overall gold, we require security services for the 10. Operations and maintenance stewardship of the conduct of the business safety of our employees and the public, of New Gold and the activities of 11. Suppliers, contractors and partners and for the prevention of theft. A small management. The Board’s fundamental 12. Stewardship number of security personnel, often from objectives are to enhance and preserve private security providers, are retained in 13. Incident reporting and investigation long-term shareholder value, to ensure each operation solely for this purpose. All 14. Crisis management and emergency that the Company meets its obligations protection programs are legally established response plans on an ongoing basis and that the Company and documented by federal agencies 15. Monitoring, audit and review operates in a reliable and safe manner. according to their licences, permits or In performing its functions, the Board THE United Nations GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Environment  1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of  7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights, and environmental challenges, 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental  responsibility, and Labour 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally  3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the  friendly technologies. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour,  Anti-Corruption  10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 5 the effective abolition of child labour, and  including extortion and bribery. 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment  and occupation. 14 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT also considers the legitimate interests of At the corporate level, the HSEC Department NEW GOLD CODE OF BUSINESS its other stakeholders such as employees, has, to date, had the responsibility for CONDUCT AND ETHICS customers and impact on local Health, Safety, Environment and Community communities. Details on the Board’s impacts and initiatives, targets, and members and New Gold’s governance performance management. Starting in 2012, practices are available on our website. a Director of Occupational Health and Safety will take the responsibility for health and The Board is responsible for developing safety. Each operation and project is appropriate measures for receiving supported by professional staff to enable shareholder feedback, and holds an Annual the operating teams to perform their tasks Meeting of Shareholders, during which time in a manner that respects the expectations is made available for shareholders to direct of our investors, local communities, questions to the Chairman and the regulators and other stakeholders. President and Chief Executive Officer. New Afton’s Health and Safety Administrative Shareholders are also encouraged to contact Compliance with Laws Assistant. In December 2011, more than 25% the Corporate Secretary in writing regarding and Regulations of New Afton’s employees were Aboriginal. any feedback or concern they wish to In 2011, there were no instances of communicate to the Board. In addition, the significant fines or non-monetary sanctions The Code describes the standards Investor Relations department manages for non-compliance with laws and and behaviour New Gold expects dialogue with current and prospective regulations. Safety citations at the of its people, including: shareholders on a regular basis. Mesquite Mine (“Mesquite”) resulted in • honest and ethical conduct about $22,000 paid in fines in 2011. We • accurate and transparent disclosure The Board’s Compensation Committee is • compliance with applicable laws, rules have not had any legal actions against the responsible for implementing and and regulations Company for anticompetitive behaviour. overseeing human resources and compensation policies and ensures that At the Cerro San Pedro Mine (“Cerro San The Code applies to a range of our executive compensation structure is Pedro”), a land use dispute that goes back issues relevant to New Gold’s linked to our social responsibility several years was resolved in 2011. A land business, including: performance. Performance against annual use plan for Cerro San Pedro has been • conflicts of interest HSEC targets is considered by the developed through an open and • confidential information Committee during an annual executive transparent process, clearly designating • use of Company resources compensation review. the land that we are entitled to utilize for • reporting violations (whistleblowing) resource extraction purposes. The overall purpose of the Health, Safety, New Gold expects employees to: Environment and Corporate Social • u nderstand the requirements of Responsibility Committee is to review and their position monitor the health, safety, environmental • comply with the Code and all policies and sustainable development of applicable laws, rules and regulations the Company on behalf of the Board. • report any violation of the Code The Committee may investigate any • be accountable for complying with activity of the Company that relates to the Code sustainable development, impact on local communities, environment, health and In the next few years, we will be safety. The Committee has access to such working towards a comprehensive officers and employees of the Company review of our existing corporate policies and to independent consultants and and associated compliance programs advisors, and to such information to ensure these principles are respecting the Company as it considers implemented at every operation. Our necessary in order to perform its duties highest priorities are policies and and responsibilities. practices that govern human rights, business ethics and anti-corruption. 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 A member of the New Gold corporate exploration team at Blackwater. We have increased the workforce by 100% since taking ownership of the project. Growing our people Our people – both employees and contractors – are our greatest asset and the core of our success. We depend on skilled, hard-working and empowered people to contribute to our business, and in return we seek to maintain a safety-first culture in which everyone is motivated to do the right thing to keep themselves and their colleagues healthy and injury-free. We also treat people fairly and without in 2012. An internal website has been Cerro “We treat San Pedro peopleminers fairly haveand discrimination, with full regard for created to share HSEC documentation worked human rights and the principles of the and “best practices” and a Director has without discrimination,awith 475 days with-out Lost UN Global Compact. been hired to manage the coordination Time Incident. full regard forNew human Aftonrights and implementation of the “HSEC Guiding continues strong and the principles of the safety record This section discusses New Gold’s Principles” and the findings of the audit. despite significant increase in performance in occupational health and UN Global Compact.” safety, emergency response, and labour The table below lists the safety key personal on site. practices, including our policies on performance indicators and provides workplace diversity and non-discrimination. definitions of terms used. These statistics have been revised from previous years’ Health and Safety Performance reports to meet appropriate industry In 2011, an external health and safety standards. Lost-Time Injuries (LTI) and Total audit was conducted by Safety Solutions Reportable Injuries (TRI) increased from International (SSI). Its findings and 2010 while the corresponding frequency recommendations for improvement rates (LTIFR and TRIFR) decreased due have been reviewed, and we are in the to an overall increase in the quantity of process of developing a framework for the workers and hours worked in 2011. implementation of its recommendations Table 1: Operational Safety Statistics(1) Indicators 2011 2010 2009 2008(2) Lost-Time Injuries (LTI) 16 15 21 17 Fatalities 0 1 0 0 Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (3) 0.68 0.85 1.22 0.84 Total Reportable Injuries (TRI) 124 96 80 97 Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) (4) 5.25 5.42 4.66 4.81 Total Number of Employees and Contractors (5) 2,105 1,463 1,281 1,293 1. Cerro San Pedro and the New Afton Project commenced reporting in October 2008. Mesquite operations commenced reporting in June 2009. The Blackwater Project commenced reporting in August 2011. The 2010 Sustainability Report included data on All Injuries (AI) and All-Injuries Frequency Rate (AIFR). Beginning this year we are reporting the Total Reportable Injuries (TRI) and Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) to better align with industry standards. TRI includes LTI, Restricted Duties Injury (RDI), and Medical Treatment Injury (MTI). The term AI and AIFR captures TRI’s plus First Aid incidents. 2. Some of the 2008 previously reported injury statistics were based on erroneous information. These have been corrected in this report. New Gold regrets the error. 3. Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is the number of lost-time injuries per 200,000 hours worked. (Lost-Time Injuries x 200,000 hours) ÷ total hours worked. 4. Total Reportable Injuries Frequency Rate (TRIFR) is the number of injuries per 200,000 hours worked. (Lost-Time Injuries + Medical Treatment Injuries + Restricted Duty Injuries) x 200,000 hours ÷ total hours worked. 5. Includes employees and contractors at all sites and corporate offices as well as corporate exploration team. 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 G rowing O ur people Mesquite’s Health and Safety Coordinator leads a Mine Safety and Health (MSHA) refresher course. Mesquite we maintain a strict Health and Safety promoting a culture of safety through Mesquite’s Health and Wellness programs program that applies to all operational team and individual behaviours, supported continue to grow in participation, greatly staff. Health and Safety procedures, by formal training in investigation and surpassing regulatory requirements regulations and requirements are analysis and safety and risk perception and industry standards. Observation, embodied in our Integrated Management coaching programs. inspection and auditing systems continue Policy. The Health and Safety program In 2011, we improved the “Lock Out to ensure compliance and continuing sets guidelines for Zero Tolerance, Tag Out” procedure that adds a level of improvement allows us to maintain an Safety Training, Adherence to Standards, safety during inspection or maintenance. enviable safety record. While reporting has Regulations and Safety, and Teamwork. To facilitate access to physiotherapy, we continued to improve and increase in 2011, The guidelines are equally enforceable for commissioned a physiotherapist to be incident investigation and remediation contractors and employees. available on site three days per week, which has become a key focus. Significant In 2011, Cerro San Pedro completed its means that employees can be treated accomplishments for 2011 included the pre-audit towards ICMC certification, which without a three-hour drive to the office of introduction of an innovative wellness will further protect the health and safety the nearest practitioner. project that incorporates metabolic testing of workers. and personal training and sit/stand height New Afton adjustable ergonomic workstations. Peak At the New Afton Project (“New Afton”), At Peak Gold Mines (“Peak”), the Health, the Health & Safety Department provides Mesquite commenced Safety Management Safety & Training Department provides essential safety training and support to all Systems certification under OHSAS 18001 advice, services and support. It is focused departments. A formal site risk assessment and implemented an enhanced regulatory on proactive safety measures including recognized high-level risks and identified compliance program for contractors. hazard reporting, safe-act observations, strategies for risk reduction. The focus on We also implemented higher standards corrective action completions and training near-miss and hazard reporting helped for reporting all health and safety key audits. Peak also provided education on contribute to holding our Total Reportable performance indicators. occupational injury prevention, such as Injury Frequency Rate to the same level as Cerro San Pedro workstation setup and exercise programs. last year, even while work hours increased Cerro San Pedro is committed to by almost a million hours. New Afton’s We understand we need to improve our continuous improvement of accidentsafety commitment was recognized with health and safety performance at Peak, prevention practices, and as a result the “Lowest Lost Time Injuries for a Large and in 2011 we continued to develop and the mine is one of the safest in Mexico. Underground Mine” award from the British improve our health and safety systems, To achieve a zero-accident workplace, Columbia Ministry of Mines. A gap audit 18 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Cerro San Pedro provides medical assistance to 10 neighbouring communities. In 2011, there were over 3,000 doctors’ visits, a 32% increase from 2010. was completed against OHSAS 18001 Mesquite Our medical facilities operate 24/7 with a standards and a bench marking audit was Mesquite maintains a specially trained team of two doctors and four nurses, and completed against the health and safety Mine Emergency Rescue Team, which we have a fully equipped ambulance on site. systems at other New Gold sites. includes certified Emergency Responders In September 2011, Cerro San Pedro and Emergency Responder Instructors who Blackwater participated for the third time in the are trained in the use of Jaws of Life and No Lost Time Injuries were recorded to National Competition of Mine Rescue Self Contained Breathing Apparatus. All New Gold employees at the Blackwater Teams organized by the Mexican Chamber employees and contractors are trained Project (“Blackwater”). Four Lost Time of Mines, winning three third-place awards. in cardiopulmonary resuscitation, Injuries among contractors were recorded automatic external defibrillation and first Peak in the first two months of activity aid. In 2011, our emergency response At Peak, two dedicated training officers after we acquired the project. With the capabilities increased to include retrieval maintain a high level of emergency implementation of the New Gold system, and extrication from heavy equipment, preparedness through general and no other injuries occurred in the remainder light vehicles and debris piles. specialist training. The programs range of the year. We have developed and from site access inductions, hazard implemented a Medical Conditions and Cerro San Pedro identification and risk assessment, to Medications tracking system for all onsite Cerro San Pedro’s emergency teams industrial and occupational first aid, employees, and an onsite fitness and maintain a continuous state of emergency confined space entry, basic firefighting, wellness program at the exploration camp. preparedness through ongoing training in computer skills and various equipment All employees and contractors participate first aid, evacuation, control and firefighting. operation certifications. in a health, safety, and environmental Members from all work areas are trained and induction program. drilled in various risk scenarios, so we have This year we increased our supply of closed the capacity to respond to the circumstances circuit Breathing Apparatus (BioPacks) Emergency Response that may arise, including hazardous and onsite to 15, which means we have While every New Gold site manages its waste material handling, spill management, equipment for two rescue teams of six, own programs, all operate under the personal injury and disabilities. We maintain ready to be deployed at all times. We can guidelines and policies of the Corporate good relationships with the local Red Cross, also train staff on breathing apparatus Crisis Management Plan, which meets Civil Protection and Fire Department and without compromising the availability of international standards for Incident we run many of our training and refresher rescue equipment. Command and Control. courses with their support. 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 G rowing O ur people Peak is a major sponsor of the New South a result of our competitive wages and Wales Mines Rescue Challenge, which benefits and our policies of recognizing is held every two years. We were well and rewarding employee performance and represented in the 2011 competition, with promoting from within. members competing in Underground Salary reviews are conducted annually at Search and Rescue, Road Crash Rescue, all our operations, except at Peak, where Ropes Rescue, Multi-Casualty First Aid, these are conducted twice a year in order Fire Rescue and Leadership. Our team to remain competitive in the Australian tied for first in the Underground Search mining industry employment market. and Rescue Event and were awarded the Salary reviews are supported by surveys Encouragement Award for Ropes Rescue. published in each of our locations by New Afton reputable human resources consulting New Afton’s Emergency Response was firms, movements in relevant cost of enhanced with the addition of a new Fire living indices, budget constraints, job & Mine Rescue Chief and 18 new team performance and years of experience. members were certified in Underground Our commitment to fair and equitable Mine Rescue. New surface firefighting labour practices extends through every equipment was procured and training facet of our operations. We adhere to initiated in surface emergency response. the labour principles of the UN Global Our team again competed, with good Compact and have identified employee performances, at the annual BC Mine development and teamwork as corporate New Afton’s team won the 2011 BC Mine Rescue competition, winning the Overall values. We strive to include all levels of Rescue Overall Underground Trophy. Underground Mine Rescue Trophy. The employees in decision-making processes competition simulates real-life situations and have never experienced strikes or and tests skills in first aid, extrication, lockouts at our operations. firefighting, rope work and general mine rescue knowledge. The most senior position with operational responsibility for labour aspects at New Blackwater Gold is our Vice President of Human At Blackwater, we have established an Resources. He works collaboratively with emergency helicopter landing area and other departments to support a safe have a site-specific Emergency Response workplace, workplace diversity, equal Plan, in which all site personnel have compensation and fair labour practices. been trained. Training and Development Management Approach We strive to have every one of our Cerro San Pedro “We strive miners to create have a culture To Labour Practices employees develop a performance and worked 475 days with-out a Lost Our Company is the sum total of our of inclusivity and acceptance employees’ strengths. We strive to create professional development plan with Time – of Incident. New cultural gender, race, Afton short-term and long-term goals, which are a culture of inclusivity and acceptance – continues background, strong agesafety and record religion of gender, race, cultural background, age reviewed regularly and assessed yearly. despite Our employees have access to training – that begins at the top, in significant increase and religion – that begins at the top, and opportunities to support their roles and personal on site. carries through hiring, promotion and and carries through hiring, develop their careers. Specialized training worker-to-worker relationships. In each promotion and worker-toof our host communities we are generally is provided to operating personnel and worker relationships.” contractors, depending on their job recognized as an employer of choice as 20 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT requirements for skills training, compliance The Cerro San Pedro Mine is an example with standards, and safety regulations. of our efforts to address discrimination, Health and safety training is critical in all diversity and equity. The operation employs operations and projects and is reviewed ten people with disabilities, 16 single regularly for continuous improvement. mothers and 11 seniors. The operation was recognized in 2009 as an “Inclusive Workplace Diversity, Company” by the State Government of Non-Discrimination and Equity San Luis Potosí, and was endorsed as a New Gold does not discriminate on the “Socially Responsible Company” by the basis of race, religion, ethnicity, national Mexican Centre for Philanthropy (CEMEFI) origin, gender, age, sexual orientation, in 2010 and 2011. citizenship, veteran status, marital status or disability. Harassment, including Collective Bargaining and sexual, physical and verbal, is prohibited. Freedom of Association Despite our efforts, in 2011, there were At all New Gold operations, workers two U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity enjoy the right to freedom of association Commission (EEOC) complaints of as provided by applicable labour law. We New Afton’s First Nations Coordinator leads a presentation about the Participation discrimination at Mesquite. In both do not believe that the right to exercise Agreement during a Board of Directors’ visit. cases, investigations followed (first court freedom of association and collective appearances will occur in 2012) and have bargaining is at significant risk at any of our been reviewed by management. We take sites or within the operations of any of our these incidents very seriously. At Mesquite, suppliers. As of December 2011, 300 Cerro harassment avoidance training is provided San Pedro’s employees were covered by a to all employees in leadership positions. collective bargaining agreement (about Communications materials on our anti20% of New Gold’s employees). discrimination policy are posted in highly visible areas at the mine site including information on mechanisms for individuals to make complaints internally as well as externally to regulators. The global mining industry faces significant challenges in increasing the participation of women in its workforce. Historically women have had lower participation rates than men in mining-related education programs and occupations, as well as in executive positions in this sector. New Gold supports gender diversity in the workplace and ensures that gender plays no factor in salary and bonus calculations, but we recognize that this is a challenge for us as well. 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 In the community of Monte Caldera, Cerro San Pedro has reforested nearly 63 hectares with nearly 69,000 plants. Our environmental practices and policies As our projects develop and our mines increase production, we as a corporation inevitably consume more water, energy and other resources. In all our operations we place a high priority on increasing the efficiency of our processes, minimizing our energy consumption, reducing our carbon footprint, reducing our material consumption and minimizing water use as well as recycling or reusing our wastes. We take great care to minimize the effect complete, our objective is to restore the Cerro San Pedro “We apply miners have a precautionary, our dust and noise has on our neighbours, land to an adequate level of productivity worked 475 risk-management days with-out a Lost and at all times seek to protect the species and to support sustainable land use. proactive – plant and animal – that are native to the Time Incident. New Afton approach to safeguarding We apply a precautionary, proactive riskareas of our operations. When a mine, or continues strong safety record the environment.” section of mined land is no longer used for management approach to safeguarding despite significant increase in the environment. At New Gold, we mining we begin progressive reclamation require our sites to report internally every personal on site. to restore the disturbed land. environmental event that is outside of This section describes our approach to normal operating procedures, regardless environmental management and provides of its magnitude or its regulatory details on the performance of every New significance. Our HSEC Corporate Gold mine and development project, from Reporting Standard includes an Incident water, energy and waste management, Reporting and Ranking Table. Incidents to dust and noise control, and are ranked catastrophic, major, moderate, biodiversity management. Our approach minor and insignificant based on severity to materials stewardship (including and consequence. cyanide management), closure plans and Beginning in 2012, we will implement reclamation activities is also discussed. the HSEC “15 Guiding Principles” to Approach to govern decision-making across our Environmental Management operations. Our target is to have each At every stage of the mining life cycle, New of our operations certified against ISO Gold’s operations apply best practices in 14001 by the end of 2013 to ensure that we environmental management. From the have adopted a consistent, internationally earliest site investigations, we carry out recognized audited approach to comprehensive environmental studies environmental management across our to establish baseline measurements for operations. In 2011, Cerro San Pedro was flora, fauna, land, air and water. During recertified to ISO 14001 for 2011-2014. operations we promote the efficient use of Working with the appropriate government resources, work to minimize environmental agencies, partners and key stakeholders, impacts and maintain robust monitoring we ensure that our activities meet or programs, including groundwater and exceed their requirements. Should any air quality. After mining activities are 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 our environmental practices and policies incidents occur, we are committed to Water Management prompt reporting and remedial measures to Water management is a prime concern prevent or minimize environmental impacts. for any mining or processing operation All-incident reporting is encouraged as a key and for its neighbours. Our objective, at factor in monitoring and management for every New Gold mine or development continuing improvement. property, is to minimize water use through efficient design, appropriate technologies and employee training, and to conserve as much water as possible through recycling, re-use and treatment. Table 2: Water Use, All Sites(1) Water Use 2011 2010 2009 2008 Raw process water (cubic metres) 4,607,260(2) 3,514,884 2,045,615 1,321,583 1. Does not include Blackwater given limitations of 2011 water data collection. 2. Includes 48,820 m3 surface water, 4,113,640 m3 ground water, and 444,800 m3 municipal water and other water utilities. Includes estimated value from New Afton because of a data measuring equipment fault in the first seven months of 2011. Does not include rainwater. The vast majority of water is sourced from the Peak and New Cobar operations, and groundwater wells with surface water stored at Fort Bourke Hill and at a recycledsupply limited to New Afton. Rainwater water dam. The dam, plus a recycled-water tends to be scarce at all of our mining overflow dam have a combined capacity of operations and its use is limited as 96,000 m3. evaporation often exceeds precipitation. We use recycled water from the dam at an Water application is required for dust average rate of 301,000 m3 per year, which control on the mine haul roads. We Environmental staff monitor Peak’s water is approximately 85% of the water pumped dam fortnightly to ensure it is adequate apply dust suppressants to the roads to from underground. In 2012, we plan to for recycling. minimize the evaporative loss. The steady improve our water management with increase in water consumption reflects installation of water-flow meters around our growing number of properties and the the site. overall increase in ore processing in 2011, particularly at Cerro San Pedro. Cerro San Pedro Water usage in 2011 was higher than Mesquite previous years mainly due to increased We minimize the process evaporative mineral processing. Lower levels of rainfall losses through monitoring of solution limited our ability to collect it for dust application and recycling of process control and process use. An estimated solutions. While we are generally successful 124,100 m3 of rainwater was available for in our efforts to manage traffic and dust this use. generation, dust suppressants cannot be applied safely on steeper inclines so routine In 2011, we made significant investments in water application is essential. In 2011, improving our mineral recovery processes approximately 67% of extracted ground to reduce our water consumption per tonne water was used for dust control. of ore processed. Water flows through a closed circuit with no discharges. The Peak only water loss is due to the leach pile Efficient water management is critical in retention and the high levels of evaporation Peak’s semi-arid climate, and stringent in this region. In 2011, over 800 m3 of water saving and recycling measures are domestic wastewater was treated and used in place. Water is recycled from dewatering 24 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT for irrigation and for strategically placed Waste Management drinking sources for local wildlife. We As with any mining activity, New Gold’s continue to explore alternative solutions operations generate waste materials. for reducing water consumption. Process waste includes the nonmineralized rock that must be removed New Afton and disposed in a safe manner in order to In the mine’s semi-arid climate, water access the mineralized ore. It also includes management and conservation are the remnant leach piles that are left after essential and we strive to minimize metals extraction has been completed or, the water drawn from Lake Kamloops in the case of Peak Gold Mines, the tailings through recycling and reuse. No water is that are left after gold and copper mineral Peak has a centrally discharged evaporative discharged from the site. New Afton will concentrate has been obtained. tailings storage facility with zero water reclaim. be starting operations in 2012, and in 2011, we began an updated review of the water Planning for a mine’s closure – which is an balance, which may help us improve water essential part of every mining operation – management efficiency. We also began a begins at the design stage and continues review which, when complete, will help through the mine’s life to ensure the us ensure that ground and surface water physical and chemical stability of the waste that are contained onsite will flow toward material that will be left behind. Each of containment structures and will guide our properties has obtained approval for placement of monitoring wells. their closure rehabilitation plans and, as Blackwater discussed below, practice programs of At Blackwater, water used for drilling is progressive rehabilitation and reclamation. derived primarily from wells that are drilled The only exception is Blackwater, which as part of the exploration program. In each is still in the exploration phase. A closure of the drilling rigs, drilling water is recycled. plan for Blackwater will be developed as In 2011, water usage is estimated at 13 m3/ we take this project through the permitting day. A drilling program to find and develop process in the next few years. groundwater wells for potable water supplies is planned for 2012 to replace the inefficient trucking of water to the site. Table 3: Process Waste Waste Types 2011 2010 2009 2008 Cerro “PlanningSan Pedro minersbegins for closure have Waste Rock (000s tonnes) 51,266 52,570 40,408 14,517 worked at the 475 daysstage design with-out anda Lost Leach Piles – ready for reclamation (tonnes) 0 0 0 0 Time Incident. continues New Afton through the mine’s Tailings (000s tonnes)(1) 734 747 794 769 continues life to ensure thesafety strong record physical 1. Tailings figures are from Peak only. In 2011 a slight reduction in tailings production is due to a decrease in mill throughput. despite significant and chemical increase stability of in the personal on site. Recycling of non-process waste is another essential part of good environmental management, waste material that will be and is practiced at all New Gold sites. Typically, recycled materials include scrap metal, used left behind.” oil, plastics, aluminum, cardboard, wood materials, batteries as well as wastewater. Table 4: Non-Process Waste Recycled Materials Recycled 2011 2010 2009 2008 Paper, Plastic, Metals and Other (tonnes) 752.4 599.6 686.7 483.0 Oil & Lubricants (000s litres) 527.2 654.2 563.1 245.8 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 our environmental practices and policies Mesquite Peak increase over time as additional recycling Mesquite’s recycling program includes opportunities are identified. Peak recycles metals, batteries, oil, some scrap metal, calibration check gas types of grease and e-waste (computers During the year New Afton took cylinders, toner cartridges and batteries, and other electronics), as well as general possession of a former mining facility antifreeze, used oil and drained oil waste (paper, cardboard, plastic, glass). of the original Afton Mine, with a mill filters. In 2011, efforts were advanced for building, workshop, laboratory, and cardboard and office paper recycling. In 2011, Peak diverted over 12 tonnes of warehouse/administration area. Upgrading general waste, over 75 tonnes of scrap Cerro San Pedro the facility revealed hazardous materials steel and nearly one tonne of e-waste Cerro San Pedro’s Integrated Management (mercury vapour lamps, suspected PCBs that would have otherwise ended up in System specifies procedures for responsible and asbestos) that were disposed of using landfill. During the year, 9.3% of general waste management, applying Mexican certified contractors. Tires were excavated waste was recycled (excluding steel and classification standards for hazardous, during tailings pond improvements and e-waste), less than in 2010, due to revised special handling and solid waste and removed for recycling. Any hazardous policies regarding underground disposal of sanitary waste water. An Environmental materials discovered in this process waste. Recycling education was improved Education Program trains staff to increase present an opportunity to rid the site of an with staff presentations and new signage awareness of environmental issues and environmental risk, and will be disposed of around the site. A recycling bin outside Company objectives. by certified contractors. the site is provided for employees to bring Hazardous waste such as used oil and recyclables from home. Blackwater oil-impregnated solids (rags, trash, filters, Blackwater endeavours to reduce New Afton soil) are placed in temporary storage for consumables and recycle where possible, New Afton recycles waste wherever hazardous industrial waste, and then and maintains recycling stations for paper, possible to minimize consumption packaged and labelled according to plastics, batteries and other commercially and reduce landfill and greenhouse gas Mexican regulations. An approved firm recyclable items. Approximately six tonnes generation. Office paper, cardboard, collects the waste once per week, and is of material were trucked to the recycling aluminum, plastics and batteries are responsible for sending it to treatment centre. Hazardous materials are stored, separated from general waste streams and recycling as appropriate. Cerro San then shipped offsite to a governmentand recycled at a local service provider. Pedro also recycles significant quantities of approved disposal facility. During 2011, this was increased to include plastic, polyethylene, cardboard, aluminum fluorescent lights and used tires. We Energy Management and metal scrap. recycled approximately 0.6% of general At New Gold, we believe that improving waste, a number that is expected to the energy efficiency of our operations Recycling of non-process waste is practiced at all New Gold sites. 26 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT benefits the environment and brings alternatives to reduce our carbon inherent cost advantages. We recognize footprint, and effectively reporting on that our activities result in the emission our achievements. of greenhouse gases (GHGs), from the For the purposes of this report, CO2 mobile equipment required to operate a emissions generated by mobile equipment mine, for example, and from thermally are calculated from diesel fuel, gasoline generated electric power that we purchase and propane consumption using the to supply our operations. World Resources Institute (WRI) and the Our commitment to minimizing GHGs World Business Council for Sustainable emissions is reflected throughout our Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse A solar-wind hybrid system pilot project is operations, from our ongoing efforts to Gas protocol for Direct Emissions being tested for power generation at Cerro reduce energy consumption of all kinds, to (Scope 1 Emissions). Diesel emissions San Pedro. our active reclamation of land. Emission reported here include the greenhouse reduction data has thus far not been gas component of fuel oil used in collected for many of the initiatives New ammonium nitrate fuel oil explosives. The Gold has implemented. We aim to improve CO2 generated indirectly from purchased our measurement capabilities and to energy is calculated using the WRI/WBCSD manage an accurate database of GHGs, Greenhouse Gas protocol for Electricity with a view to identifying viable energy Purchase (Scope 2 Emissions). Table 5: Direct Energy Consumption by Major Sources Sources 2011 2010 2009 2008 Cerro “At New San Gold, Pedro weminers have believe Diesel Consumption (000s litres) 50,215 42,598 32,989 21,279 worked 475 days with-out that improving the energy a Lost Gasoline Consumption (000s litres) 596 587 215 211 Time Incident. New Afton efficiency of our operations Propane (tonnes) (includes LP) 656 805 not not reported reported continues benefits the strong safety record environment Explosives (tonnes) 14,698 10,836 not not despite significant and brings increase in inherent reported reported personal on site. cost advantages.” Table 6: Indirect Energy Consumption Indirect Energy 2011 2010 2009 2008 Power Purchased (MWhs) 140,875 120,656 107,241 108,313 The increase in power use in 2011 is due to increased depth of underground mining activity at Peak and increased development activity at New Afton. Table 7: Greenhouse Gas Emissions Emissions – as tonnes of CO2(1) 2011 2010 2009 2008 Diesel 134,618 114,231 83,021 57,057 Gasoline 1,374 1,353 497 480 Propane 1,742 2,293 not not reported reported Power 82,547 80,229 71,922 55,818 1. Carbon Dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) emissions reported here may not be consistent with quantities reported by specific sites, since these are guided by regulations within the jurisdictions where we operate and according to their stipulated requirements and protocols. 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 our environmental practices and policies Cerro San Pedro operations at night. In the background, the lights of San Luis Potosí. Mesquite to be constructed in 2013; it should yield a and Energy Reporting System and To ensure that our carbon footprint return on investment of 13% with a payback sustainability reporting and identifying is calculated using the best available in less than four years. We have also installed feasible ways to reduce energy technology, we have evaluated various a solar-powered area light in the employee consumption and carbon emissions. models, public and proprietary, and have parking lot to evaluate this technology and In 2010, we conducted an external review selected the one with the greatest technical assess its potential in other areas. of the higher-use energy processes, which credibility. Of several innovative carbonThe sub-metering project did not advance, identified a list of potential energy saving reduction projects that were identified in due to technical difficulties in installation projects. From those projects, in 2011 we 2010, three were selected and funded for of the meters. New office construction implemented Variable Speed Drives for large 2011: 1) Large Equipment Energy Efficiency, utilized solar tubes to bring light into two electric motors, a Flotation Plant upgrade, 2) Solar Campus Research, and 3) Subinterior offices. and the installation of energy efficient Metering Site Energy Consumption. lights. We are also providing in-kind support Cerro San Pedro Our off-road fleet was equipped with an to the Buckwaroon Catchment Landcare At Cerro San Pedro, direct and indirect automated fuel tracking system that was Group (BCLG) for the development of the energy consumption continued to intended to make our operation more pioneering Biomass Energy Project. The be documented for GHG emissions efficient and cost-effective by calculating BCLG has investigated the use of waste monitoring. In 2011, an energy audit hourly fuel consumption based upon Invasive Scrub for gasification or pyrolysis performed by the company Remote haul profiles, and to introduce operator (decomposition by heat) power plants to Energy Solutions, provided findings feedback systems to optimize driving produce electricity and biochar (charcoal and observations on four main themes: practices. Unfortunately, the technology created by pyrolysis of biomass). efficiency in diesel consumption, efficiency did not stand up to harsh mine conditions of pumping system solutions, renewable New Afton and ultimately proved no better than our energy and emissions inventory. These We have employed a full-time Energy manual tracking system. topics are being reviewed while we Specialist in association with the BC Hydro The solar campus research identified seek opportunities to reduce energy Power Smart program to implement a several technologies and led us to consumption and GHG emissions. Sustainable Energy Management Plan for commission a feasibility study focusing on the mine. The plan will promote a culture Peak installing approximately 200 kW in rooftop of energy efficiency that makes energy At Peak we are committed to accurately photovoltaic panels on a new truck shop management a day-to-day policy and that measuring carbon emissions, reporting and adjacent buildings. The estimated realizes cost savings and GHG emission emissions through the Australian $1.2 million research project is expected reductions. Following the plan, we will Government’s National Greenhouse 28 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Dust control on heavily traveled mine haul roads at Mesquite. set up world-class Energy Management overall energy use. We have established a quality in the area of the mine remains Information Systems to guide decisionscheduled bus service to and from the site consistent with historical observations and making and optimize efficiency. as a means to reduce vehicle emissions. seasonal variation. Ongoing projects that began in 2011 Dust Control Peak include an audit of all fuel usage that will Dust levels are a significant concern of Although our Environmental Protection identify opportunities for improvement, a open-pit mining operations, and all New Licence requires dust fallout monitoring feasibility study on the use of underground Gold sites maintain air-monitoring stations on a quarterly basis, our previous monthly compressed air, the installation of an onthat monitor dust levels and composition. monitoring improved our understanding of demand gas heater at the concrete plant, Dust control to minimize its emission in and dust fallout over the year. We now aim for a and a system for recovering compressor near the sites is managed with water spray bi-monthly schedule. heat for use in heating the building. application to roadways and the use of dust New Afton suppressants such as naturally occurring In a major efficiency retro-fit of the original As a component of an air quality magnesium chloride to conserve water. Afton Mine buildings, inefficient lighting monitoring program, ambient dust and was replaced with high-efficiency lighting Mesquite surrounding vegetation are routinely including light emitting diodide (LED) Dust is monitored on a monthly basis measured at New Afton. In 2012, exhaust lighting, programmable lighting control and the results reported quarterly. Dust from the mine’s workings will also be panels and occupancy sensors. As a result monitors are located at points north, south, monitored to ensure that emissions are in of these upgrades, we estimate annual east and west, near the perimeter of mining compliance with environmental permits. energy consumption in these buildings has activities. In 2011, our operations remained Dust from mine traffic was identified as an been decreased by 200,000 kWhs. within permitted air quality limits. area for improvement, especially during the Blackwater Water is applied every shift on heavilyconstruction phase. To minimize impacts, Blackwater currently derives 100% of traveled roads and all operators are a canola-oil based dust suppressant was its energy from diesel generators. To encouraged to call for the water truck if used in areas of heavy traffic. minimize emissions, low sulphur diesel is they encounter dusty conditions. Blackwater used and all generators are monitored to Cerro San Pedro Dust can be persistent within newly ensure emissions equipment is functional. We operate weather stations and created trails and roads in the Blackwater We installed electronic thermostats in monitoring sensors that measure many exploration site. In order to control road all heated buildings to reduce energy meteorological conditions including the dust, watering trucks are used onsite consumption. Automatic lights also reduce dust quantity and particulate content. Air as appropriate. A new incinerator for 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 our environmental practices and policies household waste was recently purchased fans, we received no noise-related do not identify social or environmental to reduce overall particulate emissions. complaints in 2011. risks associated with these transactions. An ambient air quality monitoring program Nonetheless, we are a committed member Blackwater will be implemented in 2012. of the World Gold Council (WGC) and The Blackwater area is a remote location. have supported its efforts to eliminate Noise Drilling at the site occurs on a 24-hourunethical gold production and to increase Noise from mining sites is a health and a-day schedule. In order to ensure noise transparency of gold mining companies. safety concern as well as a community does not disturb workers, the camp We are monitoring the development of relations issue. We make efforts to control dormitories, kitchens and recreational WGC’s Conflict Free Gold Standard and the noise, and whenever we receive a noise areas are located at a distance from active obligations that its adoption will require in complaint every effort is made to address it. exploration areas. the future. Mesquite Materials Stewardship Cyanide Management The Mesquite area is virtually uninhabited, The International Council of Mining While cyanide has inherent toxic except for the mine, and as project activities and Metals (ICMM) defines Materials properties, its safe transport, handling, generally occur 0.8 kilometres or more Stewardship as the process of responsibly use and destruction are well understood from the property line, our activities do not providing materials, and supervising and manageable. All three New Gold approach noise thresholds. material flows in order to create maximum operations that use cyanide in the gold societal value with minimum impact on Potential noise effects on mine employees extraction process follow procedures humans and the environment encompassing and visitors are prevented through the use that are strictly controlled for the safety both process materials and product of safety equipment and procedures. of personnel and the environment. In stewardship. We are guided by ICMM’s Cerro San Pedro October 2010, New Gold was accepted by extensive work on Materials Stewardship At Cerro San Pedro we monitor noise the International Cyanide Management and the understanding that it encompasses during the day and at night. In 2011, Institute (ICMI) as a signatory to the both the good management of process our measurements confirmed that International Cyanide Management materials as well as product stewardship. noise levels were in compliance with Code (ICMC), which is renowned as the At New Gold, our operations include international benchmark for transporting, official Mexican standard NOM-081robust practices and systems to ensure storing and using cyanide. SEMARNAT-1994 regulations. that process materials are managed Peak Under the ICMC, we committed to adequately. This is demonstrated through In 2011, noise monitoring at Peak was the certification of our three cyanideour practices and performance regarding upgraded. Sound and vibration levels are consuming operations within a threewater, waste, energy, and materials continually monitored, and any noise or year period. In 2011, Mesquite achieved management. Two materials critical to our vibration that exceeds the defined maximum certification. In 2012 Cerro San Pedro operations are explosives and cyanide. All levels is recorded. Limits are set by the and Peak will continue the progressive our operations use explosives, and track Australian Environmental Protection implementation of the recommendations their management and usage with care. Authority and our results are reported of their ICMI pre-certification audits with Three operations (Mesquite, Cerro San annually, and we are required to report any the aim to achieve certification of both Pedro and Peak) consume cyanide, and breaches of our licence. In 2011, no recorded mines in 2013. at those operations its responsible use vibration levels exceeded these limits. and management are critical. In 2011, our New Afton sites collectively consumed approximately With construction progressing rapidly, 14,700 tonnes of explosives and 8,800 the underground working areas must be tonnes of cyanide. ventilated, and fan noise is a concern. We know that understanding and Modelling during pre-feasibility studies has monitoring the use of our products is indicated that noise will not be an issue an effective form of risk management. locally. Even with the increase in activity The metals we produce in our operations and the start-up of three new ventilation are sold to reputable companies and we 30 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Table 8: Wildlife Mortalities from Cyanide Exposure(1) Wildlife 2011 2010 2009 2008 Birds (non-endangered species) 4 0 5 3 Mammals (non-endangered species) 2 0 0 4 Amphibians (non-endangered species) 0 0 0 8 Total 6 0 5 15 1. No mortalities were of at-risk species. Mesquite will provide increased capacity and reduce On October 5, 2011, ICMI announced that risks to wildlife by reducing the potential for the Mesquite Mine had been certified under water to pond on the TSF. To further reduce the ICMC. An independent professional risk, we are updating the TSF Operating third-party auditor evaluated the Mesquite Manual, which covers the management of Mine against the ICMI’s Verification ponded water containing cyanide, tailings Within Mesquite’s operating areas, the Protocol and found it in substantial deposition to ensure proper drainage, and sensitive and protected species Fairy compliance with the Code’s Principles and delivery line flushing practices. Duster is salvaged and transplanted into Standards of Practice. Mesquite will become reclaimed areas. Biodiversity Management fully certified once it has implemented its At New Gold sites, environmental Corrective Action Plan and achieved full stewardship means more than applying compliance with the Code. The operation restoration practices to lands that are must be re-audited every three years affected by mining to create a habitat hereafter to evaluate continuing compliance conducive to natural biodiversity. It also with the Code. In 2011, we had one instance means conserving the environment on lands of cyanide-related mortality (a red-tail hawk) that are undisturbed by mining operations. following a year without mortalities. In all our sites we have identified different Cerro San Pedro Cerro San Pedro’s audit towards ICMC levels of at-risk species. Table 9 lists the “Cerro San Pedro miners Environmental stewardshiphave at-risk species that have been found at worked certification was completed in 2011. Since means 475 moredays with-out than a Lost applying each of our operations, and their at-risk then, we began addressing the items Time Incident. New Afton restoration practices to lands status. Note that no International Union identified in this process and have made for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) “red continues strong safety that are affected record by mining. sound progress toward certification. No despite significant increase thein wildlife mortalities resulting from cyanide list” species has been found at any New It also means conserving Gold operation or project. personal on site. exposure were recorded in 2011. environment on lands that are Peak undisturbed by operations.” In 2011, a preliminary audit towards ICMC certification was completed. Regrettably, during the year we recorded five wildlife deaths associated with cyanide exposure (one feral goat, one feral fox and three native ducks) after two years with no mortalities. With the necessary authorizations obtained, we have proceeded with an upgrade of the Tailings Storage Facility (TSF) filter wall, deposition spine and the perimeter bund walls. This project 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 our environmental practices and policies Table 9: At-Risk Species Management Plan/Procedures Species Location IUCN Status(1) Other Status in Place? Fairy Duster Mesquite n/a California Native Plant Protection Act – Yes Sensitive and Protected species Desert tortoise Mesquite Vulnerable USA Endangered Species Act – Threatened Yes and Endangered Species Echinocactus platyacanthus Cerro San Pedro n/a Mexican Official Norm of SEMARNAT NOMYes 059-SEMARNAT-2010 – Protected Ferocactus histrix Cerro San Pedro n/a SEMARNAT NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2010 – Protected Yes Mammillaria candida Cerro San Pedro n/a SEMARNAT NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2010 – Yes (cactus) Threatened Stenocactus coptonogonus Cerro San Pedro Least Concern SEMARNAT NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2010 – Rare Yes Pelecyphora aselliformis Cerro San Pedro Least Concern SEMARNAT NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2010 – Yes (cactus) Threatened Kultarr Peak Least Concern New South Wales Threatened Species Yes Conservation Act – Endangered Species Western Toad New Afton Vulnerable British Columbia – Blue List(2); Canada Species Yes at Risk Act (SARA) – Special Concern Great Basin Spadefoot Toad New Afton Least Concern British Columbia – Blue List; Canada Species at Yes Risk Act (SARA) – Threatened Northern Caribou Blackwater Least Concern British Columbia – Blue List; SARA – Threatened Yes Whitebark Pine Blackwater Vulnerable British Columbia – Blue List Yes 1. The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species includes seven categories ranging from Least Concern to Extinct. 2. Includes any indigenous species or subspecies considered to be of Special Concern (formerly Vulnerable) in British Columbia. Mesquite Cerro San Pedro of slow-moving animal species, plant At Mesquite, we are protective of the desert The Cerro San Pedro operation is located production and reforestation and the environment’s flora and fauna. Among within the boundaries of the central potential effects of change of land use the local flora is the Fairy Duster, a native plateau and the foothills of the Sierra due to the mine’s activities. species that is considered sensitive and Madre Oriental. The area is characterized Peak protected under the California Native Plant by alluvial valleys and low hills. Vegetation Peak is located in western New South Protection Act. Within our active operating is predominantly thorny bush composed Wales in gently undulating, semi-arid areas, Fairy Duster is salvaged and mainly of shrubs, agaves, yucca or palms, country that was extensively cleared and transplanted into reclaimed areas. and cacti – the species typically seen in mined in the late 19th and early 20th arid and semi-arid regions of Mexico. Since Among local fauna, the desert tortoise is a centuries. We have assumed responsibility this vegetation does not support large federally listed threatened and endangered for rehabilitating the historic mine sites fauna, only birds and small mammals species. Accordingly, specially designed on our leases and have completed such as coyotes, foxes, rabbits, squirrels, tortoise fencing surrounds our entire rehabilitation of some of these sites. kangaroo rats, voles, and reptiles such as property. Since 1985, more than 100 We are committed to continuous rattlesnakes are found. tortoises have been relocated from the improvement and environmental best mine site. We ensure that before work During mine construction, we rescued practices in managing potential habitat. commences in any new area, a survey is and transplanted a total of 23,330 cacti We maintain fences to exclude livestock conducted, and if a tortoise is encountered of rare or at-risk species. As part of Cerro and feral herbivores from neighbouring it is relocated off the mine property by San Pedro’s biodiversity program, native properties, and land disturbance is only a qualified biologist. Two tortoises were flora and fauna are monitored to verify, carried out when absolutely necessary relocated off mine property in 2011. among other parameters, the survival and after an inspection by the of transplanted plants, the relocation environmental department. 32 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The desert tortoise is a threatened and endangered species which is among the local fauna at Mesquite. Of our lands, 240 hectares are used for mine site is 701 metres above sea level and boxes for birds and bats and several duck mining purposes, and 760 hectares are lies within an area of hilly country mainly and swan nests have been established actively managed to ensure our land used for grazing. Despite a high level and monitored. Early results show continues to improve in environmental of previous disturbance from historical approximately 30% of the boxes occupied health. Over the year, we removed African mining activities, we have surveyed and by native species. Boxthorn plants at New Occidental, monitored the site for its ability to maintain New Gold has partnered with the Nature trapped goats at Peak and New Cobar, species richness as shown in baseline Conservancy of Canada by financially released the Blue Heliotrope Beetle to studies, through all stages of development assisting the formation of the Warner Philip control Blue Heliotrope near New Cobar, and through to eventual closure. Conservation Area, a 260-hectare area and began a trial of holistic rehabilitation Given its previous disturbances, no located south of Kamloops. We see this using cattle at New Occidental. sensitive zones remain in the area. As project as a biodiversity offset from mine In early 2011, a Kultarr, classified as an no runoff leaves the site, the mine does site activities that result in disturbance of endangered species in New South Wales, not impact any off-site biodiversity. The former grasslands. was found within the Peak site. After fauna includes two at-risk species of toad Blackwater consulting a threatened-species expert and (as indicated by Provincial or Federal The Blackwater exploration project doing a habitat assessment, it was found databases), the Western Toad and the covers 25,240 hectares in central British that the likely Kultarr habitat was located Great Basin Spadefoot. Approvals for Columbia, on the northern flanks of away from any mining activities. A Kultarr relocation and removal from areas that Mt. Davidson in the Nechako Plateau. education program is being developed in may put these animals at risk have been Even though the project is not located in conjunction with a local State Government obtained. During the year both endangered a protected area, the exploration area is Department, the Western Catchment toad species were found on site. Members adjacent to a Provincial Ungulate Winter Management Authority, which will target of the Tk’emlúps First Nation were Range (UWR) of about 40 hectares that Peak employees, Cobar schools and the employed to construct a “toad fence”, and is protected by Provincial Order. broader Cobar residents. although some did not survive, over 300 toads were collected and released. Over the We have taken significant steps to ensure New Afton year, foxes and a swan were trapped and high environmental standards and best Located approximately ten kilometres relocated by local First Nations members. practices in biodiversity management. We west of Kamloops, the project is in the rain have modified the exploration program to shadow of the British Columbia Coastal We are trying to encourage the return of protect the adjacent UWR and established Mountains. The area is very dry, with wildlife to areas that have been degraded a Northern Caribou Management Plan. around 280 mm of rainfall annually. The by historical mining. Fifty-eight nesting 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 our environmental practices and policies The objectives of this plan are to minimize Reclamation and Closure Planning impacts of mineral exploration and predator New Gold is committed to progressive and human access to Northern Caribou rehabilitation of disturbed lands as these habitat, and to minimize disturbance and became available. Our sites all remain displacement of Northern Caribou. active mining operations and therefore land disturbance will continue for varying We have also started a cone collection periods as mining continues. Nevertheless, system as part of a Whitebark Pine progressive rehabilitation work continues Management Plan for seedling propagation at all mine sites. Except for the Blackwater and re-establishing this vulnerable species. Project, all of our sites have closure plans that are regularly reviewed and updated, including reclamation costs. Table 10: Habitat Restored 2011 2010 2009 2008 Approximate hectares 84 45 93 113 Mesquite 2011, we produced over 135,000 plants In 2011, the operation’s footprint remained in our nursery. In the community of active and concurrent reclamation was Monte Caldera, nearly 63 hectares were limited to 16 hectares of the Rainbow dump reforested with nearly 69,000 plants. We adjacent to Highway 78. also excavated and stored 102,202 m3 of topsoil for future reclamation, yielding a We continue to update our closure plan cumulative total of close to 488,000 m3 and its underlying costs. We are applying topsoil in 2011. the best available industry practices, and have retained a California Professional In 2012, we will begin the planning Peak applies a progressive closure model to Engineer who has specialized in this area. process associated with a sustainable historic mine sites on its mining leases. As required by accounting practices, we are development plan for Cerro San Pedro, to utilizing this expertise to update the closure ensure a sustainable legacy of economic costs for our Asset Retirement Obligations diversification and increased social capital on a quarterly basis. We are applying the in our host community after mine closure. same model for calculating our regulatory Peak obligations, which are now in the form of By the terms of our licence, Peak is surety bonds. responsible for the rehabilitation of historic Cerro San Pedro mine sites found on our mining leases As part of our Mine Closure Plan, we adopt including the New Occidental, Chesney, sustainable practices in our use of natural Gladstone, Queen Bee, Silver Peak, Young resources, and continue to rescue and Australia and Mount Pleasant mines. relocate affected species. As the operation Peak applies a progressive closure model is in an area of historic mining activities, in which historic areas are rehabilitated our Environmental Management System in the years leading up to the closure of is designed to differentiate between the operational sites. In 2011, we addressed results of current mining activities and many rehabilitation issues, including the pre-existing baseline conditions. In removing waste piles, controlling 34 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT contaminated water, filling historical mine Environmental Incidents and shafts and making reclamation plantings. Regulatory Compliance These sites are in the early phases of Since New Gold began reporting in 2008, reclamation and we do not consider any there have been no significant spills and areas to be completely restored. no greater than moderate incidents. In 2011, there were three moderate incidents New Afton (down from four in 2010). These included As the holder of the mining lease, New a construction silt spill at Peak, and a pit Afton is obliged to reclaim areas that were water spill at New Afton. In addition, a not rehabilitated completely following concentrate spill during transport occurred previous mining activity. We are committed at Peak. Even though this spill occurred In 2011, over five hectares of disturbed land to progressive rehabilitation in which areas offsite and under another party’s legal were reclaimed at New Afton. that are not required for current or future responsibility, we responded promptly, mining are rehabilitated prior to the mine’s notified the regulator and assisted in closure, and reclamation of disturbed planning the clean-up and coordinated areas proceeds even while operations are reporting. We carried out our own continuing elsewhere on site. Our objective investigation and a major outcome has been in all reclamation activities is to return the additional assurance that contractor fatigue land to a productive state similar to that is controlled. prior to mining. Minor and insignificant consequence Our reclamation activities performed incidents at all sites have largely resulted during 2011 included: five hectares from hydrocarbon spills but also include of disturbed land were reclaimed; unsuitable waste disposal and chemical approximately three hectares of disturbed spills. All incidents were dealt with according land were hydro-seeded with native grass to regulations, and appropriate corrective Cerro “ San Pedro the We encourage miners have reporting seed; more than a hectare of spotted knapweed was cleared, and we excavated actions were taken. There was no threat to worked of minor 475and with-out a Lost daysinsignificant any ecosystems or water body. We encourage Time Incident. and stored an additional 160,000 m3 of the reporting of minor and insignificant incidents as aNewwayAfton to identify topsoil material and 320,000 m3 of subsoil continues strong safety opportunities for systems record and incidents as a way to identify opportunities for future reclamation. despite significant increase in for systems and performance improvement. performance improvement.” Blackwater personal on site. In 2011, there were no significant fines British Columbia’s world-class reclamation or non-monetary sanctions for nonlaws require that all mining operations compliance with environmental laws carry out a program of environmental and regulations. However, some minor protection and reclamation to ensure instances of regulatory non-compliance that upon termination of mining, land, did occur. At the Mesquite Mine there were watercourses and cultural heritage 11 such instances, which were addressed as resources will be returned to a safe and required by law and did not result in fines. environmentally sound state and to an acceptable end land use. The development of the Blackwater Project includes the development of a Mine Closure Plan as well as the posting of securities that will be held in trust by the Provincial Ministry of Energy and Mines. 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 Resident of the Cerro de San Pedro Village. In 2010 and 2011, Cerro San Pedro Mine was accredited as a Socially Responsible Company by the non-profit Mexican Centre for Philanthropy. Growing our communities At New Gold we know that only by thoroughly understanding the people of our host communities, their histories, and their needs and plans, can we engage in a meaningful development process that will contribute to their cultural and economic health and welfare. We strive to align our goals with the throughout the mine lifecycle, as well as for Cerro San Gold, “At New miners have Pedro community interests of our host communities and engagement, internal social responsibility worked 475 days with-out engagement begins while a Lost we are confident that our sites have no training and awareness. Time Incident. New Afton significant potential to negatively impact a project is still in the Management Approach to local communities. continues strong safetyand record Community Engagement development stage, At New Gold, community engagement despite significant increase In this section, we discuss our policies continues through the in and practices for engagement and begins while a project is still in the personal on site. mine’s life and after closure.” interaction with local communities, development stage, and continues through including indigenous communities, our the mine’s life and after closure. We foster economic impacts and our socio-economic open communication with local residents development strategies at each operation and community leaders and strive to be a and at the corporate level. We also discuss full partner in the long-term sustainability the grievances that were received and how of the communities and regions in which they were addressed. we operate. Our engagement activities are guided by the Mining Association of Management Approach to Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining Social Responsibility (TSM) protocol on outreach performance. At New Gold, our management approach TSM guides us to identify our stakeholders, to social responsibility is guided by to effectively engage and maintain our HSEC Policy. In 2012, we will begin dialogue, maintain a feedback mechanism developing a corporate-wide social and report on performance. All of our responsibility approach to define priorities, operations encompass local community goals and evaluation metrics. This engagement, impact assessments and initiative will be complemented by a social development programs. performance gap analysis to assess our policies and practices in relation to relevant New Gold sites share information international standards and guidelines. regarding operations and upcoming We will identify areas for improvement and activities with local and other stakeholders those actions that can be implemented in and groups. We use a variety of the short, medium and long term. communication methods including one-onone meetings, presentations, newsletters We also aim to identify opportunities for and reports. Throughout a project’s life strengthening our policies and practices cycle, we regularly host meetings with related to assessing any risks that our local residents and leaders in order to operations pose to local communities remain connected to the communities 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 G rowing our communities Mesquite was one of the sponsors of the 30th annual San Pasqual Valley School District Pow Wow in Winterhaven, California, presented by the Strong Hearts Native Society and the Quechan Nation. and their priorities and concerns, and to and state regulators, regional mining and 2. Links with the community help resolve existing or potential disputes. mineral enthusiasts, and community(communication on corporate social We encourage community feedback on based organizations. responsibility, civic responsibility, social our activities and aim to have meaningful investment and social balance) A large Quechan community resides within feedback mechanisms at all sites. We the mine’s area of influence. In 2011, 3. Care and preservation of the maintain open channels for grievances to Mesquite continued outreach activities environment (policy, investment, be received and addressed. to build relations and gain trust, focusing training, communications, resources Wherever our operations interact with on education and health initiatives, which management and transport impact indigenous peoples, we endeavour to include after-school activities for students mitigation) understand and respect traditional values, to promote personal wellness, nutrition 4. Business ethics (human rights customs and culture. We take meaningful and physical exercise. and dignity, corporate governance, action to serve their development needs Cerro San Pedro stakeholder engagement, ethical and priorities through collaborative Cerro San Pedro maintains a close commitment, fairness and inclusiveness, agreements aimed at creating jobs, training relationship with the residents of the transparency, strategic alignment, and lasting socio-economic benefits. Municipality of Cerro de San Pedro, which combat of corruption, responsible Four of our sites are adjacent to or in comprises 13 communities and three publicity and communication) indigenous peoples’ traditional territories. ejidos (communally owned land holdings) New Gold has not recorded any incidents Our Information Module in the Cerro de within the mine’s sphere of influence. In of violations involving rights of indigenous San Pedro village provides visitors with 2011, we again fulfilled the requirements peoples at any of our sites. information on Cerro de San Pedro’s for accreditation as a Socially Responsible mining past and present, with displays of Mesquite Company by the internationally recognized historical photographs and artifacts as well In 2011, Mesquite maintained and non-profit Mexican Centre for Philanthropy as current information about the mining increased open lines of communication (CEMEFI), an accreditation that has only operation. It is a popular destination for with stakeholders. In addition to providing been awarded to 18 mines in Mexico. visitors, thanks to its unique exhibits and informational programs for community To achieve this recognition, we met guided tours, and its 170-metre high view organizations, service clubs, and schools, specified criteria in four areas of corporate terrace that overlooks the entire open pit community presentations were regularly social responsibility: operation. This degree of exposure of a made to maintain a two-way dialogue with 1. Life quality in the workplace (health and mine at work is very rare in the Mexican our local community stakeholders. We safety, training, diversity, work and family mining industry. In 2011, over 1,300 guests also continued regular contact with federal balance, human resources management) visited the Information Module. 38 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Children from the neighbouring village of Potezuelo, during Cerro San Pedro’s community Christmas celebrations. Peak and improve understanding of the ongoing have actively engaged in dialogue with Peak maintains a strong relationship project. In 2011, mine site visits and group leaders and representatives, and with the Cobar community. We make forums included the Tk’emlúps Indian are working closely with them to ensure employees available to serve as members Band, the Skeetchestn Indian Band, the that information about the project is of the local Fire Brigades and State Ministry of Energy and Mines, the Ministry made available to all. A project newsletter Emergency Services. Our people play of Environment, Interior Health and introducing the company and the project, key roles in various local associations, Thomson Rivers University representatives. including information about mineral including serving on the boards of Cobar exploration and mining was created and The project is located within the asserted Enterprise Facilitation, the Cobar Business distributed as one of the first steps to reach traditional territories of the Tk’emlúps and Association, Cobar Water Board and the out to the greater community and make Skeetchestn Bands. These bands are part local Emergency Management Committee. sure that open lines of communication are of the larger cultural group known as the Peak hosts an Annual Community meeting established early on. In 2012, we will roll Secwépemc or Shuswap First Nation. In and Open Day at the mine when hundreds out a significant engagement effort which 2011, New Afton’s Participation Agreement of visitors are welcomed. we believe is essential to the success of with Tk’emlúps and Skeetchestn Bands was this project. As part of the engagement Peak continues to support the amended, as anticipated in the original plan, we are opening a local office in development of local indigenous groups 2008 agreement. This mutually beneficial Vanderhoof and have developed a project and 2011 saw further progress with the agreement has been considered a best policy that is supportive of local hiring, development of the Murdi Paaki Nursery practice in Canada. New Afton sponsored including First Nations. Project. The project is a collaboration scholarships for four local First Nations with the Murdi Paaki Regional Enterprise members and continued to provide Community Development and Corporation and aims at using plants for education and job opportunities for our Economic Impacts rehabilitation of our operation, as well First Nations partners throughout the year. Following the guidance of our HSEC as other mines in the Cobar region, and policy, we demonstrate our commitment Blackwater other landholders seeking plants for to sustainability in our surrounding In 2011, we began a comprehensive land rehabilitation. communities. We make significant engagement planning process and are investments in community infrastructure New Afton working with experienced professionals projects, foster local entrepreneurship, We actively pursue positive relationships to meaningfully engage with local and support diversified local capacity with our neighbouring communities communities including First Nations, building and economic development to to support community programs, seek governments and regulators. Since New ensure we leave a positive legacy in our opportunities for productive partnerships, Gold took ownership of the project, we host communities. 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 G rowing our communities All New Gold operations and projects sponsorships and donations supported preferentially hire locally and engage local education, health and wellness, economic services wherever possible as a means to diversification, job creation and food create local direct and indirect economic security initiatives. At the corporate benefits. Hiring and purchasing local level, our Donations and Sponsorships services usually makes good business Committee quarterly reviews requests for sense. To open new career opportunities support and prioritizes health, education in mining for local community members, and community investments. In 2011, we provide apprenticeship training and we supported a range of initiatives and education opportunities and support organizations such as the Clinton-Giustra training programs locally and regionally. To Sustainable Growth Initiative and its support local economies, we preferentially micro-enterprise initiatives to the National source our supplies and services from local Aboriginal Achievement Foundation, the companies whenever it is practical to do so. Heart and Stroke Foundation, and local community programs in Vancouver and New Gold has generated direct and indirect Toronto. In 2011, New Gold invested economic value in our host communities. nearly $3.5 million in community projects, In 2011, New Gold paid approximately donations and sponsorships. $72.5 million in employees’ wages and benefits – up from $60.9 million in 2010. In 2012, we will increase our focus on We have also increased expenditures with community investments that will ensure a contractors from $17.1 million in 2010 to legacy of sustainable development in our about $24 million in 2011. Income and host communities. The development of a mining taxes paid to governments increased corporate social responsibility strategy will from about $58 million to just over create the opportunity to review priorities $91 million. Our royalty payments totalled and establish short and long-term goals. $15.7 million, an increase from $12.1 million Mesquite in 2010. Payments to capital providers In 2011, Mesquite sponsored several (interest paid and standby fees) in 2011 community events, with a focus on totalled approximately $22.8 million. Further organized youth sports. In addition, we New Afton made a significant financial information on site-specific economic value assisted with a number of classroom-based contribution to the creation of the Warner generated as well as corporate net earnings Philip Conservation Area, south of Kamloops. initiatives, including robotics engineering and capital expenditures are disclosed in programs, academic scholarship programs, our Financial Review posted on our website. as well as programs promoting the arts. All New Gold sites actively participate One of our most noteworthy achievements in and support community-building and in 2011 was the formation of the New economic diversification initiatives. We Gold – Mesquite Foundation. A registered continually seek opportunities to support non-profit organization initially funded by community organizations and activities New Gold, the foundation will assist the with a special focus on encouraging local community by funding projects such as entrepreneurship to promote diversified, sustainable community projects, science sustainable economic prosperity. scholarships and educational programs In 2011, our operations, projects and designed to promote small business employees contributed to clean-up longevity and diversification. When fully activities and cultural events, sports funded, the foundation should continue events, as well as initiatives to encourage to benefit the community long after the recycling and healthy lifestyles. Our Mesquite Mine closes. 40 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Cerro San Pedro western New South Wales based on the life Every year, the Cerro San Pedro operation story of Liza Kennedy and the Keewong Mob. makes direct investments in community New Afton development. In 2011, our efforts focused The New Afton Participation Agreement on projects and activities associated with with local First Nations ensures health, education, infrastructure, and preferential treatment for business owners the promotion of cultural heritage. We from the Skeetchestn and Tk’emlúps coordinate primarily with government Bands and their business partners. authorities on programs and activities that We strive to contribute positively to promote sustainable economic alternatives our local communities and provided to mining. The objective is to support the funding for various sporting, health and municipality and to leverage federal and community groups as well as scholarships state infrastructure funding. and donations to the Tk’emlúps and In addition, we contributed through the Skeetchestn Bands. Foundation for Preservation of the Village Blackwater Cerro San Pedro employees during a of Cerro de San Pedro, which directs funds Since New Gold acquired the Blackwater New Gold Family Day; about 570 families to the most pressing needs, and finances participated in 2011. Project in June 2011, we have developed small and promising businesses. a project-specific Community Donation Peak and Sponsorship policy. Its guidelines To support the town of Cobar, we place have been broadly distributed within the significant efforts into helping establish a local community and we have supported culture and infrastructure that will ensure a number of recent community initiatives. the town’s sustainability after the mine’s In addition, we are working with the BC eventual closure. We have made significant Aboriginal Mine Training Association and community investments and support the the College of New Caledonia to develop Cobar Enterprise Facilitation initiative, tailored training programs for Aboriginal which provides knowledge and support to people and future mine workers. We have create new small businesses and expand worked to maximize local employment existing ones. Its Resource Board, on and procurement. We will significantly which we participate, offers entrepreneurial increase our community investment efforts advice that has contributed to local as we continue mineral exploration and business’ effectiveness and profitability. ultimately mine development in the area. Cerro “OnlySan Pedrorespectful, through miners have The Cobar Business Association awarded Managing Grievances us Certificates of Excellence for establishing When disputes arise, New Gold strives to worked mutually days with-out 475 beneficial a Lost dispute the Sustainable Apprentice & Trainee promptly identify the issue and engage Time Incident. New Afton resolution can we continue Strategy, and in collaboration with the in open interactive dialogue with the continues to earn our strong safety social record licence Cobar Primary Health Centre, establishing community. Only through respectful, despite significant increase in the Good Health Program. We were also mutually beneficial dispute resolution can to operate.” personal on site. nominated for our initiatives in local we continue to earn our social licence to tourism and environmental achievement. operate. We have formal external grievance mechanisms at Peak and Cerro San Pedro. In addition, we were proud to support the At New Afton, the Participation Agreement Western Heritage Group Inc. in publishing Joint Implementation Committee has the book Yamakarra!, a recollection of provided an open forum for dialogue Aboriginal life in the plains country of particularly with the local First Nations 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 G rowing our communities and has been effective in identifying and No human rights complaints or grievances resolving differences. relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and indigenous peoples The following table lists the times that have been filed through our grievance grievance mechanisms were used to mechanisms to date. address complaints at New Gold sites. Table 11: Community Grievances(1) Operations 2011 2010 Peak 0 4 The popular Information Module in the Cerro Cerro San Pedro (2) 2 n/a de San Pedro village celebrates the village’s mining past and provides information about 1. Formal mechanism for external complaints. our current operations. 2. Cerro San Pedro received one congratulatory note, four requests for infrastructure funding/donations and one job inquiry filled through its grievance mechanism. These are not included in the table. Cerro San Pedro complaint about water consumption could In 2011, we implemented a formal system not be followed up directly because it was for receiving suggestions, comments, made anonymously, but will be addressed questions and complaints at Cerro San through increased communication regarding Pedro. Grievances can be registered in five water management at the operation. locations, including the Information Module, Peak community medical clinics and other public Peak strives to be approachable and easy to locations around the municipality. The contact for complaints and other feedback. “Cerro San Pedro No human miners rights have complaints objective is to present an inviting location A 24-hour-a-day Complaints Hotline is worked 475 days or grievances relating to a Lost with-out for dropping off complaints and other advertised in the local newspaper. In 2011, Time feedback. In 2011, we received one request land Incident. New Afton use, customary rights for information about health and safety no community complaints were received. continues strong safety of local communities and record and environmental management at Cerro despite significant indigenous peoplesincrease have been in San Pedro and one complaint about water personal on site. consumption at the mine site. We followed filed through our grievance up on the information request by providing mechanisms to date.” information, and also by offering mine tours to local community members to give them the opportunity to experience the operation, and directly address their concerns. The 42 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In Closing In this, our fourth annual sustainability report, New Gold is again demonstrating our commitment to open reporting on our HSEC performance. At New Gold, we view transparency as the As in past years, we are dedicated prerequisite for maintaining trust with our to conforming to the most stringent various stakeholders, and essential to our international standards for responsible reputation as a good corporate citizen. corporate behaviour. We are guided by the Our HSEC performance targets for 2012 Global Reporting Initiative 3.1 Guidelines are based on stakeholder feedback with and self-declare Level B. In the future, we respect to key issues and a continued hope to further improve the scope, depth attempt to improve performance. and transparency of our reporting to meet These targets are communicated to all the expectations of all of our stakeholders. employees, in their new-employee training, or in an annual refresher course. New Afton’s tailings facility is part of a closed circuit water management system. GRI INDEX GRI 3.1 Source: Section: Page 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization Sustainability Report (SR): Message from about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. President and CEO: 6-7 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. S  R: Message from President and CEO: 6-7; Annual Information Form for the Financial Year Ended December 31, 2011(AIF)(available at www.sedar.com): Risk Factors: 42-52 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. SR: Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. SR: Growing Our Properties: 4-5 2.3 Operational structure including main divisions, operating companies, AIF: Corporate Structure: 4 subsidiaries and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. AIF: Corporate Structure: 4 2.5 Number and name of countries where the organization operates. SR: Growing Our Properties: 4-5 AIF: Corporate Structure: 4 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. AIF: Corporate Structure: 4 2.7 Markets served including geographic, sectors and customers. SR: Growing Our Properties: 4-5 2.8 Scale of the organization. AIF: Description of the Business: 7-9 New Gold Website: www.newgold.com: Properties 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the size, SR: About This Report: 2 structure or ownership. AIF: Recent Acquisitions: 6 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. SR: Health and Safety Performance: 18-19 SR: Emergency Response: 19-20 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. SR: About This Report: 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. November 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle. SR: About This Report: 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report. SR: Our Stakeholders: 3 Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content. SR: Our Stakeholders: 3 SR: Report Content: 3 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, JVs). SR: Growing Our Properties: 4-5 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of report. SR: Growing Our Properties: 4-5 3.8 Basis for reporting on JVs or others. SR: Growing Our Properties: 4-5 3.9 Data measurement techniques. SR: Throughout the Document 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided SR: Health and Safety Performance: 17 in earlier reports. 44 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Content Index Source: Section: Page 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, SR: About this Report: 2 boundary or measurement methods. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. SR: GRI Index: 44-47 Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance. SR: GRI Declaration: 2 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under New Gold website: Corporate Governance the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an AIF: Directors and Officers: 60-65 executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number AIF: Directors and Officers: 60-65 of members of the highest governance body that are independent. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations SR: Whistleblower Policy: 15 or direction to the highest governance body. New Gold website: Corporate Governance 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, SR: HSEC Governance: 15 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure that New Gold website: Corporate Governance conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members New Gold website: Corporate Governance of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, SR: HSEC Policy: 13 and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social SR: HSEC Guiding Principles: 14 performance and the status of their implementation. SR: Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: 15 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the New Gold website: Corporate Governance organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, New Gold website: Corporate Governance particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Precautionary Approach. SR: Our Environmental Practices and Policies: 23 Commitments to External Initiatives 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, SR: UN Global Compact and Other Standards principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. and Guidelines: 2-3 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations), and/or national/ SR: UN Global Compact and Other Standards international advocacy organizations. and Guidelines: 2-3 SR: Materials Stewardship: 30 4.14 Stakeholder Engagement. SR: Our Stakeholders: 3 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. SR: Our Stakeholders: 3 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement SR: Our Stakeholders: 3 by type and by stakeholder group. SR: Management Approach to Community Engagement: 37-39 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 G R I I nde x GRI Content Index Source: Section: Page 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder SR: Our Stakeholders: 3 engagement, and how the organization has reported to those key topics and concerns, including through this report. 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Management Approach to Economic Performance SR: Community Development and Economic Impacts: 39-41 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, SR: Community Development and Economic operating costs, employee compensation, community investments and Impacts: 39-41 payments to capital providers and governments. AIF: 23; 48-50 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization AIF: Climate Change Risks: 51-52 due to climate change. Aspect: Market Presence ENVIRONMENT Management Approach to Environmental Stewardship SR: Our Environmental Practices and Policies: 23-24 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. SR: Materials Stewardship: 30 Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. SR: Energy Management: 27 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. SR: Energy Management: 27 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable energy based products and SR: Energy Management: 26-29 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. SR: Energy Management: 26-29 Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. SR: Water Management : 24 Aspect: Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased or managed in or adjacent to high SR: Biodiversity Management: 33 biodiversity value habitats. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on SR: Biodiversity Management: 34 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. SR: Biodiversity Management: 34 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts SR: Biodiversity Management: 31-34 on biodiversity. EN15 IUCN Red Listed Species and national conservation lists. SR: Biodiversity Management: 31-32 Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. SR: Energy Management : 27 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. SR: Energy Management : 27-29 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. SR: Water Management: 24-25 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. SR: Waste Management: 25 46 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Content Index Source: Section: Page EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. SR: Environmental Incidents and Regulatory Compliance: 35 Aspect: Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, SR: Water Management : 24-25 and extent of impact mitigation. SR: Waste Management: 25-26 SR: Dust Control: 29-30 SR: Noise: 30 Aspect: Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SR: Environmental Incidents and Regulatory sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Compliance: 35 Social Performance Indicators Management Approach to Labour Practices and Decent Work SR: Management Approach to Labour Practices: 20-21 Aspect: Employment LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. SR: Collective Bargaining and Freedom of Association: 21 Management Approach to Social Responsibility SR: Management Approach to Social Responsibility: 37 Aspect: Community SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess SR: Growing Our Communities: 37-42 and manage the impacts of operations on communities. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, and SR: Compliance with Laws and Regulations: 15 monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions SR: Compliance with Laws and Regulations: 15 for non-compliance with laws and regulations.t Management Approach to Human Rights SR: Management Approach to Human Rights and Ethics: 14 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. SR: Workplace Diversity, Non-Discrimination and Equity: 21 HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise SR: Collective Bargaining and Freedom of freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at Association: 21 significant risk. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples SR: Management Approach to Human Rights and and actions taken. Ethics: 14 Mining and Metal Sector Supplement Indicators MM4 Number of strikes or lock-outs exceeding one week’s duration, by country. SR: Management Approach to Labour Practices: 20 MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, SR: Managing Grievances: 41-42 customary rights of local communities and indigenous peoples. MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes SR: Managing Grievances: 41-42 relating to land use, customary rights of local community and indigenous peoples and the outcomes. MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship. SR: Materials Stewardship: 30 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 Third Party Application Level Check Statement March 30, 2012 Introduction Canadian Business for Social Responsibility (CBSR) was engaged by New Gold to conduct a Third Party Application Level Check of the organization’s self-declared GRI Application Level. The purpose of the Third Party Application Level Check was to assess the degree to which New Gold met Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard Disclosures including the Profile Disclosures, Performance Indicators, and Mining and Metals Sector Supplement Indicators; confirm its self-declared Application Level (e.g. A, B, C); and provide recommendations on how New Gold can continue to improve its reporting and disclosure. Cbsr’s Third Party Application Level Check Methodology CBSR conducts a Third Party Check of a reporting organization’s GRI Content Index and self-declared GRI Application Level with the following steps: • C BSR checks all references in the GRI Content Index to ensure that the reporting organization complies with the GRI requirements for acceptable cross-references, direct responses, or valid reasons for omission • C BSR checks every disclosure (Profile Disclosures, Disclosures on Management Approach, Performance Indicators and applicable Sector Supplements) covered in the reporting organization’s GRI Content Index to ensure that it has actually been responded to in the report and/or within the accompanying documentation (including online content) • C BSR confirms whether the reporting organization’s self-declared Application Level is valid based upon the checks conducted on the GRI Content Index references and the reported disclosure responses • C BSR develops a Standard Third Party Application Level Check Statement indicating the confirmation of the reporting organization’s self-declared Application Level Findings and Recommendations CBSR concurs with New Gold’s own assessment that it has achieved GRI reporting level B. CBSR has provided feedback and recommendations on how New Gold can improve its reporting and disclosure within draft versions of its report. Cbsr’s Relationships With New Gold New Gold was responsible for the preparation of its Sustainability Report, and CBSR’s responsibility was to provide an independent review of the report’s GRI Content Index. CBSR was paid by New Gold to conduct this Third Party Application Level Check. In addition, New Gold is a member company of CBSR. Canadian Business for Social Responsibility 48 2011 NEW GOLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT , While every effort While been made has every to ensure effort has accuracy been made of the information to ensure presented, accuracy of the information presented, please note thatplease all figures noteare thatunaudited. all figures are unaudited. We welcome inputWe and suggestions welcome input andon suggestions onthis the content of thereport. content of this report. Please contact us at: sustainability@newgold.com Please contact us at: sustainability@newgold.com VANCOUVER OFFICE TORONTO OFFICE INVESTOR RELATIONS Park Place Royal Bank Plaza, South Tower TF: +1.888.315.9715 666 Burrard Street, Suite 3110 200 Bay Street, Suite 3120 F: +1.416.324.9494 Vancouver, BC V6C 2X8 Toronto, ON M4J 2J4 E: info@newgold.com T: +1.604.696.4100 T: +1.416.324.6000 www.newgold.com F: +1.604.696.4110 F: +1.416.324.9494 E: sustainability@newgold.com TSX/NYSE AMEX:NGD
