PAE 2011 Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Table of Contents Letter from PAE 1 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 2 Human Rights 3 Labor Standards 4 The Environment 5 Anti-Corruption 6 Appendix 7 2011 Communication on Progress Letter from PAE Dear Colleague, In April 2011, PAE transitioned from a wholly-owned subsidiary of Lockheed Martin Corporation to an independent company under the ownership of private equity firm Lindsay Goldberg, LLC. Throughout the divestiture process, PAE maintained its operational tempo and emphasized our commitment to our corporate values, to assure our employees that the sale of the company would not impact our established culture of ethics and integrity. In fact, our strong culture was one of the features that attracted our new owners to PAE, a point has been continually communicated to our employees to demonstrate how their actions and attitudes can directly influence our company’s success. Since its founding in 1955, PAE has distinguished itself by its commitment to ethical business practices in all that we do, whether administrative or mission-focused work. We considered our recent transition period to be an opportunity, one which we would use to re-evaluate the policies that governed our operations and adjust them, if necessary, to enable our compliance program to meet the demands of today’s world of government contracting and the challenges that companies face while supporting international missions. In August of 2011, PAE began the process of acquiring Defense Support , LLC (DS2), a joint venture between Lockheed Martin and Day & Zimmermann, and successfully completed the acquisition in October. With its complementary operational capabilities and shared priority on business ethics and compliance, DS2 was perceived as the ideal addition to PAE’s existing portfolio and culture, and it has since been incorporated as one of three business units within the company’s operating structure. As PAE looks forward to a new phase of operations, we will continue to apply the lessons we learned from our past and customize them for our success in the future. We are proud to recommit ourselves to the principles of the Global Compact, and we pledge to maintain and continually increase our support of responsible, ethical and business operations. Sincerely, Mike Dignam Chief Executive Officer 2011 Communication on Progress 1 The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and The PAE badge, shown above, is distributed to every employee to wear with their site badge. It serves as Principle 9: Encourage the development and a constant visual reminder of the vision, mission and diffusion of environmentally friendly values that every employee has agreed to support technologies. through their daily actions. The reverse side of the badge includes the PAE Ethics Officer’s contact Anti-Corruption information in various formats, to ensure that every employee has the ability to report a concern or ask Principle 10: Businesses should work against for guidance. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2011 Communication on Progress 2 Human Rights Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should support Leading the Way, provides guidance customized for and respect the protection of international human the nature and location of the work our employees rights; and make sure they are not complicit in human perform. rights abuses. PAE Code of Conduct PAE Values PAE’s Code of Conduct stipulates that all employees One of PAE’s core corporate values is to “perform as are required to comply with our own corporate policies, one team with excellence, integrity and respect.” We the laws of the United States and the laws that govern expect that all employees apply this value to their work their country of operation. Our zero tolerance policy is every day whether they support internal and adminisin place to protect employees from discrimination and trative processes or our customers’ missions. PAE harassment, and employees may report any violation of supports the acknowledgment and advancement of this policy or any other concern to the Ethics Officer. human rights through various means. Employees in While these and other regulatory measures are effecour Global Stability & Development business unit train tive, it is truly the management team that sets the tone and mentor various groups within the civil infrastructure and expectations for the rest of the workforce. Though of post-conflict countries and assist foreign governtheir example and with the corporate policies in place, PAE uses every resource at its disposal to support and ments that are challenged to provide for the needs of protect human rights. their citizens. In other countries, PAE provides logistics and training to support basic human needs within the context of peacekeeping and humanitarian missions. PAE Initiatives PAE’s orientation process includes an explanation of the company’s expectations of behavior and conduct, to ensure that employees are cognizant of our ethical standards from their first day of work onwards. Expectations are reinforced through annual trainings. Among the courses, special attention is paid to ethics awareness, diversity and inclusion, creating a harassment-free workplace and Equal Employment Opportunities. PAE educates its employees on the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulation and provides additional training to mitigate even the slightest perception of inappropriate behavior. PAE is committed to ethical performance of our work, and we support the industry-wide efforts of the InternaPAE’s corporate values and expectations of ethical tional Stability Operations Association to promote conduct are communicated from our corporate office universal standards of conduct. In addition, PAE has to all employees. However, we rely on managers at developed a standard operating procedure to help our the program level to reinforce those messages with employees recognize and report instances of human employees and discuss the best approach to local trafficking, which is one of the fastest growing criminal issues and questions. activity in the world. Our Code of Conduct, entitled 2011 Communication on Progress 3 Labor Standards Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PAE Values PAE’s commitment to fair labor standards provides employees with the right to collective bargaining; fair compensation for the work they do; and protection from every form of discrimination. We believe that our employees are our most valuable assets, and we prioritize their individual and collective needs accordingly. PAE Initiatives PAE has continued its partnerships with organizations such as the International Stability Operations Association and the United Nations Global Compact to expand PAE employees are educated and trained on our labor awareness of globally recognized fair labor standards. policies on the first day of their employment, and the PAE’s workforce is diverse; comprised of individuals entire workforce is re-trained on key elements of our who represent a wide spectrum of age, ethnicities, business conduct on an annual basis. We prohibit religions and races. To protect our employees from discrimination in any form and take an active approach abuse or harassment and to ensure that our working to recruiting and developing a diverse workforce, which environment is inclusive and respectful of all we believe is one of our greatest organizational employees, PAE implements a zero tolerance policy strengths. against any sort of discrimination. Every PAE employee is trained on our policies on nondiscrimination, Equal Employment Opportunity, culture Program Managers to thoroughly investigate of performance excellence, workplace security and allegations, and take action if necessary. sexual harassment, among many others. At the conclusion of our new-hire and annual training, every PAE Code of Conduct employee is required to sign and return an acknowlPAE’s support of our employees’ fair labor rights edgement page, confirming that they comprehend and around the world is vital to maintaining a productive voluntarily agree to follow the policies by which PAE is workforce. In turn, we expect our employees to create governed. a culture of fairness and equality amongst themselves by treating each other as they wish to be treated. This Forced labor and child labor are strictly prohibited in is a recurring theme throughout our policies and Code every area where we work. We promote the use of our of Conduct; employees of our company must act in an Ethics Hotline, and PAE’s Ethics Officer works closely ethical and professional manner. with PAE’s Legal department, Human Resources and 2011 Communication on Progress 4 The Environment Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should support a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) precautionary approach to environmental challenges; certification system for all of our construction projects. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental We choose to use products that are safe for our client, responsibility; and encourage the development and the environment and our employees. Our goal is to rediffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. duce waste; maximize the utility of any unavoidable waste; and conserve energy, water and any other PAE Values natural resources in the construction and/or PAE recognizes that the safety of our employees and maintenance phase of our programs. the protection of the environment are imperative to PAE Code of Conduct ensuring our operational success. Our Environmental Safety and Health (ESH) initiatives are implemented by Our Code of Conduct addresses our company commitlocal ESH representatives on sites where PAE is the ment to a safe and healthy work environment, and we majority owner of contract operations. We have continask that all members of our organization consider themued the efforts from previous years to reduce hazardous selves ambassadors of public safety. Not only are all environmental releases and other ESH incidents on employees responsible for complying with ESH regulacontract sites around the world. tions and laws, they are also required by policy to report any injury sustained or accident observed on a job site Our ESH organization continues its active request for to their management immediately. input from our diverse workforce, in an effort to combine the knowledge from our different backgrounds and experiences. PAE Initiatives PAE emphasizes to its employees that prevention is the first line of defense against hazardous environmental impacts. Our Target Zero goal an initiative aimed at eliminating injuries and negative environmental impacts applies throughout the company. We have continued pollution prevention initiatives and recurring training for all on-site employees on proper disposal of hazardous waste. We have also continued our recycling and reusable materials plan at international project sites. Our ESH representatives record, log and report all safety incidents and environmental releases. These incidents are tracked on a system modeled after a blend of the ISO-9000, ISO-14000 and OHSAS-18000 certification requirements. Our ESH standards apply to our procurement process as well. PAE upholds U.S. standards for purchasing only materials that do not contain lead or asbestos from international vendors. We adhere to the Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance document when nationspecific environmental laws are absent. Our contractors make every effort to incorporate standards of the 2011 Communication on Progress 5 Anti-Corruption Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should work closely with our General Counsel to ensure that the against corruption in all its forms, including extortion matter is fully investigated. and bribery. PAE’s position against corruption is not only the conPAE Values cern of our Ethics and Legal departments. Our Given the different cultures in each of the countries Procurement team is required to compares vendors’ where PAE operates, our employees have and will costs to ensure fair competition, and the Procurement continue to encounter varying interpretations of busipersonnel are specially trained to not accept gifts of ness protocol. Because a gesture could be considered any value from potential vendors, to avoid even the typical etiquette in one country and bribery in another, perception of bribery. Additionally, our International PAE and other contractors must be proactive in training Trade Compliance Office procures the appropriate autheir employees to follow the most conservative definithorizations for international shipments to fulfill all regutions of extortion and bribery. latory requirements. PAE provides employees with ample training to prePAE Code of Conduct pare them for any instance of corruption they might PAE’s Code of Conduct provides guidance on how to confront, and implements precautions to ensure that respond to offers of gifts and courtesies, how to ensure the laws of the United States and foreign governments ethical business operations, how to appropriately interare strictly followed. Through diligent instruction and act with former government employees, and how to annual reinforcement of policies and procedures, PAE navigate conflict of interest, bribery, and the Truth in employees receive a comprehensive education on how Negotiations Act. PAE is dedicated to combating corto operate ethically and professionally. ruption of all kinds and stands firmly against abusing PAE Initiatives entrusted power for personal gain. PAE’s Ethics Officer travels to many of our project sites and provides employees with information and tools they need to function responsibly in their roles. During these visits, employees are trained on policies including appropriate business conduct; the giving and receiving of gifts and courtesies; and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which is a key consideration in all of our international operations. These policies are also included in the annual Ethics Awareness and Business Conduct training, which all employees must complete. PAE’s corporate newsletter, GAIN Insight, regularly includes perspectives from the Ethics Office and examples of unethical behavior in our industry, to emphasize the importance of following our anti-corruption policies. PAE offers employees a toll-free Ethics Hotline to report any violations of our Code of Conduct, with an option to remain anonymous to remove any fear of retaliation. In PAE employees are trained to be sensitive to the the event of a corruption claim, the Ethics Office works norms of all other cultures, while still abiding by the requirements of the U.S. government. 2011 Communication on Progress 6 Appendix Leading the Way: Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available online at: http://www.paegroup.com/Media/docs/about-pae-code-of-conduct-2011.pdf 2011 Communication on Progress 7 Appendix Leading the Way: Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 2011 Communication on Progress 8 1525 Wilson Blvd, Suite 900 Arlington, Virginia 22209 1-888-526-5416 www.paegroup.com
