Global Compact/ COP/2012/schmidt hammer lassen architects/ www.shl.dk Global Compact/ COP/2012/schmidt hammer lassen architects/ Content/ About us/ P:06 Statement of support/ P:10 Exhibition/Give more/ P:12 Exhibitions 2012/ P:16 Architectural case studies/ P:18 Give access/Urban Mediaspace/ P:20 Give Inspiration/City of Westminster College/ P:30 Give reflection/The Crystal/ P:38 Give efficiency/Grøndalsvej/ P:48 Sustainability/ P:52 R+D/ P:54 Certified knowledge/ P:56 Industrial PhD project/ P:58 Building information modeling/BIM/ P:60 Environmental analysis/ P:62 Building new knowledge/ P:64 Human resource management/ P:66 Labour rights/ P:68 Working environment/ P:70 Measurement/ P:72 Responsible behavior/ P:74 Business ethics/ P:76 Imprint/ P:78 4 5 About us/ schmidt hammer lassen architects is one of Scandinavia’s most recognized, award-winning architectural practices committed to innovative and sustainable design. Working out of studios located in Aarhus, Copenhagen, London, and Shanghai, the practice provides skilled architectural services all over the world. schmidt hammer lassen architects was founded in Denmark in 1986 and the practice has now grown substantially and employs 120 staff. The practice upholds a distinguished track record as designers of high-profile cultural buildings, such as The group of partners includes Morten Schmidt, Bjarne Hammer, John F. Lassen, Kim Holst Jensen and Kristian Ahlmark along with four associate partners. Day-to-day management of the practice is the responsibility of CEO Bente Damgaard. art galleries, educational complexes and libraries. The architecture of SHL has established a reputation for devising truly sustainable solutions across a broad spectrum of building typologies. We develop sustainable solutions with high emotional value that benefits the environment, society, user, and the overall economy. Adopting a holistic approach we believe that the basis of sustainable design is an understanding of every component that will deliver a healthy building. We continuously challenge the concept of architecture by adding innovative methodology and technology to classic Scandinavian design traditions. schmidt hammer lassen architects has supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2008 and submits COP #3 in September 2012. The COP will be available on Global Compact’s website and on our company website: www.shl.dk 6 7 The atrium/ Social/Spatial/Inclusive Despite their various forms, these buildings share a number of significant characteristics, the main one being the atrium, which the architects consider a basic requirement for social interaction. A schmidt hammer lassen atrium is, therefore, seldom a monumental, singular void of the type often found in office buildings with a need to radiate status – but rather a cascade of floors that creates all sorts of spatial relationships. The atrium at City of Westminster College, for example, is a playful system of straight and curved balustrades, double-height storeys and a staircase pontifically placed at a jaunty angle. Here, users can find a sheltered spot from which to survey the scene or opt for a place at the heart of the action. From the Introduction in the Give more exhibition catalogue/David Keuning/Editor at Mark Magazine 8 9 Statement of support/ schmidt hammer lassen architects maintains a strong and ambitious focus on CSR initiatives. Our studios provide excellent sustainable architectural services with the overall goal to optimize existing standards for modern buildings and design all over the world for the benefit of society, people, environment, and economy. The architectural field in a wide sense is identified as our primary sphere of influence. As architects we have the obligation and opportunity to contribute to solving the extraordinary climate challenges of today. New knowledge is essential and our studio continually invest a serious amount of time and resources in Research and Development activities such as Industrial PhDs, green and innovative research projects, collaborative partnerships with both industry and higher education institutions, and targeted internal continuing education. This year we address CSR initiatives and achievements through selected architectural case studies; the social and human scale in architecture is described via the intensive participatory approach and user involvement during the development of the new public library in Aarhus, Urban Mediaspace and Bente Damgaard/ through the innovative learning environment of New Westminster College in London. Sustainable MSc in Accounting & State Authorized Public Accountant CEO of schmidt hammer lassen architects since 2006. and environmental aspects of contemporary architecture are described through two ambitious Previous position as Senior Accountant in one of Denmark’s office projects Grondalsvej and The Chrystal. We also address the internal focus on Human Resource largest accounting companies KPMG. management and how we deal with the challenges of increasing global activities. Bente Damgaard is member of the following Boards/ The Danish Trade Council under the Foreign Ministry DanskeArk – Danish Association of Architectural Firms schmidt hammer lassen architects has supported The Global Compact initiative since 2008 and the principles continuously constitute an important and essential policy frame of CSR activities of our studio. I hereby state that we continuously support the UN initiative Global Compact and uphold the ten UN principles concerning; human rights, labour standards, environment, and anti-corruption. Bente Damgaard CEO at schmidt hammer lassen architects September 2012 10 11 Exhibition/Give more/ “In all of their projects, this Danish architectural team links exterior and interior space in ways that are innovative and are driven by outstanding design concepts. Now, dividing elements are dissolved both conceptually and formally so that building and context enter into a dialogue. Through their buildings and projects, and through the attitude toward society upon which they are founded, schmidt hammer lassen architects provides an answer to the classical question posed by architectural sociologists: In February 2012 the architectural exhibition Give more opened at the well-reputed gallery Aedes am Pfefferberg in Berlin. The exhibition features a selection of architecture projects by schmidt hammer Can architecture transform society and human lassen architects, and offers the audience a glimpse of how architecture can give more by adding value community in positive ways? and positive change for people, places, and communities. The exhibition features 9 selected projects Yes, it can!.” paraphrasing 9 visions on how the buildings give more besides being beautiful landmarks. From the preface in the Give more exhibition catalogue/Kristin Feireiss and Beate Engelhorn/Aedes am Pfefferberg/2012 Architecture frames our lives in profound and concrete ways. It reflects contemporary understandings of culture and society. Architecture replies to both the concrete and the abstract and the main idea and concept of architecture unfolds within the field of these polarities. The fundamental architectural approach of schmidt hammer lassen architects states that architecture can creates change – architecture is not a goal in itself. The studio strives in every project to design buildings that meet the demands and challenges of modern society; and make people come together in new ways. The various Give statements represent important values and indicate how the architectural approach of schmidt hammer lassen architects embraces these aspects in both design process and in the final design. Please find more information about the exhibition on the company website: www.shl.dk 12 13 Give more/ Give opportunity/ Performers House/Silkeborg/Denmark Give hope/ International Criminal Court/The Hague/The Netherlands Give inspiration/ City of Westminster College/London/United Kingdom Give access/ Urban Mediaspace/Aarhus/Denmark Give identity/ University of Aberdeen New Library/Aberdeen/Scotland Give reflection/ The Crystal/Copenhagen/Denmark Give dialogue/ Halifax Central Library/Halifax/Canada Give recognition/ Cultural Centre of Greenland/Nuuk/Greenland Give atmosphere/ Danfoss Head Office/Nordborg/Denmark 14 15 Exhibitions/2012/ Working model of The International Criminal Court/Show Me Your Model Give more/Aedes am Phefferberg/Berlin The exhibition features 9 selected projects paraphrasing 9 visions on how the buildings give more besides being beautiful landmarks. February – March 2012 Copenhagen Solutions/Singapore The exhibition illustrates how Copenhagen works with sustainable solutions on all consultative levels and features a number of high quality building projects in order to underline the connection to sustainability. As an example of this, The Crystal is exhibited. Copenhagen Solutions has been developed by Danish Architure Center on behalf of the Municipality of Copenhagen and the Foundation Realdania along with The Ministry of Culture in Denmark. Partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects Kristian Ahlmark gave a speech at the official opening of the exhibition. Singapore in July at World City Summit 2012 August at the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) NEW NORDIC – Architecture & Identity/Louisiana Museum of Modern Art/Denmark The NEW NORDIC exhibition thematise on how we build in the Nordic countries today. The exhibition poses the question: Does such a thing as a common Nordic identity exist? schmidt hammer lassen architects is present with a model of the Cultural Center of Greenland in Nuuk. June 29th to October 21st, 2012 Show Me Your Model at Danish Architecture Center/Copenhagen/Denmark schmidt hammer lassen architects contributes with a working model of The International Criminal Court (ICC). June 21st to October 21st 2012 16 17 Architectural case studies/ “The CSR policy of schmidt hammer lassen architects is based on the architectural core services that we provide. Maybe CSR perspectives in architecture cannot save the world – but we believe that architecture can add value and create necessary change for architecture/ improved future communities.” Bjarne Hammer, Founding Partner 18 19 Give access/ 20 21 Urban Mediaspace/ Aarhus/Denmark/ Architect Engineer schmidt hammer lassen architects Alectia Consulting Engineers Client Landscape Architect The Municipality of Aarhus Arkitekt Kristine Jensens Tegnestue Client partner Realdania Client consultant Area Rambøll Denmark 35,600 m² Other Consultants Competition Bahn arkitekter 2009, 1st prize in restricted international competition Other consultants during the competition Status Bosch & Fjord Interior Design & Art, The Danish School of Librarians by Construction period 2011-2014 Dr. art Henrik Jochumsen and Dr. art Casper Hvenegaard Rasmussen Full-service consultant schmidt hammer lassen architects Urban Mediaspace in Aarhus will be Scandinavia’s largest public library and represents a new generation of modern hybrid libraries. It will be a place of exchange and exploration. Urban Mediaspace is a library of the future. As such, it is not a temple for storage of books, but a public place of sharing and experiencing. It is a social platform for learning and meeting, offering myriads of ways to access knowledge – an open space between home and work. Urban Mediaspace gives access, both physically and metaphorically, by having completely open facades with a 360 degree view to the city, creating a conscious connection between outside and inside. This ensures coherence with the context – the modern urban life, the historical city centre, the industrial harbour, the open surface of the water and the horizon. Daylight is drawn into the building through atria and openings in the building creating a multitude of diverse spatial expressions together with the juxtaposed floor plates. The library contains several divisions including literature and media areas, exhibition facilities, children’s theatre, facilities for interactive activities, and spaces for public events and cafés. 22 23 “The future library building must support many formats and platforms for human meeting, interaction and exchange, for thinking and contemplation, for learning and experience, for reading, dialogue and creation.” Rolf Hapel, Director, Citizens’ Services and Libraries, City of Aarhus “The future library should be an institution on the edge, experimenting with the new, leading the user on the way into the possibilities and potential of technology and collaboration.” Susan Kent, Managing Partner of S. R. Kent, LLC 24 25 “Urban Mediaspace will be an outstanding space for civic learning, experience and knowledge based activities.” Marie Østergard, Project Manager, Urban Mediaspace Aarhus, City of Aarhus 26 27 User-driven innovation/ schmidt hammer lassen architects and the project office for Urban Mediaspace Aarhus are shortlisted for a BEST COLLABORATION AWARD 2012 for the project Urban Mediaspace. The design competition for the project took place in the period of 2008 2009. Prior to the competition, the Aarhus Public Library had developed and facilitated an extensive involvement process which served as a basis for the whole project. The philosophy behind the user-group involvement was, and still is, that an active multimedia library will only come to life by asking the opinion of the people who are going to use it. Therefore, citizens and the “It is very important to communicate openly in future staff of the Urban Mediaspace have been engaged in the whole process. Aarhus has a special the group and to secure that all participants “model for involvement of citizens”, which has also been the foundation for the present involvement have insight into the architectural main idea of process in terms of ambition and scale. This has resulted in a much more direct involvement of users in the building process than we, the lead design architects, have previously been accustomed to. In a the project. Involving future users of the building building project of this magnitude and complexity it has been important with a prior establishment of a has been of great importance to the architectural firm structure for the whole user-group involvement. process and this library will be designed with The task of the user-groups has been to relate to the set space, geometry and shape and provide the optimum functionality.” lead design architect with as much information as possible. The users have given us insight into work Ass. partner Trine Berthold, Design manager, Urban Mediaspace processes, work functions, work relations, visitor behavior, service expectations, information needs – all of which have given us a picture of the needs and desires of the citizens and staff. During the process it was essential to translate and make concrete the user needs that have been expressed during sequences of meetings. Together with the users we have made an effort to inspire, develop and ad new ideas to the project. The first part of the involvement process was held between 2009 and 2010, and included the following Phase 1: 12 user-groups/employees/project management/Outline proposal/RIBA stage C Phase 2: 18 theme groups/project management/Detailed proposal/RIBA stage D-E Phase 3: professional forums/project management/Production information RIBA stage F For more information on user involvement in Urban Mediaspace project: www.urbanmediaspace.dk 28 29 Give inspiration/ 30 31 City of Westminster College/London/ United Kingdom/ Architect Landscape Architect schmidt hammer lassen architects schmidt hammer lassen architects Client Main Contractor City of Westminster College McLaren Construction Ltd Area Other Consultants 24,000 m² Knight Frank LLP Stace LLP Competition Awards 2006, 1st prize in restricted international competition 2011 shortlisted for The Concrete Society Awards, 2011 RIBA Award, 2011 New London Award, Learning category, 2011 shortlisted for World Status Architecture Festival Award Construction period 2008 – 2010 Engineer Buro Happold, United Kingdom The new flagship campus for City of Westminster College is located in the heart of central London at Paddington Green. The City of Westminster College provides more open learning spaces than typical colleges in the UK and holds state-of-the-art facilities for both students and staff. The building is designed to embrace interaction and diversity and allow students to be inspired and learn from each other, both formally and informally. The learning spaces of the building revolve around the spacious atrium, which is the core of the building. They are adaptable and flexible so that, the development of the students is supported by the diverse architectural spaces of the building they are in. The atrium unfolds as a fourth dimension inside the College – it gives physical expression to the intellectual and social cohesion vital to modern learning. Here, the students meet and interact, inspire each other and exchange knowledge across classes and levels. Social interaction is core to modern learning. The design of the City of Westminster College encourages new ways of teaching and learning. 32 33 “With its light and open central atrium, the design provides students and staff with many more opportunities for interaction and a better awareness of what is going on around the College.” David Pigden, Deputy Principal, City of Westminster College 34 35 “The new City of Westminster College Campus is providing an inspirational and high quality environment for teaching and learning, and raises the profile of both the College and further education as a whole.” David Pigden, Deputy Principal, City of Westminster College “Incidents involving confrontation have more than halved since the move here and students are showing pride and respect for their new environment.” David Pigden, Deputy Principal, City of Westminster College 36 37 Give reflection/ 38 39 The Crystal/Copenhagen/ Denmark/ Architect Engineer schmidt hammer lassen architects Grontmij I Carl Bro A/S Buro Happold Client Landscape Architect Nykredit SLA Area Client Consultant 6,850 m2 Alectia Competition Award On commission 2006 2011 LEAF Award, Best Structural Design of the Year, 2011 European Steel Design Award, 2011 shortlisted for World Architecture Festival Awards Status Construction period 2008 2010 The Crystal is an extension to the head office of the Danish financial institution, Nykredit, and is located northwest of the existing premises. Freestanding on the site, it reads as a transparent, geometrical, glazed form which, resting only on a single point and a single line, floats as a light, crystalline structure above the plaza. The Crystal reflects its surroundings in terms of both form and scale, gracefully adapting to lines of sight, scales and function of the immediate context, evolving in interplay with its surroundings. It harmonises in scale with neighbouring buildings, and lifts up from the plaza beneath in order to allow passage and view under the building, inviting people of the neighbourhood to explore the space between the city and the harbour. The double-glazed facade reflects the daylight, and gives a homogenous expression to the building, enhancing its sculptural form and supports the overall energy performance of the building. The large three-dimensional steel structure functions as an architectural element while at the same time allowing the building to dispense with pillars, creating maximum flexibility for the employees in the office spaces. 40 41 “The entire Nykredit group focuses on sustainability, and this focus is reflected throughout the Crystal, which is consistently eco-friendly.” Bente Overgaard, Group Managing Director, Nykredit 42 43 “The Crystal’s facade appears vibrant and alive, changing even if a small cloud crosses the sun.” Bente Overgaard, Group Managing Director, Nykredit 44 45 Energy-conscious design/ Sustainability scheme/The Crystal The office building Krystallen (the Crystal) designed by schmidt hammer lassen architects for the company Nykredit is a successful example of energy-conscious design. The building is a work of sleek glass geometry with a light, crystalline expression that floats over the square, anchored at a single point and in a single line. The construction is a combination of a completely transparent office building Energy and an unusually low energy consumption of 70 kW/h per m2, and the building consequently uses 25% less energy than required by current legislation. The roof is covered by highly efficient solar cells Process generating 80,000 kWh per year. Daylight The building’s multi-faceted glass facade reflects both daylight and the immediate surroundings, and the double-glazed windows have built-in sun protection enabling the building to accommodate different light conditions. To this should be added that the external surface of the windows are decorated with a discrete silk print that shields against the rays of the sun while creating atmosphere both indoors and outdoors. Recycling Ventilation The Crystal Rain water is collected and recycled everywhere, for example in the toilets in the buildings, while sea water is used for additional cooling. The building uses a hybrid ventilation system with night cooling. Natural ventilation is channelled through the double facade and out through the two skylights in the atrium, which serves to maintain optimum indoor temperatures and a healthy physical working environment for the approximately 300 employees. Water Materials The interior of the building meets the requirements of the workplace for functionality, flexibility and efficiency, as the layout of the floors provides opportunities for open plan offices, closed/private office Form & function cubicles or meeting rooms, as required. The building has been honoured with a LEAF Award and an European Steel Award, and in 2012 nominated Building of the Year in the ‘Office Building’ category by one of the world’s largest architectural networks, ArchDaily. Read more: www.shl.dk 46 47 Give efficiency/ 48 49 Grøndalsvej/Aarhus/ Denmark/ Architect Engineer schmidt hammer lassen architects Grontmij Client Contractor Municipality of Aarhus E. Pihl & Son Area Landscape architect 6,000 m² GHB Landscape Architects Competition 2009, 1st prize in design & Build competition Status Construction period 2010 2012 The new building complex for 240 staff and their clients will be built as an extension to the existing administration office of the municipality dating from 1965. It has been crucial to keep the design on a In 2012 the first ever net-zero energy office building in Denmark will be completed. New thinking and human scale to offer the best possible physical conditions to the employees and visitors. The complex innovative solutions characterize the holistic sustainable building design. will be situated on a hillside in the southern part of the city and be highly visible from the passing intercity road. The Municipality of Aarhus requested an extension to an existing building complex from the 1960s. The environmental ambitions of the municipality of Aarhus have been the key drivers for the project which The access to the new building will go through an existing alley of unique and beautiful plane trees. The is a zero-energy office building, the first of its kind in Denmark. The building has 1,100 square meters project builds on the qualities of the old buildings and the charming garden areas worthy of preservation. of solar cells for the production of electricity, 420 square meters of solar thermal panels for absorption Even before it is built, the new complex will be equipped with garden spaces, trees and plants that it cooling and water heating and rainwater harvesting for reuse in lavatories and for watering. would otherwise take decennials to grow. The project is a genuine sustainable solution. For instance, schmidt hammer lassen architects has The complex will appear as a fully integrated classic modern composition. The new extension is an designed slender façades made of highly insulated and ultra-thin vacuum insulation, along with the independent unit consisting of two parallel wings of two-three-storey buildings connected by towers location of the building complex and an effective lay-out with windows for all workstations, ensure that containing stairs, elevators, lavatories and washrooms. Consequently, the office areas are free from the daylight is exploited to the maximum. Recycled glass has been used for the façades and 96 percent functional units and are flexible to any sort of organization. Three gardens are placed between the two of the materials from the demolished building on site will be reused. wings to draw nature into the building and enable the employees to follow the seasons from their desks. 50 51 Sustainability/ schmidt hammer lassen architects has established a reputation for devising truly sustainable solutions across a broad spectrum of building typologies. Adopting a holistic approach, we believe that the basis of sustainable design is an understanding of every component that will deliver a healthy and enduring building, a building in which people will feel comfortable – both physically and socially. Above all, sustainability is about responding to the basic needs of a client, which can be an individual, a commercial enterprise, a school or an entire community. In the final analysis, sustainability is about delivering design that functions successfully as a catalyst for positive change. In other words, we are talking about successful place-making: when it works, sustainable design can engender a sense of civic pride, a sense of identity. This is an extraordinary challenge for architects – it is at the very heart of why we do what we do. 52 53 R+D/ “As architects it is our responsibility and obligation to generate a holistic and sustainable development for the future, of continuously inventing new, smarter and greener building solutions. Our valuable knowledge of cutting edge technologies and smart materials underpin development of new generations of highly sustainable, efficient and intelligent products.” Torsten Sack-Nielsen, R+D manager With our responsibility and obligation as architects to generate holistic future developments, follows a basic need of continuously inventing new, smarter and greener building solutions. At schmidt hammer lassen architects we are passionate about developing large projects down to small details with a very high standard of quality. R+D provides internal and external consulting services to our running projects and clients, who demand extraordinary custom-made architectural solutions. The deep knowhow of materials and technical solutions, the experiences over many years with our projects and the network of highly ranked engineering specialists and research departments of companies is our foundation to develop visionary and green solutions. 54 55 Certified knowledge/ “LEED will add another level of thought into the design process. Not only is the energy efficiency of the projects we design of high importance, but where and how Research and knowledge sharing is fundamental in our practice and also in the CPD strategy of the they are built as well. LEED will quantify the studio. To maintain a high level of innovation in our projects we continuously seek for new exciting decisions that are made throughout the materials and technologies and by that, opportunities to implement and develop them. Internally we arrange lectures about new materials in the GET MATERIALIZED forum where selected companies tell design process in such a way that decisions about their latest developments and we discuss potentials for our projects. can be compared and selected based on Another important knowledge sharing platform is the SHL GREEN Group where passionate employees their environmental impact.” David Fink, BIM manager exchange cutting edge knowledge of highly sustainable projects and green ideas. Regular meetings in this forum are open accessible for all employees. The specialized staff members of our studio often provide public lectures and communicate on our experienced work with innovative implementation. We tell about the process and our experiences to achieve holistic sustainable buildings. One of the focus areas at SHL’s CPD strategy is the education of a core group of employees in the most important building certification systems. These systems evaluate the sustainability and “green performance” of a building and give a better understanding of the interaction of the different sustainable parameters. Today the architectural staff counts BREEAM International Assessors, LEED Accredited Professionals, DGNB International Consultants and C2C trained professionals offering certification processes and benchmarking for our clients projects. schmidt hammer lassen architects is involved in different initiatives to promotes sustainability in our field. As an active player we participated in an expert group for materials in the adaption process of the new Danish building certification system DGNB-DK to Danish standards, which is operational from June 2012. We participate in network initiatives with the focus on implementation of green solutions, like the SHL is member of Danish Green Building Council and we are listed in BREEAM GREEN book. sustainability network in Aarhus and the Danish C2C network. Associate partner Kasper Heiberg Frandsen is member of the Sustainability Council of DANSKEARK. 56 57 Industrial PhD project/ Quality management/ schmidt hammer lassen architects seeks to meet professional objectives through a well-structured 2008–2012/ analytic working approach as well as through qualified consultancy services based on professional knowledge. The basic principle of the studio’s quality assurance is to do things right the first time. The studio’s Quality Assurance Manual describes the quality control system used to ensure that all the services meet the quality requirements as well as the expectations of the client. The Quality Assurance Manual has been prepared according to the following guidelines and standards: Quality Assurance in Architects’ Offices prepared by the Danish Association of Architectural Firms DS/ISO 9001 standard Danish order on quality assurance of construction work The Quality Assurance Handbook is distributed to the employees and customers/ clients of the studio. The Quality Assurance Handbook is verified and updated on an ongoing basis to ensure that it reflects the experience accrued from assignments and to ensure that it constantly meets the objectives of the studio. schmidt hammer lassen architects’ doctoral student Anne-Mette Manelius defended her PhD dissertation at the School of Architecture at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in July 2012. The dissertation is titled Fabric Formwork – Investigations into Formwork Tectonics and Stereogeneity in Architectural Constructions. It has two volumes: the dissertation and ‘Experimental Data’, an extensive compilation of appendices, the summaries of experiments made during the thesis work. Fabric Formwork is a new construction method in which flat sheets of fabrics are used to support fresh concrete. Using membranes as formwork entails a direct expression of the principles and materials of construction – the project has a practical, experimental and theoretical emphasis on the relationship between the construction of the mold, the molding itself, and the expression of construction. In an architectural experimental practice (‘research through design’) the project has produced over 40 full-scale concrete objects, categorized key construction principles and techniques, and formulated architectural potentials of new materials, techniques and architectural expressions. The collaboration between Anne Mette Manelius, schmidt hammer lassen architects and the contractor E. Pihl & Son has resulted in cutting edge knowledge and insight about new technologies, providing inspiration for current and future projects. 58 59 Building information modelling/BIM/ 60 61 Environmental analysis/ The use of Building Information Modelling/BIM is today standard on the majority of the larger projects at schmidt hammer lassen architects. Additional standard is also the use of environmental analysis and simulation tools to improve the sustainability profile of the projects with specific focus on the design process. This is accomplished by using software tools such as Ecotect, Green Building Studio and Vasari. When environmental analysis and simulation tools are used from the earliest stages of design, projects can be designed to take advantage of local environmental conditions such as site orientation, solar access and seasonal winds as well as the materials used to construct them. The essential approach is that a project will run more sustainable and energy efficient when analysis software is used at the earliest stages of design. schmidt hammer lassen architects is continuously researching new ways to implement this new technology as part of their design process. 62 63 Building new knowledge/ Successful integration of new methods and technologies requires an extensive level of knowledge sharing. Therefore the BIM management group attends various BIM Networks, and is often invited to make presentations at conferences and educational institutions. These activities are essential in order to build new knowledge – internally as well as externally – and recent activities is listed below. – Lecture in The Hague and London/The International Criminal Court/BIM working methods – Lecturer and panel member at the NTI BIM University 2012, Copenhagen/BIM working processes – Lecturer at the CIBSE 2012 Conference, UK/Assessing the costs and benefits of BIM – Network European research program ICT. The DuraArk project with focus on secure and future-proof data storage – Second North American Revit Technology Conference 2012 – Censoring at VIA University Colleges, DK – Workshops under the governmental initiative Cuneco established to develop a new BIM standard for the Danish construction industry schmidt hammer lassen architects has been involved with starting and establishing „BIM Aarhus“ which is an active professional network for all participants in the construction industry. Meetings are held on a regular basis to discuss relevant BIM issues. More information can be found at: www.bimaarhus.dk. SHL is also actively setting up a similar network in the Copenhagen area. BIM is also one of the key cornerstones in the internal strategic continuing education plan. Additional BIM has also its own internal taskforce and a separate internal budget as schmidt hammer lassen architects acknowledge that being a first mover on this field requires constant research and education. Running evaluations of the BIM projects is part of these knowledge sharing initiatives. 64 65 Human Resource managment/ 66 67 Labour rights/ In the section below, we outline the basic rules and regulations of the collective agreement pertinent to safeguarding labour rights and we also include those extra activities designed by the organisation to stimulate a positive working environment – Fixed salary tiers regulated according to seniority – Pension – Working hours regulation and overtime compensation – Favourable maternity and paternity leave – Holiday regulations – CPD funding – Employee representation on several deciding organisational boards (Health & Safety committee, Collaboration Committee and Continuing Education Committee) – Free union representative elections without management intervention – Extensive opportunities for study leaves and company assisted learning curricula – Mandatory EAS (employee appraisal session) twice a year for all staff members to ensure ongoing professional and personal development. Each session focusing on job satisfaction, collaboration with colleagues, managers and customers as well as competencyand career development. schmidt hammer lassen architects are exclusively dependant on staff members’ performance to Every employee gets their own shl Individual Development Plan (IDP) for the coming year. continue the success of creating and delivering modern, holistic and sustainable architectural solutions It’s a shared responsibility for the line manager and employee to continuously follow up for a diverse and international group of private and public clients. on the development plan. Attracting, retaining, developing, and ensuring the health and safety of the staff members is therefore detrimental to the organisational development and a top priority in the strategic management teams’ ongoing efforts to realize the practice’s ambitious visions. The Scandinavian countries are by definition attending to secure labour rights and conditions of any staff members through collective agreements and state imposed regulations concerning employee safeguarding. Additionally, schmidt hammer lassen architects engages in several specifically selected and designed activities to uphold these rights, extend them and continuously improve conditions for all staff members. A collective agreement is in place and applicable to the majority of the organisation’s staff members. Colleagues in London and Shanghai are not covered by Danish collective agreement, but the organisation has made significant efforts to create conditions comparable to the rights and benefits included in the Danish collective agreement. National rules and regulations in force on the non-Danish office sites are followed with rigor. 68 69 Working environment/ 25th Anniversary/SHL Day/2011 The health and safety of all staff members is highly valued by the organisation. The organisation has chosen to offer extra health care insurances for all staff members Although, public health systems are well-functioning in all countries in which the organisation operates, the company offers an additional insurance scheme to secure a fast paced healing process of any staff member who accidentally falls ill. The organisation has a Non-smoking policy and offers flu vaccines on most locations, The HR department offers professional psychological support to any employee struggling with stress, bullying, abuse or other problems affecting the worklife. Aonymous and free counseling and support through the Health Insurance is also offered. Dedicated committees are in place and the organisation’s strategic management participates actively and cooperatively. The meeting frequency in all three committees is quarterly. The Health & Safety Committee prevent any form of counterproductive physical and non-physical working conditions, including the prevention of any labour related accident. The Collaboration Committee ensure a positive working environment and engage in dialogue with union representative about organisational development and adjustment to foster employee commitment and retention. The Continuing Education Committee organise and administer the organisation’s strategic engagements in relation to staff member training and professional development. All permanent employees receive annually allocated money (between 10,000 and 17,000 DKR) to continuing professional development. In addition, local staff associations organize parties, theater trips and other social events. Competency development is a crucial element for the creation of world class architecture and a workforce with high job satisfaction. Furthermore every autumn, all employees are invited to a very popular shl-day with a focus on professional development and social activities. Selected themes in recent years have been Project Culture, Sustainability and Architectural Development. 70 71 Measurement/ 25th Anniversary/SHL Day/2011 To monitor organisational development on ‘hard’ aspects (physical working conditions) and ‘soft’ issues (non-physical working environment), the organisation administers a detailed employee survey once every three year. The work place assessment (WPA) gives any employee an opportunity to voice general impressions about the organisation’s many conditions. Among these conditions are the physical working environment, cross-organisation collaboration, worklife balance, work content and professional challenges, evaluation of the strategic management, CPD etc. All results are analysed and shared with the Health and Safety Committee and the organisation at local office meetings and special action plans are designed to face specific challenges. Staff member overview/2012 Total number of staff (FTE) 120 Women 50 Men 70 Danish staff members 88 Other nationalities 32 72 73 Responsible behaviour/ 25th Anniversary/SHL Day/2011 At schmidt hammer lassen architect responsible behaviour is integrated not only in our professional work but also in everyday work life. If possible we travel by public transport and we keep travel activities at a minimum by investing in alternative communication platforms such as Smart Boards and video link equipment. This enables us to hold meetings and workshops across office locations in China, UK, and Denmark. In all our offices we show the good example by recycling used paper, using energy efficient light bulbs, buying organic products and drinking Fair Trade labelled coffee & tea. End Poverty 2015 Campaign/ schmidt hammer lassen architects once again participated as business partner in the 2011 campaign in Denmark called The World’s Best News which is part of the Danish contribution to of the UN initiative End Poverty 2015 Campaign (supporting The United Nations Millennium Development Goals). In 2011 the campaign title was Your Effort Bears Fruit – and on the official Campaign Day fresh fruit was served at all SHL offices – furthermore information about the campaign was posted at the office, on our website and also in the SHL newsletter we addressed the event and CSR perspectives in architecture. We will also support the campaign in 2012. As business partner we contribute by spreading the positive news both inside and outside the organization telling that the effort and support is making profound changes in the developing countries. The Danish campaign is financially supported by Danida and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, and the event has been developed as a unique collaboration between the UN, DANIDA and nearly 70 Danish development organizations and NGOs. Please find more information on the Campaign website: www.verdensbedstenyheder.dk 74 75 Business ethics/ 25th Anniversary/SHL Day/2011 We hold a reputation as responsible and conscientious business partner and dissociate from corruption, extortion, and bribery in any form. The studio has never been involved in corruption and the company has worked out policy guidelines which are carefully described in the SHL staff handbook that are handed out to all employees on their first day at work. In this we state that “Our business ethics are grounded on trustworthiness, honesty and transparency. Accordingly, employees at all levels must avoid letting financial and/or personal interests influence – or arouse suspicion of influencing – their work-related decisions or conflicting with the interests and ethics of the organisation. Moreover, we expect all employees to act in accordance with applicable legislation“. We support the UN Convention against Corruption and in 2011 schmidt hammer lassen architects joined the Anti-Corruption Partnership in China which is hosted by the Danish Embassy in Beijing. schmidt hammer lassen architects has joined a newly established CSR network under the Association of Danish Architectural Firms/ DANSKE ARK and during a number of workshops in 2011 and 2012 new guideline materials have been produced with the purpose of supporting architectural practices in monitoring CSR in more structured and effective ways – for instance by forming a Code of Conduct and a Supplier’s Declaration. At this point we are preparing implementation of these standards in the core business of our practice. The independent international NGO Transparency International was founded in 1993 and is now present in more than 100 countries. The organization annually publishes reports on corruption – and for many years Denmark has been placed as one of the world’s least corrupt countries. The result underlines the very high standards of Danish companies. Vision of the independent anti-corruption NGO Transparency International A world in which government, business, civil society and the daily lives of people are free of corruptio. 76 77 Imprint/ All rights in this COP is reserved by schmidt hammer lassen architects Contact/ Aaboulevarden 37 PO box 5117 8000 Aarhus C Denmark T +45 86 20 19 00 info@shl.dk www.shl.dk Graphic design/ schmidt hammer lassen architects Photos/ Adam Mørk Daniel Greniman Jeppe Carlsen schmidt hammer lassen architects Global Compact/CSR/contact point/ Trine Steffenauer/trs@shl.dk We support the un Global Compact initiative/ schmidt hammer lassen architects hereby states that we operate in accordance with The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We state that our actions comply with Danish national legislation and related international conventions. This COP reports on the continued commitment and describes actions taken within all four areas. 78 www.shl.dk
