2011 s usta i n a bi lit y r e p ort f or Visit Sw e d e n cont e nts – 2 2011 Contents CEO: “Sweden and VisitSweden take responsibility for sustainable development” 3 Sustainability for VisitSweden 4 Risks and opportunities 7 Dialogue with stakeholders 9 Environmental responsibility 12 Employees 16 About VisitSweden 18 About VisitSweden’s sustainability report 21 External assurance 22 FN Global Compact: Communication on Progress, report 2011 23 GRI content index 25 Appendix 1. Conditions for climate neutrality in Respect´s programme 29 Appendix 2. Background: Global Compact 30 Contact details Contact VisitSweden V.S VisitSweden AB Box 3030 103 61 Stockholm Street address: Sveavägen 21, Stockholm Tel +46 (0)8-789 10 00 info.se@visitsweden.com www.visitsweden.com/partner www.twitter.com/visitsweden Contact, Sustainability Report Carla Aguirre, carla.aguirre@visitsweden.com f rom t h e ceo – 3 2011 “Sweden and VisitSweden take responsibility for sustainable development” Sweden’s profile is solidly positioned in the realm of nature, and people see us as a country with a profound love of the natural world and a strong environmental commitment. VisitSweden aims to inspire travellers and the Swedish tourism industry to think and communicate sustainability. We Swedes live in unique proximity to our abundant nature, it’s a part of us, and we have a strong tradition of appreciating and conserving it. Our capital city was selected as the very first European environmental capital and Sweden has ambitious VisitSweden does its bit environmental targets. Many people, both in Sweden and abroad, exVisitSweden has an overarching strategy, a clear vision and a joint pect Sweden to excel in sustainability. communication strategy for sustainable tourism. We work to ensure The tourism industry has enjoyed eight consecutive years of that more visitors will choose sustainable experiences. We aim to ingrowth, and is now considered one of Sweden’s primary industries. spire the tourism industry to develop more sustainable products, to Visitor statistics for 2011 show an increase, albeit small, of overnights be even better at acting sustainably ourselves, and to make sustainfrom abroad, making 2011 the best year so far for the Swedish tourability a natural part of Sweden’s offer to our target groups. ism industry. Overnights from Norway, Germany, China and the UnitVisitSweden takes the environment into consideration on a daily ed States have increased the most, while overnights from Denmark basis: at our offices, regarding staff travel, and by holding climatehave dropped. neutral, climate-offset events. We demand that our suppliers are The National Strategy for Swedish tourism 2020 is important to climate smart and we are knowledgeable when it comes to dealing VisitSweden’s operations. The target is clear: the Swedish tourism with these issues. VisitSweden’s own environmental impacts from industry is to double sales by 2020. Achieving the ambitious targets business travel, electricity and heating, per employee, are dropping. will require hard work and a broad-based effort, and the strategy We carbon-offset our impacts and our aim is to continue to reduce highlights sustainability as a cornerstone. VisitSweden is part of the our total impacts. network economy that aims to grow the tourism industry together VisitSweden has ratified the UN’s Global Compact, an internawith public and private parties. Today tourism is hugely important tional initiative featuring ten principles for achieving a sustainable, to Sweden. inclusive global economy. It’s about letting responsible companies be a part of the solution to the challenges of globalisation. Increased travel means greater demands Increasingly, travel is a normal part of people’s lives. For many of us Communicating sustainability it’s natural that a holiday or business trip will provide an opportunity Sweden can seize the position as the most sustainable destination in to relax, learn, or further oneself in some way. Escalating globalisaEurope. We will offer our target groups sustainable experiences. Vistion and Sweden’s export-intensive industry will also result in conitSweden and Swedish destinations will more clearly communicate tinued business travel. sustainable experiences, accommodation and transport. The sustainThis growth in globalisation places huge demands on the tourism able destination of Sweden should be an enjoyable, fun, inspirational industry to do its part and offer travellers more sustainable prodand educational place to visit. ucts. Experiences, accommodation, meeting facilities and transports I am proud to work in a climate-neutral company. I’m happy to with the least possible environmental impacts should be standard represent a country that embodies good sustainable values in the offerings, not exclusive options. There are already indications that eyes of travellers. Sweden’s environmental work is at the absolute sustainability is now a natural expectation among more and more forefront. From this foundation we can take the step forward to the travellers1. Many travellers associate Sweden with environmental position of European leader in sustainability. care, a result of our strong natural profile. We interpret this to mean that they expect Sweden, with its abundant natural resources, to automatically care for its environment. Thomas Brühl, CEO VisitSweden 1. Convention 2020 Exhibition, Meetings and Events, Phase 1 Survey Findings, March 2010, pp. 46-47. IMEX Meetings Outlook Report, April 2011, pp. 1-2. su sta i n a bi l it y f or Vi sit Sw e d e n – 4 2011 Sustainability and global responsibility Tourism is a fast-growing international phenomenon, and by 2012 the number of tourists worldwide is expected to reach one billion2. VisitSweden has an international mandate: to increase the number of visitors to Sweden on behalf of the Swedish state and the Swedish tourism industry. In the national strategy that the tourism industry has jointly endorsed, the vision is to double Sweden’s tourism sales to 500 billion Swedish crowns (SEK) by 2020. Sustainability is an important part of this. VisitSweden has a mandate from the Swedish state and the Swedish The environmental, social and financial aspects must have the same tourism industry to market Sweden and Swedish destinations and opportunity to develop. experiences, with the purpose of increasing revenue from foreign For VisitSweden, this is the essence of sustainable development. travellers. We have expressed our mandate in a clear vision: VisitSThe environment, the people and the economy are interconnected weden increases foreigners’ desire for Sweden. and must be in balance if tourism to Sweden is to develop as per the Tourism is one of the world’s fastest growing industries, forming vision for 2020. We use a definition of sustainable tourism as stated an important part of the economic growth of many countries. At the in the UNWTO’s and the Brundtland Commission’s description of same time, just five per cent of the world’s carbon dioxide emissions sustainable tourism and sustainable development. comes from tourism3, and prompt action is required to relieve the environmental effects of the increase in travel. Even though travel Sustainable tourism is closely related to sustainable development 4 and to Sweden has not reached the volumes of destinations like France always has three perspectives: economic, ecological and social sustainability 5 . A sustainable destination must integrate these three areas to or the United States, the significance of Swedish tourism is growing. achieve long-term sustainable growth. By way of active national and international efforts for sustainable tourism, the Swedish tourism industry can take a more active role in reaching the ambitious targets set for Sweden. With this perspective for Sweden as a destination and for our own Tourism is about curiosity, desire, feelings and a passion for learncompany, VisitSweden can identify risks and opportunities that are ing. But most of all it’s about development – for the travellers as well important for the development of Sweden as a destination for foras for the companies and organisations that make it possible, toeign visitors. The most immediate challenge for VisitSweden is to gether with other people, communities and contexts around us. For work on green issues, as we are based in a country with a long histhis reason it is sensitive to influences from many different sources. tory of social and economic development and security. The Way Out West music festival in the event city of Gothenburg is hugely successful – and has a clear environmental profile. Photo: Rodrigo Rivas Ruiz/www.imagebank.sweden.se 2. UNWTO, World Tourism Barometer, Advance Release, January 2012, www.e-unwto.org/content/h4p6986745j48010/fulltext.pdf?page=1. 3. UNWTO/UNEP, Climate Change and Tourism – Responding to Global Challenges, July 2008, p. 132. 4. Brundtland Commission’s definition of sustainable development: ”Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.”, UN Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 1992. UNECE, www.unece.org/oes/nutshell/2004-2005/focus_sustainable_development.html, March 2012. 5. UNWTO, Conceptual Definition of Sustainable Development of Tourism, www.sdt.unwto.org/en/content/about-us-5, March 2012. su sta i n a bi l it y f or Vi sit Swe de n 2011 VisitSweden’s vision for sustainability industry organisations and companies, for instance by spreading knowledge of the target groups’ travel habits and in the selection of joint messages and marketing activities. By highlighting sustainable experiences in our marketing aimed at the travellers, VisitSweden wants to inspire Swedish companies to offer more sustainable experiences to potential travellers. This is done through direct communication with foreign travellers as well as through tour operators and foreign journalists. There are three reasons why we want to be involved: first and foremost, for the benefit of Sweden’s environment and people, but also to identify new business opportunities for the Swedish tourism industry. But perhaps most important of all: without the sustainable development of Sweden as a destination, it may be difficult to maintain the country’s attraction in the long term. VisitSweden’s mission to inIn LEVA Kungslador on the island of Gotland, there is a café, restaurant, bakery, bar, shop and a crease inbound travel, which boosts export revenue and employment, pre-fab house producer (!), all focussed on things organic, locally produced and ethical. also includes a challenge to strive for long-term environmental susPhoto: Tuukka Ervasti/imagebank.sweden.se tainability. By 2020 VisitSweden will have successfully positioned Sweden as the Inspiring our visitors sustainable destination in Europe for VisitSweden’s prioritised target VisitSweden can encourage and inspire visitors from other countries groups, the Global Traveller and the Global Company – a destination to travel responsibly to and within Sweden, by presenting the options that is fun, inspirational and educational to visit. To achieve this, all for sustainable experiences offered here. When VisitSweden commuof our communication and actions will naturally emphasise financial nicates with foreign travellers, it does this mainly via digital channels. benefits, social engagement and environmental leadership6. However, considering the media behaviour of the target group, we may choose other channels, such as printed matter, TV or outdoor adOverarching strategy for sustainable tourism vertising, or indirectly through PR and tour operators and agents in VisitSweden will: the meeting industry. encourage and facilitate sustainable travel, and show people how to As an aid in our efforts to inspire our visitors, VisitSweden has devisit Sweden responsibly veloped a communication strategy for messages that strengthen the feature good examples of sustainable practice, in order to stimuimage of Sweden from a sustainability perspective. The communicalate the tourism industry to develop more sustainable products and tion strategy is also a tool for the Swedish tourism industry, and was experiences presented to VisitSweden’s tourism industry partners in October 2010. promote and engage in sustainability issues at company, national The communication strategy is currently being implemented. and international levels. Generally, for the Global Traveller who has already visited Sweden8, the main motivators for a trip are to relax and avoid the daily routines, VisitSweden’s sustainability targets for 2020 followed by having fun and experiencing new things, and being curiInspire visitors (the Global Traveller and the Global Company). ous about new places and cities, i.e. they want new impressions in their By 2020 the target group will see Sweden as a sustainable destination. lives. After that comes enjoying good food and drink, experiencing nature and sun, heat and good weather, as shown in the figure below. Mobilise the tourism industry. The Swedish tourism industry will believe that VisitSweden as a communications company demonstrates active leadership in sustainability. Promote sustainability issues. Relax, avoid routines VisitSweden will promote and influence others with regard to sustainability in prioritised areas/projects/assignments, both nationally and Have fun and experience new things with my internationally. Internally, VisitSweden will try to reduce its own envitravel partner(s). Experience new cities and places. ronmental impacts. Enjoy good food and drink, Freedom, Experience nature. Sun, heat and good weather. Learn someWe at VisitSweden can help our country reach the demanding climate thing new in the country I’m visiting. targets by inspiring travellers and the tourism industry in Sweden. InTreat myself to a little luxury, stay in nice terest in sustainable travel is growing, although slowly, as we can see accommodation. Inspiration, get new ideas. Experience something exotic from articles in international media. Despite this growth, few travelBe active, get exercise, sports. lers are choosing environmentally certified accommodation for enviParty and have fun. ronmental reasons7. Meditate, switch off, visit a retreat. As the driving force in the marketing of Destination Sweden, VisitSweden builds networks in Swedish tourism. This gives us a huge opporSource: VisitSweden/Gfk 2011. Base: The Global Traveller who travels to Sweden (597) tunity to advance sustainable development together with tourism Question: How important is each of the following things to your holiday travel? 6. Financial benefits – showing that environmental care brings financial benefits, short term but especially long term. Social engagement – helping ensure that all of Sweden, both urban and rural, has sustainable growth. Environmental leadership – working environmentally today, to maintain an attractive product in the long term. 7. CMI Green Traveler Study Report 2010-11: “62% of respondents said that they did not pay extra to stay at a “greener hotel” in the last 12 months.”, “Green is still not something customers will actually pay extra for today; they won’t pay a “green tax.” www.communitymarketinginc.com/cmigreen/docs/cmigreen2010_11.pdf 8. VisitSweden’s target group analyses, 2011, VisitSweden/Gfk. su sta i n a bi l it y f or Vi sit Sw e d e n – 6 2011 Travel patterns to Sweden Promote sustainability issues There are a number of factors that influence the decision to travel to VisitSweden faces the same sort of challenges regarding sustainable a particular destination. Among visitors to Sweden in 2010 the two development as many other industry organisations and national most common factors were visits to family and friends, and family holtourism boards worldwide. This is why it is important to push this iday. Nature-related experiences during the snow-free season and city issue together, to make use of know-how, to build consensus and breaks were the next two most important reasons for visiting Sweden. to boost effectiveness. In forums like the European Travel CommisIt is the globally aware, well-travelled people looking for new, excitsion (ETC), where VisitSweden is an active member, VisitSweden and ing destinations who represent the greatest potential for increased other national tourism organisations have created a platform for travel to Sweden. Through ongoing analyses of the target groups we dialogue and development. For instance the organisations have toalso get good information on their attitude to sustainability. This engether identified the key future challenges for the European tourables us and our partners in the Swedish tourism industry to adapt ism boards9. One point they mention is the importance of following our offer to the wishes of the potential travellers. the UN and EU national policies on climate change and sustainable development, of spreading knowledge and developing quality assurMobilise the tourism industry ance systems. In its role as a link between foreign visitors and all the various experiThe knowledge exchange within the ETC also concerns developences available in Sweden, VisitSweden sees huge potential in prement issues such as market analysis, statistics, travel trends and senting good examples of sustainable travel to tourism companies, business intelligence – issues that are closely linked with the finanregions and organisations. cial development of tourism. VisitSweden also participates actively To a greater or lesser degree, every Swedish region works with in the national discussion on sustainability and tourism, e.g. as a sustainable development. They are eager for VisitSweden to help to speaker at seminars. Common and recurrent themes of the commuadvance this trend, provided the target groups express a desire for nication with owners, partners, media and other actors in Sweden sustainable experiences. include tourism’s role as a new primary industry in Sweden; foreign Our dialogue with the regional tourism organisations and the visitors’ demand for exotic, unusual and educational experiences and rest of the Swedish tourism industry, as well as with the owners, has how Sweden can respond to this; and how environmental care can greatly influenced the development of our sustainability work. And strengthen the image of Sweden. our hope is that through this dialogue, VisitSweden will influence VisitSweden wants to act sustainably, and since 2008 has carbonowners and the tourism industry in a positive direction. An imporoffset for emissions from electricity, heating and business travel. Vistant point of departure in all of VisitSweden’s communication is an itSweden’s employees are passionate about sustainability issues and understanding of the target groups’ knowledge of and attitude to by taking its environmental impacts seriously, the company hopes to sustainable travel. For this reason we measure this in annual target engage even more employees. Initiatives to implement eco-friendly group analyses and spread the information to our partners as well. procedures often come from VisitSweden’s own staff. VisitSweden will inspire visitors to choose sustainable options when travelling to Sweden, from city breaks to family trips in the mountains. Photo: Nicho Södling/imagebank.sweden.se 9. What role should European NTOs play on climate issues? Questionnaire among European ETC members, July 2008. ri sks a n d opportu n iti es – 7 2011 Risks and opportunities VisitSweden believes in Sweden’s potential to seize an even stronger position as a sustainable destination. We see an opportunity to influence foreign visitors and the Swedish tourism industry in a positive direction. In analyses of VisitSweden’s selected target groups, we can monitor interest in the environment among potential visitors in our prioritised markets. VisitSweden’s influence on sustainable development Sweden has unique advantages as a destination, with lots of beautiLong-term sustainability work eventually shows results in the deful and diverse countryside and an abundance of natural experiences, mand from foreign travellers and the supply of travel experiences, alongside vibrant cities with harmonious lifestyles. But Sweden faces transport and accommodation in Sweden. A diverse selection of strong competition from other countries. Many potential visitors assustainable goods and services in Sweden can meet a growing desociate Sweden with sustainability, but few allow sustainability-relatmand for sustainable solutions. VisitSweden’s own organisation has ed factors influence their choice of destinationtzt. In the marketing limited environmental impact, but can directly and indirectly influof Brand Sweden and Swedish destinations and experiences, VisitSence potential visitors, as well as companies and organisations in the weden adjusts its messages and communication in accordance with Swedish tourism industry and other industries to make more susfactors such as these, by starting out with the values of the selected tainable decisions. target group. The majority of overnights from abroad are from neighbouring With Sweden’s geographical location, good access by air is crucial markets: Norway, Finland and Denmark, and from European markets for the development of foreign tourism in Sweden. Additional direct like Germany, the Netherlands and the UK. There is much potential flights at competitive prices are essential for Sweden to be able to to further increase travel from these markets. It is in these markets compete with other destinations. VisitSweden is pleased to see that that VisitSweden currently invests the most marketing resources. Of additional transport modes are developing or have already introduced VisitSweden’s twelve prioritised markets, ten are in Europe. In terms more climate-friendly fuels or other measures. For instance Sweden is of environmental benefits, travel from neighbouring and European one of the few countries to have introduced emission-related charges markets is preferable to travel from distant markets. VisitSweden at the state-owned airports14. Research is underway to develop more monitors the development of the impacts of different transport eco-friendly aviation fuels, such as biofuels and hydrogen gas15. For modes, but at the moment does not include such impacts as a criteVisitSweden it is important to monitor developments, both in terms rion when selecting partners in marketing collaborations. of general travel trends relating to traveller requirements and econOf the people in VisitSweden’s target groups who say they conomy, as well as the environmental impacts of the transport options. sider the environment in conjunction with holiday travel, 45 per cent feel it is not easy to find green alternatives when planning their trip10. A challenge for VisitSweden is to make sustainable travel more accessible for potential visitors, by way of efficient communication. VisitSweden’s own environmental impacts come primarily from business travel and from the electricity and heating used in the offices. These impacts are measured and carbon-offset. VisitSweden has also made the decision to identify the environmental impacts from the largest events, and to carbon-offset these as well. The surroundings influence VisitSweden That climate change is real and is affecting our environment and our world is not a new discovery; scientists have been telling us this for more than half a century. People’s awareness of environmental issues and climate change is becoming more evident, even if the focus on such matters can decrease in a weaker financial climate11. Increasingly, these issues are likely to determine future means of travel. Reports12 show that consumers are becoming more aware, but that they feel that it is the responsibility of the suppliers and product In Stockholm, Sweden’s most visited destination, you’re never far from great outdoor experiences. owners to provide greener alternatives. The combination of pulse and a harmonious lifestyle in tune with nature is uniquely Swedish. Photo: Ola Ericson/imagebank.sweden.se 10. VisitSweden/Kairos Future, VisitSweden’s target group analyses, 2011, VisitSweden/Gfk. Base: All respondents (13,309). Question: When choosing a holiday destination, do you take into consideration the environment, e.g. choosing eco-friendly destinations (i.e. destinations that are eco-labelled or that have minimal tourism impact on the surroundings)? Of all respondents, 19.5 per cent responded “Yes, environmental consideration already have, and will continue to have, an influence on my choice of holiday destination.” However 45.5 per cent of these stated that it was not easy to find green alternatives when planning their trip. Question: Do you think it is easy to find environmental alternatives when you plan a holiday trip? 11. Special EU-barometer, 313/Wave 71.1-TNS, July 2009. 12. Special Barometer 365/wave EB75.2 – TNS Opinion & Social, August 2011: Attitudes of European Citizens towards the Environment. Interviews of 26,825 respondents (approx. 1,000 per EU country). According to selected results: 95 per cent feel that it is important to protect the environment 87 per cent see themselves as individuals who can play a part in protecting the environment in their countries 72 per cent are prepared to buy environmentally friendly products, even if they cost a little more. However only 17 per cent actually buy such products. 13. VisitSweden’s target group analyses, 2011, VisitSweden/Gfk 14. Swedish Transport Agency, Flygets miljöpåverkan [Environmental impacts of aviation], www.transportstyrelsen.se/sv/Luftfart/Miljo/Flygets-miljopaverkan, March 2012. 15. Ibid. ri sks a n d opportu n it i es – 8 2011 Sustainability, especially in forms other than environmental, can be It is informed by several years’ continual analysis of the target groups’ difficult to communicate to potential travellers in a simple fashion. travel behaviour, preferences and knowledge of Sweden. One of the For instance most certification systems (in Sweden’s case Krav, Swan benefits of VisitSweden having offices in all the prioritised countries and Nature’s Best) are on the national level, making comparison is the local knowledge of trends and cultural differences between with other systems difficult. And many travellers lack the requisite Sweden and the country in question, as well as insight and sensitivity knowledge to make rational choices when booking a trip or a meetthat can influence decisions regarding marketing campaigns. ing. Regulations or other national standards can prevent the develKnowledge of the target group and a local presence are crucial to opment of accessibility or other factors of benefit to environmental the success of the 250 marketing campaigns and projects conducted travel. These can include different railway track widths or regulations by VisitSweden annually. With hundreds of other countries and desfor high-speed trains, access to alternative fuels or rule changes for tinations trying to attract travellers, it is a challenge to cut through tourist visas. the noise of travel-related messages. VisitSweden wants to influence others, and be a driving force in A destination that is in balance economically, socially and envithe Swedish tourism industry, for instance by spreading knowledge ronmentally is better positioned to maintain is attractiveness in the about travel trends. By staying informed about what our competilong term. At a sustainable destination, the visitor feels that he or tors do and about new travel patterns in VisitSweden’s prioritised she is taking part in the society, not profiting from it. Sustainability markets, VisitSweden and the travel industry can more easily react is necessary if Sweden is to maintain its standing as an attractive to trends and other countries’ campaigns. To maintain a focus on the destination, at the same time as VisitSweden has a mandate to inissue, VisitSweden also wants to participate in various national and crease travel to Sweden. For this reason, VisitSweden should make it international networks, the most recent being the foundation of the easier for travellers to Sweden to find sustainable options. VisitSweSwedish division of the Green Meeting Industry Council. den should also communicate an overall image of Sweden as a destination that takes sustainability seriously. VisitSweden’s strategy VisitSweden communicates globally and acts locally for sustainable tourism should inspire travellers to travel to Sweden The foundation of VisitSweden’s marketing to potential visitors is responsibly, instead of to other destinations. a focus on selected target groups of leisure and business travellers. Dogsled tours are one of the most popular ecotourism activities in Sweden. Jokkmokkguiderna are tour operators accredited by Nature’s Best. Photo: Staffan Widstrand/imagebank.sweden.se di a log u e wit h sta ke h ol de r s – 9 2011 Dialogue with stakeholders For VisitSweden to succeed in its mission, we must have an active and continual dialogue with our surroundings. Our role as a network builder means we have to match the right type of experiences in Sweden with the expectations of the international travellers we are focussed on. This means our stakeholders are particularly important, if we are to successfully identify the experiences that arouse interest amidst tough international competition. In our communication with potential visitors, VisitSweden’s starting In the table below we identify16 our most important stakeholders. point is the brand platform for Sweden which we developed together This identification is based on our day-to-day work, and the intensity with the other promotional bodies – the Swedish Trade Council, Invest of the dialogue varies over time and is influenced by VisitSweden’s Sweden, the Swedish Institute and the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs. strategic directions. For instance, VisitSweden has initiated an inDialogue with stakeholders relates to everything from concrete marketdepth dialogue with companies in the creative sectors, such as film ing collaborations to strategic discussions and knowledge transfer. and literature, with regard to overarching marketing of Sweden. Stakeholders Channels for dialogue Frequency Expectations for Action from VisitSweden VisitSweden’s sustainability work Visitors Target group analyses in 12 prioritiEvery second year Expect to experience a Prioritise the marketing based sed markets 17 nature-rich country that on analysis results. Present susrespects the environment tainable options for travel in and a lifestyle that reSweden, e.g. using Nature’s Best spects the surroundings environmental accreditation. and environment. Owners Board meetings Continual and at Clear idea of Sustainability is one of Reports some 6 meetings VisitSweden’s aims with the defined focus areas in Ongoing dialogue when required per year sustainability and a posVisitSweden’s 2012 business sibility to influence it. plan. Employees Employee surveys, employee deveContinual Clear view into and a Evaluation of employee delopment reviews, ongoing dialogue possibility to influence velopment reviews, encouon sustainability issues. VisitSweden’s aims and raging sustainable actions, vision for sustainability, Talent Management as an incl. social aspects. overarching strategy in VisitSweden’s business plan, sustainability as a focus area in internal processes. Partners: Dialogue on joint campaigns and Continually Knowledge of foreign tarKnowledge transfer in Regional tourism projects for the marketing of Swerecurrent get groups’ expectations marketing collaborations organisations and den abroad, and evaluations of of Sweden. Clear idea of on target group expecdestinations these. VisitSweden’s sustainabitations. Information on lity work and strategies VisitSweden’s sustainability Dialogue on strategic challenges for sustainable comstrategy and communicaand opportunities for further devemunication. Leadership tion strategy, VisitSweden’s lopment of the tourism industry. regarding development of sustainability reports and sustainable tourism. information on the Svante climate tool, and more, at: www.visitsweden.com/partner. Evaluation of views on VisitSweden’s sustainability report. Inspire by featuring companies that offer sustainable options. Forts. > 16. VisitSweden’s stakeholders were identified for VisitSweden’s 2006 information plan, at an internal workshop based on accepted research into organisational and communication theory, including Bruzelius/Skärvad (Integrerad organisationslära [Integrated organisational theory], 1995). 17. VisitSweden’s target group analyses, 2011, VisitSweden/Gfk di a log u e wit h sta ke h ol de rs – 1 0 2011 Partners: Dialogue on joint campaigns and Continually recurKnowledge of foreign tarKnowledge transfer in Companies in the projects for the marketing of rent get groups’ expectations marketing collaborations Swedish tourism inSweden abroad, and evaluation of of Sweden. Clear idea of regarding target group exdustry these. VisitSweden’s sustainabipectations. Information on lity work and strategies VisitSweden’s sustainability for sustainable communistrategy and communicacation. Leadership in detion strategy, VisitSweden’s velopment of sustainable sustainability reports and tourism. information on the Svante climate tool, e.g. at www.visitsweden.com/partner. Evaluation of views on VisitSweden’s sustainability report. Inspire by featuring companies that offer sustainable options. Partners: Dialogue before, during and after Continual Knowledge of Publish VisitSweden’s susCompanies outside joint projects. VisitSweden’s foreign tartainability strategy and the Swedish tourism get groups, what motivasustainability reports at industry tes them and their famiwww.visitsweden.com/partner. liarity with Sweden. Clear Inspire by featuring compaidea of VisitSweden’s nies that offer sustainable aims regarding sustainaoptions. bility. Tour operators / traDialogue on operators’ requireContinual Clear idea of sustainable Maintain dialogue with vel agents ments, knowledge of Sweden’s ofoptions in Sweden. selected tour operators, ferings and of the target groups’ e.g. on sustainable options. preferences and requirements when Publish an English-language they contact retailers for inspiraversion of VisitSweden’s tion and bookings. Evaluation of sustainability strategy on events and campaigns. the website. Encourage partners to communicate sustainability prior to events and mention carbon offsetting of events. Industry organisaDialogue to create collaboration on Continual Clear idea of Publish VisitSweden’s tions, government the further development of Swedish VisitSweden’s aims regarsustainability strategy, agencies and other tourism, e.g. in terms of sustainading sustainability. sustainability reports and organisations in bility. information on the Svante Sweden climate tool on the website. Council for the ProDialogue on the development of Continual Clear idea of Knowledge transfer on tarmotion of Sweden the image of Sweden, strategic colVisitSweden’s mandate, get groups’ familiarity with laborations and joint tools, e.g. the target group focus and Sweden and what motivates official Swedish site www.sweden. aims regarding sustainathem. Publish VisitSweden’s se and Image Bank Sweden. bility. sustainability strategy, sustainability reports and information on the Svante climate tool on the website. Swedish media Proactive and reactive dialogue on Continual Clear idea of foreign Supply information on VisitSweden’s work and tourism’s tourism in Sweden and VisitSweden’s work and significance for Swedish economy, how travel affects sustaiactions for sustainable including sustainability issues. nable development and development. Publish vice versa. Clear idea of VisitSweden’s sustainability VisitSweden’s aims regarstrategy and sustainability ding sustainability. reports at www.visitsweden.com/partner. Foreign media Proactive and reactive dialogue on Continual Inspiration on Sweden as Offer information and inSweden, including as a sustainable, a nature-rich destination spiration on Sweden from a nature-rich destination. Dialogue by with sustainable lifestyle. sustainability perspective. way of personal contacts, newsletters and press trips. Suppliers Dialogue on procurement and When required Clear idea of Publish VisitSweden’s purchasing. VisitSweden’s aims regarsustainability strategy, ding sustainability. sustainability reports and information on the Svante climate tool on the website. Society Dialogue through seminars, meeContinual Idea of sustainability Knowledge transfer on fotings and media. aspects in relation to foreign target groups’ travel reign tourism in Sweden. and familiarity with Sweden. Publish VisitSweden’s sustainability strategy, sustainability reports and information on the Svante climate tool on the website. di a log u e w it h sta ke h ol de r s – 1 1 2011 The presentation of stakeholders above shows that the dialogue Almost all of VisitSweden’s foreign offices are members of national with these is important for VisitSweden’s strategic work abroad, but and international strategic organisations. VisitSweden’s foreign ofalso in Sweden. At the national level, VisitSweden is a member of fices collaborate with various organisations related to the tourism the Swedish Ecotourism Society, is on the accreditation committee industry. For instance the Finnish office has an external initiative of Nature’s Best, and in the steering group for Sustainable tourism with SKÅL International Finland and the Danish office with the Asindustry, a pilot project run by the West Sweden Tourist Board and sociation of Danish Travel Agents and Tour Operators. VisitSweden the Swedish Agency for Economic and Regional Growth, aimed at esalso works closely with the Swedish Embassy and the Swedish Trade tablishing a quality and sustainability system that supports the tourCouncil in the Council for the Promotion of Sweden at several of our ism industry throughout Sweden. VisitSweden is on the board of the foreign offices. Additionally, external initiatives are underway both Swedish section of the Green Meetings Industry Council, which we in Sweden and abroad, aimed at strengthening Sweden’s attraction co-founded in 2011. At the international level, since 2009 VisitSweden as a destination and country, e.g. with Mid Sweden University and has been a member of Global Compact (see Appendix 2) and the UN Suomen Markkinointiliitto in Finland. climate programme Caring for Climate. Photo: Maria Emitslöf (deer and wind turbine in Skåne), Tuukka Ervasti (Camilla Norrback) and Martin Jakobsson (diving tower in Gothenburg Archipelago)/imagebank.sweden.se e nvi ron m e nta l re spon si bi l ity – 1 2 2011 Environmental responsibility Important progress during the year of all the main brochures, which reduces the need to print and disVisitSweden has no mandate to make decisions on the development tribute large editions. Examples of digital campaigns are Faces of of sustainable tourism in the Swedish tourism industry. But we see Scandinavia (USA), and the Malmö Shopping Campaign (Denmark). an opportunity to influence, and consequently it is natural that Vis2011 saw the launch of Curators of Sweden, an initiative to strengthitSweden reduces its own impacts. In 2011 we have continued to take en the image of Sweden by engaging ordinary Swedes as guest conseveral important steps to minimise how we affect the environment. tributors at the official Twitter account @sweden. Ekohåpping, which also uses some outdoor advertising, aimed at Finnish travellers, proClimate-neutral events moted Stockholm’s eco-friendly attractions. At the English, Russian VisitSweden organises several events aimed directly or indirectly at and Italian language versions of visitsweden.com, VisitSweden plans foreign visitors. VisitSweden began to carbon-offset major events in to present tips and inspiration on how to experience Sweden in a 2010, and now follows the guidelines and targets it established in sustainable fashion. 2010 for the carbon offsetting of events in Sweden and in the overseas markets. The aim is to offset at least two events per foreign market, Sustainability and environmental policy starting 2011, in accordance with requirements for “climate-neutral VisitSweden’s ambition is to encourage international visitors, the events” (large events) or by way of standardised calculations (smaller Swedish tourism industry and other partners to contribute to a events). Another part of these aims is that VisitSweden has started more long-term sustainable development of Destination Sweden, to place demands on suppliers to prioritise sustainable solutions at while we also endeavour to reduce our own climate impacts. The key every level, and in future wants to do this in a more structured manwords in VisitSweden’s sustainability efforts are business benefits, ner. For instance, in our day-to-day contact with office supplies busisocial engagement and environmental leadership. The sustainabilnesses, advertising agencies, media agencies, analysis companies, ity efforts will be characterised by openness and caring with regard event agencies and transporters we want to work with clarity and to employees, visitors, partners, society and media. VisitSweden will forward planning. The aim of the guidelines and the offsetting itself maintain an active dialogue with and place demands on partners is to encourage international visitors, the Swedish tourism industry and suppliers, and encourage potential visitors to make sustainable and other partners along the road to a more long-term sustainability. choices. VisitSweden exceeded the 2011 target for climate-neutral events by offsetting more than two events per foreign market. We will do this by, for example: increasing knowledge and awareness of green issues among all International PR employees In 2011 VisitSweden’s efforts to inspire foreign journalists resulted in influencing, making demands and collaborating with other compamore than 4,800 articles in newspapers and magazines, in eleven nies, suppliers, agencies and organisations in sustainability issues markets. The connection between Swedish lifestyle and nature is a ensuring that our leadership promotes greater awareness of suskey component in the journalists’ description of Sweden. A specific tainability issues interest in ecotourism and a general green attitude is increasingly evident. Of the sponsored trips that VisitSweden conducted in 2011 Focus areas to reduce our own environmental impact together with regional tourism councils and tourism companies in VisitSweden has identified electricity use and heating of our offices, Sweden, many resulted in articles about sustainable experiences in as well as our own business travel, as the main factors affecting the Sweden. During 2011 more than 310 articles covered topics directly environment. Consequently the most current challenge for VisitSwerelated to sustainability. Two eco-themed trips to Stockholm were den is to focus on the environment, as we operate in a country that arranged for Finnish journalists together with Viking Line and Stockhas been devoted to social and economic security for many years. But holm Visitors Board18. with a view to increasing and streamlining our internal sustainability work to include social and economic sustainability, in 2011 VisitSweDigital marketing and campaigns den introduced several carbon-offset events, and projects that VisitSAs the target group grows increasingly internet-savvy, VisitSweden’s weden offsets for. VisitSweden raises awareness and places demands 250 campaigns and projects are increasingly concentrated on the inon suppliers, which has increased focus on our sustainability work. ternet and on various social forums, rather than more traditional, enCarbon dioxide emissions from electricity, heating and business vironmentally resource-hungry marketing channels such as printed travel make up the largest part of VisitSweden’s environmental matter and trade fairs. The visitsweden.com website is the base for footprint. This is why in 2011 VisitSweden intensified the work comthe fundamental information on Sweden. For various campaigns for menced in 2008, for instance measuring impacts and identifying selected target groups VisitSweden often creates special campaign measures to reduce direct and indirect carbon dioxide emissions rewebsites, Facebook pages, and works increasingly with other social sulting from its own business. Consequently we continued to measmedia. Visitors to visitsweden.com can leaf through digital versions ure the total effect of these factors in 2011, measured in tonnes of 18. Sweden as a destination in foreign media in 2011. Report categorising the results of VisitSweden’s international PR work in various themes. e nvi ron m e nta l re spon si bi l ity – 1 3 2011 carbon dioxide emissions. By identifying the extent of our impacts, It is still clear that air travel represents a substantial part of VisitSVisitSweden can identify ways to control and reduce emissions. In weden’s environmental impacts, and this is also where the greatest 2011 we offset the emissions generated by all foreign offices, except increase (14.7%) has occurred. Train travel has increased by 14.5%, but for China, where measurement has not yet commenced. In 2011 Visfrom a considerably lower level. VisitSweden’s electricity consumption itSweden left a mark on the environment corresponding to emistotalled 1,475.6 MWh, of which more than 53.8 MWh was renewable sions of roughly 654 tonnes of CO2, of which 599 tonnes came from (where 10 MWh was wind power purchased for VisitSweden’s German business travel. In 2011 we increased our impacts by over 11 per cent19, office and 43.8 MWh for VisitSweden’s head office in Stockholm). Concompared to 2010. This increase is mainly a result of business travel. sumption of heating totalled just over 186.9 MWh. This corresponds Moreover, VisitSweden has employed new staff and opened offices to a total climate impact (for electricity and heating) of 55.3 tonnes of abroad during the year, which has had an impact in terms of busicarbon dioxide. Carbon offsets were purchased totalling SEK 117,900, ness travel. But in terms of our impact per employee, VisitSweden’s corresponding to VisitSweden’s total emissions of nearly 654 tonnes carbon dioxide emissions have fallen somewhat compared to 2010, of CO2. The total cost and investment for environmental protection as the table below shows. refers only to costs for offsetting. There are also costs for purchase of Our impacts from purchased electricity and heating, have also goods for the office, such as organic food and eco-friendly office supdropped by 26 per cent compared to 2010. plies, but these are difficult to account for separately. Climate measurement with the Svante tool In our sustainability work we use the climate tool “Svante” to facilitate calculation and reporting of our internal climate impacts. VisitSweden’s CO2 emissions (tonnes) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Change 2010-2011 Climate impact from company-owned sources* 0 0 0 0 0% Climate impact from purchased electricity 59.61 45.18 69.64 55.25 -26.04% and heating Of which electricity 43.39 26.53 73.92 30.11 -24.14% Of which green electricity 0.0049 0.0015 0.0025 0.003 7. 41% Of which district heating 16.22 18.64 16.53 15.15 -9.11% Gas – – 15.74 9.99 -57.56% Indirect environmental impact, 639.81 426.39 513.16 599.12 14.35% business travel** Of which air travel 618.48 403.99 490.04 574.12 14.65% – Trips <450 km 56.08 41.85 51.41 86.33 40. 45% – Trips 450-1600 km 281.24 201.90 256.97 309.89 17.08% – Trips >1600 km 281.16 160.27 180.53 177.90 -1. 48% Of which train travel 3.79 3.12 2.63 3.08 14.50% Of which bus travel 0.019 0.26 0.48 0.50 5.38% Of which rental car, taxi and private vehicle 16.77 17.28 17.04 18.80 9.36% Of which sea travel 0.76 1.63 2.95 2.62 -12. 44% TOTAL 699.42 471.57 582.80 654.38 10.94% Total average impact per employee (FTE) 11.66 7.15 8.20 8.08 -1.46% Source: VisitSweden’s 2011 climate report and Climate programme Svante/Respect. * Direct energy consumption is nonexistent, as VisitSweden does not own any machinery, vehicles or the like. **Estimate of significant environmental impacts of transport is limited to the employees’ business travel. 19. During the year VisitSweden has employed new staff and opened offices abroad, which has direct effects, since many trips are a result of induction programmes and a generally higher activity level within the company. e nvi ron m e nta l re spon si bi l ity – 1 4 2011 Climate neutrality20 and carbon offsetting “Sweden” magazine Carbon dioxide emissions from electricity, heating and business VisitSweden’s magazine travel make up the largest part of VisitSweden’s environmental “Sweden” is printed in Your guide to Sweden Sweden footprint. Based on calculations of our impacts, and climate offset710,000 copies in nine ting, the entire company has been climate neutral since 2009 (see languages using ecoAppendix 1 for conditions for becoming a climate-neutral company). certified printing techA creative nation VisitSweden will carbon-offset by way of a CDM (Clean Developnology on chlorine-free Innovation & tradition in Swedish design ment Mechanism) project in the regions around Accra and Kumasi paper from FSC pulp. The Taste Sweden in Ghana. The project, Gyapa Cook Stoves, can save a total of approx. magazine is distributed Modern cuisine from nature’s pantry 800,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide over seven years (165,000 tonnes to the potential travellers Experiences & adventures of carbon dioxide annually), thanks to the distribution of new, more who are judged to be inFrom mountain to beach efficient wood-burning stoves. Most of all, the stoves deliver more terested in travel to SweBack to nature efficient use of fuel and reduced deforestation. In addition to the enden. This prevents the + Stockholm guide vironmental benefits, the project creates employment and increases printing of excess copies. technological know-how locally. Other benefits are increased standAll nine editions include ard of living as a result of reduced fuel costs, and that time is freed up a spread with tips for for other activities, as well as reduced clear-cutting, bringing greater eco-tourism experiences biodiversity21. from eight Nature’s Best certified companies. What has VisitSweden done? For the Danish market, Examples of activities carried out in 2011: VisitSweden produces another version, which comes out four In addition to carbon-offset events and a focus on digital marketing, times per year and is carbon-offset (via the Graphic Association of other initiatives from the company and employees have been impleDenmark). With a circulation of 1.6 million copies it is the largest mented, leading to numerous improvements of varying sizes at the travel magazine in Denmark. In Norway a similar magazine – also head office as well as offices abroad, in order to reduce VisitSweden’s carbon-offset – was distributed in 400,000 copies. own environmental impacts. Electricity consumption Transport The UK, Finnish and German offices, and the Stockholm head office, The biggest environmental impact comes from business travel. The now routinely turn off computers, displays and lights. In Stockholm, employees at VisitSweden are encouraged to use green transport manual light switches have been replaced by sensors and a gradual modes when possible, e.g. train rather than plane, as well a public switch to low-energy light bulbs and energy-efficient computers transport and green taxi. Staff at VisitSweden’s foreign offices choose is underway. The German office continues to buy green electricity, eco-friendly travel options wherever possible. For instance the Italian which it started in 2010. The Finnish office also sends electronic hard and British offices subscribe to bike-sharing programmes, to avoid waste to special collection once a year. The building where the US oftaxi trips. At other offices, such as in France and Germany, employees fice is located has been awarded for its energy efficiency. travel to and from work, and to meetings, using public transport, bicycles or by foot, when possible. -Carbon offsetting of events In Sweden, VisitSweden’s Inspiration Day for the Swedish tourism Consumables, paper industry, with some 200 participants, and VisitSweden’s internal Newspaper and cardboard recycling has been implemented at sevconference, were carbon-offset. As were the TUR travel and tourism eral foreign offices and at the head office, and employees try to retrade fair and IMEX (via their respective trade fair venues). In our duce the number of printouts, print on both sides of the paper, and overseas markets, VisitSweden’s participation at the World Travel re-use paper. Several offices recycle printer cartridges. The Danish Market in London and the Swedish Workshop, for Swedish and foroffice uses an eco-friendly copier and recycled copier paper. When eign tour operators in several locations, were all carbon-offset. In all, purchasing office supplies and consumables, several offices choose 14 events were offset in our foreign markets in 2011, by way of Regreen options wherever possible. A digital invoice management sysspect’s carbon-offsetting programme. Additionally, the Italian office tem, introduced in 2009, has replaced some 3,000 paper invoices, offset two events in 2011. with ongoing positive effects. Workplace training Printed matter VisitSweden has started a collaboration with MISA, a company that Most of VisitSweden’s printed marketing materials (2011 Annual arranges work-oriented daily activities for people with disabilities, as Report: 1,000 copies, 2011 “Sweden” magazine, 710,000 copies (nine a form of rehabilitation or work experience. Each participant is aclanguages) “Sweden” magazine for Denmark 1.6 million copies, companied by a supervisor, while carrying out their daily duties re“Sweden” magazine for Norway 400,000 copies) were printed on garding the office’s common areas. eco-friendly paper from environmentally certified printers. At a 2011 workshop the Russian office used internet links as information mateSvante – Climate measurement tool rials, instead of printing meeting plans and brochures. VisitSweden offers all its partners free use of the tool Svante, to 20. The concept of climate neutrality means that the company offsets the environmental impacts that remain, before it further reduces its greenhouse gas emissions. It purchases emission credits corresponding to the actual volume of greenhouse gases. The emission credits are created via projects that reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases, often in developing countries. Swedish Society for Nature Conservation, Klimatneutrala företag [Climate-neutral companies], p. 7, 2006, www.naturskyddsforeningen.se/upload/rapport_klimat_klimatneutralaforetag.pdf, March 2012. 21. Ghana has some of the most rapid deforestation in Africa, and indoor air pollution is a common cause of premature death. Both of these factors are a direct result of inefficient stoves. Third party validation of Gyapa was carried out by TUV Rheinland. Respect, 2011. e nvi ron m e nta l re spon si bi l ity – 1 5 2011 calculate their travel-related environmental impacts. The reason for What can VisitSweden improve? this is to encourage measurement and offsetting of impacts. A handSustainability is an integral part of VisitSweden’s business plan, ful of companies and organisations in the Swedish tourism industry which was launched in March 2012. It identifies three overarching have expressed interest in Svante. strategies: 1. Dynamic knowledge-based organisation, Pilot project Sustainable tourism industry 2. Innovative business dealings and alliances and The West Sweden Tourist Board and the Swedish Agency for Economic 3. Compelling, engaging communication. and Regional Growth are running a pilot project within the project “Sustainable tourism industry”, which is a national campaign to esConsidering the strong focus on employee contributions to the detablish a quality and sustainability system that supports the tourvelopment of VisitSweden, a knowledge-based company, it must ism industry throughout Sweden. VisitSweden is part of the steering have a strategy for attracting and retaining the appropriate talents. group. The regions of Småland, Södermanland, Västmanland, JämtOne of the focus areas of the business plan, which has been broken land and Härjedalen, and the National Property Board Sweden are down into targets up to 2015, is to “apply the sustainability strategy also participating in the pilot project. VisitScotland is an international within the company”. partner. For 2010 the focus was the strategy for sustainable tourism, which will result in VisitSweden being better at promoting sustainable Green Meeting Industry Council growth in the Swedish tourism industry. For 2011 and forward, the VisitSweden joined as one of the founding members of the Swedish challenge for VisitSweden is obviously to continue to act responsibly, section of the Green Meeting Industry Council, a global organisation but also to intensify efforts to implement the strategy for sustainfocussing on environmental and sustainability issues in the meeting able tourism. We will do this by highlighting and communicating industry. sustainable experiences in Sweden (to attract visitors), encouraging the industry to choose sustainable solutions and getting involved in The Nature’s Best Certification Committee the international debate. VisitSweden has been a member of the Nature’s Best certification As the driving force in the marketing of Destination Sweden, Viscommittee since the start. Getting involved so early adds an internaitSweden can increase consumer awareness of climate and sustaintional perspective already at the certification stage, which improves ability. On the English, Russian and Italian versions of visitsweden. the chances of the company succeeding in an internationally comcom, we plan to present tips and inspiration on how to experience petitive market. Sweden sustainably. VisitSweden’s employees can also try to further reduce the impact of their business travel, and as a company VisitSSponsorship weden can increase efficiency in its offices. VisitSweden is a bronze sponsor for the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation (SEK 8,000). Other initiatives Wherever possible, the Danish and Stockholm offices, among others, purchase eco-friendly, organic or locally produced food (e.g. fruit, milk and coffee). In waste management, the company continues to implement separation at source of paper, plastics, cardboard, glass and metal. Moreover, the Italian office uses only china, and never disposable mugs or spoons. In 2011, telephone and Skype meetings between employees continued to replace some internal face-to-face meetings, which otherwise would have generated travel and used more time. Taking the train between Stockholm and Arlanda helps the airport reach its strict At several of VisitSweden’s offices they recycle paper and newspapers. environmental targets. Photo: Melker Dahlstrand/imagebank.sweden.se Photo: Fredrik Nyman/imagebank.sweden.se e m ploy e es – 1 6 2011 Employees VisitSweden’s mandate is to increase people’s desire for Sweden. To The core values on which we base our shared key values are Caring, achieve this, VisitSweden must create an attractive image. VisitSweBusinesslike, Professional, Innovative and Playful. These should perden as a workplace must be seen as a desirable destination. VisitSmeate the employees’ behaviour both internally and externally. In weden is a knowledge-based organisation, and this places extra de2012 VisitSweden will complete its work on an ethics policy – a guide mands on challenging and motivating the employees. for action in accordance with the principles of the key values. Through our two owners, the Swedish state and the Swedish tourism industry, a special dynamic is created, which is directly reflected Continual learning in our work. Thanks to our local presence in the foreign markets we In the constantly changing knowledge society, all organisations are are specialists at cultural differences and we can interpret and transreliant on their employees’ ability and desire to constantly change form them into knowledge, which we then use to attract visitors. To and learn. VisitSweden aims to continually become better at intesucceed in this we need employees who believe in the company and grated communication. We will fine-tune our marketing tools and who are firmly engaged in our mandate. channel strategies, update our knowledge of the target groups and It is important to feel pride and engagement in the company. The be skillful purchasers of specialist know-how. skills and knowledge of our employees is vital for us to continue to To achieve this we must pull together and create learning from our develop as a company, but also to reinforce the positive trend that experiences. In 2011 and 2012 workshops were held, aimed at learnexists in the Swedish tourism industry. ing from each other and sharing experiences. The day-to-day work is We have analysts, strategists, marketers, project and process manwhere most learning occurs. Continual learning requires that everyagers, specialists in PR, events and many other skill groups. With such one takes responsibility for their own learning, but also that they pass superbly competent employees, we have both the strategic and the this knowledge on, and want to continue to learn and develop. tactical resources required to strengthen the Swedish tourism indusIn their annual performance and career development reviews, all try. employees evaluate their individual performance in relation to targets and assignments, and draw up a plan for their ongoing developAgainst this background, VisitSweden’s aim is to: ment, relative to the company’s targets for the coming year. This plan “be an attractive employer that offers professional and personal develcan contain more broad-based or more specialised duties, shorter or opment. The company will attract, recruit, develop and retain skilled longer courses, work experience at an internal or external placement, employees, who contribute to the company’s target achievement and holding workshops, readings etc. The immediate superior reserves operational quality.” funds to cover the costs involved in these investments. All documentation is collected at the HR department, whose role is to follow up In a market characterised by constant change and tough competithat the plans are realised. tion for travellers and employees, it is vital to maintain an active, Employees who have retired have often supported the organisation forward-looking staff policy. We have identified a few success factors: with their knowledge and experience. • that the company has skilled and engaged managers and leaders – The idea of constant change is normally not problematic for Visclear division of responsibility and efficient decision-making itSweden’s employees; it is an accepted part of the job. They discover • that there is a talent management process – performance, skills problems at an early stage, identify errors quickly and rectify them. and target achievement are rewarded VisitSweden wants to create an atmosphere where people are en• that there are shared key values – that the idea of a “dynamic couraged to test new ideas, even if they don’t always lead to new knowledge-based organisation” is fully implemented solutions. VisitSweden is a small company with 94 employees (81 FTEs), but Shared key values important for VisitSweden with the structure of a large multinational, with offices in 12 counExtensive work aimed at creating a set of key values for VisitSwetries. It is a challenge to coordinate the company’s operations effecden began as early as 2008. In 2009 and 2010 this was followed by tively, without constructing excessively large structures in terms of a number of small workshops in different groups throughout the hierarchies, administration or IT systems. company. The aim was to establish support for the key values and to We also want to create a learning, creative work environment, in orstart out from each employee’s personal values, rather than using a der to ensure the continued skills development of all our employees, top-down approach. and the continued development of our working methods. This is done There are numerous reasons why so much work was done, but one continually in inter-office groups in the areas of PR and social media, of the most important is that all research shows that value-driven internet, campaigns and B2B communication. We also hold Inspiracompanies are more successful – in purely financial terms but also tion Days for the tourism industry and annual in-house conferences that their employees are more involved in their work and want to for employees, as well as management days and introduction days. develop together in the organisation. e m ploy e es – 1 7 2011 VisitSweden, a matrix organisation VisitSweden has chosen to organise the company in a matrix structure, with all the foreign offices in one dimension and the functions in the other. The structure places tough demands on clarity in communication, joint problem-solving and shared responsibility for results. The advantages are that it facilitates the coordination and quality control of the company, and ensures that the brand platform for Sweden permeates everything we do. The various work processes in a matrix organisation support the employees to develop further, since new knowledge is added and disseminated, because during problem-solving one must consider more factors than one normally does in each specialist function. In 2009 work commenced with leadership development, and this is continuing with two management days annually, where the focus is on leadership skills. See the organisational structure on page 19. Key figures employees VisitSweden has the equivalent of 81 FTE employees (from 94 individuals), of which 49 work at our marketing offices abroad and 32 work at the head office in Stockholm. Based on FTE figures, 66 per cent of the employees are women. In 2011 the management group consisted of nine people: five women and four men. In management the marketing offices are represented by four regional directors, who represent all the European offices and the US office. The board of directors consists of eight members and two deputy members. The owners – the state and the tourism industry equally – are each represented by four members. In the 2011 board, 63 per cent of the members consisted of women, including the chairperson. VisitSweden is represented in 12 countries, including France. Photo: Matton Age distribution at VisitSweden Company Management Board < 30 11% 0% 0% 30-50 81% 78% 37% > 50 8% 22% 63% 100% 100% 100% The most common form of employment at VisitSweden is permanent VisitSweden benefits from their knowledge of the local market employment (85 per cent), while 15 per cent are in temporary employas well as Swedish culture and ways of life. This means that our ment. 85 per cent of VisitSweden’s employees work full-time. employees have a diverse background with many different connecFor the employees in Sweden, the rate of absenteeism due to illness tions to Sweden. was 1.1 per cent (compared to 0.9 per cent in 2010). Of this, 0 per cent At VisitSweden’s offices abroad the majority of employees come was long-term. As we know that everyone is happier if they are healthy, from that particular country. Each foreign office observes cultural VisitSweden encourages all staff to make use of a keep-fit allowance. and local customs and holidays, while also preserving the Swedish Staff turnover for 2011 was about 10 per cent, calculated on the cultural heritage. number of people who finished compared to the number of staff at In all recruitment, positions are advertised internally and externalthe end of the period. Of those who left, 70 per cent were women. ly via our website, as well as in local media and often in Sweden too. At VisitSweden’s annual in-house conference, the employees learn and laugh together. Photo: Jonas Overödder a bout Vi sit Sw e de n – 1 8 2011 About VisitSweden VisitSweden has been assigned by the Swedish state and the Swedhonesty and reliability. They have a high disposable income, are well ish tourism industry to market Sweden abroad, as a destination and educated and internet-savvy. a brand. With marketing that is compelling and engaging, we will VisitSweden’s firm focus on the target group is the foundation of reach even more international leisure and business travellers, in all marketing activities. Thanks to frequent analyses and (via our fortough competition from many other countries and destinations. eign offices) by being in the same place as the people in the target VisitSweden is owned equally by the Swedish Government (via groups, VisitSweden can learn about the potential visitors, their mothe Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications) and the tivations and wishes. We also know which combination of marketing Swedish tourism industry (via Svensk Turism AB). Svensk Turism AB is channels is best for reaching them. In 2011 VisitSweden ran some 250 owned by 160 companies and organisations, which in turn represent marketing campaigns and projects, which led to 1,500 different types more than 10,000 companies in the Swedish tourism industry. The of marketing activities, such as visits to agents who put together owners each appoint four board members. proposals for meeting destinations for companies, or a Twitter flow VisitSweden prioritised marketing to 12 countries around the to support a campaign message. VisitSweden chooses carefully what world in 2011 (see the organisational structure). With foreign offices we communicate, whom we communicate with, how we design the from Beijing to New York, VisitSweden ensures it has the market message and where we can be most visible, in the media noise. presence and the knowledge of the country’s lifestyle and trends that are required to produce efficient marketing. The target group’s Financing knowledge of Sweden and its travel preferences all determine the The company’s operations are financed through revenue from partmarketing approach. ners, from collaborative projects and from state funding, SEK 140 The marketing is aimed at a selected group of experienced leisure million in 2011. VisitSweden charges the tourism industry for the and business travellers seeking exciting new destinations. It’s those services it provides, i.e. revenue from marketing activities and joint in the target groups “Global Traveller” and “Global Company” who marketing campaigns. This revenue from the tourism industry tohave the greatest potential to increase travel to Sweden. They travel talled SEK 131.9 million in 2011, which is an increase in sales of 23 per frequently for business or leisure purposes, and place high demands cent compared to 2010. In 2011 VisitSweden spent SEK 94.6 million on the destination. They are globally aware, socially engaged and on base expenses, i.e. staff, office space and equipment, and SEK 195.3 supporters of sustainable development, while also valuing health, million on marketing activities. Key financial figures for VisitSweden 2011 2010 2009 Total turnover 281 900 000 264 100 000 196 700 000 of which revenue from state 140 000 000 150 000 000 110 100 000 of which revenue from industry 131 900 000 107 200 000 84 700 000 Number of employees at VisitSweden, male/female (FTEs) 27/54 24/47 20/46 Source: VisitSweden’s Annual Reports 2009, 2010 and 2011. Since 2009 VisitSweden has also received special funding for Sweden – the New Food Country, which has not been reported here. Photo: Henrik Trygg/imagebank.sweden.se VisitSweden focusses all marketing of Destination Sweden to four target group segments: Active Family, Double Income, No Kids (DINKs), Wealthy Healthy Older People (WHOPs) and The Global Company. Photo: Erik Lindvall/imagebank.sweden.se a bout Vi sit Sw e de n – 1 9 2011 VisitSweden’s organisation VisitSweden’s marketing overseas is organised through our own Japanese market. Instead VisitSweden opened its own representaforeign offices or representation in 12 countries. In 2011 VisitSweden tion in Beijing. VisitSweden’s head office is located in Stockholm. left the Scandinavian Tourist Board, STB, thus ending its focus on the BOARD CEO STR ATEGIC CORP OR ATE DE VELOPMENT BUSINESS SUPP ORT Region west Region north Region central Region south Region east Region asia USA Norway Germany Spain Russia China UK Denmark Netherlands France Finland Italy Group Functions marketing • Advertising & Campaigns • PR & Social Media • Internet brand planning Communications • B2B Communications sales • Sales public & corporate affairs a bout Vi sit Sw e de n – 20 2011 Sweden as a destination 2011 The tourism industry has had eight consecutive years of growth22, and Tourism in Sweden is growing and the export value25, i.e. foreign leiis now seen as one of Sweden’s primary industries. Visitor statistics sure and business travellers’ consumption in Sweden, is increasing for 2011 show an increase, although small, which means that 2011 was more rapidly than other export industry, on average. Foreign visitors the best year ever for Swedish tourism, counted in number of overspent SEK 87.1 billion in 2010 (see graph below), which was more than nights. Visitors from Norway, Germany, China and the United States the total export value for iron and steel (SEK 57.1 billion) and more increased most, while Denmark decreased considerably. From VisitSthan twice the net export value of the Swedish car industry (SEK 38.4 weden’s prioritised markets, Scandinavia and Europe make up 94.5 billion). Between 2000 and 2010 the tourism export has increased by per cent. VisitSweden’s prioritised markets make up 80.4 per cent of almost 115 per cent, while for the same period, Sweden’s total export the total number of overnights from abroad, which was 12.9 million. of goods and service grew by 56 per cent in current prices. Travel from VisitSweden’s 12 prioritised markets, in terms of overnights in commercial accommodation, makes up almost 81 per cent Tourism industry export value, 2003-2010 of the total travel from abroad. For the eighth year in a row, the number of overnights from abroad in Sweden at hotels, cabin villages and hostels increased. The one per cent increase represents 94.000 more SEK billion foreign overnights than the previous year, and a total of 12.896.00023. 100 In the same period, tourism in Europe continued its strong growth, increasing by six per cent (and worldwide 4.4 per cent) over the 80 year. However viewed over the past three years, travel to Sweden 60 has increased by 3.2 per cent, more than the European average of 40 2.9 per cent24. 20 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009* 2010* 0 Source: Tillväxtverket/SCB. *Preliminary figures. Key financial figures – tourism industry 2011 2010 2009 Number of foreign overnights (hotels, cabins, hostels, 12 896 000** 12 802 000 12 330 000 campgrounds, private cabins and apartments) Total turnover in tourism industry (SEK) n/a* 254.4 bn** 246.4 bn** of which export value (foreign visitors’ consumption in Sweden, SEK) n/a* 87.1 bn** 85.6 bn** Share of BNP n/a* 2.9%** 3.0%** Number of employees in tourism industry (FTE) n/a* 162 100 159 900 Source: Tillväxtverket/SCB. * Presented in June 2012 ** preliminary figures Retail, restaurants and experience companies make up a large portion of tourism industry sales. Photo: Nicho Södling/imagebank.sweden.se, Miriam Preis/imagebank.sweden.se and Fredrik Broman 22. Refers to overnights at hotels, cabin villages and hostels. A comparable time series for campgrounds and private cabins and apartments is only available for 2008 and forward. 23. All the above figures on visitor statistics: Tillväxtverket/SCB, preliminary overnight statistics for 2011, www.tillvaxtverket.se/huvudmeny/faktaochstatistik/faktaomturism/ekonomiochsysselsat tning.4.21099e4211fdba8c87b800017287.html, March 2012. 24. UN World Tourism Organization, World Tourism Barometer, January 2011 and January 2008. Travel to Sweden (and some other countries) is calculated in number of overnights, while travel to other European countries is calculated in international arrivals. 25. Export value corresponds to foreign visitors’ consumption in Sweden. Tillväxtverket, Facts about Swedish tourism 2010, www.tillvaxtverket.se/huvudmeny/faktaochstatistik/faktaomturism/ek onomiochsysselsattning.4.21099e4211fdba8c87b800017287.html, March 2012. a bout Vi sit Sw e de n ’s su sta i n a bi l it y re port – 21 2011 About VisitSweden’s sustainability report This report describes VisitSweden’s sustainability work for the year Limitations 2011. It is updated annually, normally at the end of the first quarter, In VisitSweden’s 2011 Sustainability Report we have limited the asand refers to the previous calendar year. sessment of our environmental impacts, so that it applies firstly to our energy consumption in terms of electricity and heating of office Reporting principles space, and secondly to the environmental impact of our business This report is VisitSweden’s fourth. The disposition and contents are travel. This is because we have identified these as measurable and based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s “Sustainability Reporting easiest to carry out. VisitSweden neither owns nor produces any Guidelines 3.1” at level C+ 26, and they incorporate the main principroducts that substantially affect the environment, or any buildings ples of the UN’s Global Compact. This provides a structured way of or cars, so any other direct impact will be limited. Heating of offices describing the report’s contents as well as ensuring quality. has not been separated into renewable and non-renewable energy The report also contains VisitSweden’s second Global Compact sources, because this is currently not practicable. Additionally, the reReport. VisitSweden’s previous sustainability report was published port is limited to VisitSweden’s ability to influence Sweden’s shift to on 31 May 2011. becoming a more sustainable destination, and it excludes the aspect In 2009 Sweden, as the first country in the world to do so, reof Destination Sweden’s capabilities. quested its more than 50 wholly or partly-owned state companies to A further limitation in the report is that our sustainability work and complete a sustainability report in accordance with Global Reporting carbon offsetting excludes our operations in China. This is because Initiative standards. As such, Sweden also became the first country in up to 2011, marketing was done in a separate company that was only the world to present a sustainability report in accordance with GRI. By one-third owned by VisitSweden. Also, we have limited some of the regularly measuring environmental indicators, in VisitSweden’s case data presented relating to absenteeism, instead presenting data only the environmental impact of business travel, electricity consumption from head office. Indicator 1.2, “Description of key impacts, risks, and and heating of our offices, we get a current picture of the company’s opportunities”, is limited to a qualitative description. impacts on the environment, its economy and its employees. Taking this information, and adding the knowledge we acquire continually, Key figures – climate impacts we can more easily identify aspects to promote and areas to improve. VisitSweden is able to present the following key figures regarding its climate impacts for 2011: Report focus • VisitSweden’s total CO2 emissions (tonnes) The main emphasis of the report is to describe how VisitSweden • Purchased electricity and heating (for our offices) sees its role in the development of sustainable tourism, for poten• Environmental impact of transport (staff business travel by train, tial visitors and for the Swedish tourism industry and other actors car and plane) in Sweden. The report also shows how VisitSweden incorporates sustainability into the ongoing dialogue with identified stakeholdMeasurement methods for climate impacts ers, with the aim of positioning Sweden as a sustainable destination. VisitSweden observes Respect’s programme for climate-neutral comThe company’s own environmental impacts are presented as well. panies. This programme is based on the international calculation Since 2008 VisitSweden has measured its impacts using Respect’s standard, the GHG (Greenhouse Gas) protocol, which is supported programme for climate-neutral companies. by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. The calculation standard takes into acWho are we writing the report for? count the direct as well as the indirect emissions of the operations. We hope that the Sustainability Report will be read by everyone who Since 2009 VisitSweden uses the more precise calculation methods, wants to learn more about how VisitSweden conducts its sustainas supplied by Respect. This means that for the 2010 and 2011 reports, ability work, especially our partners in the tourism industry and our the employees have aimed to provide exact travel distances and acowners. It is also important for VisitSweden employees, as it explains tual electricity and heating consumption. The calculations have been in a structured way how the internal measures help us to realise our scrutinised by Respect. No particular changes in measurement methsustainability strategy. Additionally, the report shows how we plan to ods have occurred between 2010 and 2011. enhance and develop sustainability in the future. This Sustainability Report is intended to meet the reporting requirements at level C. 26. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) was developed as a UN initiative and is now the official template for sustainability reports. VisitSweden was the first national tourist board in the world to report its impacts on social, economic and environmental sustainability in accordance with GRI standards. Other tourist boards that follow this standard include those in South Korea, Norway and Portugal. e xt e rn a l assu ra n ce – 22 2011 Statement from Swedish Utlåtande från oberoende granskning independent review &$$&&'&& $ !$! $ %  !$( %#&'%& '% %%0 %#&1 $..%&)  This is a statement from an independent review undertaken by Respect Sustainable Business AB (Respect) for V.S. VisitSweden AB (VisitSweden) 0%&) 1(% $&%$!(%  5344 $#$! 4 '$/64$5344.&& &$&$% $%& & regarding the 2011 Sustainability Report for the period 1 January – 31 December 2011. The statement is primarily intended for the readers of the $&%$!(%   %%$!%&) %  !%&*$%. sustainability report and VisitSweden’s management and board. '&%&%$ %##$$'#$ Conclusions % #$ '%$##'!$&%$%$#/ 60 $% (# %#% # $$#  # Based on the limitations of the review and the methods &##-$ used, we !# # #$ have reached  %%$' the following conclusions: VisitSweden 8implemented  has %#!##%$# '$ 6555 processes and procedures &%%* in accordance with # $ the principles %#755926555 presented in GRI G3 Sustainability  3.Reporting Guidelines 70 #&%  and AA1000 !##$-#%% Accountability Principles %## standard 2008 (AA1000APS); and $%%#$ # $$%%$%%$% ($ #%$# Based on the '$%& *##%##0 completed review, no circumstances have come to light that give us reason to believe that VisitSweden’s sustainability report does not meet the applicable criteria. $&$$  8 %#!##%$# '$  # #!#6555$$&# %#755926555 3#'%$$ #%##!# Criteria #$'$% ($#%$# '$0#$ !#$%6555 2755930 $ %& #%% GRI G3  Sustainability Reporting Guidelines !#!'#$%#$2 and principles * 63-$ for AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000AS) were used as criteria for  %%#&%'##'&#''#$%$%#'# # # the review of &$%%- VisitSweden’s sustainability '$%% *!#%$report. The review # was carried out in accordance #&#6555 with!'#$%#$' - $$&% AA1000 AS (2008). Respect’s assignment was to conduct #$&%%% a general ##  review (Type $% # 1), which includes an evaluation of how well the operations follow the principles of completeness, relevance and sensitivity as expressed '$$$0 in AA1000APS, as well as a general review of the GRI result indicators, based on random checks. &! $$ %   $ %# !#%#$%!% #&#1#$7567/ Review method •  '$% ($%#'' $#%# 1'0 Respect conducted the review in accordance with the following methodology in February-March 2012: •  '$% ($#%$ # $$!#%%%# $%'$%# #$ $&#$ Check that VisitSweden follows GRI’s guidelines at level C. #%$# '$0 Check of VisitSweden’s work process, to identify and decide on important questions for inclusion in the sustainability report. • %'##'$% ($ # $$!#%#' %#$$%#0 Evaluation of VisitSweden’s process for identification of and engagement with stakeholders. • %#'& #$ $ #$'#!#$% ($#%$# '$-!#%%!#$% # $$!##%' Interview with the person in charge of VisitSweden’s sustainability report, to learn about how the report was put together. # '$0 Analysis and checks of the processes for processing data for selected result indicators, on a random basis. • *$  ' # $$#!#%%#%%%&%'#$&%%% ##- $% # '$$$0 Verification of the presented data. • ##'# '$%0 Check of the sustainability report’s statements on the year’s results and performance. •  '#%$# '$$&%% #%$#$&%%  #$%0 • Observance  '$% of the ($%#'' principles in AA1000APS (2008) $#%# 1'0 the scope and Based on (#$ &$( #$methods of the review 4333 we can conclude that VisitSweden has implemented processes in accordance with the principles in 053371 AA1000APS (2008). $#% #$$ %% % #'#$&%$%$%%$% (# %#% # $$#$ !# # # 6555 275593. Relevance % && That during the year, VisitSweden has carried out activities to ensure that the sustainability report covers the most important issues for the stake$% (#&##%'$%)  %'%%#!#%%$#$%%%#%$# '$ %%#'%$%# #!# holders. %#$$%#0 Completeness '%& & VisitSweden $% has established internal processes (#%#%%# # and methodologies $$# % to hold !#%% dialogues with stakeholders, !#%#$$% and has held structured dialogues with# # #&##%!#%$%#&%&## its stakeholders during the year. $%#$$%#0 * $& Sensitivity %%#%$# '$$ &$ %#%$ '$ $#!'#$$%#%#$$%#$!#'%#-'$# %% That the focus of the sustainability report, and the work reflected there, is in agreement with the stakeholders’ expectations, shows that VisitSweden $% (#$'#%% %$%#$$%#0 has been responsive to its stakeholders. %$(&! $!$! &! $ $% (#'$% Observations #%$%% &%'#%$#% #%$# '$0 and recommendations VisitSweden has continued to !- %($!!#& %demonstrate good progress, both in terms of sustainability work and the sustainability report. $% (#$'#!#$$%'#%$# '$$%!# #%  &%%$ $#0 Role, responsibility and competence $#$# $ %$%$'#% %$% (0 $ %#%'#%%&%#%%' VisitSweden  is responsible #% $ for the compilation  #$%#$# of the sustainability report and for the #%-&%##$%#%$# '$0$#$%## found therein. information and the statements  In conjunction # # % only responsible toward VisitSweden’s management. Respect with the review, Respect is'$0#%#$$%#'%&$  %&#%$# has not been involved ##% #%$#% the information in the processing of# '$ presented $% in the report;  but has simply reviewed the  #'%$%##$  -6555report. sustainability This ensures0!#*%%##  6555 our independent role in relation #% to the sustainability report. -'$!'#$ Our review team has sufficient knowledge and extensive experience of sustainability work and reporting, as well as good knowledge of the relevant (((0#$ %0$ standards such as GRI, AA1000APS and AA1000AS. For further information, please visit our website: www.respect.se  $ % &$%&$$$ Respect Sustainable Business AB %  -85#$7567 Stockholm, 30 March 2012  Helen Maalinn     f n g lo ba l com pact : com mu n i cat i on on prog re ss, re port 2 01 1 – 23 2011 FN Global Compact: Communication on Progress, report 2011 Published: 30 March 2012 Reporting organisation: V. S. VisitSweden AB Report period: 1 January – 31 December 2011 Single report/section of the annual sustainability report, 2011. 1. CEO’s statement on continued support of Global 2. Human rights Compact’s principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection I am proud to confirm that VisitSweden continues to support the ten of internationally proclaimed human rights. principles of the United Nations Global Compact concerning human Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. in human rights abuses. VisitSweden is strongly committed to following the ten principles on human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. VisitSweden supports and upholds all applicable legislation, reguThis is reflected in the company’s core values – caring, professional, lations and guidelines concerning the UN’s declaration of human business-like, playful and innovative. VisitSweden values the human rights. No one at VisitSweden may cause or contribute to violations perspective as highly as the business perspective, and this pervades or circumvention of human rights. the entire organisation. The Sweden brand is based on and developed (Implementation) according to similar core values. VisitSweden’s aim is to market susVisitSweden has developed an equality policy, a key value policy, tainable travel experiences to our international visitors. The results which includes respect for human rights. We consider human rights of this aim are evaluated in VisitSweden’s sustainability reports. during procurements and when selecting suppliers. When we marMuch of the marketing communication on Sweden is, when relevant, ket Sweden we place a firm focus on ethical values such as equality, based on Swedish core values such as gender equality, respect for nasustainable development and human rights. ture and children’s rights, with the aim of inspiring international visitors to travel to Sweden. VisitSweden continually integrates the UN According to law, VisitSweden has a duty to continually monitor and Global Compact principles in the company’s policies and strategies, disclose the organisation’s adherence to the UN’s principles for huand spreads knowledge of the compact. In this Communication on man rights. No violations against these laws and regulations have progress report we describe how we integrate the Global Compact’s been reported in 2011. ten principles into our organisation and business dealings, and the result of this work. 3. Labour The essence of VisitSweden´s core values explicitly supports the principles of freedom of association, collective bargaining and the abolition of compulsory and child labour, and VisitSweden works actively to increase awareness of these issues among employees and consultants. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. VisitSweden supports and follows all applicable laws and guidelines Thomas Brühl concerning freedom of association and the right to collective barvd VisitSweden gaining. This includes the Swedish Employment Protection Act, Employment (Co-Determination in the Workplace) Act, Working Hours Act and Annual Leave Act. No violations against these laws and regulations have been reported in 2011. VisitSweden supports the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. No employee of VisitSweden shall in any way cause or contribute to the violation or circumvention of human rights. Great emphasis is placed on securing the human rights of the employees as described in the ILO Core Conventions. f n g lo ba l com pact : com mu n i cat i on on prog re ss, re port 2 01 1 – 24 2011 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. approach to environmental challenges. VisitSweden supports and follows all applicable laws and regulations VisitSweden’s strategy for sustainable tourism is a guiding principle concerning forced and compulsory labour, based on Swedish law and for the company – at company, national and international levels. The ILO conventions. VisitSweden follows regulations on forced labour as overarching strategy for sustainable tourism covers three areas: stated in the ILO conventions nos. 29 and 105. Additional laws in Sweencourage and facilitate sustainable travel, and show people how den are the Employment Protection Act, which protects employees to visit Sweden responsibly in the event of layoffs or dismissals, the Employment Act, regarding feature good examples of sustainable practice, in order to stimuco-determination in the workplace and the Act on labour market late the tourism industry to develop more sustainable products and programmes (2000:625), which contains comprehensive provisions experiences on the employment programmes. Other applicable legislation inpromote and engage in sustainability issues at company, national cludes law 2007:395 and regulation 2000:634 on labour market proand international levels. grammes, regulation 1997:1275 on employment support, ordinance 2000:630 concerning specific measures for people with disabilities A review of VisitSweden’s communication messages to foreign visireducing capacity work, ordinance 2007:414 on job and development tors has started. Its purpose is to improve the information aimed at guarantee, ordinance 1996:1100 on activity support for taking part in helping visitors find sustainable alternatives. For example in VisitSlabour market programmes and regulation 2007:418. No violations weden’s PR work and on the company’s websites. Since 2008 VisitSagainst these laws and regulations have been reported in 2011. weden has identified electricity and heating of the head and foreign offices, plus the staff’s own business travel, as the main environPrinciple 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition mental impacts, measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. By of child labour. measuring its emissions, VisitSweden can control and reduce them, on a per-employee basis. In 2011 greenhouse gas emissions increased VisitSweden supports and follows Swedish laws and guidelines that by 10 per cent compared to the previous year, but they fell somewhat prevent child labour as regulated in the Swedish Work Environment on a per-employee basis. Act, chapter 5 and in the Swedish Work Environment Authority’s provisions about under-aged workers. The provisions regulate work asPrinciple 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote signments, working hours and work without instructor, and apply to greater environmental responsibility. all work carried out by under-aged workers. VisitSweden also follows the provisions on under-aged workers as stated in EU directives and Within the European Travel Commission agenda, VisitSweden has the ILO conventions nos. 138 and 182. It is VisitSweden’s duty as emtaken an active role to develop and increase knowledge about susployer to provide good working conditions for under-aged workers. tainability issues among the national tourist boards in Europe, for No violations against these laws and regulations have been reported example by discussing mutual strategies for sustainability and dein 2011. velopment. VisitSweden also works to inspire the tourism industry in Sweden to act more responsible, for instance by highlighting good Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of examples of communication aimed at potential visitors and within discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. the Swedish tourism industry itself. At VisitSweden no form of offensive special treatment or other forms Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and of harassment is accepted. VisitSweden supports and follows Sweddiffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ish laws and regulations against discrimination based on ethnicity, religion or other belief, functional limitation or sexuality. This includes When possible, VisitSweden prioritises sustainable travel modes for the Swedish Equality Act, which concerns women’s and men’s equal staff, e.g. using train instead of air transport. The “Green Flights” conrights in terms of work, employment and other employment opporcept – a world first – was introduced in Sweden and VisitSweden is tunities at work, and the Discrimination Act, which counteracts disincreasing awareness of this among international media by way of crimination and supports equal rights and opportunities regardless its strategic PR work. VisitSweden is a climate-neutral company and of gender, gender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other it compensates its remaining environmental impacts by funding a belief, disability, sexual orientation or age. All employees are responsiCDM-certified project in Ghana (see page 19 of sustainability report). ble for following VisitSweden’s discrimination policy and by doing so These projects focus on, for example, replacing electricity sourced help to eliminate discrimination within the company. No violations from fossil fuels. against these laws and regulations have been reported in 2011. 5. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 4. Environment including extortion and bribery. The essence of VisitSweden’s core values explicitly supports the principles of environmental challenges, responsibility and environmenVisitSweden supports and follows all applicable laws and guidelines tally friendly technologies. for the prevention of corruption. We have a zero-tolerance policy against corruption. This will be explained further in the ethics policy we are developing in 2012. No violations against these laws and regulations have been reported in 2011. g ri cont e nt i n dex – 25 2011 GRI content index Below is an index of all the parameters included in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for sustainability reports. In the index we have specified which parameters are met by VisitSweden’s sustainability report, and to what degree (fully or partially).  fully reported  partially reported AR = reference to VisitSweden’s 2009 Annual Report SR = reference to page in this Sustainability Report Profile 1 Strategy and analysis Page reference Reported 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (e.g. CEO, p. 3  chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 7-8  2 Organisation profile 2.1 Name of the organisation p. 2  2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services p. 18  2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating p. 18-19  companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters p. 2  2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries p. 18-19  with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 18-19  2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of p. 18-19  customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including: number of employees, net sales or p. 17-19  net revenues (for public sector organisations); total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations); and quantity of products or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or p. 18-19  ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period inga  3 Report Parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided p. 21  3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) p. 21  3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) p. 21  3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents p. 2  Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content p. 21  3.6 Boundary of the report p. 21  g ri cont e nt i n dex – 26 2011 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report none  3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced p. 21  operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including p. 21  assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier none  reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or none  measurement methods applied in the report GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report p. 25-28  Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the p. 22  report 4 Governance, Commitments & Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the VisitSweden’s  highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or 2011 Annual Report, organisational oversight p. 32 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an VisitSweden’s  executive officer 2011 Annual Report, p. 32 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/ VisitSweden’s  or non-executive members 2011 Annual Report, p. 28, 32 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or p. 9  direction to the highest governance body Commitments to External Initiatives 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or p. 3-4, 11  other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ p. 9-11  international advocacy organisations Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation p. 9-11  4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage p. 9  4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by p. 9-11  type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, p. 11  and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting g ri cont e nt i n dex – 27 2011 Economic indicators Economic performance Page reference Reported EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating p. 18  costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC4 Significant financial assistance. p. 18  Market presence EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the p. 17  local community at significant locations of operation. Environmental indicators Energy EN3 p. 13  EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. p. 13  EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and p. 12-15  services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. p. 14-15  Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. p. 13  EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. p. 13  EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. p. 14-15  Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and p. 12, 14-15  extent of impact mitigation. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. p. 13  Labour Practices & Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. p. 17  LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. p. 17-19  Occupational Health and Safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total p. 17  number of work-related fatalities by region. Training and Education LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support p. 16-17  the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career p. 16  development reviews. g ri cont e nt i n dex – 28 2011 Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category p. 17  according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Society Performance Indicators Aspect: Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess p. 5  and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Product Responsibility Product and Service Labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage p. 12, 14  of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Tour Operators’ Sector Supplement Internal management Labour practices IM1 Evidence of recruiting local residents (including destination nationals) for p. 17  destination posts including management positions Health and safety IM2 Policies and programmes to address the physical and mental well-being of staff p. 17  at headquarters and destinations Training and education IM4 Policies and actions in place to accommodate cultural customs, traditions and p. 17  practices of staff throughout the organisation Materials IM7 Percentage of promotional materials and customer documentation that are p. 14-15  produced in accordance with an environmental standard Customer relations CR4 Means to invite customers’ feedback on sustainability issues related to the p. 9-11  holiday product and actions taken to respond to feedback. Cooperation with destinations Partnerships D1 Engagement with destination stakeholders to address issues, including those p. 9-11  identified in PMD3 Community development D2 Identification and offer of commercial opportunities and assistance to nonVisitSweden’s  contracted suppliers that support community development 2011 Annual Report, p. 11-12 a ppe n di ces – 29 2011 Appendix 1 Conditions for climate neutrality in Respect’s climate programme. For a business to achieve climate neutrality its emissions of carbon Offsetting through CDM projects dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide must be calculated. Measures Emissions that remain despite programmes of measures are offset to reduce carbon dioxide emissions must be taken. Reporting takes through support to CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) projects, place as per an established template. which leads to measurable emission reductions. The projects build up green technology in developing countries while at the same time In short: bringing positive social outcomes. The projects follow the intentions • Calculation of organisation’s own, direct climate-impacting of the Kyoto Protocol and are certified by the UN. emissions. • Calculation of climate impacts from purchased electricity See also www.klimatneutral.se and district heating. • For climate impacts from indirect sources, business travel is always counted. • For other indirect emissions, the organisation is recommended to, if possible, also report emissions from suppliers, goods transport and staff travel to and from work. • The organisation must report measures taken in transport and energy, otherwise a comment must be provided. • The organisation must report measures taken with regard to the main source of carbon dioxide emissions, otherwise a comment must be provided. • Remaining emissions (as in at least items 1 and 2, and business travel) that have not been reduced by way of the organisation’s own measures must be offset. a ppe n di ces – 30 2011 Appendix 2 Background: Global Compact The Global Compact was launched by Kofi Annan to promote The principles: social and environmental responsibility among international Human Rights businesses. It was in a speech to the World Economic Forum that Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of he urged business leaders to join an international initiative – the internationally proclaimed human rights; and Global Compact – which would bring together businesses with UN Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights agencies, trade unions and civil society in support of ten principles abuses. regarding human rights, labour standards, the environment and against corruption. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association The Global Compact’s operations commenced in the UN and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Headquarters in New York City on 26 July 2000. Harnessing the Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory power of collaborative efforts, the Global Compact aims to bring labour; together responsible businesses, making them a part of the solution Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and to the challenges of globalisation. Business – in partnership with Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of other agents in society – will thus help the Secretary-General realise employment and occupation. his vision: a more sustainable economy that does not marginalise certain social groups. Today hundreds of businesses from all over Environment the world, as well as international trade unions and voluntary Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to organisations, are involved in the Global Compact. A voluntary environmental challenges; association of businesses, the Global Compact has two objectives: Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental • To mainstream the ten principles in business activities around the responsibility; and world. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of • To catalyse actions in support of broader UN goals, including the environmentally-friendly technologies. Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Anti-Corruption To realise these objectives, the Global Compact provides various Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its mechanisms for promoting engagement: policy dialogues, learning, forms, including extortion and bribery. local structures and projects. The Global Compact is not a regulatory agency; it neither monitors, drives nor measures the behaviour or Source: UNHCR actions of a business. Rather, it puts its trust in the businesses – their responsibility and openness to the public – as well as trade unions and voluntary organisations to initiate and collaborate in an effort to implement the principles on which the Global Compact is based.
