Corporate Legal and Compliance Siemens Integrity Initiative Annual Report 2011 siemens.com/integrity-initiative Content 2 Introduction Compliance at Siemens in a nutshell 4 A Word from the Siemens Integrity Initiative’s Steering Committee 6 A Word from the Siemens Integrity Initiative’s Project Office 8 A. Collective Action – 12 building alliances against corruption B. Siemens Integrity Initiative 18 Overview 18 Main Objective and Key Parameters 20 Application and Review Process 22 Project Management & Reporting 28 Project Organization 30 Status of the First Funding Round 32 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 38 D. Overview on Annexes: Selection of documents and 108 templates used during the first Funding Round as well as other relevant material Annex 1: Timetable 1st Funding Round and original global call for application 110 December 2009 Annex 2: Expression of Interest Form (EoI) 114 Annex 3: Term Sheet Funding Agreement (Funding Round December 9, 2009) 123 Annex 4: FAQs, Status January 26, 2010 127 Annex 5: Siemens and World Bank Group Press Release dated December 9, 2009 130 on the launch of the Siemens Integrity Initiative Annex 6: Siemens and World Bank Group Press Release dated December 9, 2010 132 on the launch of selected projects 3 Introduction Compliance at Siemens in a nutshell Compliance at Siemens in a nutshell Our principle is: Only clean A Word from the Siemens Integrity Initiative’s Steering Committee business is Siemens business. A Word from the Siemens Integrity Initiative’s Project Office Preventing corruption and other violations of fair competition is the highest priority at Compliance is not Siemens. This means strictly complying with all laws a program; it is the and regulations and adhering to the principles of ethical business conduct defined in the way we conduct Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines, which are binding for all Siemens employees worldwide and focus on the prevention of business and uphold corruption. integrity at Siemens. This is the basis for all our decisions and activities and is an elementary component of our company values. 4 Implementing our internal rules entail a risk of penalties or loss of reputation various multi-stakeholder and cross-sector iniand regulations for Siemens. The Compliance Organization tiatives aimed at jointly combating corruption assures that all reported compliance violain the markets in which Siemens conducts The Siemens Compliance System is divided tions are properly handled, analyzed and business. into three action levels: prevent, detect and remediated together with the responsible respond. This commitment is evidenced by the compaGovernance owners and management. ny’s active participation in the United Nations • We govern investigations and disciplinary Global Compact and by the fact that Siemens Tasks of the Compliance Organization: response. CEO Peter Löscher signed the letter initiated by • We enable a successful sustainable business the Global Compact urging ratification of the • We drive Collective Action initiatives in order as a trusted partner and drive continuous United Nations Convention against Corruption. to level the playing field for clean business. communication on the importance of compliSiemens is also a signatory of the World Ecoance for Siemens. nomic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Collective Action against corruption Initiative committing itself to zero tolerance • We apply the company-wide expertise in antiagainst corruption. trust and anti-corruption to all three dimenSiemens’ compliance management efforts sions (prevent, detect, respond). extend beyond the boundaries of our company A detailed description of our Compliance Sysand its direct business relationships. Within our tem can be found on the Siemens company • All violations of law, regulations or Siemens wider sphere of influence, we are engaged in website: www.siemens.com/sr/compliance procedures are compliance issues if they 5 Introduction A Word from the Siemens Integrity Initiative’s Steering Committee Compliance at Siemens in a nutshell A Word from the Siemens Integrity Initiative’s Steering Committee A Word from the Siemens Integrity Initiative’s Project Office Dear Readers, March 2012 Welcome to our first Annual Report! We would The Project Office of the Siemens Integrity Inilike to guide you through our Collective Action tiative kept the Steering Committee of the activities in Part A, and we will introduce you Siemens Integrity Initiative regularly informed to the background to Siemens’ USD 100 million of current developments, the selection process Integrity Initiative in Part B. We’ll set out the and status reports, both in writing and at facegeneral idea behind the initiative as it was conto-face Steering Committee meetings. ceived in 2009, and also illustrate how the first The Project Office likewise kept the dedicated funding round for approximately USD 40 milworking group at the World Bank, set up espelion progressed from the planning stage cially for this initiative, informed about the through the selection and awarding of funds to concept and content of the Siemens Integrity the first projects in December 2010. Initiative at face-to-face meetings in WashingThe rigorous selection stage, which took ton. Under the terms of the “Settlement Agreearound one year, was a very important part of ment” of July 2, 2009, the World Bank Group the process – many interesting projects were has audit rights over the use of funds and veto submitted for consideration, and we have now rights over the selection of anti-corruption gone on to fund the best and most sustainable groups or programs receiving funds. of these. 6 In addition, the majority of the information This report was presented to the World Bank in presented here is transparently available to the March 2012 accompanied by an in-depth preSteering Committee general public on a specially created web page sentation in Washington. of Siemens Integrity Initiative: at www.siemens.com/integrity-initiative. This We have made a good start. The long-term applies in particular to the application and Dr. Hans-Jörg Grundmann, goal of the Siemens Integrity Initiative and our selection process for projects, the brief project CEO Siemens Rail Systems Collective Action activities is to create a more profiles and the respective funds allocated. (Chair of Steering Committee) level playing field for all market participants Part C of this report provides an overview of and promote fair competition globally for the Peter Y. Solmssen, the projects funded in the first funding round benefit of all. Member of the Managing Board and along with their project profiles and current General Counsel, Siemens AG We are sure that this will be a long journey, but status as at March 6, 2012. one which will ultimately prove worthwhile for Burkhard Ischler, Part D rounds the picture off with various everyone involved. Senior Vice President, appendices plus related documents and forms Government Affairs, Siemens AG used for the application and selection phase Josef Winter, and for continuous process management. Chief Compliance Officer, Siemens AG 7 Introduction A Word from the Siemens Integrity Initiative’s Project Office Compliance at Siemens in a nutshell A Word from the Siemens Integrity Initiative’s Steering Committee A Word from the Siemens Integrity Initiative’s Project Office Dear Readers, March 2012 The Collective Action & External With this 2011 Annual Report it gives us great organizations, international organizations and Affairs Team is headquartered in pleasure to provide you with an overview of civil society. Munich, Germany: the Collective Action activities at Siemens in In conceptualizing the Siemens Integrity Initiageneral, and of our activities as part of the SieSabine Zindera heads the department tive we have drawn upon our experience in mens Integrity Initiative in particular. and is supported by Birgit Forstnig-Errath implementing Collective Action projects (Head of the Siemens Integrity Initiative) Since its inception in 2009, the Corporate around the world. It provides a great opportuand Anna-Christina Kues (Collective Legal and Compliance, Collective Action & nity to make anti-corruption strategies a realAction Manager; driving the Collective External Affairs Department has been driving ity. In addition, it offers the opportunity to take Action Stakeholder Mapping Process), and coordinating these worldwide activities. concrete action around the world through Colas well as by the network of Siemens lective Action, through raising awareness, and Collective Action, which is all about building Business Leaders, Compliance Officers, through inviting alliance partners to join forces alliances against corruption in order to level and Legal and Tax Experts all around the with us and make clean business a reality in the playing field, is an integral part of the Sieworld. the markets where we do business. mens compliance system and one of our four priority focus areas. Siemens is actively driving the implementation of Collective Action, and aims to set up projects with partners in industry, the public sector, non-governmental 8 Sabine Zindera Birgit Forstnig-Errath Anna-Christina Kues In December 2009 we announced the USD 100 the reputation of applicants was OK, if the proWithin and outside of Siemens there have been million Siemens Integrity Initiative in a public posal made sense and if there was a strong link teams working on Collective Action and press release. We invited NGOs and internato our business. improving market conditions for quite some tional organizations from all around the world time. These include most importantly our leadAs the World Bank Group has audit rights over to hand in proposals and to apply for funding ership in the countries where corruption probthe use of the funds as well as veto rights over for the first tranche of USD 40 million. The lems are experienced. the selection of anti-corruption groups or profeedback was overwhelming – we received grams that receive funds, we presented a How will we know if the initiative is working? more than 300 proposals representing USD shortlist to our Steering Committee and to the Well – if we feel it and if our customers feel it, 600 million, so we were oversubscribed by a World Bank. After receiving the final go-ahead, and if our own people on the ground feel it, factor of 15. and a decision by the Siemens Managing Board then we have been able to change the markets Our selection and due diligence process has on September 15, 2010, we were able to where we do business – for the benefit of all. been as solid as a rock, transparent and fair. announce the first tranche of funds to be We have involved some 150 Siemens experts awarded in December 2010. Today, in March from all over the world in the due diligence 2012, we are pleased to present the first status process. These experts from our legal and tax report on a balanced portfolio and on how the departments as well as from our local organiindividual projects developed. zations helped to determine whether the selection and eligibility criteria had been met, e.g. if 9 Strengthening business membership organizations for fighting corruption Anti-corruption and integrity in the Arab countries Sequa gGmbH United Nations Development Programme in cooperation with German Agency for International Regional Bureau for Arab States (UNDP RBAS) Cooperation (GIZ), Chengdu General Chamber of Commerce and Hunan Provincial Chamber, China Promoting Collective Action through UN Global Compact local networks Transforming principles of integrity and Foundation for the Global Compact transparency into practice in emerging markets in cooperation with the UN Global Compact International Business Leaders Forum (IBLF) and its local networks in cooperation with the School of Public Administration of the Renmin University, China Berlin Sensitizing future business leaders: developing London anti-corruption guidelines for curriculum change Business Action Against Corruption (BAAC), Nigeria Brussels Foundation for the Global Compact Commonwealth Business Council Paris Bonn in cooperation with the UN Global Compact and PRME in cooperation with the Convention Basel (Principles for Responsible Management Education), USA on Business Integrity (CBi), Nigeria Milan New York Verification of corporate anti-corruption programs Expansion of COCIR code of conduct Transparency International USA Washington COCIR (European Coordination Committee in cooperation with Social Accountability International, USA of the Radiological, Electromedical and Healthcare IT Industry) Social witness/Integrity Pact in government procurement – the Mexican experience Enhancing Business Integrity in the MENA Region Transparencia Mexicana Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), MENA Initiative on Governance and Investment for Development Mexico City Promoting effective industry standards Basel Institute on Governance Sustainable Procurement Protecting the green sector market from corruption and fraud Transparency International Italia Clean games inside and outside of the stadium (World Cup 2014, Olympics 2016) Instituto Ethos – Ethos Institute for Business and Social Responsibility Towards a culture of anti-corruption compliance in Argentina: reorientation of incentives through Collective Action São Paulo Fundación Universidad de San Andrés (FUdeSA) in cooperation with the Asociación Civil por la Igualdad y la Justicia (ACIJ) and the Centro de Implementación de Políticas Públicas para la Equidad y el Crecimiento 10 (CIPPEC), Argentina Buenos Aires Best practice on anti-corruption incentives International Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA) and sanctions for business International Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA) Humboldt Viadrina School of Governance Incentives to corporate integrity MedKompas Poland and cooperation in accordance with the POLMED (The Polish Chamber of Commerce United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) of Medical Devices) United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in cooperation with the International Anti-Corruption Improvement of public procurement systems Academy (IACA), Austria in the Czech and Slovak Republics Oživení Outreach and communication program for the in cooperation with Transparency International United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) Warsaw Slovakia and the Economics Institute of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Prague Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic Vienna The 6Ps’: Public-Private Partnership for Probity Budapest in Public Procurement Leveling the playing field in emerging and United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) transitional markets of Central and Eastern Europe Beijing in cooperation with the International Anti-Corruption Sofia and the former Soviet Union Academy (IACA), Austria Central European University Seoul in cooperation with Tiri Making Integrity Work, NABIS (Northeast Asia Business Integrity School) Tel Aviv United Kingdom Federation of Korean Industries-International Management Institute (FKI-IMI) Cairo Promoting integrity through advocacy: in cooperation with Global Competitiveness counteracting corruption in public contracting Empowerment Forum, South Korea Transparency International Bulgaria Hanoi NATC’s Collective Action initiative – Maala’s corporate social responsibility collective fostering a better business environment in China voluntary anti-corruption standard program Beijing New Century Academy Maala Business for Social Responsibility on Transnational Corporations (NATC) Manila Fighting corruption and fraud SHINE PROJECT – strengthening high-level through Collective Action, education and training commitment for integrity initiatives and nurturing (towards a transparent economy) Collective Action of enterprises advocating for University of Cairo, Center for Economic fair market conditions and Financial Research and Studies Makati Business Club (MBC) in cooperation with the European Chamber of Commerce in the Philippines Capacitating African business networks Jakarta Integrity and transparency to implement global anti-corruption initiatives in business initiative for Vietnam and good practices Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry Ethics Institute of South Africa (EthicSA) (VCCI, Office for Business Sustainable Development) in cooperation with the International Business Leaders Forum (IBLF), United Kingdom Collaborative Leveraging of E-procurement Pretoria Accountability, Nexus and Integrity for the Newfound Governance (CLEANING) Partnership for Governance Reform Kemitraan 11 A. Collective Action – building alliances against corruption The ultimate aim of these joint efforts is to create fair and equal market Collective Action – building alliances conditions – a “level playing field” – for all market players and to eliminate against corruption the temptations of corruption for all of them. Why Siemens supports Collective Action In the face of the widespread and deep-rooted corruption problem that affects society in general, governments and their procuring entities and the private sector in equal measure, it seems highly unlikely that individual activities alone will be sufficient to bring about significant ethical changes and improve the transparency of business processes. This is precisely where Collective Action methods become important Collective Action enables corruption to be fought collectively, with various interest groups, working together and building an alliance against corruption so that the problem can be approached and resolved from multiple angles. 12 Collective Action promotes a fair competitive governmental organizations (NGOs) and other and to eliminate the temptation of corruption situation in which a transparent process based interest groups working jointly for the common for all those concerned. Collective Action exclusively on market economic criteria (such good. It is also crucial to examine the anti-trust helps to set up the conditions for fair compeas quality, price, innovation and service) aspects in each individual case. tition within a corrupt environment. ensures that the contract is awarded to the • Collective Action promotes innovation, as the best bidder. It prevents competition from being bidder is selected solely on the basis of price, distorted and destroyed by corruption, and The advantages of Collective Action quality and capacity to innovate. ensures that companies acting honestly and • Collective Action describes various methods morally are not disadvantaged. • Observance of anti-trust law when collaboof combating corruption. It is a matter of rating with other companies must be ensured The available methods range from Integrity acting collectively and forming alliances by a neutral monitor (e.g. in the form of a Pacts for individual procurement transactions against corruption. Collective Action calls for non-governmental organization). right through to industry-specific codes of concooperation on the part of participants from duct and compliance pacts, as well as joint the worlds of politics, business and society • Collective Action can, if necessary, cover gaps measures implemented as part of a long-term at large. in legislation or replace or augment inadeinitiative to raise a country’s public awareness quate local law. • The ultimate goal is thereby to create fair and and tighten up its regulatory system and proequitable market conditions, that is a “Level curement guidelines. Ideally, such action Playing Field”, for all marketplace participants should involve competitors, authorities, non13 A. Collective Action – building alliances against corruption Collective Action at Siemens Three channels to drive Collective Action: Priority on Long-Term Initiatives At Siemens, Collective Action is driven through three 3 Integrity Parts t complementary channels: en em Independent Customer ag 3rd party (NGO) 1) ng Compliance Pacts rE Sector / Country specific Integrity Pacts de 2 Target implementation of Integrity Pacts ak ol Industry Associations where possible and where supported by eh St Cross-reporting channels civil society Long-Term Initiatives for Compliance Pacts 1 market development Broaden reach of voluntary standards and strengthen commitment to proper impleAwareness Advocacy and Strengthen mentation of existing standards raising with dialogue with and build local champions public sector local institutions Long-Term Initiatives for Market on rule of law Development Energize market dynamics, fair Leveraging embassy contacts competition and business environment ! Siemens Integrity Initiative Long-Term Initiatives pave the way for a true anti-corruption culture with reduced business risks and a stable and sustainable investment climate. This will ensure a larger market volume for clean companies and prosperity for the country 1) NGO: Non-Governmental Organization 14 Project-specific methods – Integrity Pacts Sector-wide codes of conduct Long-term initiatives At Siemens, the Collective Action methods Companies from the same sector get together Long-term initiatives are particularly effective encompass project-specific, sector-wide and and draw up a code of ethics or code of conin states rated as being prone to corruption, as long-term initiatives. Integrity Pacts ensure duct. These can take various forms, ranging they pave the way to the establishment of a that the award of orders in the case of publicfrom principles-based provisions to legally true anti-corruption culture. Collaboration sector contracts is free from corruption. They binding agreements. In the latter case, compabetween government, commercial companies were developed by the non-governmental nies that violate the anti-corruption code are and society in the fight against corruption conorganization “Transparency International”, and penalized with sanctions. However the princitributes to the raising of awareness among polare intended to guarantee transparency in the ples-based codes also have a high degree of iticians and the general public. The acknowlorder-awarding process and to rule out bribery effectiveness, as the public commitment to edgment that bribery and corrupt behavior in the awarding of public-sector contracts. Folanti-corruption and transparency exerts damage the entire economy of a state brings lowing an invitation to tender from a publicincreased pressure on the participating compalong-term benefits for all stakeholders. Longsector customer, the bidding companies sign nies not to breach the agreement. This type of term initiatives set out the fundamental condilegally binding contracts, and commit themCollective Action is particularly suitable in olitions that will enable project-specific Integrity selves to behave with integrity from the start gopolistic markets. The uncompromising supPacts and industry-specific Compliance Pacts to of the tender process until the end of the projport of senior management within the compacome to fruition and achieve general accepect. If the contract is breached, sanctions are nies concerned is critical to the success of the tance. Their success contributes towards a imposed which can be as severe as the excluinitiative. In order to avoid breaches of antiworld free of corruption and helps to direct the sion of the company from further invitations to trust law, it is vital to enlist the services of an investment of many millions of dollars and tender. An independent monitor supervises the external, independent monitor. other resources towards their intended destinacontract-awarding process and observance of tion. In April 2011 we have started Phase II of the Integrity Pact. the so called “Collective Action Country Strategy & Stakeholder Mapping Process”. The Integrity Pact ensures that the bidder is selected on the basis of fair criteria, and serves all the stakeholders as a means of protecting the integrity of the project. 15 A. Collective Action – building alliances against corruption Knowing your stakeholder The Collective Action Stakeholder Mapping Knowing your stakeholders is the prerequisite for is a prerequisite. • ensures a thorough analysis of the specific country situation and permits a structured • selecting partners for Collective Action approach to potential anti-corruption stakeagainst corruption Collective Action at Siemens holders in the individual country • the successful implementation of Long-Term is an integral part of “ONE • helps the Compliance Officers to identify initiatives and partnerships. The latter prosuitable Collective Action partners in the vide the basis for facilitating Integrity Pacts Siemens”, which is the Siemens countries and compliance pacts in your country, as they strengthen an anti-corruption mindset. overall strategy framework • supports the establishment of strong relations with our Collective Action stakeholders • active stakeholder engagement in the longer for Siemens. • fosters a climate of confidence which faciliterm (even if you do not engage in successful cooperation with a certain stakeholder now, tates dialogue it is worthwhile to stay in contact and to look • enables sharing of expertise and collective for opportunities for Collective Action in the engagement in anti-corruption future) • will help to enable a better understanding of • the development of future Collective Action specific stakeholder expectations and the opportunities and the positioning of Siemens concerns of various players as a leader in anti-corruption. • helps to develop a strong anti-corruption community and network in all Siemens countries 16 In a nutshell: Collective Action is an integral part of One Siemens • Over recent years Siemens has successfully introduced and implemented a comprehenRevenue growth Growth > most relevant competition sive global Collective Action Program to jointly fight corruption and promote integrity Fo Provide a leading Grow in emerging inn cus ou ov o n environmental markets t in business transactions. The ultimate goal is g ro d r i a t i o n G e to s w t ve n portfolio ser er to establish fair and sustainable market conRe hm c l o s to m ark Expand u ditions in collaboration with other compatur et s rc Strengthen our service no nies, governments and non-governmental nc our portfolio business organizations for the benefit of all market ap ita Be a pioneer in techIntensify our participants. One Siemens y t bus nologydriven customer ilit markets The integrated focus DA ab ghou • Collective Action at Siemens is an integral technology company BIT fit te d C a p r o h ro u part of “ONE Siemens”, which is the overall strategy framework for Siemens. /P t ind it al cy ins Responsible – Excellent – Innovative us s i e n a rg tri truc fic al ne ture • “One Siemens” is the key to attaining further m e f to p Stand for Encourage lifelong Country and Sector td sustainable development: nine focus areas al integrity learning and d/ eb pit strategies for Collect/ C a l oye development define the activities on which Siemens will be tive Action will push Empower E concentrating most intensely in the years mp our diverse jus One Siemens le Ad ahead. and engaged ine people worldwide ss c yc Use the power les One Siemens: Nine focus of Siemens areas operationalize our strategic directions Source: One Siemens 17 B. Overview On July 2, 2009, the World Bank Group announced a comprehensive settleSiemens Integrity Initiative ment with Siemens. As part of the settlement, Siemens agreed to co-operate to change industry practices, clean up procurement practices and engage in Collective Action with the World Bank Group to fight fraud and corruption. 18 As a result of this commitment, Siemens has strate objective and measurable results and set up the USD 100 million Siemens Integrity have the potential to be scaled up and Initiative and launched a global call for expresreplicated. sions of interest to attract a wide range of proThe funds provided by Siemens in the amount posals on December 9, 2009. The World Bank of USD 100 million will be allocated in several Group has audit rights over the use of these funding rounds over 15 years. Over 30 projects funds and veto rights over the selection of from over 20 countries were selected for fundanti-corruption groups or programs receiving ing in the first funding round and will receive funds. an overall funding up to USD 40 million. The Siemens Integrity Initiative supports orgaInformation on Collective Action, the Siemens nizations and projects that fight corruption and Integrity Initiative, funded projects and the fraud through Collective Action, education and next round of funding are available on training to achieve the main objective, which is www.siemens.com/collective-action. to create fair market conditions for all market participants. Please also refer to: Press Release, July 2, 2009: http://go.worldbank.org/WXRNSDVI40 The initiative focuses on financing projects that have a clear impact on the business environment and on the business sectors and countries where Siemens is active, that can demon19 B. Siemens Integrity Initiative Main Objective and Key Parameters In line with Siemens’ commitment to clean and sustainable business, the main objective of the Siemens Integrity Initiative is to create fair market conditions for all market participants by fighting corruption and fraud through Collective Action, education and training. Siemens Integrity Initiative Website: www.siemens.com/integrity-initiative 20 More specifically, the Siemens Integrity The Initiative focuses on supporting projects The Siemens Integrity Initiative seeks to attract Initiative aims at: that have a clear impact on the business enviproposals that include a portfolio of activities ronment, can demonstrate objective and mearather than one-time activities, and proposals • Raising standards and creating awareness on surable results and have the potential to be that foresee a time horizon of 3 to 5 years. compliance and business integrity scaled up and replicated. Siemens will consider The maximum funding per project proposal is • Creating a common platform for dialogue for those projects with impact on the business secup to USD 5 million. Application for funds from the private and public sector tors and countries where Siemens is active. the Siemens Integrity Initiative is open to non• Strengthening the rule of law The Siemens Integrity Initiative aims to support profit organizations, such as non-governmental a mix of global, regional and country-specific organizations (NGOs), international organizaOver the next 15 years, Siemens will disburse projects and projects of various sizes. At least tions, business associations and academic USD 100 million to support non-profit organitwo-thirds of the funds are targeted for allocainstitutions. zations worldwide that promote business tion to the sub-theme “Collective Action”. integrity and corruption. Summary Key Parameters OBJECTIVE: Fighting Corruption & Fraud through Collective Action, education & training • USD 100 million over 15 years • First funding round (December 9, 2009): ~USD 40 million, 3-5 years Financial • Additional funding rounds will be announced separately • Funding of up to USD 5 million per project proposal, minimum of USD 50,000 • 2 project categories: Collective Action (2/3), Education & Training (1/3) Content • Focus on clear business impact and Siemens markets and sectors • Objective: Create fair market conditions for all market participants • Public invitation to submit proposals Process • Open, competitive selection in two phases (expression of interest, full proposal) • Payment of funds linked to achievement of milestones (Funding Agreement) ROLE OF • Veto rights over selection of organizations WORLD BANK: • Audit rights over use of funds 21 B. Siemens Integrity Initiative Application and Review Process Eligibility Criteria Selection Criteria The application process for funds is generally The Siemens Integrity Initiative seeks project open to non-profit organizations, such as nonproposals that governmental organizations (NGOs), interna• can demonstrate a clear fit with the objective tional organizations, business associations, of the Initiative, foundations and academic institutions. • have a direct impact on the business Individuals and for-profit organizations, orga­ environment, nizations with no established legal entity, political and religious organizations as well as • can demonstrate objective and measurable churches are not eligible for funding from the results, and Siemens Integrity Initiative. Any organization • have the potential to be scaled up and pertaining or closely related to Siemens or replicated. institutions of the World Bank Group will not be considered for funding. The quality of project proposals and the capacity of the applicant organization to perform the Applicants may hand in joint applications with proposed activities will be assessed against a other organizations provided one organization set of predefined selection criteria, which are assumes a leading position, signs the overall outlined below. The assessment will be based funding agreement and in case of an award on the information provided in the Expression will administer the distribution of funds of Interest form, and through further due diliresponsibly between those participating in gence in the course of the selection process. this joint application and project. The first funding round is currently closed. Information on next funding rounds are planned to be made available on www.siemens.com/collective-action. 22 Furthermore the following was considered in the selection of projects: Category Description Siemens business sectors and Siemens will consider those projects that countries •h ave an impact on the business sectors Siemens is operating in and • take into account Siemens’ presence worldwide Impact on business environment Projects • should have a clear impact on the business environment, and • aim to contribute to the creation of fair market conditions Proposals could be submitted for the following two categories: Collective Action: Raising compliance standards and creating awareness by establishing alliances between the public and the private sector. Projects in this category can cover one, several or all of the following sub-categories and must be based on a collective approach. Education and Training: Build capacity, foster a culture of integrity and promote knowledge sharing between institutions and stakeholders. Projects in this category should cover at least two of the following sub-categories, take provisions for students from emerging markets and developing countries into account and, most importantly, aim to reach a maximum number of students. Within the two main categories several sub-categories were defined. Main project focus: Fighting Corruption & Fraud • Creating national alliances and platforms of dialogue between the public and private sector • Strengthening the rule of law Collective Action • Strengthening voluntary standards • Creating incentives for good performers • Curricula development • Capacity building for public, private and non-for-profit sector Education & Training • Platform for dialogue between practitioners from the public and private sector • Knowledge exchange with growth markets and emerging markets through scholarships and cooperation with other institutions 23 B. Siemens Integrity Initiative The objectives of the Siemens Integrity Initiative are creating fair market conditions for all market participants and fighting corruption and fraud through Collective Action and education and training. A detailed description of the sub-categories was provided outlining potential areas for project proposals: Category Main objective I. Collective Action Raising compliance standards and creating awareness by establishing alliances between the public and the private sector Projects in the ‘Collective Action’ category can cover one, several or all sub-categories described hereunder. All the projects must be based on a collective approach. Subcategories Which type of projects we support a) Creating alliances Establishment of platforms for ongoing dialogue between the public and the private sector on anti-corruption and fraud with the aim of • strengthening national legal systems and voluntary standards • Creation of incentives for good performers • Identification of the need for reforms and capacity building b) Strengthening Strong anti-corruption laws which follow internationally accepted frameworks such the rule of law as the UN Convention Against Corruption and the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention help to create a level playing field. Projects will be supported • that help to strengthen and coordinate anti-corruption laws that relate to the private sector • t hat provide incentives to the business community to cooperate with law-enforcement authorities, such as measures by governments to mitigate penalties for such cooperation and for adopting anti-corruption programs • t hat support the inclusion of anti-corruption standards and the concept of Integrity Pacts into procurement laws c) Strengthening •S  trengthening of existing efforts to develop anti-corruption and compliance voluntary standards standards and promote coherence between standards •D  evelopment of new industry-specific standards on anti-corruption and compliance •S  trengthening of standards for Integrity Pacts and their use in public procurement • Development of monitoring and certification systems for voluntary standards 24 Subcategories Which type of projects we support d) Creating incentives To encourage more companies to invest the time and resources in fully functioning anti-corruption and compliance systems, projects that work for good towards the creation of incentives for good performers will be supported, e.g. performers • Incorporation of anti-corruption standards in investment decisions and evaluation of companies by financial institutions • Creation of tax incentives • Consideration of corporate anti-corruption programs and compliance systems in bidding processes Category Main objective II. Education & Training Build capacity, foster a culture of integrity and promote knowledge sharing between institutions and stakeholders Projects in the category ‘Education & Training’ should cover AT LEAST TWO sub-categories, take provisions for students from emerging markets and developing countries into account and, most importantly, aim to reach a maximum number of students. Subcategories Which type of projects we support a) Curricula • Development of curricula on measures to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute corruption and fraud and measures to foster development a culture of integrity • Incorporation of such curricula in standard courses of academic educational institutions such as business, law and engineering schools b) Capacity building Education and training of future and current managers, engineers, government officials and civil society leaders through short-term and long-term courses c) Platform for Facilitation of an exchange of knowledge between practitioners from all sectors with the aim of advancing knowledge in the area dialogue of anti-corruption and of enriching curricula and training courses d) Knowledge sharing •S  upport for students from emerging markets and developing countries or students from low-income backgrounds through the establishment of scholarship funds or special financing schemes to enable them to attend courses or studies related to anti-corruption •Support of knowledge exchange and standardization of curricula between universities and training institutions Review and application process for First 2. Invitation to submit a Full Proposal and perinto a Funding Agreement with Siemens (a Funding Round formance of a thorough due diligence on the term sheet for the Funding Agreement can be implementation capabilities of the applicant, found in Annex 3). Siemens intends to award funds to the most their financial management capabilities, their innovative and promising project proposals A detailed timetable for the first funding round legal structure and their compliance submitted. The selection and review process of and more information on the application probackground. the first funding round comprised two steps: cess is available in Annex 1. After a thorough review of the documents sub1. Call for and review of the Expression of mitted (due diligence) those applicants that Interest (EOI) forms including supporting docuwere selected for funding were invited to enter mentation, and 25 B. Siemens Integrity Initiative Summary of the application and review • A first short list of projects was submitted to process of the First Funding Round: the World Bank for a Non-Veto decision. • The Initiative was announced through a • In a second step, shortlisted organizations global call for proposals on December 9, were invited to submit a Full Proposal which 2009 where non-profit organizations from all included a more detailed description of the around the world could apply for funding for project, outputs and deliverables, detailed the first tranche of USD 40 million. budgets and work plans. • In a first stage applicants were asked to hand • The review of Full Proposals was based on in an Expression of Interest (EoI). More than published selection criteria and supported by 300 proposals with funding requests of USD internal guidelines and checklists (e.g. refer600 million were submitted. All Expressions ence check, avoidance of conflict of interest of Interest were screened against basic criteetc.). ria (fit with objectives of the initiative, potential conflict of interest, reputation of the organization etc.). Selection criteria Key questions / themes 1. Content fit • Does the project cover corruption and fraud, Collective Action or education & training? 2. Business impact • Does the project have an impact on the business environment? • Is the project relevant to Siemens sectors and countries? 3. Quality of project • Innovation •S  ustainability •G  rowth potential •O  bjective and measurable results •P  roject design and organizational capacity •T  ype of funding 26 • All projects were reviewed globally by the Overview timetable application and review process for First Funding Round: Project Team and locally in the relevant countries of implementation. The Steering ComDecember 9, 2009 mittee of the Siemens Integrity Initiative was closely involved in the screening and selecDecember 2009 – • Call for proposals (Expressions of Interest): 300 proposals tion process. March, 2010 received with funding request of USD 600 million Phase 1: • Review of project proposals and first check of • Reviews were conducted in four parallel Expressions of Interest organizations on the basis of selection criteria jointly with Siemens Regional Companies streams (legal, tax, financial, strategy) and March – April, 2010 • Conflict of interest check included more than 150 people from legal • Check of reputation of applicants departments, tax departments, finance World Bank • No objection decision by World Bank (Veto-Rights) departments, etc. Non-Veto Process • For all projects, local management support May – June, 2010 • Submission of detailed project proposal and buy-in was obtained to support projects (‘Full Proposals’) during the implementation phase. Phase 2: • Agreement to sign standard funding agreement • Deadline of submission: June 25, 2010 Full Proposals • The review and selection process was transparent, fair and competitive. July – September, • Detailed due diligence on organizations 2010 • Review of full proposals based on selection criteria • The final short-list of projects was presented Due Diligence & • September 15, 2010: Approval of final shortlist by to the Siemens Integrity Initiative Steering Siemens Management Board Approval Committee and the Siemens Management October November, • Discussion and signing of Funding Agreements Board for approval. 2010 • Selected applicants (‘Integrity Partners’) were Phase 3: then invited to enter into a Standard Funding Funding Agreements Agreement with Siemens and first projects December 2010 • Public announcement of projects funded under the were launched on December 9, 2010 through Siemens Integrity Initiative (December 9, 2010) a global World Bank Siemens press release. • Global World Bank – Siemens press release Public Launch • Start of funding and projects The launch of projects was accompanied by local press and media activities in the releDecember 9, 2010 vant countries. 27 B. Siemens Integrity Initiative Project management & reporting • The responsibility for the management of the • Integrity Partners report on an annual basis projects funded under the Siemens Integrity on progress made, funds used and work Initiative lies with the respective Integrity plans for the next year. All Annual Reports Partner; Siemens supports projects finanhave to be accompanied by a financial report cially, monitors the use of funds in a biwhich has been audited by an external audit annual reporting process and participates in company. Regular interim reports help to activities where appropriate and requested by review progress throughout the year. All the Integrity Partner. Annual Progress Reports need to be reviewed and approved by the local Siemens Project • The main points relating to the management Relationship Manager, the Siemens Integrity of projects are regulated in a Funding AgreeInitiative Project Office and Corporate ment between Siemens and the Integrity Finance. Partner and its Project Partners. • Siemens has set up an internal project struc• Payments of funds are done based on ture for the selection of projects and the supachievement of milestones and on a biport and monitoring of projects during the annual basis. (Reimbursement of actual costs implementation phase. only; no pre-payments apart from an initial payment) • All projects are supported by Siemens through a designated Project Relationship Manager and a Mentor from the senior management. For example, country specific projects can draw on the CEO of the local Siemens company as their Mentor. All Project Relationship Managers (PRM) are coordinated by the Siemens Integrity Initiative Project Office (see also Project Organization). 28 Roles and responsibilities of Project Relationship Managers and Mentors: PRM reports to Siemens Integrity Initiative Project Office / PRM Project Office on Project Office calls on mentor regular basis when needed Project Mentor for local projects Relationship Manager Monitoring role Support from local • Approval of Progress of project Management (CEO) (according to World Bank • Representation at local high-level requirements) events / Project Steering • Approval of external communication Committee Meetings with Corporate Communications • High-level communication activities (use success stories) Support role • First contact point for Integrity Partner • Create success stories Link to Project Office • Knowledge sharing • Provide high-level support in • Participation in project activities resolving of issues / challenges • Represent project at global Link to Project Office high-level events • Reporting on successes or issues on regular basis 29 B. Siemens Integrity Initiative Project Organization • The internal Siemens project management • The Project Office is the main link to the structure of the Initiative consists of several World Bank with regard to the audit and veto teams which have been set up specifically for rights as well as reporting obligations. this initiative and which provide overall • The work of the Project Office and Project supervision and guidance (such as the SteerTeam is overseen by the Siemens Integrity ing Committee) and deal with daily operaInitiative Steering Committee, which consists tions of the Initiative (Project Office and Projof Peter Solmssen, Member of the Managing ect Team). Board and General Counsel; Dr. Hans-Jörg • To make this initiative a company-wide effort Grundmann, CEO of Rail Systems Division and ensure engagement and representation, and current chair of the Steering Committee; all relevant business units of Siemens were Josef Winter, Chief Compliance Officer; and integrated into the structure of the Initiative. Burkhard Ischler, Head of Government Affairs. • The main operational contact for this Initiative is the Project Office, which includes four • Due to the veto and audit rights of the World people and is supported by an extended ProjBank, the World Bank has also set up a team ect Team from various departments (compliof experts to liaise with Siemens with regard ance legal, corporate finance, compliance to the Siemens Integrity Initiative as shown in business excellence, corporate communicathe chart. tions and compliance colleagues in all relevant countries). 30 Overview Project Organization World Bank Siemens World Bank Working Group Siemens Integrity Initiative Siemens Siemens Integrity Initiative Steering Committee Managing Board • Governance and Public Sector •D  r. Hans-Jörg Grundmann, CEO Industry • Institutional Integrity (INT) Mobility (chair, rotating 18 months) • Legal Department • Peter Solmssen, Member Managing Board • Financial Management and General Counsel • External Relations (EXT) • Josef Winter, Chief Compliance Officer • IFC Business Risk Department • Burkhard Ischler, Government Affairs • World Bank Institute • Governance Partnership Facility ✓ Veto-rights over the selection of Siemens Integrity Initiative projects Project Office ✓ Audit right over the use of funds ✓ Annual reporting on progress and Corporate work plans Communications Siemens Integrity Initiative Project Team Corporate Finance Business Compliance Regions and Excellence Legal Sectors 31 B. Siemens Integrity Initiative Status of the First Funding Round On December 9, 2010 Siemens and the World Bank Group announced the first anti-corruption projects that will receive financing from the USD 100 million Integrity Initiative to promote clean markets. Thirty-one projects from over 20 countries were selected for funding in the first funding » Together with the round and will receive an overall funding of up to USD 40 million. Around 300 non-for-profit World Bank Group, we organizations from 66 countries applied for funding during the first funding round. want to promote integ“Siemens stands for top performance with the rity and fair competition highest ethical standards,” said Peter Solmssen, Member of the Managing Board and General worldwide. With the Counsel of Siemens AG at the occasion of the launch of the first projects on December 9, 2010. selection of the projects 32 for the Siemens Integsaid Leonard McCarthy, Integrity Vice President of the World Bank Group. “Corruption steals Key data from the poor, and it can only be tackled on a rity Initiative, we have joint basis. The projects of the Siemens IntegTotal funding volume USD 100.0 M rity Initiative will help strengthen the will to Funds committed in the first USD 37.7 M taken the first imporcombat corruption worldwide and improve conditions for everyone.” funding round tant step in this Disbursements year 1* (release of provision) USD 7.9 M Source: Press Release, December 9, 2010 direction.« www.siemens.com/integrity-initiative Expected disbursements year 2* USD 13.1 M Number of projects 2011 31 “We welcome the company’s initiative and clear commitment to the principle that only Countries covered 2011 22 clean business is good, sustainable business“, * Siemens fiscal year (October September) 33 B. Siemens Integrity Initiative List of projects funded in the first funding round: Integrity Partner Country of Total Funding implementation volume in USD Basel Institute on Governance Global 1.86 M Beijing New Century Academy on Transnational CorporaChina 0.89 M tions (NATC) Central European University in cooperation with Tiri MakCentral and Eastern 3.09 M ing Integrity Work, United Kingdom Europe COCIR (European Coordination Committee of the RadiologiEurope, Asia, Russia, 0.96 M cal, Electromedical and Healthcare IT Industry) South America Commonwealth Business Council in cooperation with the Nigeria 1.1 M Convention on Business Integrity (CBi), Nigeria Ethics Institute of South Africa (EthicSA) Angola, South Africa 1.5 M Federation of Korean Industries-International Management South Korea 0.81 M Institute (FKI-IMI) in cooperation with Global Competitiveness Empowerment Forum, South Korea Foundation for the Global Compact in cooperation with the Global 1.48 M UN Global Compact and PRME (Principles for Responsible Management Education), USA Foundation for the Global Compact in cooperation with the Brazil, Egypt, India, 2.87 M UN Global Compact and its local networks Nigeria, South Africa Fundación Universidad de San Andrés (FUdeSA) in cooperArgentina 0.73 M ation with the Asociación Civil por la Igualdad y la Justicia (ACIJ) and the Centro de Implementación de Políticas Públicas para la Equidad y el Crecimiento (CIPPEC), Argentina Humboldt Viadrina School of Governance Global 1.3 M International Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA) Global 2.02 M International Business Leaders Forum (IBLF) in cooperation China, Russia 1.5 M with the School of Public Administration of the Renmin University, China 34 Integrity Partner Country of Total Funding implementation volume in USD Instituto Ethos Ethos Institute for Business and Social Responsibility Brazil 3.11 M Maala Business for Social Responsibility Israel 0.48 M Makati Business Club (MBC) Philippines 1.04 M in cooperation with the European Chamber of Commerce in the Philippines Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), MENA Initiative on Governance and Middle East and North 0.75 M Investment for Development Africa Oživení Czech Republic, Slovakia 0.6 M in cooperation with Transparency International Slovakia and the Economics Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic Partnership for Governance Reform Kemitraan Indonesia 1.5 M POLMED (The Polish Chamber of Commerce of Medical Devices), Poland Poland 0.46 M Sequa gGmbH China 1.49 M in cooperation with German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ), Chengdu General Chamber of Commerce and Hunan Provincial Chamber, China Transparency International Bulgaria Bulgaria 0.45 M Transparency International Italia Italy 0.6 M Transparencia Mexicana Mexico 0.23 M Transparency International USA in cooperation with Social Accountability International, USA USA, Global 0.66 M United Nations Development Programme Regional Bureau for Arab States (UNDP RBAS) Arab States Region 1.78 M United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) India, Mexico 1.12 M in cooperation with the International Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA), Austria – Incentives to Corporate Integrity United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) – Outreach and Communication Global 0.75 M United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) India, Mexico 1.22 M in cooperation with the International Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA), Austria – The 6 P’s University of Cairo, Center for Economic and Financial Research and Studies Egypt 0.85 M Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI, Office for Business Sustainable Development) Vietnam 0.5 M in cooperation with the International Business Leaders Forum (IBLF), United Kingdom Total funding volume in USD 37.7 M 35 B. Siemens Integrity Initiative Short-list of projects covers all major growth regions and high-risk countries (31 projects, USD 37.7 million) 42 % 58 % The chart illustrates the regional 100 % spread and balance of the First Global Projects North America Funding Portfolio. (1 sub-project, USD 0.7M) (6 Projects, USD 8.4M) Region / Country of implementation (number of project proposals) % of Collective Action 100 % % of Education & Training Bubble size = Approximate value of funding South America (4 sub-projects, USD 2.2M) Note: Due to importance of BRIC they are shown separately and are not included in clusters; schematic illustration only – subject to change *Project volume of USD 1.8 million additionally earmarked for China and Russia which sums up to USD 37.7 million + USD 1.8 million = USD 39.5 million The number of project proposals per region is indicated in brackets; one third of Collective Action projects include Education & Training elements 36 33 % 100 % 67 % North West Europe 100 % (1 sub-project, USD 0.5M) CEE (4 sub-projects, USD 4.6M) Russia* (1 sub-project, USD 0.9M) 100 % 100 % 21 % North East Asia South West Europe (1 sub-project, USD 0.8M) (1 sub-project, USD 0.6M) 79 % 100 % Middle East 100 % (4 sub-Projects, USD 3.9M) China* (3 sub-projects, USD 2.9M) India (3 sub-projects, USD 1.7M) 100 % 100 % 100 % Brazil (2 sub-projects, USD 3.5M) Asia-Pacific (3 sub-projects, USD 3M) Africa (5 sub-projects, USD 4.0M) 37 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 The following pages show a description of project objectives and funding Project profiles and highlights volumes as agreed with Integrity Partners in the respective Funding Agreeof activities in 2011 ments. The description of activities undertaken in year 1 was provided by the Integrity Partner in their respective Annual Progress Report 2011 and approved by the relevant Integrity Partners for external use. 38 Integrity Partners submitted the following • Annual Progress Report which provided an documentation which was the basis for the overview on activities undertaken and an review of progress: assessment of progress made • Financial Report which showed the utilization of funds per activity and in comparison to the original budget agreed in the Funding Agreement • Audit Statement by an external audit company which verified the financial report and provided an unqualified audit opinion on the use of funds • Updated Work plan and Updated Budget for Year 2 39 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Basel Institute on Governance (www.baselgovernance.org) The Basel Institute on Governance is a practice-oriented and interdisciplinary think tank conducting research, policy advice, building capacity and providing Project: support in the area of good governance at the public and corporate level. Its manPromoting Effective Industry Standards date is to promote good governance in the public sector and in the business Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: community, nationally and internationally, through targeted and qualified Global 5 years 1.86 M Switzerland expertise, scientific research and training. Its strategy is to combine academic and interdisciplinary competence with handson practical experience to provide accurate analysis and sound problem solving The Basel Institute has been instrumental in The Centre for Global Industry Standards will methods. It offers customized solutions the design and implementation process of sevpromote, facilitate and create Collective Action to its partners in the public and private eral joint multi-stakeholder efforts to set indusinitiatives by bringing together stakeholders spheres. try standards in a number of sectors of the involved in specific economic sectors into a Founded in 2003 as an independent and economy through Collective Action across the dialogue to agree on governance and antinon-profit institution, it is associated with globe, among them, the „Wolfsberg Anticorruption standards and their implementathe University of Basel and are composed Money Laundering Principles.“ On the basis of tion. The Centre will also contribute to the of internationally recognized academics its know-how, the Basel Institute is best placed coordination and integration of standards at and practitioners with long-standing to continue this work further and bring it to the global level. The role of the Centre is experience in the various areas of work new sectors and to a new level. This project mainly that of independent expert and facilitathat the Basel Institute promotes. will formalize the existence of the – Centre for tor; in our experience, the success of Collective Global Industry Standards located at the Basel Action is based on being driven by its Institute. participants. 40 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • An important milestone was reached in the • Representatives of the Basel Institute, SieT  he Basel Institute acting as the High-Level-Reporting Mechanism that mens Vietnam, as well as other companies Centre for Global Industry Standards resulted from the Collective Action Initiative and organizations joined the Steering Board will develop and coordinate Collecin the Power Systems Industry: the initiative of the Reform and Modernization of Vietnam tive Action initiatives. It will bring has been expanded to include additional Customs Initiative, which is coordinated by together stakeholders to agree on industries and has been adopted as part of The World Economic Forum/PACI. As the and implement sector-specific antithe official recommendations in the final responsible parties for the Transparency corruption standards. report of the B20/G20 summit in November Track, the Basel Institute and TNT Express in Cannes; once implemented by the respechave developed an action plan and monitortive countries, the proposed mechanism will ing mechanism to stop facilitation payments provide companies from all industries with an in the express industry in Vietnam by 2017; effective tool to address solicitation, thus once the plan is adopted by the industry parttackling the problem of corruption from the ners, they will have to meet clear yearly “demand” side goals; the initiative also aims to work with the public sector in Vietnam by installing a • Several companies are negotiating a frameHigh Level Reporting Mechanism and will work agreement that will serve as an include additional stakeholders from indusumbrella for more specific projects in hightry, civil society and international risk geographic locales and will help to start organizations additional regional Collective Action initiatives • A Compliance Code for the Desertec Initiative has been drafted and was discussed with major shareholders at the last shareholder meeting in September 2011 41 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Beijing New Century Academy on (www.tncchina.org.cn) Transnational Corporations (NATC) NATC is a non-profit organization duly formed in 2005. Before this time, it was a part of the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM). In January 2005, the Ministry of Project: Commerce’s Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation NATC’s Collective Action Initiative – Fostering a Better Business Environment in China (CAITEC) and the Beijing Fazheng Group co-founded the newly structured NATC. Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: The employees consist of researchers, retired governmental department leadChina 3 years 0.89 M China ers, and other professionals and consultants. Currently, NATC has four main objectives in its work: The initiative will work to improve legal complipliance, NATC will publish a guide for organiza1) Identify and research problems ance within Chinese companies, make recomtional compliance and hold tailored training in Chinese business practice and mendations to improve compliance policy workshops to improve compliance results. For government administration issued by governmental departments, and daily support and information, a compliance 2) Provide policy recommendations to bring leaders from these groups into closer website will be established and maintained. the Chinese government that produce communication with one another. The website will contain a thorough database results in promoting a better business of compliance information. To support a long-term dialogue on ethical environment compliance in China, NATC will establish a To improve compliance policy, NATC will 3) Aid Chinese companies in strengthen‘Compliance Executive Club’ whose members develop and present research-based policy recing legal compliance and undertaking will range from government officials to busiommendations to the departments responsible comprehensive social responsibility ness executives. To address some of the issues for such policy. that come up in pursuing organizational com4) Bridge open dialogues with policy makers and other stakeholders 42 NAT Beijing New Century Academy on Transnational Corporations PROJECT AT A GLANCE: KEy ACTIVITIES yEAR 1: • Reviewed literature on Chinese and Western • Held two large-scale workshops, one on comNATC will provide practical training laws as well as academic studies on law pliance and anti-corruption concepts for pubto Chinese companies on compliance lic officials and the private sector and one issues and develop and present • Empirical studies of Chinese and multinacompany-focused workshop on corporate recommendations on compliance tional companies and their corporate complistrategies, governance, risk control, compliance programs have been done; identified law to Chinese policy makers. ance programs and international as well as problems related to compliance of Chinese Chinese laws, in total over 300 participants external investments through on-site investiwere trained gation and surveys of typical high-risk countries such as Myanmar and Angola; the out• Launched a Chinese compliance website and come of this investigation is documented in provided the public with free access to the an internal report on the topic of compliance website risk in external investment of Chinese • Set up a Compliance Executive Club with companies ~40 member companies; invited experts to • Shared knowledge with international experts present on FCPA, UK Bribery Act, OECD Conand kicked off the official cooperation with vention and local Chinese laws and held sevUN Global Compact and OECD for Collective eral sector-specific roundtables with compaAction nies from the energy, transport, healthcare sector (‘Industrial dialogues’) • The outcomes of the studies and the meetings are documented in two internal reports respectively; these reports were submitted to government authorities and were well-received 43 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Central European University (www.ceu.hu) in cooperation with Tiri – Making Central European University, Hungary, Integrity Work, United Kingdom is a unique graduate institution accredited in both the United States and Hungary. It is dedicated to building open Project: societies through serious and morally responsible intellectual engagement Leveling the playing field in emerging and transitional markets of Central inspired by, and in the service of, pressand Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union ing social needs. Students are drawn Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: from more than 100 countries for Master’s, doctoral, and executive educaCEE and former 5 years 3.09 M USA and Hungary Soviet Union tion programs in the fields of business, social sciences, humanities, law, management, environmental studies, government and public policy. The CEU Business School was the first educational instituCentral European University (CEU) aims to level CEU Business School, which will provide an tion in the region to train managers by the playing field by shaping and influencing institutional framework for cross-disciplinary offering a western graduate business the behaviors of approximately 16,000 underteaching and research on issues of integrity program leading to an American MBA. graduate and graduate students and 3,500 and anti-corruption, and will deliver integrity executives in Central and Eastern Europe and curricula in graduate and executive education the former Soviet Union over the next five programs at CEU. The Center will serve as a years. Through integrity education, the project regional resource of excellence in integrity will equip participants with the practical education, and together with the project partinsights, skills and tools required to operate ner, Tiri, will help build the capacity of targeted with integrity in weak governance environinstitutions of higher learning across the ments. The project will develop the Center for region through facilitating local curriculum Integrity in Business and Government at the development. 44 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • Establishment of the Center for Integrity in • Tiri – Making Integrity Work promotes the Through integrity education the projBusiness and Government and creation of quality and institutionalization of Integrity ect will shape the behavior of current global presence Education in the Eastern Europe and Central and future business practitioners and Asia (ECA) region; it has signed MOUs with public administrators in the region. • Establishment of partnerships with inter86 universities and training institutions in national business networks, leading univer12 countries in the target region sities and business schools as well as major international NGOs • 90 educators from the ECA region learned the elements of integrity, how to develop • Organization of two CEO focus groups for integrity curricula, interactive teaching methbrainstorming to map out the business ods and activities for sharing knowledge sector’s demand for knowledge and skills to be achieved by Integrity Education • Tiri staff worked with the Siberian Academy of Public Administration to build capacity to • The first ‘Tiri Integrity School – leadership deliver integrity education on codes of conand management for integrity’ (executive duct and local government reforms to reduce training) took place as part of the CEU corruption Summer University from 20 to 29 June 2011 • Launch of Integrity Information Center on http://www.library.ceu.hu/OPMLGuide/iic.htm, a repository of integrity education material, which is designed as a widely accessible information hub 45 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner COCIR (European Coordination (www.cocir.org) Committee of the Radiological, ElectroFounded as a non-profit trade association in 1959, COCIR represents the radiologimedical and Healthcare IT Industry) cal, electromedical and healthcare IT industry in Europe. Project: As such, members play a driving role in developing the future of healthcare both Expansion of COCIR Code of Conduct in Europe and worldwide. COCIR is committed to supporting its members and Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: communicating with its partners in Europe, Asia, Russia, 3.3 years 0.96 M Belgium Europe and beyond on issues which South America affect the medical technology sector and the health of EU citizens. COCIR also works with various organizations promoting harmonized international standards and fair regulatory control that respects COCIR’s new code of conduct provides an effecThe main project objectives are to build up the quality and effectiveness of medical tive and efficient process to further align the resources in the COCIR office to support the devices and healthcare IT systems withhealthcare and IT industry involved in healthfollowing activities: out compromising the safety of patients care on compliant business ethical rules. and users. They encourage the use of 1. Enlargement of the Code in content matters advanced technology to support healthThe COCIR code of conduct is now substanti2. Enlargement of the Code in geographical care delivery worldwide. ated by the establishment of a committee comspread posed of all legal counsels of COCIR corporate COCIR’s key objectives include promoting company members. COCIR and its members are 3. Deployment of the Code through training free worldwide trade of medical devices gradually getting requests from other counand enhanced communication/cooperation and maintaining the competitiveness of tries, like China, Russia, India and Brazil showwith other stakeholders the European health sector. ing interest in adopting the Code. 46 PROJECT AT A GLANCE: KEy ACTIVITIES yEAR 1: • Internal and external communication • In order to deploy and efficiently disseminate The project aims to support the activities were undertaken the COCIR Code of Conduct in Europe, it has enlargement of the COCIR Code also been agreed to translate the currently of Conduct, and to coordinate the • To take into account evolving legal and published COCIR Code of Conduct, updated new Code of Conduct Committee. regulatory requirements, existing text on Q&As and Do’s and Don’ts into five additional Research and Charitable Donations in the languages (Dutch, French, German, Italian COCIR Q&As have been further developed and Spanish) and additional text on Independent Third Parties has been included • Further, comparative overviews of the content of national, European, international and member companies’ codes of conduct have been developed with a view to facilitating the preparation in 2012 of an expanded COCIR Code of Conduct • COCIR is also developing an interactive webbased training on its Code of Conduct with a planned roll out in 2012 47 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Commonwealth Business Council (www.cbcglobal.org) in cooperation with the Convention on The CBC was established by CommonBusiness Integrity (CBi), Nigeria wealth Heads of Government in 1997 to mobilize trade and investment throughout the Commonwealth. Project: Since then, CBC has organized an initiative Business Action Against Corruption Business Action Against Corruption (BAAC), Nigeria (BAAC) at the invitation of the Heads of Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: Government Meeting (CHOGM) to improve the conditions for doing busiNigeria 3 years 1.1 M United Kingdom ness and thereby promote investment and sustainable development in Africa. The program is open to all countries and institutions who believe that the pursuit of good governance is vital to social and economic development. This program It will do this by strengthening self-regulation It will seek to reach out to directors of listed was launched in Botswana following an of business, its compliance with government companies in Nigeria to review their fiduciary invitation from the then President of regulation, stakeholder activism and a public responsibilities, and define stakeholder expecBotswana, HE Festus Mogae and now vigilance over the arrangement. It will also tations. The aim is to define a set of business operates in ten African countries. It has build on existing relationships with the two principles, reporting guidelines and system of been formally endorsed by the Presidents principal regulators, the Central Bank of Nigecompliance incentives jointly with directors of of Nigeria, Malawi and the Prime Minister rian (CBN) and the Nigerian Securities listed companies in Nigeria. As an additional of Cameroon. It aims to create partnerExchange Commission (SEC) to build a partnerstep, stakeholders will work on an independent ships between business and government ship to strengthen corporate leadership pracpublic feedback mechanism for compliance to fight corruption and fraud through tices by raising standards of board leadership monitoring, inclusive of whistleblower and Collective Action, education and training. across the economy. complaints handling mechanisms. It will also establish an interactive, social networking website to promote peer learning and issue based training to coalition partners. 48 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • The project was successfully launched at the • CBi assisted the Public Complaints CommisThe aim of the project is to use Colend of March 2011; a working group consistsion (as the national ombudsman) in devellective Action to improve corporate ing of stakeholders from the business sector, oping a more transparent reporting framegovernance and reduce corruption in regulatory agencies and civil society was work; Public Integrity Networks to be the Nigerian business environment. formed and the working group brainstormed officially launched along with the Scrutiny on gaps in the understanding of the nature Newsletter in Abuja on October 27, 2011; the of corruption in Nigeria; a survey instrument network seeks to train 2,000 young graduwas put together to capture information ates and certify them as public integrity which cannot be found through desk advocates research • A BAAC CBi Baseline workshop was under• A partnership has been established with the taken in June 2011; the outcomes from the Securities and Exchange Commission for two-day workshop for the overall program Directors’ Education and Certification; a gathare a set of indicators and benchmarks for ering of over 350 top business executives as the indicators; identified information gaps; part of SEC’s quarterly meetings with the sources and strategies to fill the information listed companies contributed to findings on gap; and a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) the state of corporate governance in Nigeria framework for the project • In September 2011, CBi entered into an agreement with the Humboldt-Viadrina School of Governance in Berlin to review the CBi rating system; in August, a first trial batch of four companies did a self-assessment of their compliance; external assessors will be appointed to determine their level of compliance 49 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Ethics Institute of South Africa (www.ethicsa.org) The Ethics Institute of South Africa (EthicSA) is a non-profit, public benefit organization, active since August 2000. EthicSA’s mission is building an ethical Africa by forming partnerships with the public and private sectors, and serving as a resource Project: through: Capacitating African business networks to implement global anti-corruption Thought initiatives and good practices leadership: promoting ethical values, Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: setting ethical standards and raising ethical awareness Angola, 5 years 1.5 M South Africa South Africa Research: in the fields of organizational ethics management Assessment: assessing organizations’ ethics programs against widely Business networks and individual businesses countries. In Angola the focus will be on Colrecognized ethics standards seldom have the appropriate expertise to lective Action initiatives in the private sector Training: open and in-house courses implement internationally developed antiwith the aim of enhancing ethical business to develop ethical skills for corruption and good governance guidelines, practices and good governance standards. This the workplace; Ethics Officer standards and initiatives, and are often should improve the investment climate and Certification Programs unaware of their existence. Other challenges enhance the ease of doing business in Angola. in the anti-corruption field relate to making Support: ethics support and advisory In South Africa the project will aim to reduce impacts felt at ground level, and creating services to members corruption on the ground level, by engaging platforms for the private and public sectors to with municipalities and businesses at the local Project management in the field of ethics engage on corruption challenges and Colleclevel to implement collective projects that will and anti-corruption for the public and pritive Action solutions. impact positively on the ethical business clivate sectors This project will attempt to address these mate and municipal service delivery. challenges and to build local capacity in two 50 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: Angola South Africa The project aims to capacitate African business networks with the imple• An MOU with an Angolan business network • Engaged with Chambers of Commerce in mentation of anti-corruption initiawas signed for the development of training three municipalities who committed their tives and good governance practices. capacity within the business network; a busiparticipation; two municipalities showed ness training program was rolled out and a keen interest and await approval through The project will be implemented in common standard for the private sector in their internal processes; one municipality Angola and in South Africa Angola on responsible business was committed to address its municipal council (at municipal level). developed on ethics in general, and inform about the project specifically • Partners for local capacity building were identified, MOUs were signed and partners • Engaged with National Treasury to get a have been successfully trained better understanding of procurement regulations that are aimed at transparency in • Seven training-of-trainers modules have been municipal finances developed and two are being developed • As part of the move to investigate the profes• The Ethics Officer Certification Programme sionalization of the Ethics Officer occupation (EOCP) course was translated into in South Africa, meetings with a number of Portuguese professional bodies have been held to ascer• Partners have been identified to conceptualtain the approach to professionalization; a ize and establish an Ethics Institute for research survey has been conducted to gauge Angola ethics officers’ current views on this topic as well as their intentions for its future direction 51 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Federation of Korean Industries Description of Integrity Partner International Management Institute Federation of Korean Industries (FKI-IMI) International Management Institute (FKI-IMI) is an affiliated non-for-profit in cooperation with Global Competitiveness organization of FKI, a non-for-profit organization representing the Korean busiEmpowerment Forum, South Korea ness community (more than 420 memProject: bers including Korean conglomerates). FKI-IMI nurtures current and future busiNABIS (Northeast Asia Business Integrity School) ness leaders with diverse education and Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: training programs: CEO programs include a Global Advanced Management Program South Korea 3 years 0.81 M South Korea with over 3,000 alumni of CEOs, intensive education courses for CMO, CFO, CSO, HR, PR and Sales etc. FKI-IMI offers a platform for business leaders to foster their strategic management competence and leadership for the 21st century NABIS aims to educate university students by NABIS aims to influence behavioral changes knowledge economy era through mornnurturing leadership with integrity. Current by teaching the importance of business integing, monthly, yearly and seasonal forums. business leaders and good practices in busirity in the free market and trade systems and (www.imi.or.kr) ness ethics will be identified in order to proby building a mutual learning and supporting mote fair market conditions in the Republic of community among NABIS students, candidate The Project Partner Global CompetitiveKorea. NABIS trainers from Korean companies students and NABIS trainers. ness Empowerment Forum is a non-profit and Korean subsidiaries of Western and Northorganization that provides professional NABIS activities also include train-the-trainer east Asian companies operating in the Republic and catalyst services in the areas of cormodules, workshops, scholarship and graduaof Korea will teach NABIS students by using the porate social responsibility, sustainability tion ceremonies, CEO forums, as well as outNABIS curriculum that includes case studies and business integrity. (www.g-cef.org) reach activities to promote inclusion of NABIS from their own companies. modules into business schools and universities. 52 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • The joint MOU signing ceremony between NABIS student curriculum and training mateThe project aims to establish the FKI-IMI and Siemens AG, which the President rial (including eight NABIS company cases) Northeast Asia Business Integrity of FKI-IMI, Chief Compliance Officer and are in progress (finalization scheduled for School (NABIS), an educational Chief Counsel Compliance of Siemens AG, February 2012) project for university students, in and CEO and Regional Compliance Officer of • Curriculum (online): development of a NABIS order to foster a clean and transparSiemens Ltd. Seoul attended, took place on e-learning curriculum and online program is ent business environment. April 20, 2011 also in progress • Twenty-four South Korean subsidiaries of • Trainer training: A one time breakfast meetmultinational corporations and South Korean ing with NABIS trainers was organized on conglomerates were contacted and 8 compaSeptember 2, 2011; more intensive trainer nies (GS E&C, Homeplus, Kyobo Life Insurworkshops are planned for Year 2 ance, KEPCO, Korea Telecom, Siemens Ltd. Seoul, SK C&C and POSCO) that will partici• Awareness raising of the project was achieved pate as NABIS corporate trainers have been via the NABIS website www.nabis.kr, recruited Facebook page and various press articles • Student Recruitment: FKI-IMI sent a call for • Outreach to academia, compliance related applications to 1,600 students nationwide, organizations (e.g. Ministry of Justice, UN i.e. to members of the Young Leaders Club Global Compact Korea Network, the Korean (YLC) and the Elite Integrated Club (EIC); Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission introductory sessions with EIC and YLC stuand the Fair Trade Commission) and CSR dent chairs were held; student classes are related organizations (e.g. Asian Forum on planned for Year 2 CSR) was implemented; further and more focused outreach is planned for 2012 • Curriculum (offline): NABIS trainer curriculum and training material were finalized; 53 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Foundation for the Global Compact in cooperation with the UN Global Compact UN Global Compact: The United Nations Global Compact is a policy and and PRME (Principles for Responsible engagement platform for businesses that is committed to aligning its operations Management Education), USA and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human Project: rights, labor, environment and anti-corProject for the UN Global Compact and PRME: Sensitizing Future Business Leaders: ruption. (www.unglobalcompact.org) Developing Anti-Corruption Guidelines for Curriculum Change PRME: The mission of the Principles for Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: Responsible Management Education (PRME) initiative is to inspire and chamGlobal 4 years 1.48 M USA pion responsible management education, research and thought leadership globally. The PRME are inspired by internationally accepted values such as the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. The UN Global Compact and Principles for build upon existing resources and will incorpo(www.unprme.org) Responsible Management Education (PRME) rate input from the web-based and face-to-face Foundation for the Global Compact: the will develop anti-corruption guidelines for meetings and seminars. After the Guidelines Foundation for the Global Compact raises management schools. The Guidelines will offer are developed, they will be disseminated to funds from the private sector to support business schools academic modules to address PRME-affiliated universities. A pilot phase will the work of the United Nations Global transparency, ethics and anti-corruption. The provide for follow up with participating instituCompact. Guidelines will address key topics, including tions to evaluate the value and effectiveness of (www.globalcompactfoundation.org) corporate governance; business ethics; the the Guidelines. Project success will be demonbusiness case for anti-corruption; corporate strated in part by the business school graducompliance; Collective Action; UN Convention ates who can demonstrate better understandagainst Corruption; Global Compact 10th Prining of various anti-corruption and ethical ciple; public contracting/procurement; and, decision-making strategies. supply chain management. The Guidelines will 54 PROJECT AT A GLANCE: KEy ACTIVITIES yEAR 1: • Business schools in the PRME network were • To develop this toolkit, the PRME AC WG Develop anti-corruption guidelines provided with an overview of the objectives decided to divide the tasks by seven thematic for curriculum change in graduate of the PRME Anti-Corruption Working Group subgroups (ethics, law, behavioral issues, business education. (AC WG) in order to solicit their buy-in to the economics, management, politics and work plans; three web-based conferences context, teaching methods); the various were convened to discuss how the AC WG sub-groups’ results are being compiled by a could move the project forward content coordinator in order to develop a first draft framework to be discussed at the • A paper “Integrating anti-corruption topics working group workshop in December 2011 into the management education curriculum” has been developed and existing anti-corruption curricula in different regions have been reviewed to understand how anti-corruption topics are being taught in business schools • The WG will produce “A Toolkit for an Anti Corruption curriculum framework for MBA students” that will contain teaching materials such as technical notes, articles, interactive tools, cases, and teaching methods and aims to empower business schools to teach what managers should do when confronting dilemma situations and how managers should handle anti-corruption issues from an individual, an organizational, and a systematic perspective 55 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Foundation for the Global Compact UN Global Compact: The United in cooperation with the UN Global Compact Nations Global Compact is a policy and engagement platform for businesses that and its local networks is committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the universally accepted principles in the areas of human Project: rights, labor, environment and anti-corProject for the UN Global Compact: ruption. (www.unglobalcompact.org) Promoting Collective Action through UN Global Compact Local Networks Foundation for the Global Compact: the Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: Foundation for the Global Compact raises funds from the private sector to support Brazil, Egypt, India, 4 years 2.87 M USA Nigeria, South Africa the work of the United Nations Global Compact. (www.globalcompactfoundation.org) This project aims to establish a high-impact pants with knowledge, skills, strategies and anti-corruption Collective Action platform in resources to promote ethical practices and five countries – Brazil, Egypt, India, Nigeria, transparency in business operations, within and South Africa. By facilitating ongoing diaeach country, and in international cross-seclogue between the private and public sector, toral relations. The project will emphasize the this project will provide a wide variety of stakerole of local actors in each of the target counholders in these five countries with an opportries, engaging and building capacity of local tunity to explore how specific Collective Action stakeholders who are faced with corruption in initiatives can create incentives for ethical busitheir routine transactions and business ness performance, and to discuss areas for furrelationships. ther improvement. In so doing, the project aims to scale up existing anti-corruption efforts in the target countries, and provide partici56 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: Brazil (in cooperation with UN Global Compact and • Awareness of this project was raised in major Launch and implement an antiInstituto Ethos) UN publications: corruption Collective Action initiative in five countries (Brazil, Egypt, India, • GCO-Instituto Ethos reached out to key part› “Catalyzing Transformational Partnerships Nigeria, and South Africa) through ners and company stakeholders, and develbetween the United Nations and Business” oped joint communication material to help issued on September 20, 2011 and preGlobal Compact Local Networks. stakeholders better understand the project sented to the UN Secretary-General during the Private Sector Forum 2011 • GCO-Instituto Ethos conducted research on companies that participate in this project › United Nations Secretary-General’s Report to through their subsidiaries and supply chains the General Assembly under the agenda item “Towards Partnerships” (report intro• GCO-Instituto Ethos developed joint letters duced at the United Nations General Assemsigned by the Global Compact and the Ethos bly in early November to all member states) Institute, which were sent to companies to be engaged in Sectorial Agreements, to the Companies and Investors National Committee, and to the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and FIFA • GCO-Instituto Ethos discussed with the Companies and Investors National Committee and engagement in the Health Equipment Sectorial Agreement with selected companies 57 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Foundation for the Global Compact in cooperation with the UN Global Compact and its local networks Egypt (in cooperation with UN Global Compact and • A roundtable discussion at a business-toEgyptian Junior Business Association) business conference in June was organized in order to discuss the effects of corruption • Due to the political change in Egypt, the on businesses and how to combat corrupproject’s official launch date was postponed tion; the roundtable included members of until April 2011; immediately after the tranthe business community, the acting Minister sition, GCO and the Egyptian Junior Busiof the Administrative Development, and a ness Association (EJB) engaged in a followmember of the Social Contract Advisory, up conversation and confirmed continued Monitoring and Coordination Center interest and commitment to the project • A think tank meeting for EJB members was • EJB established contact with several stakeheld to identify factors contributing to corholders working on fighting corruption ruption and possible means for resolving (including UNDP, TI, American Chamber of these issues Commerce, etc.) • The EJB met with several influential individ• In March, EJB organized a closed session to uals that assisted in developing the working discuss areas for improvement to enhance concept the working environment; the session included members of the business commu• Two main focus points were developed as a nity, the acting Minister of the Administraresult of the meetings, sessions, and worktive Development, civil societies, the adminshops (Focus A: Developing anti-corruption istrative control authority, and members of policies and procedures for companies, with the EJB special emphasis on SMEs; Focus B: Contribute to the enhancement of the transparency of procurement in governmental tenders) 58 India (in cooperation with UN Global Compact and wise outreach of GCI; drawing from the Global Compact Society – India) experiences and inputs of the members involved, it was suggested that a particular •M ajor efforts were made in the last nine sector should be identified on which to permonths to bring a range of stakeholders form a risk assessment and analysis; as a together and build upon the work of the result, a paper was developed to address anti-corruption sub-committee of the Global corruption risks in the oil and gas sector and Compact Network India (GCI) their linkages to environmental •S takeholder mapping to identify key actors sustainability from the private and public sector, aca• GCI introduced an ethical seminar series, demia, independent consulting firms, and which aims to reach out to a range of seccivil society was undertaken, and their tors; chart out the dilemmas and challenges views on the need for Collective Action proof each sector; and explore best practices; grams was solicited the first seminar in this series was held in •M ajor partners were identified; in order to Mumbai and planned with the oil and natuemphasize the need for a Collective Action ral gas sector; two additional ethical semiproject, the GCI developed an elaborated nar series are to be held in November and concept note highlighting project objectives December 2011 and potential areas of engagement •A draft policy paper on Corruption and Environment Sustainability was prepared in order to explore sectors e.g. power, minerals, infrastructure, oil and gas; simultaneously, an analysis of current GCI members was carried forth to determine the sector 59 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Foundation for the Global Compact in cooperation with the UN Global Compact and its local networks Nigeria (in cooperation with UN Global Compact and • An inaugural policy dialogue on the theme Nigerian Economic Summit Group) “Eliminating Corruption in Business Processes of Government” was held in Abuja on • Already in March 2009, the GC Office, July 28, 2011; it focused on identifying spetogether with the World Bank Institute and cific aspects of government business prothe UN Office on Drugs and Crime, introcesses that could be further improved to duced a Collective Action workshop in Nigeprevent corruption; participants in this ria to discuss practical Collective Action meeting, drawn from the public sector, civil tools and strategies to counter corruption in society, and the private sector, explored business operations; based on this activity, how these aspects could be tackled through the UNGC and the Nigerian Economic SumCollective Action mit Group (NESG) jointly launched the anticorruption Collective Action project aimed • The focal point for the GC Network in Nigeat building a business case for Collective ria (NESG) participated in the anti-corrupAction tion training and South Africa’s inaugural Collective Action workshop, aimed at • Key stakeholders in the public and private enhancing regional learning sector that could help advance this project, as well as major obstacles to fighting corruption, were identified; institutional problems that contribute to corruption and could be mitigated through Collective Action were also addressed; several industry sectors that could benefit from the Collective Action project were discussed; and several stakeholders emphasized the need to raise awareness about current projects through media and outreach efforts 60 South Africa (in cooperation with UN Global Comtion Collective Action held in September Global Coordination pact and National Business Initiative, South Africa) 2011 • The UN GC Office and the Foundation pro•T  he project has focused on creating aware• Significant efforts have been made to work vided substantial content and process inputs ness on anti-corruption Collective Action closely with South Africa’s business schools to the project partners and gaining buy-in from key stakeholders in and members of PRME, for example through • Engaged with all of the project partners on a the process; key entities consulted about participation at key events such as the regular basis, including bilateral discussions the project include Business Unity South Annual Conference of Africa Association of as well as collective discussions among projAfrica (BUSA) – a mandated business policy Business Schools. The aim is to share ect partners body; and government agencies responsible insights from the business community and for anti-corruption such as the Department feed this into the PRME process at the • Communicated about the project to external of Public Service and Administration and universities stakeholders to raise the profile of this the National Treasury. Project objectives project • To understand South Africa’s anti-corruption have been aligned with those of BUSA and landscape, the project conducted a map• Engaged key partners who can play a critical the higher level National Anti-Corruption ping exercise; most of the actors identified role in developing an incentive structure for Forum (NACF) have been consulted to date and are aware Collective Action •B  usiness Unity South Africa and its Anti-Corof the process; ongoing exchange of infor• Building upon the lessons learned in year 1, ruption Working Group adopted the initiamation is taking place the Global Coordination efforts will be tive and provided technical input into the • The project introduced Collective Action directed towards strengthening relationships process and Integrity Pacts as a model to the with project partners and external stakehold• Project partners participated in / supported National Treasury (the government agency ers to implement this project successfully; several events throughout the year includregulating big public procurement projects); efforts will also focus on raising the profile of ing the Global Compact Annual Members consultations are ongoing to pave the way this project in major conferences, and Meeting, GC Advisory Committee Meetings, for piloting an Integrity Pact at a future through active outreach efforts National Business Initiative (NBI) meetings, large public procurement and the inaugural workshop on anti-corrup61 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Fundación Universidad de San Andrés Description of Integrity Partner (www.udesa.edu.ar) (FUdeSA) in cooperation with the Asociación Civil por la Igualdad y la Universidad de San Andrés is a nonprofit, private, educational institution Justicia (ACIJ) and the Centro de Implementación de Políticas established in 1989. It aims at building Públicas para la Equidad y el Crecimiento (CIPPEC), Argentina an academic community oriented Project: towards improving Argentina’s economic and institutional development. Its unique Towards a culture of anti-corruption compliance in Argentina: governance structure creates incentives reorientation of incentives through Collective Action for fostering this objective based on Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: equal opportunities, intellectual aptitudes and personal merits and efforts. Argentina 3 years 0.73 M Argentina San Andres graduates are, on average, influential members of the government, the business community, the civil society or the academia in Argentina and abroad. Its program on the Control of Corruption, The first objective aims at generating knowlSuch knowledge will be the basis for shaping created in 2007, has successfully conedge on institutional, political and business consensus-based reform proposals, aimed at ducted several research and policy oriincentives that shape corruption in Argentina, shifting the incentives that facilitate corrupented projects aimed at introducing stratthe interaction between formal and informal tion. The creation of a multi-stakeholder plategies for asset recovery in high-profile institutions in specific markets and areas, the form, will set discussions’ and build consensus corruption cases. cost of corruption to such markets and the for such proposals. This will constitute the cenmechanisms that may help to prompt actors terpiece of a “principle-based initiative”, aiming into action for reform. The project will focus on at improving the legal framework and advancthe following issues: political financing, public ing policy reforms. procurement, responsibility of legal persons and the role of the legal profession in facilitating corrupt transactions. 62 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • The project was announced through several • Four diagnosis studies and baseline reports The project is organized around two press releases and a launching event was on corruption and the willingness for reform main objectives: 1) informing the held at the Universidad de San Andrés Camin Argentina are in progress and will be ready debate about corruption in Argentina pus in May 2011 by March 2012 and 2) generating consensus-based • A concept paper tailoring the notion of Col• Organization of a series of workshops is policy reforms through a Collective lective Action against corruption to the planned to discuss the results of the four Action process. Argentinean context was produced; it diagnosis studies with relevant stakeholders; includes Collective Action experiences in two workshops with the legal community other countries comparable to the Argentintook place in September and December 2011 ean environment • A high level conference to be held in Buenos • As part of the research, more than twenty in Aires in May 2012 is planned, during which depth interviews with key actors (CEOs, comthe diagnosis studies will be presented and pliance officers, industry associations, politithe platform website will be launched cians, officials from political parties, high • An e-survey on compliance practices was ranking Government staff) were conducted conducted for 70 companies operating in the • Awareness raising campaign: the concept country; three op-ed pieces have been paper was broadly disseminated online and published at presentations at conferences (e.g. at the Ethics and Compliance Forum of the GermanArgentinean Chamber of Commerce; the Annual Conference of the Ethics and Compliance Argentine Association; the IAE Business School Center for Governance and Transparency Annual Conference, etc.) 63 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Humboldt-Viadrina (www.humboldt-viadrina.org) School of Governance The Humboldt-Viadrina School of Governance in Berlin empowers and guides societal change agents by enabling them to reflect, act, and accomProject: plish. Bridging society’s multiple stakeholders, the Humboldt-Viadrina offers a Best Practice on Anti-Corruption Incentives and Sanctions for Business unique portfolio of education, research, dialogues, projects and events – always Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: seeking to advance practical implementation to drive societal change. Global 3 years 1.3 M Germany Formally founded in 2009, the HumboldtViadrina School of Governance is a joint project between the Humboldt-University Berlin and the European University Viadrina Frankfurt/Oder. The School is headed The project aims at providing interested parties cability of selected key incentives and sancby Gesine Schwan, Stephan Breidenbach from government, business, and civil society, tions will be tested with local multistakeholder and Alexander Blankenagel, and advised with an overview of existing and potential pilot groups in selected countries by identifyby respectable global governance practimechanisms of incentives and sanctions to ing key agents and moderating dialogs to tioners, including Kofi Annan, Peter encourage companies to engage against coradvance the effective change process. OutEigen, Pascal Lamy, Sabine Leutheusserruption. Further to a multi-stakeholder seleccomes of these activities will be used to Schnarrenberger, Joseph Nye, Mary Robtion process of priorities, comprehensive develop 1. a practitioner handbook which cominson, and Richard von Weizsäcker. research will be conducted to prepare a catalog prises experiences, learning and best practices, of qualitative assessments of the effectiveness and 2. learning modules to support online as or reasons for failures of each identified antiwell as in-person training. Both outcomes procorruption incentive and sanction. This will vide a sustainable framework for further eduinclude explanatory comments to facilitate cation and motivation in implementing such their increased or improved use in enforcement mechanisms. practice and as voluntary measures. The appli64 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • A framework has been established to identify • A functional concept for a web-based InforThe project analyzes and tests in real and structure incentives and sanctions that mation Portal, designed to display actual world situations existing and potenmotivate businesses to counter corruption cases of incentives & sanctions, implementatial anti-corruption incentives and tion guidelines and further readings, has sanctions to achieve a sustainable • The research results on incentives and sancbeen drafted tions have been validated through a Quick impact on the behavior of business Feedback Survey and they were discussed • The country selection for the testing of appliby providing successful models for with more than 30 individual experts and cability of selected incentives and sanctions practical implementation. organizations (e.g. UNODC, IACA) in a local context has been completed (Mexico, Nigeria, Qatar) • A Global Expert Survey has been launched to provide information regarding: the assessment of anti-corruption incentives and sanctions in motivating businesses to counter corruption; the importance of different stakeholders in setting anti-corruption incentives and sanctions for businesses; and the impact of different commercial & operational, legal and reputational incentives and sanctions on businesses (to be published in March 2012) 65 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner International Anti-Corruption (www.iaca.int) Academy (IACA) The International Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA) – a joint initiative by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Republic of Austria, Project: the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and other stakeholders – is a pioneering International Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA) institution that aims to overcome current shortcomings in knowledge and practice Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: in the field of anti-corruption. In pursuing International this aim, the Academy will function as an Global 5 years 2.02 M Organization, Austria independent centre of excellence in the field of anti-corruption education, training, networking and cooperation, as well as academic research. It will take a holistic and inter-disciplinary, inter-regional, International Anti-Corruption Summer School Grants for students and participants from least inter-cultural and inter-sectoral approach. (IACSS): Within the overall project of IACA the developed countries (LDCs)/emerging markets The curricula which will embrace diverse project activity of IACSS aims to ensure the (EMs): In congruence with the inter-regional cultural traditions and focus on countrycontinuation of a well-established process approach of IACA, students and participants or client-specific requirements will be which, inter alia, contributes to the fourth pilfrom all parts of the world should have the flexible enough for participants and stular of the Academy’s programs and activities: possibility to study and work at the Academy. dents to balance their careers and studacting as a platform for direct dialogue and In order to keep tuition fees affordable and to ies. The Academy will cover a vast specnetworking. Further developing the “Practice be able to provide training grants to students trum of lectures, seminars, specific meets Science” approach, it will again bring and participants who would otherwise not be events, conferences and other training together national and international practitioable to attend, grants to students and particiactivities, including (academic) degree ners of various backgrounds from the private pants will be provided. programs, and will offer a broad range of and public sectors, students, media and NGO tailor-made courses. In doing so, the representatives, and internationally distinacademy will also provide distance-learnguished professors and academics from differing and web-based tools. ent disciplines and institutions. 66 Project at a glance: • 15 scholarships for participants from Least • Upon completion of the study course the parThe International Anti-Corruption Developed Countries were granted ticipants received an IACSA certificate Academy (IACA) is an international centre of excellence for a new and • 10 internationally-renowned professors, • A collection of articles written by renowned holistic approach to fighting guest lecturers and anti-corruption practitioanti-corruption academics and practitioners ners took part in the ten-day course of study. who lectured at IACSA will be published in corruption. It included 56 lecture hours and three panel the IACA compilation “Practice Meets Scidiscussions ence. Contemporary Anti-Corruption Dialogue” • Lectures, including many case studies, covKey activities Year 1: ered the fields of ethics, psychology, political Starting in 2012, IACA will offer an eighteenscience, sociology, law, prevention and the month Master in Anti-Corruption Studies IACA was officially established as an internafight against corruption, the public sector (MACS) degree; designed to enhance undertional organization in March 2011 and is comand integrity, and compliance in the private standing of the intricacies of corruption, the prised of 58 members. sector MACS will provide its participants with the latIn July 2011, the International Anti-Corruption est tools and analytical frameworks for better • The Academy provided innovative insight Summer Academy (IACSA) took place: preventing and combating corruption; integratinto anti-corruption through a holistic ing a vast spectrum of disciplines and perspec• 66 anti-corruption practitioners representing approach that was designed to bridge the tives, it will address all sectors of society and 60 countries participated. They came from gap between science and practice each corner of the globe; a draft curriculum is the private and public sectors, the media, • Teambuilding, stress relief, sports activities under development. and NGOs, and included students and and a variety of social events were included researchers from areas related to to complement the academic side of the anti-corruption program 67 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner International Business Leaders Forum (www.iblf.org) (IBLF) Founded in 1990, IBLF is an indepenin cooperation with the School of Public dent, not-for-profit global organization working with business leaders to deliver Administration of the Renmin University, China innovative solutions to sustainable develProject: opment challenges worldwide. Over the past two decades, it has become widely Transforming Principles of Integrity and Transparency respected by NGOs, companies, governinto Practice in Emerging Markets ments and global organizations for its Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: neutrality, professionalism, thought leadership and reach. IBLF is unaligned to any China, Russia 3 years 1.5 M United Kingdom political, partisan or national interests. It advocates and promotes business leadership in corporate responsibility and development across multiple sectors, markets and issues. During the three-year project, IBLF will seek to include a range of activities including workIBLF is supported by a network of over bring to Russia and China the best internashops and round-tables allowing corporate 85 multinational companies from Europe, tional practices in corporate approaches to executives to exchange experience and best America, Asia and the Middle East compliance, raise knowledge and consciouspractices, meetings for the countries’ top business of the costs of corruption and the benefits ness leaders, and the development of collecof combating it, and bring innovative managetive approaches by companies to combat corment tools and techniques to multinational ruption in specific industries. In China, surveys and local companies. and studies into the business case for integrity will be conducted, while in Russia, leading The project, which will be managed in Russia business and law schools will be provided with by IBLF’s branch office in Moscow, and by parteducational. ners at Renmin University in Beijing, will 68 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: Global Coordination › CEO attended WEF Europe annual meeting “Transforming Principles into in Vienna in June where she chaired a panel Practice in Emerging Markets” • Activity 1: Project Management on anti-corruption; as a result she was subbrings to Russia and China the best › Director and CEO have supported the project sequently invited to join WEF’s Global international corporate approaches team creation in China and Russia Agenda Council on anti-corruption, the to compliance. webinars of which both she and the director › The global coordination team, including the have participated in finance team, has put in place financial systems to monitor project delivery › Director attended the Economist’s ‘HighGrowth Markets Summit’ in September 2011 • Activity 2: Fundraising in London together with 350 experts dis› Outreach to UK and Europe based multinacussing the best strategies and tactics for tional companies in order to attract financial success in these markets support of IBLF’s anti-corruption program › Director supported development of an anti› Successful applications were made to the UK corruption program in India and the expanProsperity Fund to support anti-corruption sion of IBLF’s global footprint projects in Russia and in India • Activity 3: International Liaison › Director attended the OECD anti-corruption meeting in Paris in April 2011 69 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: International Business Leaders Forum (IBLF) China (in cooperation with the School of Public Admin• Redesign of the China Business Leaders istration of the Renmin University, China) Forum (CBLF) website was finished; the new website was launched in November 2011 • Two roundtables took place hosted by Renmin University • Fundraising meetings were held in Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong and London, and com› The first roundtable on “China’s Efforts to mitments for co-sponsorships were obtained Combat Corruption and Build a Clean Govfrom the German Development Agency (GIZ), ernment” included 80 participants from Syntao Company and KMPG business, government, NGOs and media and took place in April 2011 • Sub-contract partnership agreement was signed with Renmin University, a project › The second roundtable on “Practical team was put in place in Beijing, and the Approaches to Reducing the Risk of Corrupstaff is being trained tion in Business Operating in China” gathered over 30 high-level executives from multinational and big Chinese enterprises in September 2011 • A draft for a first publication on good corporate compliance practices was prepared, which includes an anti-corruption glossary, guidelines and a benchmarking survey 70 Russia • Preparation of education material: agreement on methodology and aim; first business • Several roundtables were held as for instance schools have been identified and signed up; the roundtable on the UK Bribery Act and the development of material was started CEO dinner with Richard Alderman (Serious Fraud Office) and Lanny Breuer (US Depart• First Student-Practitioner meeting, which will ment of Justice); panels were held at the take place in year 2, was planned legal forum of the U.S.-Russia Business Coun• Several articles on the visit of the Director of cil (USRBC) and at the legal update meeting the Serious Fraud Office (Richard Alderman) of the Russian Institute of Directors (RID) to Moscow, as well as other articles on anti• First Collective Action activities such as corruption, were published in order to raise market mapping and project definition awareness of the project were started • Commitment to co-sponsor preparation • Website: finalized design and content of educational material was obtained and approach and conducted a focus group 2 staff members were seconded by Hilti (V. Cherepanova, Internal Audit Manager, • Publication: after identifying good examples and G. Sumin, Corporate Culture Manager) and interviewing company representatives, IBLF Russia started writing case studies and compiling other material 71 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Instituto Ethos – Ethos Institute (www.ethos.org.br) for Business and Social Responsibility Ethos Institute, founded in 1998, has as its mission to mobilize, encourage, and help companies manage their business in a socially responsible way, making them Project: partners in building a sustainable and fair society. Clean games inside and outside of the stadium (World Cup 2014, Olympics 2016) Ethos prioritizes the strengthening of Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: democratic institutions with improved regulations, and provides for the creation Brazil 5 years 3.11 M Brazil of social control mechanisms for the government and the market. For the coming ten years, it identifies the strategic opportunity to influence a public policies transformation, proposing The 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympic The main activities are the development of: changes for an inclusive, green and Games provide an opportunity to set an examcorporate self-regulation mechanisms through responsible economy. This transformaple in the fight against corruption and to the establishment of Sector Agreements, a set tion requires a change in public disensure that resources invested in infrastructure of Local Administration Transparency Indicacourse, in government action, and in are spent in a transparent and efficient way. tors applicable to the host cities of the events; business management. a Local Administration Transparency Pact; The project’s specific objectives are to raise social control mechanisms and instruments the: providing the society with tools to understand • Level of transparency in public procurement and follow public expenditure and contracts and expenditure; and to engage business; and social mobilization for the approval of a set regulation bills • Integrity level of public-private sector relafostering integrity and combating corruption. tions and agreements; • Level of social control over public budget and expenditure. 72 Project at a glance: • Thematic national committees engaged in • Government, private sector and civil society Promoting transparency and integrity specific issues related to the events, such as cooperated to improve the regulatory framefor the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 (i) legal aspects and whistleblowing, and (ii) work on transparency and fighting corrupOlympic Games through Collective Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for tion: the Law on Access to Public Information Action, social monitoring and control sponsors, investors and companies involved was adopted in Brazil; efforts to legally estabmechanisms. in the infrastructure investment for the lish the obligation to identify all the public events expenses related to the mega-events in the public budget were made; the passing of a • Meetings with companies in the healthcare bill on the administrative and civil liability of and construction sectors were held in order Key activities Year 1: legal persons for acts of corruption committo discuss the development of sectoral antited against the national and foreign public • Inter-sectoral dialogues engaging public and corruption agreements administration was supported private sectors and civil society organizations • The Project helps to build know-how within were held to mobilize national and local supcivil society on how to gain access to inforport for the project, to enhance awareness of mation on public procurement tenders and potential corruption issues related to the on how to ensure transparent public fund Olympics and the World Soccer Championmanagement; Local Administration Transparship and to encourage broad participation in ency Indicators and publications such as the fight against corruption ‘Jogo Limpo x Jogo Sujo’ as well as ‘Guia • Three national committees on Collective como Ler Contratos’ are being developed; a Action and 12 local committees in the 12 website was launched, containing news host cities for the events were set up and about the project and information about have established a dialogue with those orgaplanned investments nizations engaged in the coordination of the (http://www.jogoslimpos.org.br/) World Cup and Olympic Games in Brazil 73 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Maala Business (www.maala.org.il) for Social Responsibility Maala – Business for Social Responsibility is Israel’s leading advocate on corporate values and citizenship. Founded in 1998, Maala is a non-profit Project: membership organization that serves to Maala’s Corporate Social Responsibility Collective Voluntary advocate, consultant, educate and faciliAnti-Corruption Standard Program tate and encourage corporations to identify opportunities to promote CSR. Today Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: their membership exceeds 130 of Israel’s leading companies, and the 2010 Index Israel 5 years 0.48 M Israel ranks 75 companies with a turnover of over $ 79 billion and a workforce of over 173,000 employees. Main activities: • Expansion of the section on assessment of • Conduct a media campaign, which creates ethical and governance standards of the awareness of the business sector’s obligation Maala Index. to abide by ethical management, corporate governance and anti-corruption standards. • Increase the number of companies in the Maala Index and educate investors about the • Conduct 11 learning sessions. benefits of the index. • Conduct an annual conference to serve as • Development and publication of a working forum for public dialogue and to raise tool-kit that helps to understand implement awareness. and practice anticorruption/ bribery and ethical governance standards. 74 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • Criteria for governing ethics and preventing • Two roundtable sessions on the initial design The aim of the project is to encourcorruption in the 2012 Maala Index were of the ‘Fair Business Conduct’ model were age companies to voluntarily adopt finalized, taking into account stakeholders’ held and strengthen standards of transfeedback parency, ethics, corporate gover• Internet interface is currently under • Companies’ information for the 2011 Maala development nance and prevention of corruption. Index was collected, analyzed and published • A media campaign was undertaken in order • A learning session for Maala members and to promote business integrity and CSR; this advisors was conducted on April 4, 2011, included a report on the results of the Maala where tools for prevention of corruption and Index, interviews and articles on Israeli integthe idea of the introduction of an ethical rity, fair business conduct and CSR code of conduct in an organization were presented • An analysis on the current status of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at companies as well as the overall Israeli integrity and CSR situation was publicized • A mapping of global trends in bribery prevention was undertaken; results have been used in order to develop a ‘Fair Business Conduct’ model reflecting Israel’s unique business culture and market 75 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Makati Business Club (MBC) (www.mbc.com.ph) in cooperation with the European The Makati Business Club is a private Chamber of Commerce in the Philippines non-stock, non-profit business association organized as a Forum for Constructive Ideas. The main thrust of the MBC is Project: to foster and promote the role of the business sector in national development SHINE PROJECT – Strengthening High-level commitment for Integrity Initiatives and efforts, both in the planning and the Nurturing Collective Action of Enterprises advocating for fair market conditions implementation of policies. It is commitCountry of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: ted to addressing national economic and social issues that affect the development Philippines 4 years 1.04 M Philippines of the Philippines. Founded in 1981, the MBC is composed of senior business executives representThe specific objectives are to: ing the largest and most dynamic corporations in the Philippines. It has become • Identify key concerns of the private sector • Develop products to set up integrity practices the leading private forum for meetings which affect integrity and transparency in as basis for an audit and certification prothat bring together business, governbusiness transactions; gram for participating companies; and ment, and community leaders in the • Develop a unified “Business Code of Conduct” • Institutionalize the whole process to promote country. The MBC carries out its objecas a standard for local and foreign business sustainability of the Integrity Initiative tives through four main lines of activity: entities; policy advocacy, information services and publishing, investment promotion, and • Create an “Industry Integrity Pact” that procorporate citizenship. vides control measures to ensure transparency and integrity in business transactions; 76 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • Developed the Integrity Compliance Framework and related control measures for • The project was launched in December 2010 The project aims at initiating businesses and over 300 CEOs and top corporate offiCollective Action between foreign cials expressed their support • Designed the Unified Code of Conduct for and local businesses in order to Business based on surveys of existing codes support fair market conditions. The • Roll-out of the Integrity Pledge: one version of conduct and compliance practices of comfor corporations and one for government Integrity Initiative will encourage pany signatories to the integrity pledge agencies was developed (the government companies to commit to having no version also includes provisions to uphold the • Held a series of focus group discussions with tolerance for corruption, and to ‘Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards for practitioners and consulted with experts to sustainable development. Public Officials and Employees’ and to reduce validate acceptability and practicality of the red tape by continuous simplification of proFramework and Code of Conduct cesses according to the ‘Anti-Red Tape Act of • Launched the Unified Code of Conduct for 2007’); the Pledge urges signatories to comBusiness during the Integrity Summit in Sepbat graft in all forms, set transparent policies tember 2011, which the President of the Philin giving and receiving gifts or political donaippines, H.E. Benigno S. Aquino III, attended; tions, conduct integrity trainings, implement global trends in good governance, lessons internal control systems, and enter into from the region, compliance programs and Integrity Pacts, among other actions; signing practices by local companies were discussed the Pledge is not legally binding but it serves at the event, and it was covered widely in the as the first step to initiate institutional media reforms and strong moral commitment • So far, more than 800 CEOs/presidents, 25 heads of government agencies, and over 10 industry associations have signed the Integrity Pledge 77 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Organisation for Economic (www.oecd.org) Co-operation and Development (OECD), The Organisation for Economic MENA Initiative on Governance and Co-operation and Development (OECD) is an inter-governmental organization bringing together 34 countries that seek Investment for Development Project: to promote economic growth, prosperity, and employment through co-operation Enhancing Business Integrity in the MENA Region and policy dialogue. The Organisation benchmarks best practices and develops Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: binding and non-binding standards proMiddle East and International 3 years 0.75 M moting common rules in areas where North Africa Organization, France multilateral agreement is necessary to ensure the correct functioning of markets. The OECD has considerable experience in anti-corruption and gives high priority to the issue, ensuring the effecGovernments, international organizations and To ensure an attractive business environment tive implementation and enforcement of the business community have adopted legally for investment and trade, corruption issues the Convention on Combating Bribery of binding and non-binding anti-corruption and need to be addressed as part of a private sector Foreign Public Officials in International integrity instruments at the regional and global development strategy. Given the growth of the Business Transactions. levels. A majority of Arab countries have ratiprivate sector and associated competition chalLaunched in 2004 at the request of counfied, and are consequently bound to implelenges, promoting anti-corruption awareness is tries in the Middle East and North Africa ment, the United Nations Convention against essential. Through regular public-private con(MENA), the MENA-OECD Initiative works Corruption (UNCAC). The Arab Anti-Corruption ferences and training sessions, the project will to accelerate regional policy and ecoand Integrity Network (ACINET), established raise awareness of existing international princinomic reform. The MENA-OECD Investwith UNDP support and OECD assistance, is an ples and best practice in the area of anti-corment Programme, one of the two pillars inclusive regional platform for knowledge-sharruption and build regional capacity to comply of the Initiative, aims at improving the ing, networking, capacity development and with international anti-corruption and integrity business climate and establishing a favorpolicy dialogue which demonstrates commitstandards. able trade and investment environment ment of Arab countries to the fight against as driving forces for economic growth corruption. and employment in the MENA region. 78 PROJECT AT A GLANCE: sation (Hammamet, September 2011) and a • The Programme’s activities are published on Enhancing Business Integrity in the back to back private sector consultation the OECD website, which will be further MENA Region seeks to raise aware(Tunis, September 2011) developed ness of international principles and best practices in combating corrup• Participants at the multi-stakeholder dialogue • The activities benefit from the strong support in June 2011 proposed a regional MENAof the French Employer organisation MEDEF, tion in the Middle East and North OECD Business Integrity Network to provide a which is also leading the anti-corruption Africa (MENA). forum for peer-learning and knowledge-sharwork of the Business and Industry Advisory ing; so far, a national network was launched Committee to the OECD, in addition to variin Egypt and the Tunisian and Moroccan busious other business organisations KEy ACTIVITIES yEAR 1: ness communities have also called for such a • To develop national ownership and enhance • National and regional roundtables brought network effectiveness, all activities are developed together representatives from the public sec• The Programme regularly reports its activities with the support from locally established tor, the business community and civil society to the OECD Working Group on Bribery and partners e.g. CGEM/AFEM in Morocco, CIPE to discuss means of promoting anti-corrupother relevant internal or external instances and the Egyptian Junior Business Association tion measures and good business integrity in order to raise wider awareness in Egypt, Institut Arabe des Chefs practices: A private sector meeting on Integd’Entreprises in Tunisia rity and Economic Development in Gulf Coun• Multi-lingual training material have been tries (Doha, May 2011), a multi-stakeholder tabled and are under permanent developdialogue on Putting Commitments into Pracment (focus is on raising awareness of intertice: Transparency, Participation and the Rule national anti-corruption instruments, proof Law (Rabat, June 2011), a conference with moting public-private dialogue, and the Tunisian Commission Nationale providing information for businesses on d’Investigation sur la Corruption et la Malvermeans to prevent corruption) 79 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Oživení (www.oziveni.cz) in cooperation with Transparency International Slovakia and the Economics Institute of Oživení, meaning “Renewal”, was established in 1997 in Prague, Czech Rep., as a the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic non-governmental not-for-profit organization primarily devoted to promoting Project: sustainable mobility, cycling, and reducing car traffic in cities. Since 2000 the Improvement of Public Procurement Systems in the Czech and Slovak Republics amount of public advocacy and watchdog activities has risen, and the main organiCountry of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: zation’s goals are currently promoting Czech Republic, 3 years 0.6 M Czech Republic public scrutiny, transparency, public Slovakia awareness, and free access to information. Its anti-corruption activities include legislative work at the national level, development and enforcing of municipal antiProcurement is one of the areas most vulnerEconomic research will support the general corruption policies and tools, systematic able to corruption in the Czech and Slovak recommendations that an anti-corruption monitoring and analysis in the area of Republics. The main root causes for in-transapproach, incl. open tenders, electronic aucconflict of interests, monitoring and pubparent procurement are weak laws and lack of tions, or restrictions for evaluations criteria, lic exposure of specific cases of conflict oversight. The project’s objectives are to precould increase efficiency of public budgets of interests and corruption – watchdog pare a set of law amendments based on ecospending. Together with the support of an activities, anti-corruption audits and connomic research and legal analyses of current anti-corruption business platform, the amendsultancy, free legal aid, and networking weaknesses of the legal system. Furthermore, ment will be presented to the Parliaments. services for CSOs involved in anti-corrupthe project will aim at indentifying potential To raise awareness with media and general tion work. loopholes, and analyze current practices of public, this project will develop an ideal model state oversight over procurement. for an official electronic tender bulletin, enhancing the possibilities of public control by publishing information on tenders. 80 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • Participated in the legislative process of the • Conducted a study of public procurement in The project aims at improving public new public procurement act; membership in practice through a quantitative analyses of procurement practices through the business platform and advisory body for public procurement in the Czech and Slovak amendments to the anti-corruption the new law (comments on the creation of Republic, including for instance analyses of law which are supported by a busiamendments to the law were provided) price statistics, number of competition bids, ness platform. length of competition deadlines, choice of • Attended six meetings of the Platform for the evaluation criteria Transparent Public Procurement at which the new public procurement law was discussed • Two video spots were produced that should and commented raise awareness in public about the problem of corruption in public procurement • Legislative conference on consequences of the new public procurement act and urgency • Methodology for using e-auctions was carried of further reforms was organized (Sept. 1st out in cooperation with the Slovak Public Pro2011, Prague) curement Office and a workshop on this topic was organized; study about the impact of • Open letters to the Minister for Regional e-auctions on the efficiency of public spendDevelopment were written, including suggesing was completed tions and comments on the amendment draft • Three reports have been issued on the status • Analysis of the public procurement process of implementation of the Coalition for Transand practice: implemented analysis of transparent Business; two roundtables of the parency and openness of the public procurecoalition were attended ment procedures (systemic and statistical analysis of the main barriers to greater transparency and competition) 81 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Partnership for Governance Reform (www.kemitraan.or.id) Kemitraan The Partnership for Governance Reform (‘the Partnership‘) is a multistakeholder organization working with government agencies and civil society Project: organizations (CSOs) to advance reform at both national and local levels. The Collaborative Leveraging of E-procurement Accountability, Nexus and Integrity Partnership builds crucial links between for the Newfound Governance (CLEANING) all levels of government and civil society Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: to sustainably promote good governance in Indonesia. The Partnership has impleIndonesia 3 years 1.5 M Indonesia mented 359 projects since 2000 with a total budget of approximately USD 80 million. The main objectives are: To achieve these objectives, several key activities will be undertaken: analyzing gaps • to adapt and mainstream anti-corruption between international legal instruments and principles, values & standards as guided by national law, adapting international procurethe UN Convention against Corruption ment standards into national law through (UNCAC) and other international legal instrudrafting of new laws and standards, and assistments at national and local levels; ing private sectors and small & medium ven• to develop capacities in corruption prevendors to comply with the adopted national legal tions and prosecutions within agencies dealframeworks. The project will also enhance the ing with e-procurement; capacity of vendors, government’s E-Procurement Agencies, train their staff, educate e-pro• to develop reliable feedback and improvecurement watch organizations and assist local ment mechanisms through monitoring and government in implementing anti corruption evaluation. and integrity system for procurement. 82 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • The project’s launch was held on February 9, related to procurement and e-procurement; The main objective of this project is 2011 and was attended by the Indonesian the draft gap analyses showed that the crimito improve transparency of public Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK), nal legal aspect needs further review in the procurement in Indonesia, through the National Public Procurement Agency next year building a public-private-civil society (NPPA) and the Association of Indonesian • A need assessment report on the capacity of organization alliance and meeting Employers (APINDO), which agreed to overprocurement stakeholders in five regions has the internationally accepted antisee the project implementation been developed together with the Faculty of corruption standards. • The heads of local e-procurement agencies Economics of the University of Gadjah Mada and various civil society organizations (CSOs) • Following a series of focus group discussions as well as local representatives of APINDO with CSOs that are members of the State from five regions have committed to support Budget Advocacy Network, PGR conceptualthe ‘Partnership for Governance Reform’ ized the “Participatory Monitoring and Evalu(PGR) in the implementation of the CLEANation System of Public Procurement”, a pubING project by co-organizing needs assesslicly accessible web portal which can be used ments and capacity building efforts by independent procurement watch organi• PGR has developed three draft analyses on zations to monitor public tenders and inform gaps between international and national on irregularities in the process; the web porlegal and regulatory frameworks on procuretal should serve as an instrument for particiment and e-procurement, and assessed integpatory public procurement oversight in five rity in existing public procurement processes. regions These gap analyses will serve as the basis for the formulation of laws and regulations 83 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner POLMED (www.polmed.org.pl) (The Polish Chamber of Commerce POLMED is the biggest and highly recogof Medical Devices) nized chamber of commerce, which represents manufactures and distributors of medical devices in Poland. It acts as a Project: source of information for members, protects their interests and conveys their MedKompas Poland views to decision makers in the industry and the government. POLMED aims to Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: ensure members operate in a business friendly environment. POLMED provides Poland 4 years 0.46 M Poland trainings and consultations necessary for their members’ business operations. It focuses on promoting the rules of professional ethics and honesty in business practices among their members. The The MedKompas project will achieve its aim by • Polmed intends to promote and shape ethical Code of Business Practice established by organizing trainings on ethical business pracpatterns of behavior by means of a general POLMED is based on EUCOMED Code of tices, and by a general promotion campaign on promotional campaign. Ethics. POLMED believes that the Code’s ethical cooperation between medical devices implementation will significantly improve The campaign will be addressed to representamarket participants and healthcare the quality of their members’ interactions tives of both healthcare facilities and medical professionals. with the medical environment. In the devices companies in order to indicate relevant near future POLMED sees itself as a This promotion of ethical business conduct will and ethical rules for the cooperation between leader in initiating changes in the medispread knowledge on threats resulting from these two groups. cal devices market in Poland, which aims corrupt behavior and the advantages of ethical to satisfy the needs of patients, medical business practices. professionals and POLMED member com• Trainings are planned to be carried out all panies and therefore stimulate the develover the country for the period of 4 years opment of the industry. with the target group identified as representatives of medical devices companies and healthcare professionals. 84 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • A press conference launching the MedKomsionals further promotes the MedKompas The project aims at initiating a netpas project was organized aiming at promotproject and helps to attract additional work of compliance managers and to ing the project in the media participants promote ethical cooperation among participants in the medical devices • Eight trainings were held where the overall • 25 publications of promotional materials on number of participants was 205, whereas it the project and trainings were produced and market. had been initially foreseen that 160 individupublished both in the press and internet als would be trained; 100% of participants • Q&A document drawn up and published on who took part in the test passed it January 25, 2011 on www.medkompas.pl • POLMED was given official support and eight • Distribution of 3,500 leaflets promoting the local divisions of the Polish Chamber of PhysiMedKompas project cians and Dentists (PCPD) signed declarations to cooperate regarding MedKompas • A MedKompas project web page has been created, which includes an online forum that • MedKompas trainings obtained the official allows people to post and discuss trainings certification of PCPD (healthcare professionand compliance aspects, ask questions, and als attending the training gain educational exchange their views points required by legal regulations) • The MedKompas project has been promoted • Entered into a barter agreement to cross-link at a substantial number of professional each others’ web pages with the popular web events related to the healthcare sector portal www.TargiMedyczne.pl; the cross-linkage between the POLMED web page and the web portal dedicated to healthcare profes85 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner sequa gGmbH (www.sequa.de) in cooperation with German Agency for International sequa is a non profit development organization operating worldwide. They proCooperation (GIZ), Chengdu General Chamber of mote the development of the private sector and its membership organizations as Commerce and Hunan Provincial Chamber, China well as education, training and further qualification. It is Germany‘s top business Project: membership organizations that are sequa‘s shareholders (DIHK, ZDH, BDA, Strengthening Business Membership Organizations for Fighting Corruption BDI) and Deutsche Gesellschaft für InterCountry of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: nationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH. GIZ was established on 1 January 2011 as China 3 years 1.49 M Germany a merger of the Deutscher Entwicklungsdienst (DED) gGmbH (German Development Service), the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) GmbH (German Technical Cooperation) and Inwent, Germany. GIZ is a federally BMOs have become important players in the Key activities are: owned enterprise, supporting the Gerprocess of promoting transparency and fair • Establishment and support of public-private man Government in achieving its objecmarkets. To strengthen anti-corruption initiadialogue platforms, tives in the field of international tives in China, the project will make available • Development and implementation of induscooperation. the expertise of German BMOs (German chamtry-specific standards, bers and sectoral associations and their umbrella associations such as DIHK, BDI etc.) • Knowledge management and exchange of and their members, in combination with the best practices and expert network of GIZ GmbH and sequa • Capacity building within Chinese BMOs. At gGmbH. GIZ GmbH and sequa gGmbH will supthe final stage of the project all Chinese partport the Chinese project partners to develop ner BMOs should be able to provide profesanti-corruption approaches and improve orgasional support mechanisms or business nizational strengths and management capacidevelopment services incorporating anticorties, e.g. qualification of staff and the developruption topics to their member enterprises on ment of training material. a self-sustainable basis. 86 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • Cooperation agreements with the two project • Content for websites in both chambers was The project aims to strengthen Chipartners in China were developed and signed collected and basic structures for websites nese Business Membership Organisawere developed tions (BMOs) in fighting corruption • Both chambers nominated staff and set up in China through regular public-priCompliance Help and Info Desks with hotline • Training and information material was coland email contact; the establishment of the lected, translated and distributed among vate dialogue, industry specific stanhotlines was positively recognized by the relproject staff: e.g. “Global Infrastructure Antidards and capacity building of BMOs. evant regional governments Corruption Centre and Transparency International (UK), Anti-Corruption Training Manual, • Relevant sectors for Hunan (real estate, auto2008” mobile products, metal materials) and Chengdu (food, furniture, machinery and • A project leaflet was developed and is availautomobile) were identified; chamber staff able in English and Chinese made the first company site visits and held • Two capacity building workshops for chamdiscussions with CEOs about compliance ber staff were carried out: standards › in Chengdu: by the local Disciplinary Com• Questionnaires were developed and distribmission (lawyer) to train chamber staff in uted to affiliated chambers, sector associalegal compliance regulations and laws tions and companies to identify training needs and the status of corruption in the pri› in Hunan: the chamber invited sector chamvate sector in the two regions, Hunan and ber leadership for a workshop with Siemens Chengdu senior compliance managers 87 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner (www.transparency.bg/en) Transparency International – Bulgaria During its twelve years of existence, Transparency International – Bulgaria has gained substantial visibility in Bulgaria, and has established the necessary Project: links with the general public and gained its reputation as an organization of integPromoting Integrity through Advocacy: Counteracting Corruption in Public Contracting rity and stability. Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: TI-Bulgaria has assumed a substantial presence in the country’s public space. It Bulgaria 3 years 0.45 M Bulgaria has created a network of experts and volunteers and has implemented several successful monitoring initiatives, which has given it a place among the 10 most active and viable CSOs. • Analysis of legal framework and adaptation • Pilot implementation of the IP tool: training of the concept of Integrity Pacts (IP) in of civil servants in the implementation of IPs’ Bulgaria in public contracting; test of the IP tool in selected tenders; monitoring and assessment • Promotion of the IP concept, organization of of impact of IPs’ on the contracting process; working meetings and public discussions recommendations for improvements with both private sector and public administration representatives; publication of articles • Create a Public Contracting Transparency and and expert positions in the media; advocacy Integrity Indicators (PCTII) tool that builds to civil society and private sector; set-up of a upon the outcomes of the implementation of monitoring coalition the pilot IP’s and publication of a PCTII manual • Promotion of PCTII tool and use for training representatives of the private sector, civil society and media 88 Project at a glance: • A series of expert meetings in order to refine • A model for Integrity Policy is under developThe key objective is to enhance the monitoring methodology for the assessment; the Integrity Policy outlines general integrity standards and transparency ment of public contracting procedures was parameters and standards of the environin awarding of contracts with significonducted ment that would facilitate the effective cant public interest, through policy implementation of the Integrity Pact within • A sociological survey revealed major trends in change in Bulgaria. the institutions and business organizations the perception of Integrity Pacts (IP) by business and administration • A Website was set up that contains sections presenting the project, news and events, con• Six focus group discussions with representatacts, links and an online poll Key activities Year 1: tives from state institutions, local governments, the private sector and business asso• A public advocacy campaign to promote • The project was launched through pressciations were held in Sofia in July 2011 in integrity standards in tender procedures was releases in the national electronic media and order to develop a set of indicators for transstarted; input was taken from various publiin newspapers parency in public procurement processes, cations on procurement processes; a series of • A comprehensive analysis of the deficiencies recommendations and proposals for legal articles and interviews with the representaof the Bulgarian legislation and an assessamendments and changes in procurement tives of TI-Bulgaria have been published ment of public contracting procedures with a practices focus on detecting practices by state and • The concept of Integrity Pacts was adapted to local authorities to conduct non-transparent the Bulgarian context based on surveys, procurement procedures was carried out working meetings and expert analyses 89 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner (www.transparency.it) Transparency International Italia Transparency International Italia (TI-It), the Italian chapter of Transparency International, founded in Milan in 1996, promotes the active role of civil and moral Project: education in strengthening civil society against corruption and crime. It interacts Sustainable Procurement with the public and private sector, acaProtecting the Green Sector Market from Corruption and Fraud demia, and researchers. Main activities Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: are: promotion of transparent and efficient governance by preventing corrupItaly 3 years 0.6 M Italy tion and misuse of resources; raising awareness in public opinion on the urgency of fighting corruption and related crimes; enhancing ethics in schools and universities, supporting the “Protecting the green sector market from corto prevent risks and reduce losses, and set up a national ratification of international juridruption and fraud” aims at designing a sound dialogue platform between public and private ical and economic laws and conventions; framework to avoid misuses and illegal pracsector to promote the design and adoption of encouraging the public and private sectices, enhancing awareness in the business ad hoc standards. tors to fix and implement ethics princienvironment and among public institutions, ples and codes; and advocating for good The focus will be placed on three specific secpromoting fair market conditions through clear governance and protection of collective tors: renewable energies, logistics/mobility of and transparent procedures, and disseminating interests. persons and goods, and innovation results to raise awareness on the issue. technologies. The project will gain knowledge on criminal To carry out this project a multi-disciplinary patterns, market and corporate vulnerabilities, partnership has been established by TI-It organize laboratories to enhance the capacity (Integrity Partner), National Anti-Corruption Authority, and RiSSC – Research Centre on Security and Crime. 90 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • The focus of the research on vulnerabilities in • Planning and set up of Thematic Roundtables “Protecting the green sector market the public and private sector related to the that should raise awareness and promote from corruption and fraud” is a civic, green economy was refined through various solutions for countering corruption in the institutional and scientific project for consultation rounds; a research plan was green sector (and sectors linked to the green protecting the green economy from established sector): for example scientific communicathreats of fraud and corruption, thus tion, energy systems, sustainable procure• The research is focusing on the analysis of promoting relevant sustainable and the national and international regulatory ment, mobility, sustainable cities, innovation, ethical standards. framework, best practices, legal cases and finance/industry and forest/water/waste financial flows in the sector of renewable • Identification and networking with public energy and private stakeholders to select them as participants in the thematic roundtables, pri• Experts for the Technical Scientific Commitvate platforms, National Forum in 2012 and tee, which will evaluate research results, the international conference scheduled for were identified 2013 • The production of a DVD on corporate suc• Identification of schools and universities for cess stories on compliance in the green secdissemination of results and capacity tor, intended for awareness raising and trainbuilding ing purposes, is planned • Acquisition of patronage of the Ministry of Environment for the National Forum • Creation of a project logo and a remote digital platform for documents and internal information sharing 91 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner (www.transparenciamexicana.org.mx) Transparencia Mexicana Transparencia Mexicana (TM) was founded in 1999 and is the national chapter of Transparency International (TI), the global coalition against corrupProject: tion. TM approaches corruption from a holistic standpoint, engaging with public Social Witness / Integrity Pact in Government Procurement – and private actors to reduce corruption The Mexican Experience by creating changes in the institutional Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: and legal framework of the Mexican state. Acknowledging that forms of corMexico 3.4 years 0.23 M Mexico ruption adapt to country-specific norms, TM pursues an agenda tailored to fight corruption within Mexico, while at the same time adhering to standards and practices established by TI Secretariat. Since 2000, TM has implemented Integrity much of the research related to the IP/SW has Pacts/Social Witness (IP/SW) tools in around combined national experiences and practice, 100 public procurement processes and has without determining the systemic impact for a developed a methodology applied to the Mexibranch of government, sector or type of comcan context that can be useful to government pany in a cross-time analysis. This project will and private actors in other contexts. This methhave this systemic approach, in order to be odology combines a mini-contractual form in a useful to procurement sectors in any context. bidding process (IP) with an intensive monitorThe objective is to conduct an analytical ing during the bidding process (SW). The result review, and to promote the Mexican experiis a light legal structure with a real-time monience with a particular focus on its economic toring process which provides an external, impact, social results and a new framework for technical and independent view without reducCollective Action among participants in proing efficiency, partially restores public distrust curement processes. Activities include an anain procurement, creates an environment for lytical review, the production of independent open discussions of technical decisions, prochapters under an editorial plan, and the commotes government innovation, and contributes munication/promotion of the Analytical Review to competition, efficiency and savings. To date, Report with relevant stakeholders. 92 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • Internal Working Group was set up with the • To complement the work of the seminar The project aims to produce an Anaaim to analyze the topics to be addressed in Transparencia Mexicana decided to produce lytical Review Report of the Integrity the Analytical Review Report (book on citian e-book featuring national and internaPacts/Social Witness tools that Transzens and markets with a special focus on tional experiences parencia Mexicana has applied in public procurement in Mexico) • Transparencia Mexicana launched a call for around 100 public procurement • Working group started with the identification papers to gather national and international processes. of stakeholders in Mexico involved in public experiences on the subject of “Citizens and procurement processes Public Procurement”, targeting a wide public, including international organizations, univer• A seminar took place on April 6, 2011 and sities, NGOs, relevant public and private secbrought together the public sector (including tor actors; a total of 15 international and the sub-secretary responsible for public prothree national applications were received curement), the private sector, civil society organizations and academia • A Review Committee was set up to define the selection criteria and evaluate the proposed • The seminar allowed stakeholders to discuss articles; it also determined the communicatopics such as compliance standards for prition process for providing selection results vate and public sectors, economic competiand further information on next steps tion, and differing legal frameworks for public procurement at federal and state-level; it • Articles will be received mid-November and was also fundamental for the mapping of Transparencia Mexicana expects to publish involved stakeholders and collecting informathe first e-book in March 2012 tion on the Mexican experience in public procurement 93 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner Transparency International — USA (www.transparency-usa.org) in cooperation with Social Accountability TI-USA works at home and abroad to International, USA combat corruption and promote transparency and integrity in government, business and development assistance. Since Project: its founding in 1993, TI-USA has been actively involved in the development of Verification of Corporate Anti-Corruption Programs private sector integrity programs and has advocated for greater global adherence Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: to them. It has initiated and engaged in numerous industry-sector initiatives and USA 3 years 0.66 M USA collaborative projects, mobilizing Collective Action with a wide array of interests, including corporations, major business organizations, labor groups, and other NGOs. TIUSA has a track record of success The overarching, long-term goal of this project The project aims at achieving the long-term in the promotion of private sector best is to improve credibility of corporate compligoal by: practices. ance programs. Achieving this will help • Reviewing, assessing and reporting on the increase public confidence and enhance crediefficacy of current approaches to compliance bility with investors, rating agencies, financial verification; institutions, export credit agencies and government procurement agencies, which increas• Creating awareness and better understanding ingly expect corporations to demonstrate of the verification methods; and effective compliance programs. This project • Promoting broad acceptance of the relative will assess the strengths and weaknesses of the merits of the methods and findings. most commonly used methods of compliance verification and will develop recommendations This project will be supported by Michael Herfor companies when considering anti-corrupshman, Mark Mendelsohn and Fritz Heimann. tion compliance verification. 94 Project at a glance: • TI-USA reviewed leading corporate disclosure • None of the accounting or law firms provide The project will look at the key role models (e.g. Global Reporting Initiative Corcertifications or verification services, that compliance verification methods ruption Performance Indicators, UN Global although they do conduct compliance play in assessing companies’ adherCompact Reporting Guidance under the 10th reviews ence to their anti-corruption Principle) and interviewed accounting firms, • Accounting firms have a comprehensive programs. law firms, non-profit organizations and commethodology which has the goal of identifypanies providing compliance assessment and ing areas where companies can improve verification services implementation of their anti-corruption comKey activities Year 1: • TI-USA also reviewed information on eleven pliance program; law firm reviews focus on social standards certification systems (e.g. FCPA compliance • This project is designed to assess the Forestry Stewardship Council, Fair Trade strengths and weaknesses of the most com• Existing social certification systems are used Labeling Organizations International) and the monly used methods of corporate anti-corby consumers, governments, and investors as “Tl Framework for Voluntary Independent ruption compliance verification, including indicators of the implementation of good Assurance of Corporate Anti-Bribery self-reporting, compliance assessments by practices including due to internal complaint Programmes“ accounting and law firms, and verification by systems and the certification process government-imposed monitors; the final Research revealed that: • TI-USA will test these and other preliminary product will be a Guidance Report addressing • Public reporting on corporate compliance findings in Year 2 and will develop activity (1) the usefulness of each verification programs is currently subject to multiple reports method, and (2) which methods may be most standards with wide variation in the discloappropriate in various circumstances sure measured or recommended 95 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner United Nations Development (www.undp.org) Programme Regional Bureau UNDP is the UN’s global development network. It operates in 166 countries, working with them on for Arab States (UNDP RBAS) their own solutions to global and national development challenges. UNDP’s network links and coordinates global and national efforts to reach Project: the Millennium Development Goals, by helping countries build and share solutions to the chalAnti-Corruption and Integrity in the Arab Countries (ACIAC) lenges of Democratic Governance, Poverty Reduction, Crisis Prevention and Recovery, Environment Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: and Energy, and HIV/AIDS. UNDP is the lead International agency on democratic governance in the UN sysArab States Region 3 years 1.78 M Organization, USA tem supporting efforts to advance democratic governance in four main areas: (1) Expanding people’s opportunities to participate in political decision-making, particularly those of women and the poor; (2) Making democratic institutions more accountable and responsive to citizens, supportThe project is a major component in a broader Key activities include ing national parliaments, public administrations and rule of law; (3) Promoting the principles of regional anticorruption initiative that will gen• training leading non-governmental practitiodemocratic governance — in particular, anti-corerate knowledge and support inclusive anticorners (NGPs), using specially developed ruption, human rights, women’s empowerment ruption policy reform. It will develop the capacmaterial, and equal opportunity; and (4) Supporting counities of representatives from at least 40 civil try-led democratic governance assessments that society organizations (CSOs) and businesses • supporting CSOs and businesses to formulate help countries to assess their needs, monitor their across the region, focusing on the implementajoint policy positions on various anticorrupprogress and achieve their goals. UNDP’s activities tion of articles 12 and 13 of the UNCAC, and tion themes and engage governments in in the Arab States region build on UNDP’s five thematic priorities, with additional emphasis placed on mainstreaming transparency and integrity direct dialogue thereon, and on addressing the main impediments to human standards and practices in various business • developing a service oriented Portal for the development in the region as identified by the sectors, with a view to enabling concrete parArab Anti Corruption and Integrity Network Arab Human Development Report series, namely ticipation in national anticorruption strategies freedom and good governance, knowledge, and (ACINET) to promote knowledge sharing in at least 4 countries. women’s empowerment. between various stakeholders 96 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • In partnership with the Tunisian National • The Siemens Integrity Initiative contribution The project will enable non-governFact-Finding Commission on Corruption and enabled 14 civil society leaders representing mental actors to help in developing, Malversation, and under the umbrella of the Iraq, Jordan, Morocco, oPt, and Yemen as implementing & monitoring national Arab Anti-Corruption and Integrity Network well as three major regional civil society orgaanticorruption strategies in Arab (ACINET), UNDP organized a major regional nizations (Arab NGO Network for Developcountries. conference, attended by more than 90 particment, Arab Parliamentarians against Corrupipants, to promote policy dialogue on antition, and Article 13 Alliance) to actively corruption in sectors that deliver public serparticipate in the regional policy dialogue vices in Arab countries; at the end of the and contribute to the shaping of these prioriconference, which also witnessed the ties; the implementation of these priorities announcement of the UNDP/Siemens cooperwill be supported by the Arab Anti-Corruption ation, high-level officials, civil society leaders and Integrity Network (ACINET) and UNDP and business representatives in Djibouti, under the Anti-Corruption and Integrity in Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Morocco, oPt, Tunisia, the Arab Countries (ACIAC) project, as well as and Yemen identified elements for action in various other partners 2012/2013 against corruption in the health, water, and education sectors 97 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: United Nations Office on Drugs and Description of Integrity Partner (www.unodc.org) Crime (UNODC) UNODC is mandated to assist Member in cooperation with the International States in their efforts to fight illicit drugs, crime and terrorism through: 1. fieldAnti-Corruption Academy (IACA), Austria based technical cooperation projects to enhance the capacity of Member States; 2. research and analytical work to Project: increase knowledge and understanding Incentives to Corporate Integrity and Cooperation in accordance of drugs and crime issues and expand the with the UN Convention Against Corruption evidence base for policy and operational decisions; and 3. normative work to assist Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: States in the ratification and implementaInternational India, Mexico 3 years 1.12 M tion of the relevant international treaties, Organization, Austria the development of domestic legislation on drugs, crime and terrorism, and the provision of secretariat and substantive services to the treaty-based and governing bodies. This project aims to promote States’ implemendents of corruption and cooperate with tation of articles 26 (Liability of legal persons), public authorities, and recommending In its resolution 58/4 of 31 October 2003, 32 (Protection of witnesses, experts and vicamendments to ensure full compliance with the UN General Assembly adopted the UN tims), 37 (Cooperation with law enforcement the Convention; Convention against Corruption. The Conauthorities) and 39 (Cooperation between vention entered into force on 14 Decem2. designing and delivering joint training worknational authorities and the private sector) of ber 2005 and to date has been ratified by shops for law enforcement, judicial authorithe United Nations Convention against Corrup150 Member States and the European ties and companies’ representatives on existtion and to facilitate private actors’ compliance Union. A Conference of the States Parties ing domestic laws governing corporate with the Tenth Principle of the UN Global Comhas been established by the Convention liability; pact by: to promote and review its implementa3. organizing meetings of international experts tion. UNODC is the guardian of the Con1. reviewing, in the framework of high-level to share existing knowledge and generate vention and the Secretariat of the Confercommittees of public officials and private innovative approaches on how governments ence of the States Parties. The Convensector representatives, legislation on corposhould best encourage and reward compa­­tion is the legal instrument underlying rate liability and legal incentives for companies which report instances of corruption. the UN Global Compact’s 10th Principle nies to voluntarily report on internal inciagainst Corruption. 98 Project at a glance: India Mexico The project aims to create systems of legal incentives to companies’ • Meetings were held with the UN Global Com• Meeting with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs integrity efforts, hence encouraging pact office in New Delhi and groundwork was to present the project to the Mexican Governbusiness to come forward and report initiated, contact was made with the Central ment; the Ministry of Public Administration Vigilance Commission (CVC) and the Confedwas selected as the federal counterpart to cointernal incidents of corruption. eration of Indian Industry (CII) and a joint develop the activities of the project; the Genmeeting is scheduled for year 2 eral Attorney’s office will take an observer role; a Coordination Committee was estab• In order to conduct baseline surveys, engage Key activities Year 1: lished and will serve as a control mechanism trainees and formulate training programs, Global Coordination academic and legal institutions have been • Mechanisms of collaboration have been set identified (e.g. National Legal Services up with the State Government of Mexico City • A coordination meeting was held with the Authority (NALSA), National Law School, and of Puebla and a general review of the Humboldt-Viadrina School of Governance to NALSAR (National Academy of Legal Studies legal context and operational issues on state discuss potential synergies and Research) and federal level has been with regard to • The aim is to compile best practices for the crime prevention and law enforcement implementation of articles 26 (Liability of • Mexico seems to have implementation mechlegal persons), 32 (Protection of witnesses, anisms of relevant UNCAC articles in place experts and victims), 37 (Cooperation with and the focus will be to strengthen these law enforcement authorities) and 39 (Cooperation between national authorities and the private sector) of the UN Convention against Corruption in Year 2 in order to present these to international experts in 2012 99 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner United Nations Office on Drugs and (www.unodc.org) UNODC is mandated to assist Member Crime (UNODC) States in their efforts to fight illicit drugs, crime and terrorism through: 1. fieldbased technical cooperation projects to enhance the capacity of Member States; 2. research and analytical work to Project: increase knowledge and understanding Outreach and Communication Program for the United Nations Convention of drugs and crime issues and expand the Against Corruption (UNCAC) evidence base for policy and operational decisions; and 3. normative work to assist Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: States in the ratification and implementaInternational Global 3 years 0.75 M tion of the relevant international treaties, Organization, Austria the development of domestic legislation on drugs, crime and terrorism, and the provision of secretariat and substantive services to the treaty-based and governing bodies. The project seeks to enhance companies’ This will be achieved by: knowledge of how UNCAC can make a differIn its resolution 58/4 of 31 October 2003, 1. creating and disseminating a structured outence in their daily work both internally and in the UN General Assembly adopted the UN reach and communication program that comtheir interaction with public counterparts, and Convention against Corruption. The Conbines a global perspective with local contexts, to encourage the business community to turn vention entered into force on 14 Decemreaching out to private companies, particularly their anti-corruption commitments into action ber 2005 and to date has been ratified by the UN Global Compact business participants; by bringing their integrity programs in line 150 Member States and the European with the universal principles of UNCAC. The 2. developing a comprehensive academic Union. A Conference of the States Parties project also seeks to support learning institulearning course on UNCAC and its implication has been established by the Convention tions which have come to realize that they do for public administrators and private operators to promote and review its implementahave a role to play in preparing the next generto be embedded in curricula of business, law tion. UNODC is the guardian of the Conation of public and business leaders to the and public administration schools. vention and the Secretariat of the Conferchallenge of making right and ethical ence of the States Parties. The decisions. Convention is the legal instrument underlying the UN Global Compact’s 10th Principle against Corruption. 100 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • Initiated procurement process for obtaining UN Global Compact/Principles for Responsible This project aims to support private public relations (PR) expertise and services to Management Education Initiative actors’ integrity efforts by educating provide guidance on the PR elements of the present and future generations of envisaged outreach strategy • Preliminary research and compilation of business and public leaders and materials has been prepared with a view to • Research on principles contained in the starting substantive work on the UNCAC acabetter informing the corporate United Nations Convention against Corrupdemic module community of the UN Convention tion that impact the private sector was against Corruption (UNCAC). undertaken in order to formulate key mes• A coordination meeting was held with the Humboldt-Viadrina School of Governance on sages for the business community to serve as their Siemens Integrity Initiative project to a basis for the communication strategy discuss potential synergies • Information on project activities were included in the pre-session documentation prepared for the Second Intersessional Meeting of the Open-ended Intergovernmental Working Group on Prevention and the Fourth Session of the Conference of the States Parties to the United Nations Convention against Corruption • Initial contact was made with academic institutions regarding potential collaboration on the development of an UNCAC academic module for universities, including the International Anti-Corruption Academy and the 101 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: United Nations Office on Drugs and Description of Integrity Partner (www.unodc.org) Crime (UNODC) UNODC is mandated to assist Member States in their efforts to fight illicit drugs, in cooperation with the International Anticrime and terrorism through: 1. fieldbased technical cooperation projects to Corruption Academy (IACA), Austria enhance the capacity of Member States; 2. research and analytical work to Project: increase knowledge and understanding of drugs and crime issues and expand the The 6 P´s: Public–Private Partnership for Probity in Public Procurement evidence base for policy and operational Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: decisions; and 3. normative work to assist International States in the ratification and implementaIndia, Mexico 3 years 1.22 M Organization, USA tion of the relevant international treaties, the development of domestic legislation on drugs, crime and terrorism, and the provision of secretariat and substantive services to the treaty-based and governing bodies. The project will promote States’ implementa2. designing and delivering a joint training protion of article 9 of the UN Convention against gram for public procurement personnel and In its resolution 58/4 of 31 October 2003, Corruption (UNCAC) and support private actors’ private counterparts on the system of public the UN General Assembly adopted the UN efforts to comply with the Tenth Principle of procurement in force in both countries, giving Convention against Corruption. The Conthe UN Global Compact, by: participants opportunity for mutual learning; vention entered into force on 14 December 2005 and to date has been ratified by 1. reviewing, in the framework of high-level 3. organizing meetings of international experts 150 Member States and the European committees of public officials and representato share lessons learned and good practices in Union. A Conference of the States Parties tives of the private sector, systems of public aligning national public procurement systems has been established by the Convention procurement, and assessing their compliance with the requirements of UNCAC, and to forto promote and review its implementawith UNCAC, with recommendations feeding mulate model practices. Subject to the need tion. UNODC is the guardian of the Coninto possible legislative amendments; for further training activities, a training module vention and the Secretariat of the Conferon integrity in public procurement will be ence of the States Parties. The developed. Convention is the legal instrument underlying the UN Global Compact’s 10th Principle against Corruption. 102 Project at a glance: Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and the • Mechanisms of collaboration have been set The project aims to reduce vulnerConfederation of Indian Industry (CII) and a up with the State Government of Mexico City abilities to corruption in public joint meeting is scheduled for year 2 and of Puebla and a general review of the procurement systems and to bridge legal context and operational issues on state knowledge and communication gaps • In order to conduct the baseline surveys, and federal level has been conducted with engage trainees and formulate training probetween public procurement adminregard to public procurement (Mexico seems grams, academic and legal institutions have istrations and the private sector. been identified (e.g. National Legal Services to have implementation mechanisms of relevant UNCAC articles in place and focus will Authority (NALSA), National Law School, Key activities Year 1: be to strengthen these) NALSAR (National Academy of Legal Studies Global Coordination and Research) • First meeting for the review of legislation and operational processes with regard to public • Promote states’ implementation of article 9 procurement took place at the federal govof the UN Convention against Corruption Mexico ernment in September 2011; the mecha(establish systems of procurement based on nisms to implement the principles reflected transparency, competition and objective cri• Meeting with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in article 9 of the UN Convention against Corteria in decision-making) to present the project to the Mexican Governruption were discussed, these mechanisms ment; the Ministry of Public Administration will be the focus of further consideration and was selected as the federal counterpart to coreview India develop the activities of the project; the General Attorney’s office will take an observer • Meetings were held with the UN Global Comrole; a Coordination Committee was estabpact office in New Delhi and ground work lished and will serve as a control mechanism was initiated; contact was made with the 103 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Description of Integrity Partner University of Cairo, Center for (www.feps.eun.eg) Economic and Financial Research The Center for Economic and Financial Research and Studies, is affiliated to the and Studies Faculty of Economics and Political Science, of Cairo University. The faculty of Economics and Political Science is among Project: the most reputable and distinguished facFighting Corruption and Fraud through Collective Action, Education ulties of the Cairo university, well known and Training (Towards a Transparent Economy) for its initiatives to raise awareness and enhance extra curricular activities among Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: students. The Center for Economic and Financial Research and Studies, is one of Egypt 5 years 0.85 M Egypt the oldest and most active research centers, with multi-dimensional activities, among them is developing the skills of students Main activities: • Raise public awareness about indicators of junior candidates in relevant governmental measuring transparency, and the importance entities and major economic sectors such as and means of combating corruption (target the financial sector, small and medium enteraudience is the general public with a special prises, and the corporate sector). focus on faculty students and the youth) • Integrate knowledge about corruption and • Educate faculty students about the benefits transparency in academic curricula; train acaof disclosing and sharing information, and demic professionals on how to teach these the best means of doing this, in light of internew concepts (target audience are academic national best practices; conduct student professors who are in charge of disseminatresearch competitions (target audience are ing acquired knowledge to future generafaculty students, but may expand to include tions of students) 104 Project at a glance: Key activities Year 1: • Project was launched in April 2011 › New reading materials have been suggested The aim of this project is to raise for two existing courses (financial economawareness, organize extra curricular • Despite the political instability and security ics and public finance), and preparations are activities and to create curricula for concerns in Egypt, it was possible to impletaking place for a third course in enhancing the knowledge on transment and prepare for the following activities: management parency and combating corruption › Implementation of two training programs, • Promotion of the project and outreach via among faculty students. and preparation for three other trainings Facebook resulted in an above satisfactory › Implementation of one students` competilevel of participation in spite of the unstable tion, and preparation for another one surrounding conditions in the country › Implementation of one discussion forum on “Anti-Corruption Institution: A new one or Restructuring Existing Institutions?” › Preparations are taking place for the simulation model for an Anti-Corruption and Transparency Enhancement Authority › Preparations are taking place for the annual conference (maybe with presence of international organization) 105 C. Project profiles and highlights of activities in 2011 Name of Integrity Partner: Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Description of Integrity Partner (www.vcci.com.vn, www.vbli.vn) Industry (VCCI, Office for Business The Office for Business Sustainable Sustainable Development) Development (SDforB) was established in cooperation with the International Business in 2006 by the Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI) which is an Leaders Forum (IBLF), United Kingdom independent, non-governmental and Project: national organization representing the Vietnamese business community, busiIntegrity and Transparency in Business Initiative for Vietnam ness associations, and employers for the Country of implementation: Duration: USD (million): Registered in: promotion and protection of their interests in domestic and international relaVietnam 3 years 0.5 M Vietnam tions. Furthermore, the Chamber has served as a forum for the exchange of information and ideas among businesses and between businesses with governmental authorities on matters concerning economic activities, the business environThe initiative aims at bringing companies operenforcement of reforms through promoting ment, and sustainable development in ating in Vietnam together to work towards multistakeholder consultation and dialogue Vietnam. As an integral part of VCCI, improving integrity and transparency of the and policy advice on transparency and integSDforB concentrates onsupport and oriway business is conducted. It is expected that rity. Finally, it promotes positive change in entation activities to assist the Vietnam the key objective will be achieved by focusing business practice through development and business community and entrepreneurs on three main activities. Initially, the project implementation of training programs. It is in achieving sustainable development puts emphasis on implementation of research believed that the achievements from impleand productive integration in the 21st and the development of technical and commumenting these activities will be scaled up, to century. nication tools to raise awareness and underhave greater impact from sustainable improvestanding of transparency concept and the need ment of transparency and integrity in doing for improvement of business practices. In parbusiness in Vietnam. allel with awareness raising, it encourages 106 Project at a glance: courses, and by engaging businesses in trans• A guide book was written and posted on the The initiative’s aim is to mobilize parency and integrity initiatives; and (2) to project’s website the business community in Vietnam make recommendations to develop and/or around the challenges of integrity, enforce state policies related to preventing • Training materials with updated legal requiretransparency and corruption. ments in Vietnam, roles and responsibilities and fighting corruption in the business sector of businesses in fighting corruption, as well • Existing good business practices were (1) colas efforts of the government in support of lected, (2) shared in 2 workshops with about business were developed; two training work90 participants representing businesses, busishops were organized for about 60 particiness associations, government agencies, law pants who were representatives from busiKey activities Year 1: firms, consulting firms, and universities, and nesses and business associations • Research on the current status of corruption (3) have been published on ITBI’s website, at • Introductory emails were sent to ITBI stakein the business sector in Vietnam was underhttp://www.itbi.org.vn/en/Publications/Codeholders and businesses who attended ITBI’s taken (available by Jan 21, 2012); objectives of-Conduct.aspx, which was put into full recent events (training, sharing experiences, of the research are (1) to assess the current operation by mid September consultations) status of corruption in the business sector in • Analysis of the impacts of corruption on the Vietnam, including relationships with the • Consultation roundtables were held and competitiveness of the business sector in government and between businesses; (2) to opinions on business priorities in the fight Vietnam has been articulated in press assess impacts of corruption on business; against corruption have been identified releases, workshops, consultation roundtapurposes of the research are (1) to be in a bles, newsletters, posters, etc. position to better support businesses in preventing and fighting corruption by develop• Project newsletters were published and projing tools and guides, organizing training ect posters were distributed 107 D. Overview on Annexes Selection of documents and templates Overview on Annexes used during the First Funding Round as well as Selection of documents and templates used during the First Funding Round as well as other relevant material other relevant material 108 Main project focus: Fighting Corruption & Fraud Annex 1: Timetable 1st Funding Round – Siemens Integrity Initiative Annex 2: Expression of Interest Form (EoI) Term Sheet Funding Agreement Annex 3: (Funding Round December 9, 2009) Annex 4: FAQs, Status January 26, 2010 Siemens and World Bank Group Press Release dated December 9, Annex 5: 2009 on the launch of the Siemens Integrity Initiative Siemens and World Bank Group Press Release dated December 9, Annex 6: 2010 on start of selected projects 109 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 1 Timetable 1st Funding Round 1. Call for Expressions of Interest and original global call for December 9, 2009: Call for EOIs application January 31, 2010: Deadline for submission of EOI Initial review phase December 2009 February – April 2010 2. Invitation to submit Full Proposal April 2010: Invitation to selected applicants to submit a Full Proposal June 25, 2010: Deadline for submission of Full Proposal Review and due diligence July – September 2010 Award and signing of Funding Agreement ca. September 2010: Invitation to final short list of applicants to enter into a Funding Agreement with Siemens AG ca. December 2010: Announcement of selected project proposals 110 Siemens reserves the right to involve third parthe award of funds to any applicant does not Please note that the deadline for introducing ties, and in particular the World Bank, in the entitle or qualify such applicant to be awarded new applications for the first funding round review and selection process at any time. The further funds in any subsequent funding has expired! World Bank Group will have audit rights over round. The Expression of Interest form includes an the use of the funds and veto rights over the The selection process will be exclusively suboverview of the project goals, a summary of selection of anti-corruption groups or programs ject to German law, excluding any conflict of activities, a budget plan and time frame for the receiving funds. law provisions. Judicial review of the selection project as well as background information on To avoid any uncertainty, Siemens reserves full process or Siemens’ decisions during the selecthe applicant. For details please refer to the and complete discretion in the selection of the tion process is excluded. Expression of Interest (EOI) form. organizations that will be awarded funds from The Expression of Interest phase is intended to the Siemens Integrity Initiative until the FundExpression of Interest identify those project proposals that have the ing Agreement is signed. The decision to move best fit with the goals of the Siemens Integrity ahead with any of the applicants in the selecApplicants must submit the Expression of InterInitiative. From the fully completed Expressions tion process or not is therefore not subject to est (EOI) form filled out in full, in English, with of Interest forms received by the above deadany judicial review or scrutiny of any kind. all the required information and supporting line, Siemens will select the most promising Siemens may decide fully at its own discretion documentation applications for the second stage of the selecto fund proposed projects at lower amounts • at the latest by January 31, 2010 tion process and invite the successful applithan those asked for, or only selected parts of cants to submit a Full Proposal. a project and the proposed activities. • via the following email address: application.integrityinitiative@siemens.com Participation in the selection process and/or successful review does not entitle the applicant to be selected for the award of any funds. Successful participation in any funding round and 111 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 1 Timetable 1st Funding Round and original global call for application December 2009 Next steps: 1. Fill in Expression of Interest form and gather 2. Send signed Expression of Interest form supporting documentation to Siemens All applicants must fill out the Expression of The Expression of Interest form including its Interest form in English and provide the annexes must be signed by an authorized reprequired supporting documentation (as per resentative of the applicant organization and Annex 1 of the Expression of Interest form); sent together with the required supporting where two or more organizations jointly particdocumentation to the following email address: ipate in an application, the information and application.integrityinitiative@siemens.com documentation outlined in Annex 1 must be by January 31, 2010 at the latest. submitted with respect to EACH organization. 112 3. Siemens confirms receipt of EOI 4. Initial review of Expression of Interest forms 5. Notice to Applicants Siemens will confirm receipt of the EOI form by Siemens will review those Expression of InterApplicants will be informed in due course by e-mail once complete; such confirmation is est forms that meet the above criteria and Siemens and by e-mail on the outcome of the without prejudice to the review and selection deadline, and will select those applications Initial Review, and whether they will be invited process. No Expression of Interest form will be that present the most innovative and promisto the Full Proposal stage of the selection proreviewed unless the supporting documentation ing project ideas in line with the goals of the cess. Siemens will not be obliged to state reahas been handed in full as defined in Annex 1 Siemens Integrity Initiative. The World Bank sons for any selection decision, including but of the Expression of Interest form, via the Group will have veto rights over the selection not limited to the grounds for its decision not above-mentioned e-mail address and by the of anti-corruption groups or programs receivto move forward with any particular applicant stated deadline. ing funds. organization at any stage of the selection process. 113 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 2 Expression of Interest Form (EoI) 114 115 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 2 Expression of Interest Form (EoI) 116 117 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 2 Expression of Interest Form (EoI) 118 119 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 2 Expression of Interest Form (EoI) 120 121 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 2 Expression of Interest Form (EoI) Term Sheet Funding Agreement (Funding Round December 9, 2009) 122 Annex 3 123 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 3 Term Sheet Funding Agreement (Funding Round December 9, 2009) 124 125 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 3 Term Sheet Funding Agreement (Funding Round December 9, 2009) FAQs Status January 26, 2010 126 Annex 4 127 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 4 FAQs Status January 26, 2010 128 129 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 5 Siemens and World Bank Group Press Release dated December 9, 2009 on the launch of the Siemens Integrity Initiative 130 131 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 6 Siemens and World Bank Group Press Release dated December 9, 2010 on the launch of selected projects 132 133 D. Overview on Annexes Annex 6 Siemens and World Bank Group Press Release dated December 9, 2010 on the launch of selected projects 134 135 More information on Collective Action is available on www.siemens.com/collective-action In addition to this report, Siemens published information on its activities in this field in its comprehensive Annual Report (www.siemens.com/financialreports) at the end of the fiscal year as well as in its Sustainability Report (www.siemens.com/sustainability-report). This report has been compiled to the best of our knowledge and includes information which has been submitted to the Siemens Integrity Initiative Project Office till March 6, 2012. Information provided in Part C is created and approved for external use by each Integrity Partner. This document contains links to other websites. Siemens is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of other Web sites or information provided by its Partners. Copyright Notice: © Siemens AG 2012, all rights reserved, without prior written consent of Siemens AG, Corporate Legal and Compliance, CL CO O CA, it is in particular, but not limited to, prohibited to modify, copy, reproduce, republish, upload, post, transmit or distribute in any way any material, including graphics of this Annual Report 2011. Siemens AG Corporate Legal and Compliance CL CO O CA Wittelsbacherplatz 2 80333 Munich Germany Email: office.integrityinitiative@siemens.com
