United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 We shape a better world www.arup.com United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Contents −− A. Introduction 1 −− B. Human Rights 4 −− C. Labour 8 −− D. Environment 13 −− E. Anti-Corruption 20 −− F. Partnerships 23 Attachments −− 1. Global Human Rights Code of Practice −− 2. Key Speech −− 3. Global Harrassment Code of Practice −− 4. Global Health & Safety Policy −− 5. OHSAS 18001:2007 −− 6. UK Disciplinary Procedure −− 7. Corporate Report −− 8. Diversity and Inclusion Code of Practice −− 9. Grievance Code of Practice −− 10. Sustainability Procurement Vision Statement −− 11. Sustainability Policy −− 12. Ethics Global Code of Practice, Procedure and Process −− 13. Global conduct and Performance Code of Practice −− 14. Financial Statements 2010 for OAPIL United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 A A: Introduction A Introduction We are an independent firm of designers, planners, engineers, consultants and technical specialists offering a broad range of professional services. Through our work, we make a positive difference in the world. We shape a better world. As part of the requirements of the UN Global Compact, Introduction to Arup we are required to submit an annual Communication on Progress. Arup is the creative force at the heart of many of the We have approached our response in relation to four key world’s most prominent projects in the built environment. areas Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption, and seperate chapters have been created for −− Over 10,000 people each of these. In line with the UN’s criteria we have set out our response in terms of Arup’s commitment. systems, −− over 60 years activities and indicators, and supporting documentation is −− projects completed in 160 countries appended. −− 11,000 concurrent projects As a firm, we have in place a sustainability strategy that sets −− 18 businesses out our sustainability and corporate social responsibility expectations from the top level. This strategy defines our −− £900m turnover approach and enables us to maintain leadership in this −− Trust ownership area. Our sustainability strategy is split into four areas: our business, our people, our facilities and our external We view our challenge as ‘Shaping a Better World’. At the relationships. heart of this is a deep understanding of the issues driving the world’s growing urban environments – from the effects Our Corporate Report which comprises Arup Group’s of climate change to meeting the needs of a growing performance in finance as well as sustainability shares population. our progress with our external stakeholders. Published annually, the report includes our performance against the Experience in cities is well established and growing – from Global Sustainability KPIs and the targets that have been set icons like Sydney Opera House to Chinese Eco Cities, going forward. and is the strategic advisor to the C40 40 world cities committed to tackling climate change. The indicators used in this Communication on Progress are those that we report on in our corporate report. As a result In 2012, Arup’s influence on the built environment goes of the UNGC we have included additional indicators over far beyond engineering. Our global, multi-disciplinary and above our corporate reporting requirements. consultancy practice delivers everything from traditional management consultancy, to environmental impact assessment, master-planning, and energy strategy services. Our clients range from city governments, to major corporations, international NGOs, utility companies, property developers and architects, and we have been helping local governance organisations across England Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Arup / Communication on Progress 2012 1 deliver sustainable development and regeneration for over 60 years. A better Way The power to influence the future of the built environment carries with it a weighty responsibility. Many of Arup’s projects leave a legacy to subsequent generations: a legacy that outlasts any one individual. With over 10,000 projects going on at any one time, Arup is doing the best possible job for current and future generations. Putting sustainability at the heart of its work is one of the ways in which Arup exerts a positive influence on the wider world. Put simply, Arup people are driven to find a better way. Arup’s independent ownership structure gives conviction a place in its decision-making, alongside the needs of clients and commercial imperatives. The result is clear-sighted, thoughtful decisions about its priorities as a business and as a member of society. ““…our lives are inextricably mixed up with those of our fellow human beings, and that there can be no real happiness in isolation…” Sir Ove Arup, November 1970 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 B B: Human Rights In this section: −− Principle1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights −− Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment Our approach to human rights covers the following areas: • Diversity • Self Esteem • Life Balance • Fair Reward • Effective Workplace • Integrity • Personal Development • Acting Honourably • Social Responsibility • Respect Our mission statement “ To shape a better world”. Arup supports and respects the protection of internationally • To enhance properity and the quality of life proclaimed human rights and ensures that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. • To deliver real value • To have the freedom to be creative and learn Our Global Human Rights Code of Practice, states that: Arup is founded on the principles of ensuring that our Systems people’s work is interesting, rewarding and stimulated by a drive for excellence in an environment where people’s lives are inextricably linked with those of other human beings. • Key Speech: A guiding principle of the firm is that everyone accords A speech written and delivered by our founder to others the rights that individuals claim for themselves and accept the moral and humanitarian values that this embraces. A person cannot be treated just as a link in a chain of command but as someone whose happiness and prosperity is a concern of all. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 4 Arup /Communication on Progress 2012 Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets our our core values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the high-level framework that guides appropriate behaviour within the firm. The speech sets out the firm’s humanitarian attitude which “leads to the creation of an organisation which is human and friendly in spite of being large and efficient... this attitude also dictates that we should act honourably in our dealings with our own and other people...Humanitarianism also implies a social conscience, a wish to do socially useful work, and to join hands with others fighting for the same values” All employees receive a copy of the key speech as part of their induction. For a copy of the key speech, please see attachment 2. • Global Human Rights Code of Practice: Arup’s Global Human Rights Code of Practice sets out the firm’s expectation and approach on human rights. It is available to all staff via the company intranet. Please see attachment 1 for a copy of the global human rights code of • Disciplinary Procedure: practice. The disciplinary procedure is designed to be • Global Harrassment Code of Practice: supportive and to encourage improvements in individual conduct and performance. Arup believes that all employees have a right Disciplinary action follows for individuals who to be treated with dignity and respect while abuse Arup’s policies and procedures, including at work and when representing the company the Global Human Rights Code of Practice, outside work. The Global Harrassment Code and for any “actions which undermine working of Practice informs employees of the type of relationships with colleagues and / or other behaviour that is not acceptable and provides organisations or which may compromise our employees who are subjected to harrassment integrity as a firm and our honourable dealings with a means of redress without fear of reprisal. with people. For a copy of the Global Harrassment Code of Practice please see attachment 3. • Sustainable Procurement: • Global Health & Safety Policy: Arup’s commitment to Human Rights in its procurement is managed through the sustainable Arup promotes the health and safety at work procurement plan which feeds into Arup’s of all employees including temporary and sustainability strategies. The plan is built on six contract staff, and of other persons affected themes which are: by our actions. The firm has set objectives to provide health and safety training, specialist • Environmental Management advice, information instruction and supervision • Supplier equality and diversity as may be necessary to personnel at all levels. The firm operates within a management system • Support of fair practices in our supply that is registered as meeting the requirements base of OHSAS 18001 or equivalent. Please see • Ethical Trading attachment 4 for a copy of our Global Health & Safety Policy. • Promoting fair employment practices • Community benefits The plan contains specific categories of goods and services that are defined as priority areas through a sustainability risk assessment incorporating these themes. These priority areas are then managed through individual Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Arup / Communication on Progress 2012 5 category plans developed to solely focus on • LA8: We have provided asbestos awareness improving the sustainable procurement of the training in the UK to 138 people so far this goods and services. The category plans are year. used to embed our sustainability requirements • Accident Incident Rate: 0.26 per 1000 in our processes for supplier selection, goods/ employees. services specifications, contracts and contract management. • Accident Frequency Rate: 0.013 per 100000 employee hours. The supplier’s sustainability ethos is a key • Lost time accidents per 100,000 employees 186. feature within Arup’s tendering process to select responsible suppliers. Furthermore, Arup works to engage its suppliers in working together to deliver improved sustainability performance. Activities • Communication of Policies and Procedures All employees are made aware of Arup’s policies and procedures with respect to human rights. All policies are available on Arup’s employee intranet. Sustainable Procurement Activities Sustainable procurement activities differ depending on the particular features of the goods and/or services purchased within each category. Examples of our activities in this area include: • Working with our catering supplier to source and purchase fair traded catering items such as tea and coffee and verifying the authenticity of the stated certification. • Ensuring the application of the London Living Wage for contracts with our suppliers of on-site services such as catering, cleaning and security. • Purchase of 100% renewable CCL exempt electricity. • Investment and purchase of reporting tool Credit 360 to improve our environmental reporting. • Reviewing occurrences of anti-competitive practice within our supply base. Indicators • LA6: We have a pro-active UKMEA Health & Safety Committee which meets every three months with 28 representatives from across the region and business groups. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 6 Arup /Communication on Progress 2012 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 C C: Labour In this section: −− Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining −− Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour −− Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour −− Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation a wider diversity drive. We believe improving gender Commitment balance will help us to nurture creativity and innovation, tap hidden capacity for growth and improved competitiveness, Arup is committed to the principles listed above. We and positively impact financial performance. Our Diversity recognise that to produce work of high quality, to maintain Champion signed the CEO charter for Women in Science, our reputation for innovation and creativity and to engineering and Technology and our Chairman has signed understand and delight our clients we need to fully embrace the UN Global Compact CEO Statement of Support for the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse Women’s Empowerment Principles. workforce can offer. We work to ensure that everyone feels that their Our mission statement contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated through our process and through our training and development, which will encourage knowledge sharing, intellectual growth and stimulation. “ To shape a better world”. Subject to the relevant laws in the countries where we • To enhance properity and the quality of life operate, we fully respect the right of our people to freedom • To deliver real value of association and representation. • To have the freedom to be creative and learn We aim to ensure that our people have satisfactory wages and working conditions and that there is no exploitation of labour. Systems We do not employ individuals that are younger than the legal school leaving age. • Key Speech: We ensure that Arup people work in an environment that is A speech written and delivered by our founder free from all forms of discrimination gender, race, origin, Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we background, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, are, and sets our our core values and guiding disability or age and that they are valued as individuals principles. The Key Speech is the high-level and treated with dignity and respect. framework that guides appropriate behaviour within the firm. One of the six core principles Addressing gender imbalance in Arup is our priority in Human Rights Human Rights Labour Labour Environment Anti Corruption 8 Arup /Communication on Progress 2012 is a “humane organisation” which should and by running our business in an equitable result in satisfied members. All employees and rewarding way, we create the space for receive a copy of the key speech as part of their staff to innovate and lead in new areas for the induction. For a copy of the key speech, please benefit of us and our clients. For a copy of the see attachment 2. Corporate Report 2011, please see attachment 7. • Freedom of Association and Representation: • Equal Opportunities Procedure: Arups terms and conditions are not governed by Global and regional equal opportunities a collective agreement. procedures exist to ensure that employment practices are applied fairly and equally. These In 1977, the founder of the firm, Sir Ove Arup, procedures cover: recruitment, training, career gifted the firm to itself, creating a visionary development and promotion, pay, selection arrangement based on trusts, which are for redundancy, grievance and monitoring. responsible for the long-term custodianship Every member of Arup has a responsibility to of the firm for the benefit of past, present and uphold our equal opportunities codes of practice future employees. Membership of the trusts in order to ensure that everyone with whom includes past and current employees. As a we work is treated equally and honourably. self-owning organization, we have no external The leaders have a particular responsibility shareholders, which is fundamental to the way to ensure that grievances are investigated, we are organized and how we operate. that confidentiality is maintained and that appropriate action is taken. We have developed peer to peer • Diversity and Inclusion: Code of Practice communications channels and we have effective formal and informal channels between Arup’s global Diversity and Inclusion Code management and staff. We also have in place of Practice sets out its aim to “recognise and ‘Airtime’ a UK forum for communication and respect each others’ differences and strive consultation. Airtime provides the opportunity to build a working environment where our for us to influence and shape our internal different values and perspectives are actively world, recognise the diversity of our staff and harnessed to create the best solutions for our enable them to develop holistic, innovative equally diverse client base”. The diversity and and creative approaches to all challenges, and inclusiveness of our workforce is supported by work together to provide an environment which our ethics on Sustainability and Human Rights. ultimately addresses all aspirations in both Arup’s principles of Diversity and Inclusion personal and professional terms. Meetings extend to our clients, our suppliers and all those are held between leadership and elected staff with whom we choose to work. For a copy of representatives twice yearly. Airtime has a our global Diversity and Inclusion Code of number of key principles: Practice please see attachment 8. • Enable leadership and elected staff • Conduct, Performance and Disciplinary representatives to exchange information Procedure: and consult on possible changes and draft policies of significance. Our global Conduct and Performance Code • Enable ideas to be harvested from of Practice provides guidance on the standards the body of the firm through the staff expected from all our members. The firm representatives for the leadership to takes its commitment to equal opportunities consider in making decisions on issues very seriously. Any acts of discrimination that significantly affect our professional by its members will result in disciplinary lives action, including termination of employment if appropriate, in accordance with the firm’s • Improve the flow of information between disciplinary procedures. all members of staff. • Harassment Procedure: • Corporate Report 2011: Global and local harrassment procedures are Pages 12 and 13 of our corporate report are in place. Any complaint of harassment will be related to our people. Our people are essential taken seriously and the necessary resources to us creating a sustainable business. By deployed to investigate and resolve the matter making our work environments stimulating, Human Rights Human Rights Labour Labour Environment Anti Corruption Arup / Communication on Progress 2012 9 and take appropriate action. Broadcasts. The broadcasts are intended to engage staff and show them what issues are • Grievance: Code of Practice: being considered. Staff can raise any concerns or issues they have with their elected regional Arup believes that all its members should representative. have the opportunity to discuss any matter of concern with the person to whom they report. • SET Fair Standards In most cases employment related matters are likely to be resolved informally in this way. If, Arup has been awarded an ‘Achieving’ SET however, the outcome of informal discussions Fair Standard Award for excellence in gender is unsatisfactory then the issue can be addressed equality best practice by the UKRC. This is through the grievance procedure. For a copy of awarded to businesses and organisations in our global Grievance Code of Practice please science, engineering and technology (SET), see attachment 9. the built environment and IT. Di Barber, Senior Consultant at the UKRC, said: “Arup fully merits a SET Fair Standard award • Young Workers: for ‘Achieving’ robust policy, practice and process in tackling gender inequality in There are special UK laws to protect the science, engineering and technology. Arup has employment rights of young workers (aged 16 demonstrated excellence in gender equality best to 18) which Arup adheres to. These concern practice within the organisation.” health and safety, what jobs they can do, when they can work, and how many hours to work. • Sustainable Procurement Vision: Arup does not employ young people under the age of 16 in line with legislation. Our sustainable procurement vision includes creating diversity as an objective. We communicate this to new suppliers at tendering Activities stage and have revised our sourcing practices, supplier questionnaires, tender scoring criteria and supplier contracts. We hold supplier • Diversity Strategy: conferences to inform SME and BME’s about Arup’s sustainability vision and objectives, and In 2010, the UKMEA Board approved the to share best practice. region’s Diversity Strategy. This is regularly reviewed at board meetings and informs our • ConnectOut: approach to promotions, communications and training. Arup is continuing to address wider ConnectOut is the firm’s Lesbian, Gay, diversity issues on a global level and diversity Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) network. leaders from each of the five regions meet to The ConnectOut May 2012 event was a formulate and agree a unified approach to lecture, delivered at the firm’s headquarters move towards a more diverse organisation. The in central London, to a packed audience. The Diversity Strategy is communicated internally lecturer, Lord Browne, spoke movingly about through a variety of channels, including: film, his experiences as a gay man in business. intranet, internal publications, Airtime (our staff During his address, the former Group Chief forum for communications and consultation) Executive of BP outlined a number of key and your.ideas@arup.com (staff emails to steps he believes are necessary to create a the chairman). Replies to your.ideas are more inclusive environment for the LGBT published annonymously to encourage further community. Commenting on the event, Alan communication. Belfield, Arup Group Board Member and Global Diversity Champion, said; ”Arup • Airtime advocates a work environment that respects, welcomes and supports LGBT professionals, Airtime meetings are held twice yearly as a as well as empowering them to perform to their forum for elected staff representatives to discuss fullest potential and contribute to the greater internal changes. A record of each meeting is goals of the firm. John Browne’s message was issued to all staff in the form of the Airtime Human Rights Human Rights Labour Labour Environment Anti Corruption 10 Arup /Communication on Progress 2012 inspirational. He is an important role model for • Arup was listed in the Times Top 50 this generation of businessmen and women and Employers for Women 2011 and 2012. the next.” • ConnectWomen: ConnectWomen is an internal network that improves the opportunities for women in Arup, to enable them to maximise their valued contribution to the firm, our clients and our industry. The ConnectWomen Network is open to all Arup employees (regardless of profession, position or sex) who support our aim of improving opportunities for women within our industry. Indicators • EC5: Arup does not pay below the minimum wage. • LA15: % of women employed at Management and other grades in the UKMEA. Grade Grade Grade All All 7 8 9 leaders grades 18.7% 13.5% 7.5% 15% 30% • Operating in the traditionally male-orientated industry, 30% of our worldwide workforce are women. Our global 2011-2012 target is 35%. • In 2011, we had three women on our UKMEA Board. • In 2011 our female graduate intake was 31% and against an industry average of 23%. • In 2011, 15% of management positions (Grades 7-9) were made up of women. Our global 20112012 target is 15%. • In the UK Arup won the CIBSE Employer of the Year Awards, Best Large Company 2011. • In the UK Arup won the Private Business Awards , employer of the Year Award 2011. • Arup won the UK Resource Centre for Women in Science, Engineering and Technology SET Fair Standard ‘ Achieving ‘ Award for excellence in gender equality best practice 2011. • Devilla Mitchell, Arup Director, won the UK Resource Centre for Women in Science, Engineering and Technology Women of Outstanding Achievement Award Award for Inspiration and Leadership in business and Industry 2011. Human Rights Human Rights Labour Labour Environment Anti Corruption Arup / Communication on Progress 2012 11 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 D D: Environment In this section: −− Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges −− Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility −− Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Our mission statement Sustainability is fundamental to our thinking at Arup, helping us to deliver on our mission ‘to shape a better world”. We are taking steps to minimise the carbon “ To shape a better world”. emissions associated with our operations and will endeavour to prevent pollution within the scope of our • To enhance properity and the quality of life activities. Our offices are the second biggest contributor to • To deliver real value Arup’s carbon footprint, after travel. We are committed to taking a resource efficient, sustainable approach to the way • To have the freedom to be creative and learn we run our offices. Our Foresight and Innovation team is dedicated to Systems managing the firm’s global innovation programme, gathering and taking views on emerging technologies, and sharing these experiences with Arup offices and our clients • Key Speech: around the world. Every year we invest a percentage of our profits to fund this research. A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we As a firm of consultants, the biggest impact we can have on are, and sets our our core values and guiding the environment is through our work with clients. We try to principles. The Key Speech is the high-level embed sustainability in everything that we do in the way framework that guides appropriate behaviour we run our business, our projects, and our physical impacts within the firm. Sir Ove Arup, established on the external environment. We help our clients to face the the firm over 60 years ago with the principles challenges of sustainability by investing in our passion for of ‘total design’ very much at the fore the turning ideas into tangible tools and methodologies. integration of the design process and the interdependence of all the professions. He We extend our influence at every level, from individual also championed the social value of innovation buildings and large portofolio owners to cities and and the humanitarian purpose of good design. Governments. Through our many partnerships and Today we understand this as a commitment to committee memberships we disseminate best practice sustainability. For a copy of the key speech, sustainable design. We strive to deliver better solutions for please see attachment 2. our clients and create a lasting and positive legacy for future • Global Sustainability Strategy generations. Our Sustainability Strategy offers a framework that sets out our sustainability expectations Human Rights Human Rights Labour Environment Environment Anti Corruption Arup / Communication on Progress 2012 13 from the top levels of the firm. It defines our and sustainability experts to help the firm approach, and it enables us to maintain our support clients’ sustainability goals. The tool position of leadership in this area. appraises projects based on key themes such as transport, biodiversity, culture, employment • Corporate Report and skills. Results are presented graphically on the unique SPeAR® diagram – a traffic light In the 2011 Corporate Report, we celebrate system indicates performance in each area. The some of the achievements from the calendar software also generates a tabulated summary year 2011 under the framework provided of the input data so the process is robust and by our Sustainability Policy: Our Business, auditable. Our People, Our Facilities and Our External Relationships. Each section contains a chart SPeAR® output is available in a range of reporting on our performance against the key languages including Chinese, German, Italian, performance indicators in our Strategy collated Polish and Spanish. from all our regions. Where we measured it, we have included historical data to demonstrate The software can be used throughout a project our trend in performance.For a copy of the where sustainability appraisal is required, from Corporate Report 2011 please see attachment 7. initial design to operation. • Environmental Management System (EMS) A strateguc approach has been taken to the implementation of EMS within Arup. Implementation occurs at the group level, with our offices seeking certification locally to the requirements of ISO 14001:2004. • Risk assessment Whilst all of the environmental impacts of our activities require management, the assessment of each activity and consequent impact is used as a guide to prioritise action through the environmental management system. This assessment results in a significance rating, calculated by considering the likelihood, severity and legal implications. • Audits and reviews of sustainability performance We carry out annual internal system audits, regular project audits and an annual • APIRE management review to ensure compliance with our internal processes and management of our ASPIRE provides organisations with an environmental aspects.Our environmental audit analytical framework that comprehensively process contributes to ongoing monitoring and addresses the three ‘pillars’ of sustainability, improvement of environmentally sustainable environment, society, economics and uniquely performance. recognises institutions as a fourth critical • SPeAR® dimension in developing country contexts. Our global Sustainable Project Appraisal It uses over 90 detailed indicators to ensure Routine software tool SPeAR® has undergone that you are asking the right questions and a refresh to extend it’s effectiveness and considering the critical issues. It is built on help clients get a better understanding of the SPEAR platform and developed by Arup interdependancies to create virtuous ciycles of International Development and Engineers sustainable improvement. The software takes Against Poverty. into account rating tools including LEED®, • CEEQUAL BREEAM and CEEQUAL. Arup is a CEEQUAL Project Partner and SPeAR® was developed by Arup’s software member of the Technical Advisory Group. Arup has been involved with each stage in the Human Rights Human Rights Labour Environment Environment Anti Corruption 14 Arup /Communication on Progress 2012 design development of CEEQUAL. We have • OvaGreen two Verifiers and 28 Assessors. We have not scored less than excellent in any award to date OvaGreen is a global network of environmental and have achieved one of the first 8 CEEQUAL volunteers in Arup’s offices. They coordinate awards and won one ofthe first Outstanding environmental initiatives within our offices, Achievement Awards. we have a running total including: recycling waste, reducing energy, of 16 awards at interim and final stages. reviewing our purchase of products and • BREEAM and LEED® improving our use of transport. • Sustainable Procurement Vision Arup currently has 47 trained, or in training, BREEAM assessors who have assessed a total Arup’s Sustainable Procurement Vision aims to of 169 Arup projects in the UK to date. Arup improve the environmental, social and ethical has nearly 170 projects registered with the performance of its business by addressing USGBC and over 130 projects certified through these areas in the procurement of its goods and the LEED Green Building Rating System services. We communicate this to new suppliers around the globe. We have over 250 LEED® at tendering stage and have revised our sourcing assessors, with new additions regularly, in practices, supplier questionnaires, tender nearly every discipline of the firm. scoring criteria and supplier contracts. We hold • Sustainability Policy Statement supplier conferences to inform SME and BME’s about our vision and objectives, and to share Arup’s Sustainability Policy states that the firm best practice. For a copy of Arup’s Sustainable will implement practices that promote economic Procurement Vision Statement please see security, social betterment and environmental attachment 10. stewardship and will strive for continuous • Arup Management System improvement of performance in these areas. For a copy of the sustainability policy statement The Arup Management Systems embrace please see attachment 11. Health and Safety, Quality and Environmental • SusNet Management. This provides all staff with appropriate procedures, processes and the SusNet is Arup’s intranet site for the accompanying documentation and forms in a Sustainability Skills, guidelines, tools and single source. As a result some documentation technologies. The site is an ‘umbrella’ or still refers to the CMS and others have been gateway for all skills in Arup that relate produced as part of the new AMS. Arup has to sustainability. It provides access to an implementation programme covering this information across a range of other sites to change, completed by April 2012, and including cover all aspects of sustainability at a business achieving a “single certificate” to ISO 9001, and project level. It also has a forum where ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 covering all UK people can ask sustainability / environmental offices. questions and quickly get a response from an expert within Arup. Activities • Global Sustainability Strategy In 2010, we launched our Global Sustainability Strategy. The strategy and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) act as an overall barometer of how we are performing as a firm, and is used to communicate our progress both internally and externally. These KPIs are cascaded to regional plans. Our Sustainability Strategy is split into four areas: our business, our people, our facilities and our external relationships. Our global 2011-2012 target is for 35% of staff to Human Rights Human Rights Labour Environment Environment Anti Corruption Arup / Communication on Progress 2012 15 have received sustainability training. Our results for the 2010 2011 year were 33%. • AssetMap Our building retrofitting services are underpinned by our proprietary software tool AssetMap, which brings together architectural, engineering and financial risk analysis in one place to enable us to quickly analyse the economic potential and potential to improve the environmental performance of a client’s building or property portfolio. It helps us to advise clients on where they might focus any physical interventions. • Climate Change Adaptation Framework (CCAF) Due to the increasing prominence of climate change, there is a growing need to carry out a general ‘climate change appraisal’ for projects, be they a single building or master plan. Arup has developed a framework that guides the user through a structured appraisal process. This takes into account all the factors that are deemed to be important and relevant. It then provides an objective ‘score’ and displays the information graphically. The framework divides the issues into two groups, mitigation and adaptation, which are then broken down into a number of ‘sectors’ shown as segments • Existing buildings of a circle. Mitigation concerns ‘carbon management’, which is the reduction of With 40% of the UK’s energy usage and 50% greenhouse gas emissions that cause climate of GHG emissions being attributed to existing change. Adaptation concerns the provision of buildings, Arup is committed to working to increased physical resilience to anticipated reduce the impact these assets have on the climate changes. communities in which they are located. We have • Shaping the Sustainability Agenda extensive experience of assisting the property sector to embrace sustainability and transform All around the world, Arup people are actively their property portfolios. Our expertise covers involved in external organisations that promote the complete property lifecycle from the and progress sustainabiltiy. This is a two design of new green buildings and guidance -way activity, as they are also able to bring on property acquisitions, to the retrofitting of knowledge back into the firm, ensuring we existing assets and development of strategies are at the forefront of the latest thinking on to reduce energy use and change behaviours. sustainability. Looking to the future we are already considering how issues like new legislation, • Helping cities tackle climate change Responsible Property Investing and net zero will impact the property market and are working As the sole strategic advisor to the C40, to help our clients around the world be ready to a group of 40 of the world’s largest cities meet these challenges and avoid the risk of asset committed to climate change, we are working obsolescence. with six member cities to deliver actionorientated UrbanLife workshops. By taking a multidisciplinary approach and fusing the practical with the political, we are helping deliver robust, realistic solutions to a specific challenge facing each city. Arup and the C40 won the Management Consultancies Association Environemntal Prize for their analysis of how Human Rights Human Rights Labour Environment Environment Anti Corruption 16 Arup /Communication on Progress 2012 the world’s megacities are tackling climate (CCL) excempt, with the remainder being change. clean or renewable energy or combined heat and power (CHP). Energy use data for our two • UrbanLife Report largest London offices is made available to staff via our intranet. In the last year gas use in 13 Arup’s UrbanLife reports capture the strategic Fitzroy Street (redeveloped in 2003) has been and practical interventions cities can make to between 0 and 50% less than ECON19 Good tackle climate change. The second ‘The Smart Practice values. In our largest, more recently Solution for Cities’ gives recommendations redeveloped, office 8 Fitzroy Street, gas use and case studies demonstrating a ‘Smart City’ has been at least 73% less than ECON19 Good approach to urban development. Practice values. • Video Conferencing: Since 2001, we have invested in, and make extensive use of, video conferencing and teleconferencing. These technologies have enabled effective communication whilst reducing the need for excessive travel. Globally, in the last six months, we have made an average of 1150 video conference calls per month. This equates to a 21% increase for the same six month period last year. • Uniflow printing: The installation of photocopier Uniflow print management software in the UK has been followed by • Control of waste in our projects environments installation in the Madrid and Berlin offices. This continues to reduce wasted prints by We develop our designs for built assets with an automatically deleting those not collected awareness of the need to reduce constructionphase site generated waste though the use of within 24 hours. standard sizes and lengths of materials; through • Nightwatchman: A power management solution encouraging the use of off-site pre-fabrication that controls power schemes and shuts down of elements. For example in the case of the MEP connected desktop computers at a scheduled works this may include plantrooms, pumpsets, time, so that any computers still on after staff risers, toilets, etc. Our designs reference statutory have left will not consume power all night. and best practice requirements, and achieve credits within BREEAM or other green building • Bicycle facilities: Arup has cycle storage with rating systems. cyclist changing rooms and showers at all main offices in London. There is an active employee • Sustainable office environments community of 859 registered cyclists called BUG (Bicycle User Group). Arup offers a Arup promotes multiple sustainability initiatives cycle to work scheme in the UK to encourage within the office environment focusing on reuse, employees to enter a tax efficient bicycle rental recycling, energy consumption and behavioural agreement for cycling to work. This year’s change. We encourage our staff to consider employee uptake is 165 cyclists. their environmental impact and how we can work together sustainably. In 2011-2012 a large • Procurement: Arup has achieved the Major number of offices achieved ISO14001certification of London’s green procurement code Gold including Amsterdam, Istanbul, Moscow, standard for the last two years. Belgrade, Manila and Tokyo. The Ho Chi Minh • Stationery from “green / core” products: Arup City, Mumbai and Taipei offices achieved triple has a core list of stationary and office supplies certifications, covering ISO9001, ISO14001 from recycled, environmentally friendly and and OHSAS18001. This exceeds our 2011sustainable materials, which encourages the 2012 global target of 95%. Our AMS has also business to identify with the economic and scored 95.4% for Health & Safety, 98.9% for environmental sustainability pillars. Environment and 99.2% for Quality in a UVDB Verify Category B2 Assessment. • Office waste: Our offices follow the principles of waste prevention, reduction, re-use, • Office energy use and supply: 85% of our UK recycling,/composting and energy recovery. We offices’ energy supply is Climate Change Levy apply waste segregation to minimise disposal to landfill, for the waste which is produced. Colour Human Rights Human Rights Labour Environment Environment Anti Corruption Arup / Communication on Progress 2012 17 • We delivered the sustainability concept for coded containers clearly identify the correct Europe’s first LEED® Platinum hotel, the Hotel waste locations for our office staff. Amstelkwartier Bestek in Amsterdam. This • Recycling – London offices: Arup’s waste concept included heating energy savings of up management system is set up to segregate and to 65%. maximise recycling for a number of waste • We also delivered the multidisciplinary streams. For general waste, a number of waste engineering for the largest, non-profit LEED®collection options have been implemented. NC Platinum building in the world , the Bill & • Pocket Habitat Melinda Gates Foundation Campus in Seattle, USA. This building expresses the Foundation’s Pocket Habitat is a unique modular vegetation overall philosophy of being a good steward of system for promoting biodiversity on roofs the environment and good neighbour. or brownfield areas. Each pocket is an independent unit made from recycled carpet • Arup developed sustainable design principles waste, containing mixed recycled substrates for the Imizamo Yethu Primary School in South and wildflower seed. They are manufactured Africa, to manage materials and water use and at Remploy who ‘equip disabled people with carbon neutrality and to provide a water ecology the skills and confidence they need to build learning environment . enduring careers’. • Our RIBA award winning BREEAM ‘Excellent ‘ rated design for BSkyB is the most sustainable broadcasting studios in Europe. • At the UK 2011 BREEAM Assessor Awards Arup won Assessor Company of the Year, non Domestic. • In the UK we are the first company to achieve Gold status certification in the Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply, Sustainability Procurement Review for sustainable procurement. • At the 2011 Supply Management awards:, Arup was shortlisted for ‘Best contribution to corporate responsibility’. • Other Further environmentally responsible initiatives include using FSC or equivalent sourced materials (e.g. furniture), fair trade or equivalent on coffee, tea, sugar, and rainwater harvesting in our recently renovated offices. Over 83% of our office paper is FSC, with the remainder recycled or accredited to other environmental classificiations. Indicators • In 2010-2011, 25% of projects set sustainability objectives. • 35% of Arup staff have received relevant sustainability training. • 99% of Arup staff are working in offices with an EMS certified to IS01 4001. • Carbon emissions per full-time employee per year (tonnes CO2) was 3.7. Human Rights Human Rights Labour Environment Environment Anti Corruption 18 Arup /Communication on Progress 2012 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 E E: Anti Corruption In this section: −− Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment Our mission statement “ To shape a better world”. • To enhance properity and the quality of life • To deliver real value • To have the freedom to be creative and learn Systems • Key Speech: A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets our our core values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the high-level framework that guides appropriate behaviour within the firm. One of the six core principles is “straight and honorable dealings”. Our global codes of practice support this and appropriate Our Ethical Standards Policy, defines our core objectives as policy level statements are supported by to: local procedures as necessary. All employees receive a copy of the key speech as part of their −− commit to acting honourably and with integrity in induction. For a copy of the key speech, please all its business dealings see attachment 2. −− ensure that no financial or other inducements to • Anti Corruption Links Our UK intranet links gain or retain work are offered or accepted by or to the Global Infrastructure Anti Corruption on behalf of Arup Centre (GIACC) with Guidance on the Bribery Act 2010 for the Infrastructure Sector. −− endeavour to raise the ethical standards of global business in the market in which we operate • Ovacode: −− provide such training, advice, information as may Ovacode sets our conditions of employment be necessary to personnel at all levels for all staff employed by Arup. This reinforces −− integrate ethical considerations into our design and our global conduct and performance code of business decisions practice and ethical standards policy. Ovacode also now provides an Anti-Bribery and Due −− provide pro bono services where appropriate and Diligence Check List of issues to consider when engage with the wider community. working on a project. • Global conduct and performance code of practice. Human Rights Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Anti Corruption Corruption 20 Arup /Communication on Progress 2012 “All members of Arup are expected to act in • Disciplinary Procedure: a professional and competent manner in all aspects of their work. In support of this, the The disciplinary procedure is designed to be firm’s role shall, wherever practicable, be to supportive and to encourage improvements give advice and guidance in accordance with its in individual conduct and performance. disciplinary procedure”. Please see attachment Disciplinary action follows for individuals 13 for a copy of the global conduct and who abuse Arup’s policies and procedures, performance code of practice. including the Ethical Standards Policy, and for any “actions which undermine working • Ethical Standards Policy: relationships with colleagues and / or other organisations or which may compromise our This sets our ethical objectives as a firm integrity as a firm and our honourable dealings (as listed previously under the commitment with people. Please see attachment 6 for a copy heading). Please see attachment 12 for a copy of of our disciplinary procedure. this policy. • Ethics Global Code of Practice / Procedure: Activities This sets out our ethical values and is intended to provide guidance on acceptable business • Global Board representative / champion: practice to ensure that these values, principles and standards are being met across a range of Robert Care, Chair of the UKMEA Board areas including: financial indusements, third is the firm’s global champion for ethics. He parties, gifts and entertainment, competition, works with others across the firm to create and confidentiality, conduct and performance approve policies and procedures and to continue at work, client activity, conflict of interest, the ongoing communications and education in political contributions and asking questions and this area. raising concerns. Please see attachment 12 for a copy of this procedure. • Increased Communications • Ethics Guidance on Making Ethical Decisions: Since his nomination as global board champion This gives a five stop process to assist staff with for ethics, Robert has released regular email making ethical decisions. Please see attachment communications, video guidance and updates, 12 for a copy of this guidance. and created, launched and communicated a dedidicated intranet area for ethics, which is kept up to date with the latest relevant policies and procedures.   Human Rights Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Corruption Anti Arup / Communication on Progress 2012 21 • Global Ethics Code of Practice and Procedure As previously mentioned, this procedure provides practical guidance on acceptable behaviour across a range of areas. • Training and Development A training programme for all staff underlines the importance attached to high standards in all our business activities. The training is compulsory for all staff. Training is delivered via an e-learning course. Indicators • Zero offences for corruption or bribery in the firm. • 100% of new employees received the key speech, setting out our guiding values and principles. Human Rights Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Anti Corruption Corruption 22 Arup /Communication on Progress 2012 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 F F: Partnerships Partnerships Partnerships Our open approach encourages collaboration between our staff, clients and partners, as well as community stakeholders. United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) In October 2010, UNOPS (the United Nations Office for Project Services) and Arup signed a three year Long Term Agreement/Memorandum of Understanding for the provision of infrastructure based services. The purpose of the Agreement is to make shared standards, tools and personnel exchanges available to allow UNOPS to rapidly mobilize to project sites. The MoU aspect of the agreement also encourages participation in joint activities to improve project outcomes and strengthen the capacity of UNOPS, Arup and/or their clients, in respect to infrastructure planning, implementation, maintenance and management. The agreement is managed jointly by the Physical Infrastructure Practice and Arup International Development (Arup ID). It enables UNOPS project managers to draw upon UNOPS South Sudan Renewable Energy project for teacher the unique expertise within Arup from a network of designers, training colleges photo by Chris Brosz, Arup planners, engineers, consultants and technical specialists across the globe. Projects have been undertaken in locations including Haiti (neighborhood infrastructure reconstruction plans and debris clearance), Panama (Humanitarian Hub Design) and South Sudan (renewable energy technologies for proposed rural Rockefeller Foundation teacher training colleges). Arup is the Asia-Pacific Regional Partner in the Rockefeller Foundation funded Asian Cities Climate Change Resilience Network (ACCCRN), where we have been working with other program partners to deliver improvements to climate change resilience in ten pilot cities across India, Vietnam, Thailand and Indonesia since 2008. Arup’s key role has been to work with the 10 cities to help create more technically rigorous resilience to shocks and stresses from climate change and other risks. For example, Arup is working directly with Mercy Corps Indonesia to develop and deliver training to local city teams for climate change resilience projects. We are also providing technical assistance to the cities of Bandar Lampung and Semarang on urban improvement projects such as hydrology, drainage, urban planning, rainwater harvesting, solid waste management, flood management strategy, river restoration UNOPS Panama Humanitarian Hub Design-visualisation by and general capacity building.Arup has also contributed to Arup publications on urban climate change resilience which have been published in to peer-reviewed journals. In furtherance of MoU objectives, UNOPS invited a representative from Arup ID to attend the UNOPS Project Management Foundation Course in Copenhagen in June 2012. The course provides UNOPS project managers with a framework for implementation of projects via UNOPS processes and procedures. By developing a deeper understanding of the way in which UNOPS and Arup deliver projects and sharing knowledge and experience we will improve future project outcomes for both parties. C40 Advisory Role Secondments Arup’s extensive work in climate change adaptation enables We work closely with our clients in assigning each us to provide up-to-date advice on international best secondment to identify the appropriate specialists for each practice, as demonstrated by our role as advisor to the C40 role. Our seconded staff provide an essential role on these cities group. Arup assisted with the creation of the C40’s projects. They integrate within client teams, while drawing report on Climate Action in Megacities. The outcome is on their Arup colleagues’ experience and specialisms. Our a detailed catalogue of the actions C40 cities have taken experience has shown that secondments are very successful to address climate change and those they are planning or on both sides providing our staff with an insight into considering. It also contains an inventory of powers cities another organisation’ while giving our clients access hold to help deliver carbon reduction policies, programs to a very highly qualified and capable individual with and incentives in key sectors. This provides a guide for the experience and skills that the client may not have. We often investment in large scale multi-lateral initiatives to adapt to find that Arup staff ‘shine’ in their secondments and clients changing climate. tend to want to hang on to them as long as they can! Secondments are also useful in the training of our engineers. Experience ‘on site’ or out of the Arup offices is Sabre Schools Ghana an important part of a young engineer’s development. Arup collaborated with the Sabre Charitable Trust and We have seconded staff to many clients including: The Davis Langdon LLP, providing pro-bono strategic advice, LDA, The Sorrell Foundation, Imperial College London, design, site supervision and training, sustainability University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation, assessment and construction manuals for two prototype BBC, East London Line Project, Environment Agency, schools, completed in November 2011. Prototype evaluation Highways Agency, Carbon Trust, Eon, CTRL, Procter & and re-design reduced build cost by 5%, equivalent to Gamble, and Greater London Authority. the cost of 9 intensive teacher training courses. and build programme was reduced by 15%. The buildings achieved In addition, we have also undertaken reciprocal an Excellent ASPIRE Sustainability Assessment and users secondments with contractors, to develop employees’ site report classrooms as being lighter, cooler and quieter than experience and capability. government built schools. Attendance at the first school has increased by 190% and community groups have repeatedly reported satisfaction at the inclusion of their ideas. “Our partnership with Arup brings credibility to a KG School construction programme which is fast developing a reputation as being the best in Ghana.” Dominic Bond, Managing Director, The Sabre Trust. Arup Communication on Progress 2012 25 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2012 1 Attachment: −− Global Human Rights Code of Practice Global Code of Practice Page 1 of 2 Human Rights: Global Code of Practice CODE OF PRACTICE Arup is founded on the principles of ensuring that our people’s work is interesting, rewarding and stimulated by a drive for excellence in an environment where people’s lives are inextricably linked with those of other human beings. A guiding principle of the firm is that everyone accords to others the rights that individuals claim for themselves and accept the moral and humanitarian values that this embraces. A person cannot be treated just as a link in a chain of command but as someone whose happiness and prosperity is a concern of all. Purpose Our approach on human rights reflects this by: Value Diversity. Ensuring that Arup people work in an environment that is free from all forms of discrimination and that they are valued as individuals and treated with dignity and respect. Discrimination on the grounds of race, age, religion or gender or sexual orientation is in conflict with out guiding principles. Self Esteem. Providing an environment that is free from any form of harassment or intimidation by eliminated any form of behaviour or abuse that could affect an individual’s self esteem, including bullying and victimisation. Life Balance. Helping people to more easily balance their work, domestic and personal lives Fair Reward. Fairly compensating employees through wages and benefits for their labours. Providing for rewards and other means for staff to share in the firm’s success. Effective Workplace. Giving people a safe, clean, comfortable and healthy working environment that provides for the needs of all employees including those with disabilities. Integrity. Operating in an environment where we demonstrate consideration for people and respect for the job they do when they are striving to achieve the best that they can. Personal Development. Treating people fairly, respecting the sanctity of human life and allowing gifted people to unfold. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 Global Code of Practice Page 2 of 2 Acting Honourably. Acting honourably in our dealings with our own and other people Social Responsibility. Being aware of our social responsibility, striving to do socially useful work and joining hands with others who are working to achieve these values Respect. Ensuring that no-one is subjected to arbitrary interference in their privacy, home or family or attacks on their honour or reputation. Effective Date 1 January 2009 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide and other third parties who are permitted access to the firm’s electronic communications systems, including temporary staff, people who are hired on contract, contractors, joint venture partners and clients. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 2 Attachment −− The Key Speech The Key Speech Sir Ove Arup A In its pre-natal stage, this talk has been These two general principles are not honoured with the name of ‘key in dispute. I will elaborate them a speech’. It is doubtful whether it can little further: live up to this name. What is it The first means that our work should supposed to be the key to? The future be interesting and rewarding. Only a job of the firm? The philosophy? The aims? done well, as well as we can do it and On 9 July 1970 Ove Arup spoke At the moment, sitting in my garden as well as it can be done is that. We to a meeting at Winchester of his and waiting for inspiration, I would be must therefore strive for quality in what partners from the practices more inclined to call it: ‘Musings of an we do, and never be satisfied with the around the world bearing the old gentleman in a garden’ and leave second-rate. There are many kinds of Arup name. His talk was in it at that. quality. In our work as structural response to the collective desire engineers we had and have to to continue working together, I have written before a piece called satisfy the criteria for a sound, lasting despite the changes that would ‘Aims and Means’ for a conference of and economical structure. We add to Senior and Executive Partners in take place as the founding that the claim that it should be pleasing London on 7 July 1969. It did not partners progressively retired and aesthetically, for without that quality it manage to deal much with means, gave up ownership, handing over doesn’t really give satisfaction to us or however, and it is of course difficult to control to the successors they to others. And then we come up generalise about means, for they must would choose for these practices. against the fact that a structure is vary with circumstances. The first part generally a part of a larger unit, and we of this paper was published in Newsletter are frustrated because to strive for The pre-natal name of ‘key37, November 1969. This you may quality in only a part is almost useless if speech’ for this talk has endured, have read but I will shortly summarise the whole is undistinguished, unless the in recognition of the fact that in it the aims of the firm as I see them. structure is large enough to make an Ove both states the aims of our impact on its own. We are led to seek There are two ways of looking at the firm and analyses in his very overall quality, fitness for purpose, as work you do to earn a living: distinctive way the principles well as satisfying or significant forms through which they may be One is the way propounded by the late and economy of construction. To this achieved. From time to time we Henry Ford: Work is a necessary evil, must be added harmony with the but modern technology will reduce it to surroundings and the overall plan. have asked ourselves whether a minimum. Your life is your leisure lived We are then led to the ideal of ‘Total what he said in 1970 remains in your ‘free’ time. valid for us, despite the fact that Architecture’, in collaboration with other inevitably some specifics about The other is: like minded firms or, still better, on our To make your work interesting and own. This means expanding our field of the firm’s organisation and rewarding. You enjoy both your work activity into adjoining fields architecture, individuals’ roles therein to which and your leisure. planning, ground engineering, he refers in passing have changed environmental engineering, computer We opt uncompromisingly for the over the years. On each occasion programming, etc. and the planning second way. we have found that it does, and and organisation of the work on site. thereby reaffirmed our There are also two ways of looking at commitment to these principles. the pursuit of happiness: It is not the wish to expand, but the One is to go straight for the things quest for quality which has brought us The Key Speech is required you fancy without restraints, that is, to this position, for we have realised reading for each person who without considering anybody else that only intimate integration of the joins Arup or who wants to be besides yourself. various parts or the various disciplines reminded of what we are all will produce the desired result. The other is: about, and for those who want to recognise that no man is an island, The term ‘Total Architecture’ implies to learn about us. that our lives are inextricably mixed up that all relevant design decisions have with those of our fellow human beings, been considered together and have and that there can be no real been integrated into a whole by a well happiness in isolation. Which leads to organised team empowered to fix an attitude which would accord to priorities. This is an ideal which can others the rights claimed for oneself, never or only very rarely be fully which would accept certain moral or realised in practice, but which is well humanitarian restraints. worth striving for, for artistic wholeness We, again, opt for the second way. or excellence depends on it, and for our own sake we need the stimulation produced by excellence. The humanitarian attitude hand and becomes very dangerous for and accepted. In short, we must be our harmony, unity and very existence. efficient individually, in all our subThe other general principle, the divisions, and as a world organisation. humanitarian attitude, leads to the It costs money to produce quality, creation of an organisation which is especially when we expand into fields I have tried to summarise the foregoing human and friendly in spite of being where we have no contractual in a number of points. Like all large and efficient. Where every obligations and can expect no pay for classification, it is arbitrary and rough member is treated not only as a link in our efforts. We may even antagonise but may nevertheless be useful as a a chain of command, not only as a people by poaching on their domain help to understanding and discussion, wheel in a bureaucratic machine, but or by upsetting and criticising traditional if its imperfections and its as a human being whose happiness is procedures. incompleteness are borne in mind. the concern of all, who is treated not only as a means but as an end. It also costs money to ‘coddle’ the staff The main aims of the firm are: with generosity and welfare, or to lose Group A Of course it is always sound business lucrative commissions by refusing to to keep your collaborators happy just 1 Quality of work bribe a minister in a developing country, as any farmer must keep his cattle in or to take our duty too seriously if 2 Total architecture good health. But there is or should be nobody is looking. 3 Humane organisation more in it than that. (We know what happens to cattle.) If we want our work 4 Straight and honourable dealings Money spent on these ‘aims’ may be to be interesting and rewarding, then wisely spent in the long term, and may 5 Social usefulness we must try to make it so for all our cause the leaders of the firm a certain 6 Reasonable prosperity of members. people and that is obviously much satisfaction but if so spent it is not more difficult, not to say impossible. It available for immediate distribution If these aims could be realised to a is again an ideal, unattainable in full, among the members, whether partners considerable degree, they should but worth striving for. It leads to the or staff. So aim No. 3 conflicts to that result in: wish to make everybody aware of, and extent with aims 1 and 2. Moreover, if interested in, our aims and to make the money is made the main aim if we are Group B environment and working conditions as more greedy than is reasonable it will 7 Satisfied members pleasant as possible within the accentuate the natural conflict about 8 Satisfied clients available means. how the profit should be distributed 9 Good reputation and influence. between our members the partners This attitude also dictates that we and staff or the different grades of staff. But this will need: should act honourably in our dealings with our own and other people. We The trouble with money is that it is a Group C should justify the trust of our clients by dividing force, not a uniting force, as is 10 A membership of quality giving their interest first priority in the the quest for quality or a humanitarian 11 Efficient organisation work we do for them. Internally, we outlook. If we let it divide us, we are 12 Solvency should eschew nepotism or sunk as an organisation at least as a 13 Unity and enthusiasm. discrimination on the basis of force for good. nationality, religion, race, colour or sex Of course there is not really any strict basing such discrimination as there So much for our aims. As aims, they demarcation between aims (Group A) must be on ability and character. are not in dispute. What is debatable, and means (Group C) and the results is how vigorously each shall be pursued (Group B) flowing from the whole or Humanitarianism also implies a social which is the most important; how to partial fulfilment of the aims in A. And it conscience, a wish to do socially useful balance long term against short term is not absolutely certain that these work, and to join hands with others aims. Let us first see what these results are obtained. For instance, A3 fighting for the same values. Our aims imply. and 4 (a humane organisation and pursuit of quality should in itself be straight dealings) can as well be useful. If we in isolated cases can show Obviously, to do work of quality, we considered as a means, and in fact all how our environment can be improved, must have people of quality. We must the points are to some extent both this is likely to have a much greater be experts at what we undertake to do. aims and means, because they effect than mere propaganda. Again, there are many kinds of quality, reinforce each other. And there will be and there are many kinds of job to do, members who are dissatisfied no There is a third aim besides the search so we must have many kinds of people, matter how good the firm is, and the for quality of work and the right human each of which can do their own job same may apply to clients, who may relationships, namely prosperity for all well. And they must be able to work not appreciate quality at all. But on the our members. Most people would say well together. This presupposes that whole, what I said is true. We should that this is our main aim, this is why we they agree with our aims, and that they keep the six aims in A in view all the are in business. But it would be wrong are not only technically capable but time, and concentrate on the means to to look at it as our main aim. We should acceptable to us from a human point of bring them about. rather look at it as an essential preview, so that they fit into our kind of requisite for even the partial fulfilment of organisation; and that they are But before I do this, I will try to explain any of our aims. For it is an aim which, effectively organised, so that the why I am going on about aims, ideals if over-emphasised, easily gets out of responsibility of each is clearly defined and moral principles and all that, and don’t get down to brass tacks. I do this In the following 13 points, which I must consider whether this way is possible, simply because I think these aims are have jotted down some time ago whether it leads to the desired result. very important. I can’t see the point in I found them in an old file I am Unless of course his goal is to go having such a large firm with offices grappling with this question, perhaps through, not to arrive anywhere, like the all over the world unless there is not very successfully. I give them to man in the sports car. But this only something which binds us together. you now: shows that it is the goal which is If we were just ordinary consulting important, whatever it is. engineers carrying on business just as Principles business to make a comfortable living, 1 Some people have moral principles. The star system is an attempt to soften I can’t see why each office couldn’t 2 The essence of moral principles is the rigidity of moral principles. But it carry on, on its own. The idea of that they should be ‘lived’. doesn’t really solve this dilemma. It is a somebody in London ‘owning’ all these little more flexible than moral precepts 3 But only saints and fanatics do businesses and hiring people to bring as to the way, but surely the ‘stars’ follow moral principles always. in the dough doesn’t seem very must be fixed for if they can be inspiring. Unless we have a ‘mission’ 4 Which is fortunate. changed ad lib the whole thing although I don’t like the word but 5 Are then moral principles no good? wobbles. And that in a way is what it something ‘higher’ to strive for and I 6 It appears we can’t do without does I can’t do anything about that. don’t particularly like that expression them. I should have loved to present you with either but unless we feel that we have a strictly logical build-up, deducing the 7 It also appears we can’t live up to aims for the firm from unassailable first a special contribution to make which them. principles. Or perhaps this is an our very size and diversity and our whole outlook can help to achieve, I for 8 So what? exaggeration for I know very well that one am not interested. I suppose that 9 A practical solution is what I call the this can’t be done. All I can do is to try you feel the same, and therefore my star system. to make the members of the firm like words to you may seem superfluous; 10 The star or ideal indicates the the aims I have mentioned. I would like but it is not enough that you feel it, course. Obstacles in the way are to persuade them that they are good everybody in the firm should as far as circumnavigated but one gets back and reasonable and not too impossible possible be made to feel it, and to on the course after the deviation. aims, possessing an inner cohesion, believe that we, the leaders of the firm, reinforcing each other by being not 11 The system is adopted by the only aims but means to each really believe in it and mean to work for Catholic church. Sins can be other’s fulfilment. it and not just use it as a flag to put out forgiven if repented it doesn’t on Sundays. And they won’t believe affect the definition of good or evil. ‘Stars’ like goodness, beauty, justice that unless we do. 12 That this system can degenerate have been powerful forces in the On the other hand, who am I to tell you into permanent deviation is history of mankind but they so often and the firm what you should think and obvious. are obscured by a mental fog or feel in the future when I am gone or 13 One needs a sense of proportion. perhaps I should say the opposite before that, for that matter? It wouldn’t they are created by a mental fog, and be any good my trying to lay down the Incidentally, they should not be taken when the fog lifts, they are seen to law, and I haven’t the slightest inclination as an encouragement to join the have been illusions. They are manto do so. That is my difficulty. I dislike Catholic church! made. I do not rate them less for that hard principles, ideologies and the like. reason but they are too remote, too They can do more harm than good, they I found also another tag: indefinable, to be of much practical use can lead to wholesale murder, as we ‘The way out is not the way round but as guide-lines. They sustain or are born have seen. And yet we cannot live life the way through.’ That’s rather more of the longings of mankind, and belong entirely without principles. But they have uncompromising, more heroic. It to the ideal world of Plato which is in some way to be flexible, to be springs from a different temperament. fixed for ever. Rigid ideologies feed on adaptable to changing circumstances. It’s equally useful in the right place. them. Not so practical politics. ‘Thou shalt not lie’, ‘Thou shalt not kill’, But the man that bangs his head are all very well, generally, but do not Our aims on the other hand are not against a wall may learn a thing or two apply if for instance you are tortured by nearly so remote. We will never from the reed that bends in the wind. fanatical Nazis or Communists to reveal succeed in fulfilling them in toto, but the whereabouts of their innocent The trouble with the last maxim is that they can be fulfilled more or less, and victims. Then it is your duty to mislead. it says something about the way, but the more the better. And they are not What these commandments should not about the goal. The way must be grasped arbitrarily out of the sky or define is an attitude. To be truthful adapted to the circumstances the wilfully imposed, they are natural and always, wherever it does no harm to goal is much more dependent on what obvious and will, I am sure, be other ideals more important in the sort of person you are. I admit that the recognised as desirable by all of you: context, to respect the sanctity of human last maxim also says a good deal so much so, in fact, that the thing to life and not to destroy life wantonly. But about the man who propounds it, a be explained is not why they are where to draw the line in border cases man of courage, of action, perhaps not desirable, but why I should waste any depends on who you are, what life has given too much to reflection, perhaps words on them. taught you, how strong you are. not a very wise man. The wise man will I do, as I pointed out at the beginning them, of course (and I think we have a more it needs to be organised. Most of this argument, because our aims are larger proportion of really good people strong men, if they are also wise, will the only thing which holds us together, than any other firm of our kind). And accept that. Somebody must have and because it is not enough to when we take on new people the authority to take decisions, the approve them, we must work for them choice is limited. Again we have to take responsibility of each member must be and the leaders must be prepared to the best we can get. We cannot pay clearly defined, understood and make sacrifices for them. Temporary them a much higher salary than our accepted by all. The authority should diversions there must be, we have to average scale, because that would also be spread downwards as far as make do with the second best if the upset our solvency and sink the boat. possible, and the whole pattern should best is not within reach, we have to Naturally our method of selection is be flexible and open to revision. accept expediencies and from a strict important, and what we can do to point of view all our activities can be educate our staff and give them We know all this, and we have such an considered as expediencies, for in opportunities to develop is important, organisation: we have both macro, theory they could all be better still but but I can’t go into details here. All I can micro and infra-structure. It has been the important thing is that we always say is that staff getting and staff developed, been improved, and it get back on the course, that we never ‘treating’ must not degenerate into a could undoubtedly be improved still lose sight of the aims. Hence the name bureaucratic routine matter, but must further. We are of course trying to do star system derived from comparison be on a personal level. When we come that all the time. The organisation will with old fashioned navigation. But I across a really good man, grab him, naturally be related to some sort of propose to abandon this expression, even if we have no immediate use for hierarchy, which should as far as partly because its meaning in the film him, and then see to it that he stays possible be based on function, and industry may confuse, especially as it is with us. there must be some way of fixing very opposed to our point of view, remuneration, for to share the available which is in favour of teamwork rather The last is the really important point, profit equally between all from senior than stardom: and also because it which in the long run will be decisive. partner to office-boy would not be suggests star-gazing, which I find Why should a really good man, a man reasonable, nor would it work. And all uncomfortably near the bone because I or woman who can get a job this is very tricky, as you know, might with some justification be anywhere or who could possibly start because, as soon as money and status accused of it. So I am afraid we have out on his own, why should he or she come into the picture, greed and envy to fall back on ‘philosophy’. Having choose to stay with us? If there is a and intrigue are not far behind. One dabbled in this subject in my youth I convincing and positive answer to that, difficulty is particularly knotty, the have been averse to seeing the term then we are on the right way. question of ownership, which is degraded by talk about the philosophy connected with ‘partnership’. There is of pile-driving or hair-dressing, but it is Presumably a good man comes to us dissatisfaction amongst some of those of course useless to fight against the in the first instance because he likes who in fact carry out the functions of a tide. The word has come to stay and the work we do, and shares or is partner dealing with clients, taking in ‘the philosophy of the firm’, it is not converted to our philosophy. If he decisions binding on the firm, etc used quite so badly. So that’s what I doesn’t, he is not much good to us because they cannot legally call have been giving you a dose of. anyhow. He is not mainly attracted by themselves partners but are ‘executive’ the salary we can offer, although that is partners or have some other title. I I will now discuss what we have to do of course an important point but by have discussed this problem in my in order to live up to our philosophy. the opportunity to do interesting and paper Aims and Means. If some viable And I will do it under the four headings rewarding work, where he can use his way could be found to make 100 10 to 13 in my list of aims and means: creative ability, be fully extended, can partners, I wouldn’t mind, but I can’t grow and be given responsibility. If he think of any. 10 Quality staff finds after a while that he is frustrated 11 Efficiency by red tape or by having someone In the Ove Arup Partnership we have all breathing down his neck, someone for but eliminated ownership the senior 12 Solvency whom he has scant respect, if he has partners only act as owners during 13 Unity and enthusiasm. little influence on decisions which affect their tenure of office because his work and which he may not agree someone has to, according to the laws But it will of course be necessary to with, then he will pack up and go. And of the country. And I wish that system mix them up to some extent. so he should. It is up to us, therefore, could be extended to all our to create an organisation which will partnerships. It no doubt irks some allow gifted individuals to unfold. This is people that the money invested in the Quality of Staff not easy, because there appears to be firm may one day (with some How do we ensure that our staff is of the a fundamental contradiction between contriving) fall into the turban of people right quality, or the best possible quality? organisation and freedom. Strongwho have done nothing to earn it but willed individuals may not take easily to what can we do? The money is We all realise, of course, that this is a directions from above. But our work is needed for the stability of the firm, it key question. The whole success of teamwork and teamwork except makes it possible for us to earn our our venture depends on our staff. But possibly in very small teams needs to living and to work for a good cause, so what can we do about it? We have the be organised, otherwise we have why worry? staff we have we must make do with chaos. And the greater the unit, the It may be possible to devise a different My advice would be: calibre, you may accuse me of leaving and better arrangement than the one ‘Stadig over de klipper’, reality behind. ‘As you said yourself’, we have now, more ‘democratic’, more or if you prefer: you may say, ‘our work is teamwork. fair: it may be possible to build in some ‘Take it easy!’ And most of this work is pretty dull. It is defences against the leaders ‘More haste less speed!’ designing endless reinforced concrete misbehaving and developing boss‘Hâtez-vous lentement!’ floors, taking down tedious letters complexes and pomposity and ‘Eile mit weile!’ about the missing bolts, changing forgetting that they are just as much ‘Hastvaerk er lastvaerk!’ some details for the nth time, attending servants in a good cause as everybody site meetings dealing with trivialities, else only more so. This is partly a It’s the fruit that matters. I have a taking messages, making tea what is legal question depending on the laws lingering doubt about trying to gain a exciting about that? You are of the country. But I have neither the foothold in various exotic places. Might discriminating in favour of an elite, it’s ability nor the time to deal with all that we not say instead: Thank God that we undemocratic. What about the people here. What I want to stress is the have not been invited to do a job in who have to do the dull work?’ obvious fact that no matter how Timbuctoo think of all the trouble we wonderful an organisation we can are avoiding. It’s different with the work devise, its success depends on the we do in Saudi Arabia, Tehran and Equality of opportunity people working in it and for it. And if Kuwait1. There we are invited in at the all our members really and sincerely top, working with good architects, You have certainly a point there. Of believed in the aims which I have doing exciting work. We are not course I am discriminating in favour of enumerated, if they felt some hammering at the door from outside. quality, and I would do anything to enthusiasm for them, the battle would But as a rule, grab and run jobs are not enable our bright people to use their be nearly won. For they imply a so useful for our purpose. I think the talents. You cannot equate excellence humanitarian attitude, respect and Overseas Department agrees with this with mediocrity, you cannot pretend consideration for persons, fair dealings, in principle, if not in practice. they are the same. We would be sunk and the rest, which all tend to smooth if we did that. We need to produce human relationships. And anyone It’s also different with civil engineering works of quality, and we need those having the same attitude who comes work, provided we have control who can produce them. One perfect into an atmosphere like that, is at least complete control over the design and job is more important for the morale of more likely to feel at home in it. And if are not ‘sharing’ the job or having a the firm, for our reputation for the right kind of people feel at home quantity surveyor or ‘agent’, etc, producing enthusiasm, than 10 with us, they will bring in other people imposed on it preventing us from doing ordinary jobs, and enthusiasm is like of their kind, and this again will attract a the job our way. The general rule the fire that keeps the steam-engine good type of client and this will make should be: if we can do a job we will going. Likewise one outstanding man is our work more interesting and be proud of afterwards, well and good worth 10 men who are only half good. rewarding and we will turn out better but we will do it our way. In the long This is a fact of life we cannot change. work, our reputation and influence will run this attitude pays, as it has already It is no good pretending that all are grow, and the enthusiasm of our done in the case of Arup Associates. equal they aren’t. There should be members will grow it is this And incidentally, the control of such jobs equality before the law, and as far as enthusiasm which must start the should be where our expertise resides. possible equality of opportunity, of process in the first place. course. But the fact that you are good To export Arup Associates’ jobs is at something is something you should much more difficult, for whilst we may be grateful for, not something to be be able to build a bridge or radio tower conceited about. It doesn’t mean that And they all lived happily in a foreign locality, good architecture you are better as a human being. And ever after? presupposes a much more intimate there are probably many other things knowledge of the country. Long Yes, it sounds like a fairy tale, and you are hopeless at. distance architecture generally fails. perhaps it is. But there is something in But that does not mean that the ideal No man should be despised or feel it. It is a kind of vicious circle except of Total Architecture is irrelevant to our ashamed because of the work he that it isn’t vicious, but benevolent, a purely engineering partnerships or does, as long as he does it as well as lucky circle. And I believe that we have divisions. In fact they have been he can. What we should aim at, made a beginning in getting onto this founded on the idea of integrating naturally, is to put each man on to the lucky circle. I believe that our fantastic structure with architecture and work he can do. And, fortunately, there growth has something to do with our construction, and in Scotland for is nearly always something he can do philosophy. And I believe our instance they are trying to give well. We will have square pegs in round philosophy is forward looking, that it is architects a service which will unite holes, we shall have frustrated people, what is needed today, is in tune with these domains2. unfortunately those who are not the new spirit stirring in our time. But of course there are many other and frustrated one way or another are in the Coming back to my main theme, I dangerous spirits about and too much minority. But fortunately people vary, as realise that when I have been talking growth may awaken them. Too much jobs vary, and few would want to do about quality, about interesting and growth may also mean too little fruit. the job another calls interesting if they rewarding work, about Total are no good at it. Architecture, and attracting people of 1. In 1970 Arup was carrying out a good deal of 2. In 1970 Arup’s Scottish practice had just work in the Middle East. begun to offer a multidisciplinary engineering service for buildings. If we can reach a stage where each worry us for the time being. At the the old leaders retire and growth takes man or woman is respected for the job moment the need for solvency is place mainly locally, the ties that bind they do, and is doing his or her best restricting, and is the most frequent us together may weaken. We should because the atmosphere is right, cause of having to compromise. That prevent this by forging more ties, because they are proud of what we are we may have to do but let’s not do it forming new friendships, and always and do and share in the general unnecessarily, and let’s get back being true to our principles. Improve enthusiasm, then we are home. And on course. communications the universal each job is important. Secretaries, for injunction nowadays. Absence does instance. They could have a And Unity and Enthusiasm, the last not make the heart grow fonder, tremendously civilising influence on our item, is in a way what my talk has been unfortunately. There will always be a staff. They could teach them to write about. It is a question of giving the firm need for a strong coordinating body English, for instance, a most important an identity. What do we mean, when which is at the moment formed by the and necessary job. But secretaries who we speak about the firm, about ‘we’ or senior partners which has the power can do that are of course at a ‘us’? Is it the whole collection of people to interfere if our principles are seriously premium. We must try to find them. It in dozens of offices in different places? betrayed. For should that happen, it is even more important than that they Are ‘we’ all of them or some of them, would be better to cut off the offending are good-looking and nobody could and which? limb, less the poison should spread. accuse me of being indifferent to that. Our name must not be allowed to I think it is unavoidable that ‘we’ should cover practices which conflict with our Our messengers and cleaners how mean different things in different philosophy. But at the moment there is important it is that they are reliable and contexts. Sometimes what is said is no danger of that, and we can take likeable, human, with a sense of only relevant to the upper layers of comfort from what has been achieved. humour. A cheerful remark can brighten management, sometimes it is meant to Perhaps that should have been the gist the day. All our people are part of us, include everybody. What we must aim of my talk? But you are seeing it for part of our ‘image’, create the at is to make ‘we’ include as many as yourself. I could also have dwelt on atmosphere we live in. possible as often as possible. To how far we have still to go; it would increase the number of those who perhaps have accorded more with my But it doesn’t alter the fact that the have a contribution to make, however star-gazing habits. But my time is up services of a messenger are less small, who agree wholeheartedly with my speech should have been valuable to the firm than those of a our aims and want to throw in their lot condensed to one-third but it is too gifted designer or an imaginative with us. We might think about them as late now. I hope at any rate that I mechanical engineer, a fact that even members of our community; the haven’t deserved the warning which the messenger will understand. others, who come and go, might be the Duke of Albany addressed to called staff. Of course there can never Goneril in King Lear: But there are of course people we be any clear line of demarcation it is cannot employ usefully. Masses of not a question of signing a form or How far your them, in fact. Those we should not bestowing a title it is a matter of how eyes may pierce take on, obviously, except on a strictly each feels and what we feel about I cannot tell. temporary basis. But sometimes they them. For it is a two-way business. Striving to better, are found inside the firm. They may oft we mar have been good once, but are on the But what binds our membership what’s well. way down. I am a case in point myself. together must be loyalty to our aims. But their loyal service, their place in the And only as long as the leaders of the hierarchy, makes it difficult to de-grade firm are loyal to these can they expect them. To deal with them requires much and demand loyalty from the members. tact, and is embarrassing. But they This speech is too long already, and I should not be allowed to pretend to do have not even touched on what you jobs they are no good at. They must perhaps expected to be the main not prevent the good ones from subject of my talk, the relationship functioning. It’s a problem all firms between the Ove Arup Partnership and have, it’s one of the cases where the Overseas Partnerships. But from humanity and efficiency clash. To the foregoing my point of view should resolve it tactfully may be expensive, be clear. not to resolve it is fatal. The fact that we have these outposts So far I haven’t said much about all over the world is of course an solvency. Stuart Irons3 can tell you enormous source of strength to us and something about that. I compare it to to you, it helps to establish our stability in engineering structures reputation and power for good, and without it the whole thing collapses but opens up opportunities for all our if you have much more money than members. This is however only you need the usefulness of it declines because the leaders in these places until it becomes distracting and are our own people, bound to us by dangerous. That danger need not common aims and friendships. But as 3. The then Financial Director. Arup’s core values maintain the vision established by Sir Ove Arup (1895-1988): • We will ensure that the Arup name is always associated with quality. • We will act honestly and fairly in dealings with our staff and others. • We will enhance prosperity for all Arup staff. Our priorities are: • our clients and our industry • our creativity • our people • sustainable development. We shape a better world: • to enhance prosperity and the quality of life • to deliver real value • to have the freedom to be creative and to learn. 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ, UK tel +44 (0)20 7636 1531 fax +44 (0)20 7580 3924 email corporate@arup.com www.arup.com United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 3 Attachment: −− Global Harrassment Code of Practice Global code of practice Harassment Harassment : code of practice Purpose Arup believes that all employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect while at work and when representing the company outside of work. The following code of practice informs employees of the type of behaviour that is not acceptable and provides employees who are subjected to harassment with a means of redress without fear of reprisal. CODE OF PRACTICE Arup identifies that employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect. Harassment is harmful, unlawful and can reduce the effectiveness of the organisation by undermining the confidence of employees and creating a threatening environment. Employees have a right to work in an environment, which is free from harassment of any kind. The organisation will take positive action to prevent its occurrence. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide. Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10601 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 4 Attachment: −− Global Health & Safety Policy Global Health and Safety Policy Mission To shape a better world Objectives To deliver this, the firm will: • promote the health and safety at work of all our employees including temporary and contract staff, and of other persons affected by our actions; • provide such health and safety training, specialist advice, information, instruction and supervision as may be necessary to personnel at all levels; • set measurable performance targets; • monitor our performance in complying with this policy and strive for continual improvement; and • operate within a management system that is registered as meeting the requirements of OHSAS 18001 or equivalent. Outcome In meeting these objectives, the firm will: • comply with applicable legal and other requirements; • maintain a high standard of health and safety awareness by training and developing our staff; • develop and record health and safety competencies for key staff; and • achieve a performance which will sustain the long-term success of the business. ............................................................... ............................................................... Jenny Baster ............................................................... Arup Group Health and Safety Director ............................................................... Leader for ............................................................... www.arup.com Sub-region/Group ....................................................... Last reviewed March 2012 Note: Groups should also refer to their own regional policy. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 5 Attachment: −− ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 14001:2004 combined certificate United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 6 Attachment: −− UK Disciplinary Procedure UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance Conduct & Performance : UK disciplinary procedure 1 Applicability This procedure applies to all members of Arup in the UK, and to UK members seconded temporarily to work with the UK Partnership, outside the UK. Employees with less than six consecutive months' service with Arup will be subject to a modified procedure as outlined below in section 4. 2 Introduction The disciplinary procedure is designed to be supportive and to encourage improvements in individual conduct and performance. It provides clear guidelines on the standard of conduct and performance which is expected, whilst also offering support to those who experience difficulty in meeting the standard. Where there are no improvements in conduct/performance, sanctions may be imposed. Particularly in the case of performance issues, the action may be to consider suitable alternative work within the firm or suitable training which may improve the situation. Conduct: The following list of examples of conduct which may result in disciplinary action is a guide and is not exhaustive. Unsatisfactory conduct could lead to disciplinary action such as the issue of a warning and/or the imposition of sanctions. Unsatisfactory conduct includes such things as: • poor time-keeping • abuse of Arup's policies and procedures • wilful refusal to carry out reasonable instructions given by someone in authority or other acts of unjustifiable insubordination • persistent or unauthorised absences • actions which undermine working relationships with colleagues and/or other organisations or which may compromise our integrity as a firm and our honourable dealings with people. Some behaviour is completely unacceptable and could result in summary dismissal with no warnings being given. Such behaviour, termed gross misconduct, includes: • misappropriation or abuse of the firm's property, including electronic property, or wilful damage to it • instances of harassment or discrimination • any kind of physical assault, threatened or actual, during employment or whilst using premises provided by the firm • breaches of Arup's health and safety practices, or any action which endangers people's health or safety • incapacity to work through being under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs • theft, attempted theft, fraud, misuse, or any other act intended to deprive the firm of its finances or property, including intellectual property and software; timesheet and expense claim falsifications are included • serious breach of confidentiality, for whatever reason, except where specifically allowed by relevant UK legislation • distribution by any means, including electronic, of material of an offensive, libellous, sexual, or racist nature. 1/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP101U01 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance Performance: Before commencing any role within Arup employees should be aware of the performance standards expected. Where those standards are not met, the firm's disciplinary procedure will be used to agree the action required to rectify the situation. 3 The procedure Wherever appropriate, an informal discussion will be held between you and the person to whom you directly report to discuss a case of poor performance or conduct. A written record will be made of this discussion, a copy given to you and a copy kept on your personnel file. If this discussion does not lead to the agreed improvement, the disciplinary procedure as outlined below will be used and this informal record of your discussion will be taken into account in subsequent disciplinary meetings with you. Where the situation is more serious the formal disciplinary procedure will be used straight away. There are four formal stages to the procedure, the fourth stage being dismissal. Serious breaches of conduct or repetitions of unsatisfactory conduct/performance may result directly in an appropriate warning, not necessarily at the first stage. Cases of gross misconduct could result directly in the fourth stage, dismissal. In this case dismissal will be summary, ie with no notice. 3.1 First stage warning (verbal warning) • If conduct/performance does not meet expected standards you will be invited, in writing, to attend a discussion with the person to whom you directly report to talk about the issue and agree action to improve the situation. The letter you receive will give you at least 48 hours' notice of the meeting and will include: the reason for the meeting; who will be present and your right to be accompanied by a colleague from within Arup. • The person to whom you directly report will investigate the circumstances of the incident. He/she may do this by taking statements from any available witnesses which will be available to you. You will be asked during the meeting to present any other relevant information. • The meeting should cover clearly: • a brief description of the conduct/performance to be addressed • reasons for the unsatisfactory conduct/performance • the improvement required • the action agreed with you to achieve this • the timescale within which the improvement is required to take place • the consequences of not achieving the necessary improvement. • No travel costs will be paid in connection with a colleague of your choice attending the meeting with you. During the meeting your colleague may clarify points, request clarification and take notes but, may not answer questions on your behalf. • The person to whom you report will conduct the meeting and your Administrator may be there to take notes. • If it is decided that there is a case for disciplinary action, after the meeting you will be sent a note confirming the items discussed in the meeting. You will be required to sign and return a copy of it to confirm receipt and that copy will be held in your personnel file for the period specified in the note. The more serious the matter the longer the warning remains in your personnel file. The warning might include sanctions such as demotion or a salary freeze, depending on the severity of the matter. Your employment record with the Partnership will be taken into account in determining any such sanctions. 3.2 Second stage warning (written warning) • If there is no improvement within the agreed timescale or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar), another meeting will be held. This second stage will 2/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance follow the same format as the first stage. The person to whom you report directly may also take into account any previous warnings you have received for whatever reason and which are still current. • Your Group Leader or equivalent may decide to attend along with, or instead of, the person to whom you report directly. • After that meeting you may be issued with a second stage warning and/or sanctions as for a first stage warning. This will also be put in your personnel file for the duration specified in the warning. 3.3 Third stage warning (final written warning) • If there is still no satisfactory improvement in your conduct/performance, or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar) or an instance of a more serious nature, a meeting will be called as for the first stage. Your Group Leader or equivalent may decide to attend along with, or instead of, the person to whom you report directly. In some instances, an appropriate member of the Human Resources Group may attend in place of either the person to whom you report directly or your Group Leader. • If the issue to be addressed is a serious conduct issue and you are on assignment or secondment away from your home Group, you may be required to return to your home Group for the meeting. In this case, your reasonable travel expenses in doing so will be reimbursed, providing they are authorised in the usual way. The meeting will be held with your home Group Leader or equivalent. If the meeting results in a warning being issued, your assignment may be ended with immediate effect. After this meeting you may be issued with a third stage warning and/or sanctions as for a first stage warning. This will also be put in your personnel file for the duration specified in the warning. 3.4 Fourth stage (dismissal) • If there is still no satisfactory improvement in your conduct/performance, or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar) or an instance of gross misconduct, a meeting will be called as for the first stage. Because of the serious nature of the fourth stage, your Group Leader or equivalent will be expected to attend this meeting rather than the person to whom you report directly, along with a senior member of the Human Resources Group. • In serious cases, particularly of gross misconduct, you may be suspended on full pay whilst circumstances are investigated. This period should not exceed 10 working days. • If you are on assignment or secondment away from your home Group, you may be required to return to your home Group for the meeting. In this case, your reasonable travel expenses in doing so will be reimbursed providing they are authorised in the usual way. The meeting will be held with your home Group Leader or equivalent. • The decision to end your employment is made jointly between your Group Leader, or equivalent, and the Human Resources Group. You will be given a letter confirming the date of dismissal, the reasons for dismissal and details of your right to appeal. • If it is decided that the matter is one of gross misconduct, then you may be summarily dismissed, ie without notice. You will be given a letter confirming the date of dismissal, the reasons for dismissal, and details of your right to appeal. 4 For employees with less than six consecutive months' service with Arup The firm's principles of fairness and reasonableness will apply to conduct/ performance issues which are raised with you. During your first six months of service, your performance will be monitored and appropriate training and guidance given where needed. 3/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP101U01 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance You should note that you are subject to the firm's Conduct & Performance code of practice and its associated disciplinary procedure, but it will be modified such that there will be three instead of four stages to the disciplinary procedure; the second stage of the procedure will be omitted. 5 Appeal You may appeal against any measures imposed as a result of the disciplinary procedure. An appeal must be made in writing, outlining your justification for the appeal and sent to your Human Resources Manager. This must be done within five working days of the notification of the measure to be imposed. Your appeal will be heard within 10 working days of the receipt of the appeal, subject to postponement by mutual agreement. The appeal will be heard by a Group Leader outside the Group in which you are employed. You will be required to attend and present your case and you will be entitled to be accompanied by a colleague from within the firm. The appeal may be upheld or rejected or an alternative disciplinary measure to that already taken may be substituted. (The decision reached is final no further appeal will be heard.) Whilst an appeal against dismissal is pending, the dismissal will continue and the appeal heard afterwards. If the appeal is successful and you are reinstated, your employment with the firm will be deemed to be unbroken by the dismissal and you will receive payment for all salary owed to you. 6 Responsibility of the Human Resources Group The Human Resources Group is available to provide advice and guidance to all employees involved in issues arising from this code of practice and its associated procedure. Those investigating action under this code of practice are required to keep the Human Resources Group informed of all disciplinary matters. The Human Resources Group is responsible for overseeing any dismissal action meetings (and third stage warning meetings, where appropriate) and for hearing any appeal against measures imposed at any stage of this disciplinary procedure. 4/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 7 Attachment: −− Corporate Report Corporate Report 2011 1 The Aeolus Acoustic Wind Arup is a global firm of designers, planners, engineers, consultants and Pavilion by artist Luke Jerram technical specialists offering a broad range of professional services. We operate in five regions, the Americas, Australasia, East Asia, Europe and the UK, Middle East and Africa (UKMEA), with our corporate centre based in the UK. Arup is owned in trust on behalf of its employees. With no shareholders or external investors, we are able to determine our own direction as a business and set our own priorities, independently. We are not obliged to report on our performance in the same way as listed companies. Instead, we have chosen to Front cover: use our Corporate Report as an opportunity to reflect on the past year and report Pocket Habitat on our sustainability performance and goals. 2 Chairman’s foreword Another year of global economic uncertainty provided the backdrop for the firm’s performance this year. Yet in the face of challenging conditions in key parts of the global business, Arup once again demonstrated its resilience to deliver a positive performance over the year. As always, the greatest part of that success comes down to the exceptional people we have within the organisation, but their efforts are also backed by a strategy that has underpinned our ability to meet and overcome the hurdles we face in this difficult operating environment. In the previous Corporate Report, I noted how the Board had set out a Group Strategy focused on four key themes – Investment, Design, Talent and Operations. Today, we are seeing tangible gains from this strategy emerge across the firm as we become more international, more diverse, more balanced across regions and businesses and, of course, more resilient. We are already reaping the benefits of investing in strategic business areas such as energy and waste, while our emphasis on global mobility has provided us with the flexibility to retain the talent that we have worked so hard to nurture even as some regions face the impact of the economic downturn. This resilience inside the Group is also reflected in the firm’s approach to sustainability that we share across our client base. Given the scale and frequency of some of the extreme weather events and natural disasters over the period, our expertise in areas such as risk and recovery, seismic design and sustainable masterplanning is proving invaluable. At the same time, we are also seeing a more general understanding of the importance of sustainability across social, environmental and economic issues. This gives us great optimism for the future of the business and our ability to make a positive impact on society as we meet our mission to shape a better world. Philip Dilley, Group Chairman 3 4 Operations report There is no doubt that 2011 was another challenging year for Arup as we had predicted. Inevitably, the economic situation impacted the business in some regions, particularly the UK and Europe. However, this did not stop the firm from turning in a robust performance in 2010/2011, which underlines the tremendous efforts of our people and the high value that our clients continue to place on our work. Overall, adjusted turnover and headcount remained relatively steady at £966 million and 9,934 respectively, while the Group generated positive net cashflow of £40.9 million. Operating profit also remained positive at £24.6 million. This figure is below our long-term target for the Group, reflecting the pressure on margins witnessed in a very competitive market over the period. In terms of operations, we pursued our established strategy of diversifying across businesses and regions, which has enhanced the resilience of the Group and its capacity to deal with difficult economic conditions. Across the regions, we were particularly encouraged by our performance in Australasia, where the ongoing resources boom in Australia, combined with our continued drive into markets in and around Singapore, prompted an income boost of almost 20%. In the Americas, our plans to increase market penetration are paying off. Meanwhile, we believe Asia will become an increasingly important part of the business even as Europe remains difficult, partly as a result of the ongoing Euro-crisis. Looking at specific elements of the business, rail, commercial property and highways occupy the top three positions in terms of income segmentation. Projects such as the Kwun Tong line extension in Hong Kong, and the first new metro in New York for nearly 80 years – the Second Avenue Subway – have put rail firmly at the top of the Group’s fee earners. At the same time, the firm’s strategic focus on sectors such as energy, waste and water is creating a more balanced business as we win projects such as the offshore wind power assessments in the UK. And of course, our specialist expertise in everything from climate change resilience to acoustics remains invaluable to our external clients, as well as providing the bedrock of knowledge we need internally to maintain the creativity and innovation that the firm has long been noted for. Undoubtedly, 2011/2012 will be a challenging year for the firm across all of our businesses in buildings, consulting and infrastructure. However, we know we have the right people and the right strategy to ensure that we continue to grow and diversify the business as well as being well-placed for the economic upturn to come. Opposite page: Second Avenue Subway, New York David Whittleton, Chief Operating Officer 5 6 Sustainability at Arup Today more than ever, our clients and partners are coming to recognise the importance of embedding the concepts of sustainability into their strategic thinking: not just because it is the right thing to do, but as an essential element in developing business models that can deliver tangible, long-term economic, environmental and social benefits – the so-called ‘triple bottom line’. This is an extremely positive indication of welcome change to come, but inevitably there remains a long way to go before such thinking is the standard starting point for development across society. Arup’s goal is to help our stakeholders and clients make that transition toward more sustainable solutions and this report opens a window on to just some of the ways in which we are helping to drive positive change and live up to our mission of shaping a better world. As you will see in this report, this ambition is evident in our work with authorities around the globe, helping them to understand the challenges generated by threats such as climate change, pandemics or water shortages. It is equally visible in the work we are doing with our partners to help them take advantage of the opportunities that extend from sustainable thinking, such as renewable energy technology. And of course, it is clearly seen in the work we do across emerging economies to help promote education and development among the people who can often benefit most from pursuing a sustainable approach to growth. In short, our focus on sustainability and the triple bottom line is a means of delivering pragmatic benefits to society through our insights and technical expertise, turning aspiration into action for the benefit of everyone in society. David Singleton, Group Sustainability Director Opposite page: HaloIPT electric vehicle 7 Our business Without clients that value our unique combination of skills and specialist expertise we have no business, so it is no surprise that we focus our talent for delivering more sustainable solutions to produce better performance for our clients while benefiting society at the same time The global business environment is Selected awards extremely competitive and rapidly evolving, which places huge demands Arup Associates was named on us to deliver ever more value and Sustainable Designer of the quality for our clients. The good news Year by the UK’s Sustainability for our business is that as our clients’ Awards. expectations rise, we are in an even better position to demonstrate the The New Acropolis Museum in unique, high-end skills that Arup brings Athens won the Sustainability to tackling challenges we face as a Award at the International society. Lighting Design Awards. Today, we have the privilege of working 1 Arup expertise helped ensure on some of the most interesting and Equally, we helped develop the William McCormack Place challenging schemes around the globe, office building in Cairns was sustainability reporting guidelines for while demonstrating how the sustainable named winner of Australia’s the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). approach embedded at the heart of ClimateSmart Built Environment This work helped frame common global Arup’s philosophy can produce results Award from the Green Building standards for reporting elements such Council of Australia. that go beyond the expectations of even as carbon emissions, the remediation of the toughest clients. contaminated land and sub-contracted Arup formed part of the labour. Rehau/Zublin team that won This drive to deliver resilient, innovative the Tunnels and Tunnelling solutions is evident right across our In the meantime, we have also sharpened Award for Innovative Use business, from small-scale schemes to up our own sustainability tools with a of Equipment, developing a regional plans and all the way up to system for segmental tunnel refresh of the internationally-renowned global programmes. linings that helps reduce SPeAR assessment (Sustainable costs and make tunnels more Project Appraisal Routine), extending sustainable. its effectiveness and helping clients A global vision of sustainability get a better understanding of The firm won the Energy The advantages of our global view can interdependencies to create virtuous Efficient New-Build Project for be seen in the insights we added to the cycles of sustainable improvement. the BSkyB headquarters in London, UK – a groundbreaking World Economic Forum (WEF) study first for the concept of lowon natural disasters for instance. This energy TV studios. international collaboration brought Championing sustainability around together the insurance, banking, media the world and engineering construction sectors The American Council of In short, Arup is far more than a mere to enhance resilience, encourage Engineering Companies consultant. We put a great deal of care awarded Engineering Excellence preparedness and improve responses and and thought into the issues around Honor Awards to the LEED® recovery. Platinum-certified Yale University sustainability. We have also been School of Forestry and championing the cause of sustainability Environmental Studies building. and resilience around the globe for many 8 3 4 1 C40 Group collaboration 2 Lok Ma Chau Loop 3 Decentralised Energy Delivery Programme 4 Madinat Zayed 2 years, working with organisations such as the Changxindian Low Carbon projects such as the Decentralised as the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Community project near Beijing. Energy Delivery Programme for Group and municipalities including the This scheme has already won many the London Development Agency, City of Copenhagen. In collaboration industry-recognised awards around the which aims to help the city reduce CO2 with the C40 group we produced a world in recognition of Changxindian’s emissions by 60% by 2025. In each comprehensive analysis of what the pioneering efforts to integrate low case, we have determined best practice Mayors of some of the world’s largest carbon eco-city planning parameters and worked with local communities, cities are doing to tackle climate change into China’s statutory zoning plans. businesses and other public and private and published the results – ‘Climate Not only that, but the word is spreading sector organisations to help transform Action in Megacities’ – at the C40 rapidly as we are also lead consultant sustainability strategies into practical summit in Sao Paulo in Brazil. In the for the Lok Ma Chau Loop – the first positive outcomes for clients and same vein, we helped publish an inlow carbon cross-boundary development stakeholders alike. depth study – ‘Copenhagen: Solutions in South China, jointly commissioned for Sustainable Cities’ – highlighting by the Hong Kong and Shenzhen Our sustainability ambitions also how the Danish city is developing the governments. This project incorporates extended to developing a revitalisation principles of green growth to deliver a comprehensive low-carbon strategy framework masterplan for the town real-world economic and environmental that encompasses a low-carbon transport of Madinat Zayed in the Western benefits. strategy, sustainable urban planning and Region of Abu Dhabi. Creating such a design, and energy efficiency measures scheme for a desert environment threw This type of work is aimed at inspiring such as the use of a district cooling up many challenges for the firm and other cities, businesses and municipal system. our design partners, Complex Urban leaders around the globe to mimic Landscape Design (CULD). As a result, the successes of their peers and there A similarly broad-based community we incorporated a range of solutions into is widespread evidence that more approach is evident in Europe where the plan, from promoting the efficient sustainable approaches to development we helped develop guidelines for use of recycled black water throughout are being welcomed and implemented. Sustainable Energy Zones for the town to ensuring there was enough Sustainable Energy Ireland (SEI). flexibility to integrate solar energy To take just one example among SEI’s commission chimes with the production and district cooling. thousands, we need only look as far work carried out on a host of similar 9 © Zhou Ruogu Photography © ZTimothy Hursley 5 6 Constantly learning and putting our We also delivered the largest, non-profit knowledge to practical use LEED®-NC Platinum building in the world – the Bill & Melinda Gates Arup has done much to help develop Foundation Campus in Seattle, USA. and refine our present understanding of Here, the philanthropic values of the sustainability and we constantly strive to Foundation are reflected throughout, work with our clients to understand more from structural design through to the about the issues and interdependencies façades and acoustics. This ensures so we can achieve the highest quality the development is in line with the outcomes, whatever the environment. Foundation’s overall philosophy of being a good steward of the environment and Pushing the boundaries in the good neighbour. Netherlands for instance, we delivered 7 the sustainability concept for Europe’s This demand for the highest quality The drive to promote sustainability first LEED® Platinum hotel – the Hotel solutions is fast spreading around is not restricted to new-build projects Amstelkwartier Bestek in Amsterdam. the globe. In Beijing, Arup’s skills however. For British Land’s commercial This 300-bed hotel in the middle of contributed to creating one of China’s development in London – Ropemaker one of the world’s most famous cities first LEED®-CS Platinum pre-certified Place – Arup used advanced 3D amply illustrates the fully integrated projects – the Parkview Green modelling techniques to ensure that we approach to sustainability thinking that FangCaoDi. Here, we developed a could safely re-use the existing perimeter is needed to produce a high-functioning, number of groundbreaking sustainability foundations from the previous building yet highly energy-efficient hotel, to strategies for the building, including for the new structure’s three-level the exacting standards of a modern a buffer zone that controls the basement. The raft solution adopted international hotel group. The design microclimate via ventilation louvres, created significant cost and carbon was conceived with close attention to the which keep the internal environment savings. spatial relationship with the city and by comfortable. This is just one of utilising local produce and materials the many design features that make this Nor are sustainability goals restricted designers strengthened the ties with the Beijing’s largest scale sustainability to high value projects. The Imizamo city in a sustainable way. Not only that, project, securing major awards for the Yethu Primary School in South but by incorporating features such as a project. However, the hotel, shopping Africa, for example, is on an informal dynamic, intelligent façade, we will help and commercial hub is particularly settlement outside of Cape Town. Here, the client save up to 65% of the energy significant, because it sets the standard the design team employed sustainable used for heating. for a completely new approach to building principles developed by Arup architecture across the region. to manage impacts such as carbon neutrality, water self-sufficiency and 10 Our indicators 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 Trend in performance Aggregated from regional estimates based on Project Plans, Project Quality Projects setting sustainability – 12 23 23 25 Plans and various databases. objectives (%) Application of sustainability objectives to projects has been maintained. Profit on turnover (before tax, exceptional items and staff profit share). Profit (% on turnover) 8.5 11.2 8.6 2.6 4.8 Level of profitability reflects challenging market conditions. Investment in the business and its people, necessary for the continued success Investments (% of turnover) 2.6 2.7 2.4 1.5 1.2 of the business. Investment level reduced but acceptable given market conditions. Cash at bank (weeks of costs, Cash reserves necessary to meet our working capital demands. 6.6 8.1 7.9 7.7 6.9 before profit share) Cash reserves remain at an acceptable level. Aggregated from regional client satisfaction surveys and various databases. Repeat clients (%) 50 70 58 76 65 Proportion of clients that are repeat clents has decreased. 9 5 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Campus 6 Parkview Green FangCaoDi 7 Hotel Amselkwartier Bestek 8 Ropemaker Place 9 Imizamo Yethu Primary School 8 neutrality, water self-sufficiency and Clearly, clients in developed and the use of sustainable materials. The developing regions around the world are result is a school that utilises local looking at sustainability and resilience timber and stone from the site clearance more closely than ever and as they do within the fabric of the building, Arup is there to help achieve the highest while using passive design to optimise quality standards in every environment. natural ventilation, thermal comfort and daylight. As well as featuring energy And whether the client is a national efficient lighting, the design also uses government, an international property a stormwater settlement pond to create developer or a local community a ‘living and learning’ environment for organisation our approach always puts students about water ecology. a premium on sustainable solutions. 11 Our people We develop top talent to stay at the leading edge of the knowledge business so when it comes to driving the sustainability agenda we have some of the best people turning theory into practice every day Arup has long been known for its elected to board of directors of the US innovative approach to sustainability Green Building Council in the ‘Designer Selected awards stretching all the way back to the of Buildings’ seat. And Terry Hill, founding philosophy of Ove Arup Chairman of the Arup Trust Board, is The Hong Kong Institution of himself. We can never simply assume poised to take the helm at International Engineers recognised three of our that this level of understanding and Standards Organisation. As presidentengineers in the Young Engineers commitment will miraculously remain elect, he is in prime position to lead Awards – Harry Lee, Argoon Chuang embedded in the core of the firm though. ISO’s pursuit of global innovation and and Stuart Millis. This is why we work so hard with our best practice, including sustainability people to reinforce these values through issues. Tim Chapman was awarded the ICE our selection processes, our training President’s Medal in recognition of programmes and across our everyday Of course, these are just a few among his work in devising a trajectory for decarbonising infrastructure over the approach to our work. the many in the firm who are actively next 40 years. engaged with external organisations: In practice, this means working hard to identify the right graduates through • David Wilkes took over as President In the UK, Arup scooped the Times newspaper Top 50 Employers for our recruitment programme. It means of the Chartered Institute of Water Women award. positioning sustainability as an intrinsic and Environmental Management element of our approach to design (CIWEM) for 2011-12. and innovation alongside technical • Gabriel Hyde was appointed to Arup’s Southern Africa director of special projects, Ric Snowden, won excellence. And it means championing the Board of the Romanian Green Mentor of the Year at the CESA Aon the cause through our Arup University Building Council. courses on Sustainability Leadership, Engineering Excellence awards in • Corinne Swain was elected to Johannesburg. our internal knowledge networks such the Town and Country Planning as OvaGreen, and in our conversations Association Policy Council in the UK. Phil Nedin was awarded the Institute with clients and partners. of Healthcare Engineering and Estate • Mark Chown, Susana Saiz and Management (IHEEM) Lifetime Just as importantly, we are actively Almudena Rodero became members Achievement Award. committed to sharing knowledge of the expert panel of BREEAM use with the world outside Arup through in Spain. Alisdair McGregor, Fellow and academia, business and national and • Sara Turnbull was elected to the Principal in Arup’s San Francisco international organisations to drive the Council of the Energy Institute. office, was named one of ‘The 100 sustainability agenda. • Malcolm Wallace was appointed Most Creative People in Business 2011’ by Fast Company magazine. Country Representative for Canada For example, Arup’s Global Planning for the Chartered Institute of Building Leader, David Singleton, was appointed Services Engineers (CIBSE). In the UK, Management Today Chairman of the Australian Green • Ramón Rodríguez and Ignacio magazine listed Debra Lam and Becci Infrastructure Council, building on Taylor in their ‘35 women under 35’ Fernandez were members of Solar Arup’s commitment to the sustainability Awards in recognition for their work Decathlon judging panel. on issues related to sustainability and agenda across the built environment. carbon reduction. Arup principal, Fiona Cousins, was 12 Our indicators 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 Trend in performance Women in the firm Based on staff at all Grades. 30 29 29 30 30 (all Grades) (%) Proportion of women in the firm has been maintained. Women in management Based on staff at Grades 7-9. – 12 13 13 14 positions (Grades 7-9) (%) Proportion of women in management has increased. Staff who have received Based on training records and external accreditation for staff at all Grades. relevant sustainability – 16 17 41 33 Some reduction in the percentage of staff undertaking sustainability training. training (%) 1 2 Diversity Creating high-performing global talent is well-positioned for the future by teams whose default mode is delivering advocating diversity awareness, sustainable, innovative solutions brings championing mentoring programmes, clear results for our clients. At the same and supporting networks such as Arup time, it is important to recognise the Connect Women. We recognise we still role diversity plays in ensuring that the have work to do, but we were pleased firm can draw on the broadest spectrum to win a Times Top 50 Employers for of talent available to deliver the right Women award, which helps demonstrate solutions for a multitude of stakeholders we are on the right track. across the globe. Developing diversity is crucial to our This is why the firm is so focused on sustainable institutional development diversity from Board level to graduate – and in the long run, it simply makes intake. We want to ensure the firm good business sense. 3 1 Sustainable learning 2 Arup graduates 3 Terry Hill 13 Our facilities Supporting sustainability is a key part of our work for our clients, but it is also critical to the choices we make about our own firm, including how we manage our facilities 1 2 Selected awards Arup has long supported sustainability The use of Office RealTime has already as a key part of the work we do for our helped the Brisbane office in Australia Scotstoun House was recognised clients and that same commitment is scoop the National Signatory of the by the Royal Institute of also critical to the way we view our own Year award for improving office British Architects and given a operations. energy efficiency under the national Scottish Design Award for Best CitySwitch Green Office Program. These Sustainable Design. In keeping with our aspirations to awards acknowledge leading signatories develop a clear understanding of from each state who have demonstrated Arup’s office in Brisbane was the best ways to promote internal an exemplary commitment to reducing named National Signatory of the sustainability goals, the firm spent two greenhouse gas emissions and a high years researching and developing Office Year for improving office energy efficiency as part of the national level of environmental leadership and CitySwitch Green Office Program. Realtime – a data visualisation tool that action. The prize followed Arup’s uses active data to guide sustainabilitywork to achieve a 4-star NABERS related behaviour change. The tool was (National Australian Built Environment The Hong Kong office’s dedication to safety was developed by Arup’s Sustainability and Rating System) rating. The gains were recognised by the prestigious Digital Innovation teams to support achieved through equipment upgrades, Lighthouse Club Construction Arup Australasia’s Environmental lighting retrofits, embodiment of Industry Council, which awarded Management System and Corporate energy efficiency into policy, and the the firm a Safety Leadership Sustainability Policy. It will be rolled implementation of innovative behaviour Award in the Architectout across the firm to provide insights change programs. Consultants category. on areas such as office copying and printing, computer use, energy and water Similar gains are being made elsewhere. consumption or daily recycling numbers. For example, the Madrid and Berlin 14 Our indicators 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 Trend in performance Based on the number of staff working in EMS (ISO14001) certified offices Staff working in offices in all regions. with an EMS certified to 34 68 70 70 99 Proportion of staff working in offices certified to ISO14001 has increased. ISO14001 (%) Our target has been achieved. Carbon emissions per Based on regional estimates of direct and indirect emissions including employee per year (tonnes – 3.1 3.4 3.4 3.7 business travel. CO2) Carbon emissions per employee have increased. Total volume of paper Based on monitoring of paper use in all offices. consumed per employee per – – – – 35.5 KPI amended in 2010-11 to focus on resource use instead of waste year (kg) generation. No trend identified. Lost time accidents per Based on regional records of lost time accidents. 107 141 219 99 120 100,000 employees The number of lost time accidents increased, but remains within target range. offices both introduced Canon’s Uniflow software to control the number of prints produced and decrease overall paper consumption. The Printing Intelligence Reports created by Uniflow are delivering more than a basic readout of devices and page counts – they are actively helping the offices to investigate all aspects of how documents are created, managed and distributed so the firm can gain a better understanding of how we can control the printing process and help reduce our impact on the environment. Our worldview involves driving change around the globe. For example, the drive to introduce formal sustainability practices continues apace as a host of offices achieved ISO 14001 certification, including the Amsterdam, Istanbul, Moscow, Belgrade, Manila and Tokyo offices. At the same time, the Ho Chi Minh City, Mumbai and Taipei offices 3 Scotstoun House exterior received triple certifications in one 1 2 Scotstoun House interior go, covering ISO9001, ISO14001 and 3 Office Realtime OHSAS18001. 4 Manila office And of course, the firm has also been hard at work upgrading our facilities as well. One of the latest major schemes to be undertaken was the refurbishment of the firm’s Scottish headquarters near Edinburgh – Scotstoun House. The project snapped up a host of prizes for its low carbon, sustainable design. 4 15 Our relationships Relationships have proved more important than ever this year as the firm strives to help our partners recover in the wake of a series of seismic and extreme weather events, as well as bolstering resilience against future disasters 1 2 Resilience and recovery have been needed shelter for some of the many left among the key themes for our homeless by the disaster. relationships this year as natural disasters have highlighted the critical In Australia meanwhile, the widespread role played by engineers and designers flooding that affected many areas of in shaping the built environment. Queensland during December 2010 and January 2011 meant three quarters In the wake of the devastating of the state was declared a disaster earthquake and tsunami that hit zone. As part of the recovery process, Japan on the 11th of March 2011, we Arup structural engineers spent months supported relief efforts in a number of providing assessments of damaged ways from straightforward fundraising homes under a programme led by through to personnel and detailed Emergency Architects Australia. technical support. On one project, we worked with the architect, Shigeru Our detailed understanding of Ban, providing structural engineering environmental impacts, climate change services for multi-storey temporary effects and the resilience elements of housing in Miyagi built from shipping sustainability has also proved critical in containers. The scheme provided 189 working with partners to help them assess units in Onagawa-Cho, creating muchrisks and plan for a more resilient future. 16 Our indicators 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 Trend in performance Direct charitable donations in all regions, including those from the Ove Arup Charitable donations – 410 761 742 749 Charitable Trust. (£, to nearest £000) Donations are in line with 1% of management account profit. Pro bono engagement Based on equivalent cost of pro bono staff engagement in all regions. (£ equivalent staff cost, – 109 715 582 560 Engagement acceptable given the challenging economic conditions. to nearest £000) In the wake of an 8.8-magnitude earthquake and tsunami that struck the Maule region of Chile in February 2010, for example, large parts of Constitución were devastated. Arup was among those asked to re-design the city’s waterfront. In drafting a Sustainable Spatial Reconstruction plan for Constitución, we created an urban anti-tsunami topography that enhances access corridors in and out of the area and minimises floodwater effects through anti-tsunami protection measures. The urban design masterplan and services also included a housing plan and the reconstruction of landmark buildings with seismic protection. In a similar field, we worked with the Makati City authorities in the Philippines on an event to shape the strategies needed to build resilience in Metro Manila. Rapid urban development in the coastal location has served to make Metro Manila more prone to climate change impacts and the risk of natural disasters, including extreme rainfall events, sea level rises, as well as more 3 powerful typhoons. Forging partnerships and promoting in close collaboration with the Nyungkal clan, working in conjunction with the understanding Centre for Appropriate Technology Over the year, our relationships proved (CAT) in association with Engineers critical in many other ways too as we Without Borders (EWB). worked to enhance our engagement with challenging real-world issues. In Our community relationships also Australia, for example, the Melbourne proved useful in Hong Kong, where we team worked with Bana Yarralji Bubu provided pro-bono design engineering Aboriginal Corporation to assist the support for Maggie’s Cancer Caring traditional owners return to the fragile Center. This drop-in centre is a global 4 ecological area of Shipton’s Flat. The charitable foundation that offers practical 1 Helping in the aftermath Corporation is a social enterprise advice and support for cancer patients of the Japanese earthquake organisation run by members of the and their families and we were able to amd tsunami Kuku Nyungkal clan whose traditional make practical suggestions to support a 2 Flooding in Queensland Constituciôn, Chile lands encompass the environmentally 3 sustainable design for the centre. 4 Maggie’s Center sensitive site, which is surrounded by Queensland’s World Heritage Daintree region. The work to develop basic infrastructure for the site was carried out 17 Philanthropy Ove Arup’s legacy is a firm that places social purpose high among its values and in keeping with that spirit we remain committed to supporting a whole host of humanitarian and philanthropic ventures Top ten monetary donations in 2010-11 As a firm, Arup has been always been acutely aware of our role in society. The The Ove Arup Foundation £95,400 aspiration to shape a better world is a reminder of the responsibilities that lie in Engineers Without Borders £43,646 the fine detail of each project and reach RedR £24,574 far beyond the balance sheet. £24,241 The Smith Family As part of this commitment, the firm SportsAid £21,200 works with our people and our partners on a host of initiatives to serve the £20,944 Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts interests of the communities in which we Red Cross £18,131 work. Not only does this help those affected, but it helps inspire our own 1 £14,100 The Royal Academy of Engineering teams and provides many with valuable Australian Natural Disaster Appeal £12,121 skills in project management, team building and communication. As well as Save the Children – Japanese Earthquake Appeal £12,121 supporting our staff and allowing them the time and space to support a broad range of partners on the frontline, we Total charitable donations £749,000 also allocate 1% of our profits to charity. Clearly, it is never enough, but by engaging with our stakeholders and wider support networks around the world we make a modest contribution to the wellbeing of the societies we 2 serve. We do this by helping to promote education and development, both through our own networks such as 1 Kampuchea House Orphanage the Arup Cause and the Ove Arup 2 Hands for Nepal Foundation, as well as supporting the 3 CanStruction initiatives created by our partners. 4 Zero to Hero 5 Ayensudo kindergarten 18 4 3 5 Not just financial support, but toilets and 60 wells for female-headed kindergarten in Ayensudo, Ghana. practical help households in the country. Arup donated The kindergarten is run by the Sabre $20,000 and sponsored four women Trust, which has been operating its The Kampuchea House Orphanage from the Australasian region to make volunteer programme in Ghana for is typical of the type of project that our the journey to Nepal for a week to work six years with a particular focus on firm relishes getting involved in. This is with Habitat for Humanity, helping to kindergartens where the need is greatest. an Australian-funded orphanage some build the first 10 houses. Living among the Ayensudo community, 40km from Siem Reap where Arup Yumi spent her time on site soaking worked with the community to build Habitat for Humanity also features in up the atmosphere of enthusiasm a fourth dwelling to provide shelter the many organisations being supported and dedication among the workers for a growing number of orphans. by the Arup teams in the Americas. As as they pitched together to build an Arup spearheaded the project while well as participating in this particular environmentally friendly structure. In imparting its knowledge and building charity’s home-building programs, the the end, cement and steel use was kept to know-how to the local community. region has also established strategic a minimum in favour of local materials Structural engineer, Mithra Rajaratinam, partnerships with WaterAid America, such as bamboo, soil and coconut husk. and project manager, Eli Firestone, the ACE Mentor program for high each spent three months working with school students, and Engineers Without Fundraising is often an important part of the community on the project. And Borders, working to develop these the work involved in all these initiatives as Mithra said, “Arup has a wealth of relationships further in terms of both and that was certainly the aim of 10 knowledge and experience in low-cost technical and financial support. young Arupians from London who took and environmentally sustainable building part in the Zero to Hero challenge techniques and these were features in the Arguably one of the most fun projects run by the UK’s Fairbridge charity design of the orphanage. We also gained the Americas team got involved in was to turn £500 into £5,000 within four valuable experience through considering CanStruction, which involves designing months. In the end, the team devised the cost, constructability, sustainability and and building striking structures out of ‘Boomerang Challenge’ and managed to the local cultural conditions.” cans which are then donated to food create an event that raised in excess of pantries as part of a charitable donation. £17,000 for Fairbridge. The funds will The team in Australia has also been help some of the most disengaged and working to make a difference in Nepal Meanwhile, volunteering in a different hard-to-reach young people in the UK too, through Habitat for Humanity’s form saw Arup Cause sponsor Yumi facing multiple challenges. ‘Hand in Hand’ project, The Hands Kaminao from Tokyo take part in for Nepal scheme is part of a two-year the construction of an Arup-designed project to construct 250 houses, 250 19 A Foundation for education Each year, one of our biggest single donations goes to the Ove Arup Foundation, which uses the funds to promote education and knowledgesharing across issues associated with the built environment. This year, the Foundation certainly lived up to its remit with a £200,000 investment – matched by the Royal Academy of Engineering – to fund ITSAFE (Integrating Technical and Social Aspects of Fire Safety Engineering Expertise). Over five years, the funds will allow ITSAFE to bring together figures from across the disciplines to research the sociology of fire safety and help engineers and designers develop more intelligent approaches to safety. The Ove Arup Foundation also sought to highlight some of the other challenges and opportunities faced by society, launching a debate with the Guardian newspaper headlined ‘What Future? New ideas for urban living’. The programme brought together a whole 6 host of designers, economists and experts from other backgrounds who tackled some of the big issues of the day such as ‘Do cities shape society or does society shape cities?’ and ‘Why are people drawn to cities?’. In keeping with the spirit of the event, many of those attending in person were joined by others participating online. 7 6 Urban living 7 ITSAFE 20 Our indicators Sustainability Policy Objectives Key Performance Indicators 2010-11 2011-12 Target Our business Projects setting sustainability objectives (%) 25 50 • provide value to clients by building upon our reputation for integrated design and a holistic approach to projects Profit (% on turnover) 4.8 * • deliver projects recognised for their sustainability credentials, in line with client expectations • evaluate projects with respect to their sustainability risks and Investments (% of income) 1.2 * opportunities and, where appropriate, discuss these with the client • achieve performance that ensures the firm’s economic, environmental Cash at bank (weeks of costs, before and financial viability 6.9 * profit share) Repeat clients (%) 65 * Our people Women in the firm (all Grades) (%) 30 35 • employ and retain staff who have a high degree of awareness and expertise in sustainability for all disciplines practised Women in management 14 15 • provide continual education and training for all staff on sustainability positions (Grades 7-9) (%) issues relevant to the firm’s businesses • support innovative approaches to implementation of sustainability Staff sustainability training (%) 33 35 strategies on projects Our facilities Staff in offices with EMS to ISO14001 (%) 99 95 • maintain management systems to assist with implementation of sustainability objectives Carbon emissions per employee per year 3.7 2.9 • aim to use resources efficiently and to minimise waste, usage of water, (tonnes CO2) energy and other consumables in the office environment • develop a strategy to move towards minimising carbon emissions in Total volume of paper consumed per 35.5 * our operations employee per year (kg) • endeavour to prevent pollution within the scope of its activities Lost time accidents per 100,000 • develop a strategy for the firm to move towards sustainable procurement 120 186 employees of the goods and services used in its operations Our external relationships Charitable donations 1% of management 749 • partner with organisations that practise sustainability and that enable the (£, to nearest £000) account profit exchange of ideas and the promotion of sustainability leadership across the businesses Pro bono engagement • fund and work on community projects that achieve sustainability goals 560 * (£ equivalent staff cost, to nearest £000) * No target set. 21 St Petersburg Moscow Dublin, Cork, Amsterdam Galway and Limerick Berlin Warsaw Düsseldorf London and 13 Krakow Seattle other UK offices Frankfurt Wroclaw Toronto Milan Bucharest Boston Belgrade Chicago New York and Madrid Rome Istanbul Ankara Beijing San Francisco Washington DC New Jersey Tianjin Seoul Tokyo Los Angeles Wuhan Houston Chongqing Shanghai Dubai Doha Shenzhen Guangzhou Taipei Abu Dhabi Macau Hong Kong Mumbai Hyderabad Bangkok Manila Abuja Ho Chi Minh City Penang Kota Kinabalu Lagos Kuala Lumpur Brunei Singapore Harare Cairns Bulawayo Port Louis Rio de Janeiro Gaborone Polokwane Sunshine Coast Brisbane Johannesburg Durban Perth East London Sydney Cape Town Adelaide Port Elizabeth Auckland Melbourne Who we are Arup is the creative force at the heart Acoustic consulting Masterplanning of many of the world’s most prominent Advanced geometric design Materials projects in the built environment and Advanced technology and research Mechanical engineering Airport planning Nuclear energy across industry. We offer a broad range of Architecture Oil and gas engineering professional services that combine to make Audio visual and multimedia Operations consulting a real difference to our clients and the Bridge design Planning policy advice communities in which we work. Building design Product design Building modelling Project management Building physics Public health engineering We are truly global. From 90 offices Civil engineering Quantity surveying in 35 countries, our 10,000 planners, Cost management Renewable energy designers, engineers and consultants Economic planning Research deliver innovative projects worldwide. Economics and planning Resilience, security and risk Electrical engineering Seismic design Energy strategy Site development Founded in 1946 with an enduring set Environmental consulting Software products of values, our unique trust ownership Façade engineering Specialist technical services fosters a distinctive culture and an Facilities management Structural engineering intellectual independence that encourages Fire Sustainability consulting collaborative working. This is reflected in Fluid dynamics Sustainable buildings design Geotechnics Sustainable infrastructure design everything we do, allowing us to develop Hydrogeology Theatre consulting meaningful ideas, help shape agendas and Infrastructure design Thermal energy deliver results that frequently surpass the Interchange design Town planning expectations of our clients. International development Transaction advice IT and communications systems Transport consulting Landscape architecture Tunnel design The people at Arup are driven to find a Lighting design Vertical transportation design better way and to deliver better solutions Management consulting Water engineering for our clients. Maritime engineering Wind engineering 22 Arup Group 13 Fitzroy Street London W1T 4BQ United Kingdom www.arup.com United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 8 Attachment: −− Diversity and Inclusion Code of Practice Global Code of Practice Page 1 of 1 Diversity and Inclusion: Code of Practice CODE OF PRACTICE As a global organisation, we recognise and respect each others’ differences and strive to build a working environment where our different values and perspectives are actively harnessed to create the best solutions for our equally diverse client base. We will work to ensure that everyone feels their contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated through our processes and through our training and development. The diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce is supported by our ethics on Sustainability and Human Rights. Our employment and recruitment practices will adhere to, and strive to exceed, local legislation wherever we work in the world. Arup’s principles of Diversity and Inclusion extend to our clients, our suppliers and all those with whom we choose to work. Purpose Arup recognises that to produce work of high quality, to maintain our reputation for innovation and creativity and to understand and delight our clients we need to fully embrace the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse workforce can deliver. Effective Date 1 January 2009 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide, our applicants and all those with whom we have contact with through our working lives. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 9 Attachment: −− Grievance Code of Practice Global code of practice Grievance Grievance : code of practice Purpose The purpose of a grievance code of practice is to assist the employee in seeking fair, unbiased redress of an employment-related issue. It provides an explicit framework in which employment-related problems can be discussed and addressed. It does not apply to matters related to the outcome of disciplinary action, as there is a separate procedure for this. CODE OF PRACTICE Arup believes that all its members should have the opportunity to discuss any matter of concern with the person to whom they report. In most cases employment related matters are likely to be resolved informally in this way. If, however, the outcome of informal discussions is unsatisfactory then the issue can be addressed through the grievance procedure. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide. Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10501 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 10 Attachment: −− Sustainable Procurement Vision Statement United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 11 Attachment: −− Sustainability Policy Sustainability Policy Mission To shape a better world Objectives The firm will implement practices that promote economic security, social betterment and environmental stewardship and will strive for continuous improvement of performance in these areas. To deliver this, the firm aims to: • set a sustainability strategy for the firm; • be a leader in sustainable development in areas relevant to its business; • work with its clients to pursue, promote and develop sustainable business outcomes; • promote sustainable practices; • use its skills and influence to improve the built environment and to maintain the integrity and quality of the natural and cultural environments; • hold its performance accountable to its staff through objective measurements; • report on its sustainability performance and achievements; and • operate within a management system that is registered as meeting the requirements of ISO 14001. Outcomes In meeting these objectives, the firm will: For its core business • comply with legal and other requirements that relate to its environmental aspects; • provide value to clients by building upon its reputation for integrated design and a holistic approach to projects; • deliver projects recognised for their sustainability credentials, in line with client expectations; • evaluate projects with respect to their sustainability risks and opportunities and, where appropriate, work with the client to deliver a more sustainable outcome; and • achieve performance that ensures the firm’s economic, environmental and financial viability. For its people • employ and retain staff who have a high degree of awareness and expertise in sustainability for all disciplines practised; • provide ongoing education and training for all staff on sustainability issues relevant to the firm’s business; and • support innovative approaches to the implementation of sustainability strategies on projects. Last reviewed March 2012 Page 1 For its facilities • endeavour to prevent pollution; • aim to use resources efficiently and to minimise waste, usage of water, energy and other consumables; • implement a strategy to move towards minimising carbon emissions in its operations; and • implement a strategy for the firm to move towards sustainable procurement of the goods and services used in its operations. For its external relationships • engage with organisations that practise sustainability and that enable the exchange of ideas and the promotion of sustainability leadership across its businesses; and • implement a strategy to work on community projects that achieve sustainability goals. ............................................................... ............................................................... Robert Care ............................................................... Arup Group Sustainability Director ............................................................... Leader for ............................................................... www.arup.com Sub-region/Group ....................................................... Last reviewed March 2012 Page 2 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 12 Attachment: −− Ethics Global Code of Practice / Procedure −− Procedure, Ethical Standards Policy −− 5-Step Ethical Process for Making Ethical Decisions Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ Ethics: global procedure 1 Introduction ___________________________________________________________________________ The ethical values of integrity, openness and fairness apply to all the activities of a company. It is important not only to have standards, but also to demonstrate to clients, and under possible media scrutiny, that such standards are being met; there is considerable reputational risk associated with ethical failures at a time when anti-corruption issues are high on the media and wider business agenda. The construction sector has been identified as one of the most vulnerable, and global companies that are exposed to diverse local business practices are particularly at risk. The Board accepts responsibility to see that the values, principles and standards of business conduct underpinning how Arup operates are established and applied globally and in accordance with the Ethical Standards Policy has nominated a member of the Arup Group Board to be responsible for ethical business practices. This code of practice is intended to provide guidance on acceptable business practice to ensure that these values, principles and standards, are being met. Our behaviour will be judged against these standards. 2 Financial inducements: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup will not, in any circumstances make or offer to make a payment or transfer anything of value for the purposes of improperly obtaining or retaining business or any other improper business advantage.  Arup does not permit ‘facilitation’ payments (payments made to expedite or guarantee government services that we are legally entitled to e.g. connection of water, customs clearances) as these are prohibited in most countries. The only circumstances in which a facilitating payment should be authorised is where there is a real risk to your health and/or safety, or that of a third party, if such a payment is not made. In such event the payment should be reported so that actions can be taken as appropriate. 3 Using third parties (including agents) or working in a Joint Venture: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup commits to undertaking appropriate due diligence on all agents and joint venture partners, and where appropriate, sub consultants that we work with.  If we are required to use agents or representatives in particular countries they must have a clearly defined scope of service and agree to abide by the applicable laws and the terms of this policy as we may be liable for any financial inducements that our agent makes, or offers to make.  Any agency or joint venture agreements that we enter into should require the partners to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws and to comply with this policy.  Arup should reserve the right under any such agency or joint venture agreements to terminate the arrangements if there is a breach of any applicable laws or of this policy. Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ 4 Gifts & Entertainment: ___________________________________________________________________________  You should exercise discretion in accepting or offering gifts or hospitality and in determining whether it is appropriate you should ensure you are aware of the circumstances and implications of the offer.  Gifts and entertainment may be perceived as a financial inducement and should never be offered or accepted where the purpose is to gain an improper business advantage.  Wherever possible, gifts from clients should be shared within the group that has been involved in the project.  The following should be considered when determining if it is appropriate to accept or offer a gift or entertainment:  Any gifts or entertainment should be of a modest value, occur occasionally and be appropriate in all the circumstances. If you would feel embarrassed that colleagues or anyone outside of Arup knew about the gift, it is likely to be inappropriate.  The purpose of the hospitality must have a legitimate business purpose. It is not acceptable to accept hospitality if our business contact will not be present, and vice versa.  It is important to consider if the recipient is allowed to accept gifts, government officials and public bodies may be unable to do so.  As a general rule, we should only offer as gifts and entertainment what we would be comfortable to accept; and vice versa  There are some gifts and entertainment which cannot be accepted without prior approval from your Group Leader; these include, but are not limited to money; hospitality that lasts more than one day and that involves meals and/or travel being paid for. 5 Competition: ___________________________________________________________________________  Competition, however fierce, should always be undertaken honestly and fairly.  You must not use improper means to obtain information about our competitors. 6 Confidentiality: ___________________________________________________________________________  Information that is not in the public domain or that may be regarded as confidential in relation to Arup’s business or concerning any other organisation with which you, in the course of your work have had business dealings, must be kept confidential.  You are reminded that there are laws in many countries that prohibit the use of confidential or unpublished information for insider trading on the stock market 7 Conduct & performance at work: ___________________________________________________________  You are expected to apply due skill, care and diligence in the services that you provide for clients. You should, at all times, work to the best of your ability. Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________  It is your personal responsibility to acquaint yourself with the legal standards and restrictions that are applicable to the location in which you are working any to comply with these in all respects.  Many of the professional bodies of which staff are members have ethical standards or Codes of Ethics that we individually, and corporately, must adhere to.  If you are responsible for supervising others in Arup you should:  Promote ethical behaviour and compliance with the policy  Monitor compliance with the policy and enforce it as is necessary  Support employees who ask questions or raise concerns in good faith 8 Client Activities: ___________________________________________________________________________  If you are reasonably concerned abut the ethical aspects of a particular project, you will be allowed to decline involvement following appropriate consultation and agreement with your Group Leader  If you are reasonably concerned about ethical aspects of a client’s activities, you will be allowed to withdraw from working with that client after appropriate consultation and agreement with your Group Leader and the approval of the Region Chair. 9 Conflicts of Interest: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup’s professional duty extends to not placing ourselves in a position where any conflict of interest is likely to arise. Where any potential conflict does arise, we must identify it and ensure it is appropriately addressed. Where we have more than one role on the same project for different clients: Follow the procedures for identifying all job opportunities through job application forms. Seek client agreement to the arrangements Implement effective information barriers between project teams so that teams are from separately located groups, led by separate project directors, and operating effectively as separate organisations. Further guidance on information barriers is available here  You must not allow your private interests to influence your business judgment or decision making on behalf of Arup.  You are not prohibited from owning shares in any of our client, partners, contractor’s or competitor’s businesses but it is essential that these business dealings do not raise a conflict of interest or give the appearance of doing so and you must comply with insider trading legislation at all times.  Jobs/affiliations of close relatives may give rise to the appearance of a conflict of interest and this should be taken into account.  You may be asked to serve on the board of directors or as trustees etc. of another organization and such roles can provide opportunities for personal development as well as building experience and relationships in new areas. Approval must be sought before such a post may be accepted in the following circumstances: Where the organization is commercial (as this is likely to increase the chance of a conflict arising); or Where there are, or may be perceived to be, concerns in respect of time and commitment, financial exposure or reputation Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ Approval should be obtained from the relevant Region Chair or, in the case of a Region Chair or Group Board member, by the Group Chair. 10 Political Contributions ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup funds or facilities may not be used to make political contributions to any organisation or candidate for public office. You are not restricted from contributing financially, from your own funds, to political campaigns or from participating, in your own time, in political campaigns. 11 Asking Questions & Raising Concerns: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup encourages all staff to discuss any queries or concerns that relate to ethical business practices.  If you have a concern or suspect that a breach of this policy has occurred or may occur, you have a duty to report these concerns.  You may report suspected breaches of this policy anonymously, although you are encouraged to identify yourself so that a full investigation is possible. Investigation may not be possible or effective where reports are anonymous. Arup will conduct any investigations sensitively and will take all reasonable steps to keep your identity confidential but in some cases disclosure will be unavoidable.  All potential breaches of this policy that are reported in good faith will be investigated responsibly.  Arup will not tolerate any form of retaliation against individuals who report, in good faith, breaches or potential breaches of this policy.  If you would like to ask a question or to report a suspected breach, you should: o Direct all queries are directed through your Group Leader in the first instance. o Where this is not possible or appropriate, employees may choose to contact the nominated member of the Arup Group Board 12 Disciplinary Procedure for breach: ___________________________________________________________________________ Failure to comply with the spirit or letter of this policy may result in significant reputational damage to Arup and breaches of the law, of any country, is a serious matter which may subject Arup and/or individual employees to civil and criminal penalties. In addition to the above, where individuals are in breach of the terms of their contract of employment they may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Approved by Group Board, October 2011 Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Ethical Standards Policy Mission To shape a better world Objectives To deliver this, the firm will: • commit to acting honourably and with integrity in all its business dealings; • ensure that no financial or other inducements to gain or retain work are offered or accepted by or on behalf of Arup; • recognise the duty of confidentiality in all our client relationships and give it the highest importance; • identify and address appropriately any potential conflicts of interest; • endeavour to raise the ethical standards of global business in the market in which we operate; • provide such training, advice, information as may be necessary to personnel at all levels; • integrate ethical considerations into our design and business decisions; and • provide pro bono services where appropriate and engage with the wider community. Outcome In meeting these objectives, the firm will: • comply with all legal and other applicable requirements of the countries in which we work; • justify the trust of our clients by giving their interests first priority in the work we do for them; • take steps to see that all personnel are aware of, and follow the Ethics Code of Practice; • appoint a Group Board Director with responsibility for ethical business Practices; • where appropriate undertake due diligence of our clients, joint venture partners, agents and other advisors; • participate in appropriate industry forums to promote industry best practice; and • achieve a performance which will sustain the long-term success of the business and enhance our reputation in the market. ............................................................... Robert Care Arup Group Ethics Director www.arup.com Last reviewed January 2012 Decisions lt and to help, we recommend you apply a 5-step approach to the ethical gs Reputation 2 4 Effects Options 3 5 ow your intended Consider how those affected Consider what others Consider the options for raising make you feel: will feel: will think: a concern: ret or remorse? • Duped, used, angry, annoyed • What would your family, • What is the best method for e to convince or disappointed? friends and colleagues think? raising this concern? ou are right then you • Pleased, proud, respected? • Would you, or they, be happy • What evidence do you have ly wrong • That you are the only one reading about it in the paper? or will you need? to benefit? any dilemma and when used alongside the code of practice you’ll have the confidence to act ethically. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 13 Attachment: −− Global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice Global code of practice Conduct & Performance Conduct & Performance : code of practice Purpose Arup maintains a Conduct & Performance code of practice to uphold the professional standards expected from all its members. The code of practice provides a framework for guidance to members of the firm whose conduct and/or performance does not fulfil the firm’s expectations. It also provides guidance to members who manage such issues. The aim of the supporting disciplinary procedure is to provide a uniform, fair and responsive means of addressing issues of unsatisfactory conduct and/or performance. CODE OF PRACTICE All members of Arup are expected to act in a professional and competent manner in all aspects of their work. In support of this, the firm's role shall, wherever practicable, be to give advice and guidance in accordance with its disciplinary procedure. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide (but see also section 1 for further details). Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10101 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 14 Attachment: −− Financial Statements 2011 for OAPIL Financial Statements 2011 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited Cover image: Informatie Beheer Groep Office Groningen, Netherlands | © UNStudio, Amsterdam. Contents Directors’ report 1-3 Independent auditors’ report 4 Profit and loss account 5 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 5 Balance sheet 6 Notes to the financial statements 7-19 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 1 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2011 Directors’ report The directors present their report together with The principal area of risk and operating the financial statements of Ove Arup & Partners uncertainty for the business is its ability to International Limited (the “Company”) for the continue to secure new projects and deliver the year ended 31 March 2011, which were approved performance of existing projects in line with by the board of directors on 23 September 2011. management’s objectives. To monitor these, the directors use the following financial key The capital of the ultimate parent company is performance indicators (KPIs): divided into equity shares, which are held in trust for the benefit of the employees (past and present) • Turnover and profit per person is a financial KPI of the Arup group of Companies (the “Group”) used to monitor the continued contribution to the and voting shares that are held by the Ove Arup Company. In calculating this measure, profit is Partnership Charitable Trust. stated before tax and staff profit share. For the year ended 31 March 2011, turnover per person Principal activities was £106k (2010: £100k) and profit per person was £5k (2010: £19k). The Company practices in the field of consulting engineering services, in architecture and in other • Staff turnover is a key non-financial measure of related professional skills, principally in the United business performance. For the year ended 31 March Kingdom and Continental Europe. 2011, staff turnover was 16% (2010: 15%). The Company operates significant branches in The Company will continue to operate in similar Russia, Poland and Romania. markets. We have a solid, diversified portfolio to navigate the market challenges and a breadth of Review of the business quality employees that will help the Company to and future developments exploit opportunities when growth returns. These are the results for the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2011. The results Dividends show a profit after taxation of £13.0m The directors do not recommend a dividend (2010: £55.8m). payment (2010: nil). During the year the Company’s turnover decreased by 2.8% (2010: 8.6%) and the Company made a Supplier payments total profit before tax and staff profit share of The Company’s policy is to agree terms and £21.3m (2010: £85m). conditions for its orders with suppliers and to The performance developments of the Company ensure that these are abided by. As at 31 March are in line with the expectations of the directors. 2011 supplier payment days are 20 days’ annual purchases (2010: 20 days). The directors draw attention to the following matters that have had an impact on the reported Directors and their interests performance in the current year: The directors of the Company during the year • The global economic slowdown continues to and up to the date of signing this report, were affect our UK and European markets, however as follows: growth in regions such as Africa and the wider Middle East has lessened this impact. In 2011, J Baster* (Appointed 01/05/10) 16% of the Company’s turnover was derived A J Belfield* from this region, compared to only 4% in 2010. R F Care* (Appointed 03/02/11) • The translation of the performance and assets of T G A Carfrae* (Appointed 03/02/11) the Company’s branches from their principal A K C Chan* operating currencies to sterling, have resulted in an increase of £0.4m (2010: decrease of £0.1m) P G Dilley* to the Company’s net assets. T M Hill Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2011 2 Directors’ report (continued) A R M Marcetteau • Liquidity risk: Cashflow forecasts are prepared J C Miles* to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet the Company’s liabilities as and when they D J Singleton* (Resigned 31/07/10) fall due. J G Turzynski • Foreign exchange risk: Where possible the D A Whittleton* Company matches its currency earnings No director has an interest in the shares of the with currency costs. Where this is not Company (or any other member of the Group) possible appropriate derivative contracts other than through their interest as an employee may be used. There is no speculative use of of the Group in the employee trusts which own financial instruments. the equity shares of the ultimate parent company. • Interest rate risk: The Company currently does All directors marked with an * were also directors not hedge interest rate risk, however the need to of Arup Group Limited at 31 March 2011. do so is regularly reviewed. • Credit risk: The main exposure to credit risk is Directors’ indemnities on amounts due from customers. Controls and As permitted by the Company’s Articles of procedures are in place to mitigate this risk. Association, the directors have the benefit of an Cash investments are held with banks with a indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity minimum credit rating of A-1/P1. provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies Note 1f) in the notes to the financial statements Act 2006. The indemnity was in force throughout the provides further information on accounting for last financial year and is currently in force. The exchange differences. Company also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Research and development Insurance in respect of itself and its directors. The Company engages in research and development on an ad-hoc basis as required to Independent auditors complete projects during the normal course of During the year, Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP business. Costs incurred in research and resigned as auditors to the Company and the directors development are immediately expensed to the appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the profit and loss account. The Company obtains Company’s auditors. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP enhanced tax relief for these costs from HMRC. have indicated their willingness to continue in office for another financial year. Charitable donations During the year the Company made charitable Financial risk management donations amounting to £241k (2010: £372k). The Company’s financial assets and liabilities comprise cash at bank, overdraft, trade and other payables and receivables, whose main purpose is Employees to maintain adequate finance for the The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is Company’s operations. key to the future of the Company. Health and safety matters are regularly reviewed by the The Company has overseas subsidiaries where directors and it is their policy to ensure that: transactions, assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies and is therefore exposed to • full and fair consideration is given to all currency fluctuations arising from these sources. applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their capabilities; The Company is exposed to a number of financial risks and actively mitigates the risk of financial • when existing employees become disabled loss. The key aspects are: (whether from illness or accident) every reasonable effort is made to continue to provide Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 3 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2011 Directors’ report (continued) suitable employment either in the same job, or • prepare the financial statements on the going by training, in an alternative job; and concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue in business. • disabled persons are given equal consideration for training, career development and opportunities The directors are responsible for keeping adequate for promotion within the Company. accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose The Company is active in the field of employee with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial communications and employees are encouraged position of the Company and enable them to to express their views on major policy issues. ensure that the financial statements comply with ‘Working at Arup’ surveys are conducted to the Companies Act 2006. They are also obtain feedback from employees. This survey is responsible for safeguarding the assets of the confidential and is used alongside consultation Company and hence for taking reasonable steps with employees where appropriate. for the prevention of fraud and other irregularities. Each year, employees are provided with a Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Chairman’s report and financial information. preparation and dissemination of the accounts and Employees are informed of significant business the other information included in Annual Reports issues via the use of email, discussions with may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. senior management, the Company’s intranet and in-house publications. The maintenance and integrity of the Company website is the responsibility of the directors; the Employee involvement in the Company’s work carried out by the auditors does not involve performance is encouraged and maintained via consideration of these matters, and accordingly the participation in a staff profit sharing initiative. auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred in the financial statements Statement of directors’ responsibilities since they were initially presented on the website. The directors are responsible for preparing the directors’ report and the financial statements in Post balance sheet events accordance with applicable laws and regulations. There have been no post balance sheet events. Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Disclosure of audit information Under that law the directors have elected to The directors confirm that, as at the date this report prepare financial statements in accordance with was approved, so far as each director is aware, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting there is no relevant audit information of which the Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards Company’s auditor is unaware and that he or she and applicable law). Under company law the has taken all the steps he or she ought to have directors must not approve the financial statements taken as a director in order to make him or herself unless they are satisfied that they give a true and aware of any relevant audit information and to fair view of the state of affairs of the Company establish that the Company’s auditor is aware and of the profit and loss of the Company for that of that information. period. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: By Order of the Board • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; • make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; • state whether applicable accounting standards M S Tweedie have been followed, subject to any material Company Secretary departures disclosed and explained in the 23 September 2011 financial statements; and Registered Office: 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Independent auditors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2011 4 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ove Arup & Partners International Limited We have audited the financial statements of inconsistencies with the audited financial Ove Arup & Partners International Limited for the statements. If we become aware of any apparent year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the material misstatements or inconsistencies we profit and loss account, the statement of total consider the implications for our report. recognised gains and losses, the balance sheet and the related notes numbered 1 to 23. Opinion on financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been In our opinion the financial statements: applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United • give a true and fair view of the state of the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2011 and its profit for the year then ended; Respective responsibilities of directors • have been properly prepared in accordance with and auditors United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities, the directors are • have been prepared in accordance with the responsible for the preparation of the financial requirements of the Companies Act 2006. statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit Opinion on other matters prescribed and express an opinion on the financial statements by the Companies Act 2006 in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and In our opinion the information given in the Ireland). Those standards require us to comply directors’ report for the financial year for which with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical the financial statements are prepared is consistent Standards for Auditors. with the financial statements. This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members Matters on which we are required to as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 report by exception of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other We have nothing to report in respect of the purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept following matters where the Companies Act 2006 or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: any other person to whom this report is shown or • adequate accounting records have not been kept, into whose hands it may come, save where or returns adequate for our audit have not been expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. received from branches not visited by us; or Scope of the audit of the • the financial statements are not in agreement financial statements with the accounting records and returns; or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration amounts and disclosures in the financial statements specified by law are not made; or sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the • we have not received all the information and financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. explanations we require for our audit. This includes an assessment of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors and the overall presentation Jonathan Hook (Senior Statutory Auditor) For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, of the financial statements. In addition, we read all Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the financial and non-financial information in the London financial statements to identify material 30 September 2011 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 5 Profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2011 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 2011 2010 Profit and loss account £’000 £’000 Notes Turnover 1b & 2 432,708 445,008 Staff costs 3 Wages and salaries (182,632) (194,707) Social security costs (18,645) (17,913) Pension contributions (15,198) (5,999) Other staff costs (24,799) (16,956) Exceptional pension credits 80,800 (241,274) (154,775) Depreciation 9 (10,618) (10,672) Other operating charges Charges from sub-consultants and other direct project costs (87,064) (115,003) Accommodation (33,459) (32,899) Communications and other overheads (47,871) (52,012) Release of provision against balance due from Group undertakings 2,719 (168,394) (197,195) Operating profit 5 12,422 82,366 Interest receivable 6 89 545 Interest payable 7 (287) (87) Other finance charges 23 (500) (7,000) Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 11,724 75,824 Taxation on ordinary activities 8 1,330 (20,063) Profit for the financial year 16 & 17 13,054 55,761 All activities of the Company are derived from continuing operations. 2011 2010 Statement of total recognised gains and losses £’000 £’000 Profit for the financial year 16 & 17 13,054 55,761 Exchange translation gains/(losses) 436 (148) Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the pension scheme 23 1,000 (66,000) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial gain/loss 23 (3,398) 18,500 Total gains recognised since last annual report 11,092 8,113 There is no difference between the profit on ordinary activities before taxation and the profit for the financial year stated above, and their historical cost equivalent. The notes on pages 7 to 19 form part of these financial statements. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Company number 952468 Balance sheet | as at 31 March 2011 6 2011 2010 Balance sheet £’000 £’000 Notes Fixed assets Tangible assets 9 34,472 39,809 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 10 25,352 25,352 59,824 65,161 Current assets Debtors 11 243,232 198,714 Cash at bank and in hand 15,877 12,668 259,109 211,382 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 12 (203,783) (169,835) Net current assets 55,326 41,547 Total assets less current liabilities 115,150 106,708 Provision for liabilities and charges Dilapidation provision 13 (1,850) Net assets excluding pension liabilities 113,300 106,708 Pension liability 23 (77,330) (81,830) Net assets after pension liabilities 35,970 24,878 Capital and reserves Share capital 15 45,000 45,000 Profit and loss reserve 16 (9,030) (20,122) Shareholders’ funds 17 35,970 24,878 The financial statements on pages 5 to 19 were approved and authorised by the board of directors on 23 September 2011 and signed on its behalf by: A R M Marcetteau Director The notes on pages 7 to 19 form part of these financial statements. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 7 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 1 Accounting policies a) Basis of accounting These financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis, under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards. The Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Arup Group Limited and is included in its consolidated financial statements which are publicly available. Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing consolidated financial statements under section 400 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from publishing a cash flow statement under the terms of Financial Reporting Standard No 1 (Revised 1996). Having considered post year end trading and forecasts and the cash resources available to the Company, the directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to use the going concern assumption. The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently throughout the year, are set out below. b) Turnover Turnover represents the value of work performed on contracts in the year. For contracts on which turnover exceeds fees rendered, the excess is included as amounts recoverable on contracts within debtors. For contracts on which fees rendered exceed turnover, the excess is included as fees in advance within creditors. c) Tangible fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Cost comprises purchase price after discounts and rebates plus all directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use. Tangible fixed assets are written off over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis at a rate of 25% per annum. Expenditure on leasehold properties is written off over the period of the lease. Fixed assets and investments are reviewed for impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. d) Taxation Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the income statement for the period except where the taxation arises as a result of a transaction or event that is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Income tax arising on transactions or events recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity is charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity respectively. e) Deferred taxation Full provision is made for timing differences at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, in respect of timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the accounts, which are not permanent. Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. No deferred tax has been provided for on any gain arising from the sales of any assets where the taxable gain has been, or will be, rolled over to replacement assets. Deferred tax assets are only recognised where they arise from timing differences where the recoverability is foreseen with reasonable certainty. f) Exchange rates Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency have been translated into sterling at year end exchange rates. The trading results of overseas operations have been translated using an average rate for the year. Exchange differences on the translation of the results of overseas operations together with those on assets and liabilities in foreign currency are taken directly to reserves. All other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 8 1 Accounting policies (continued) g) Long term contracts The value of long term contracts is based on recoverable costs plus attributable profit. Cost is defined as technical staff costs and related overheads plus project expenses. As projects reach stages where it is considered that their outcome can be reasonably foreseen, proportions of the expected total profit are brought into the financial statements. Provision is made for all known and anticipated losses. For contracts on which turnover exceeds fees rendered, the excess is included as amounts recoverable on contracts on lump sum projects, and as accrued income, on time basis projects, within debtors. For contracts on which fees rendered exceed turnover, the excess is included as fees in advance, within creditors. h) Research and development All research and development cost is expensed in the year incurred. i) Pension costs Contributions to the Company’s defined contribution scheme are charged to the profit and loss account when they fall due. The Company also operated a defined benefit scheme during the year as described in note 23. Under FRS 17 the assets of the defined benefit pension scheme are measured at their fair (market) value at the balance sheet date and compared to the liabilities of the scheme, at the same date, measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method. The discount rate used is the rate of return at the balance sheet date on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities. The extent to which the scheme’s assets exceed/fall short of their liabilities is shown as a surplus/ deficit in the balance sheet. The surplus/deficit is shown net of deferred taxation. The increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities arising as a result of employee service in the current period is charged to operating profit. Any increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities arising in the current period but as a result of employee service in prior periods is charged to operating profit on a straight-line basis over the period in which the increases in benefit vest. The amount of expected return on the scheme’s assets and the increase during the period in the present value of the scheme liabilities arising from scheme liabilities being one year closer to payment are included as other finance income in the profit and loss account. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. Management assessed the expected return on scheme assets based on a review of past returns and professional advice of the level of future returns. j) Leased assets Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate is shorter than the full lease term, in which case the shorter period is used. k) Investment in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are stated at cost less impairments. l) Trade debtors Trade debtors are recognised at original invoice amount. A provision for impairment of trade debtors is established when there is reason to believe that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the debtor. A provision for exchange differences is also recognised on debts raised in currencies other than sterling. m) Cash Cash can comprise of cash in hand, demand deposits and short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 9 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 2011 2010 2 Geographical segmental analysis of turnover £’000 £’000 United Kingdom 260,846 342,816 Middle East & Africa 67,407 17,313 Europe 63,480 75,364 Americas 15,279 2,839 Australasia 13,281 498 Asia 12,415 6,178 432,708 445,008 2011 2010 3 Staff costs £’000 £’000 Ordinary staff costs Salaries 182,632 194,707 Staff profit sharing 9,587 9,155 Social security 18,645 17,913 Pension contributions 15,198 5,999 Redundancy costs 8,180 2,534 Other staff costs 7,032 5,267 241,274 235,575 Exceptional pension credits Curtailment of pension scheme (42,300) Past service costs (38,500) (80,800) Total staff costs 241,274 154,775 The closure of the pension scheme, to which the company was irrevocably committed at 31 March 2010, and the move from using the Retail Price Index to the Consumer Price Index for calculating deferred pension increases resulted in two exceptional staff cost gains in 2010 of £42.3m and £38.5m respectively. Average number of persons employed by the Company Number Number Engineering and technical staff 3,337 3,628 Administrative staff 723 806 Directors 12 11 4,072 4,445 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 10 2011 2010 4 Directors’ remuneration £’000 £’000 Aggregate remuneration Aggregate emoluments paid 2,337 2,746 Aggregate contributions paid to money purchase schemes 27 2 Number of directors accruing pension benefits under Number Number Money purchase schemes 4 1 Defined benefit schemes 8 2011 2010 Highest paid director £’000 £’000 Total emoluments excluding contributions paid to pension schemes 330 413 Accrued pension from defined benefit scheme as at 31 March 97 94 2011 2010 5 Operating profit £’000 £’000 This is stated after charging/(crediting) During the year, the Company obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor: Fees payable for audit services 225 187 Fees payable for other services relating to taxation 3 132 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 2 408 (Profit)/loss on foreign exchange (1,701) 2,687 Research and development costs 13,822 14,023 Operating leases for land & buildings 18,290 19,068 2011 2010 6 Interest receivable £’000 £’000 Bank interest 89 545 2011 2010 7 Interest payable £’000 £’000 Bank interest 1 4 Other interest 286 83 287 87 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 11 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 2011 2010 8 Taxation £’000 £’000 a) Analysis of tax charge The charge for taxation comprises: UK corporation tax for the year at 28% 133 (3,612) Less: double tax relief (133) (7) (3,619) Over provision of UK corporation tax in respect of previous years (676) (234) (676) (3,853) Non-UK tax for the current year 338 487 Under provision of non-UK tax in respect of previous years Current tax credit (338) (3,366) UK deferred taxation for the current year (986) 23,566 Over provision in respect of previous years (6) (137) Total tax credit (1,330) 20,063 b) Factors affecting the tax credit for the year The tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax of 28%. The differences are explained below: Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 11,724 75,824 Profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax of 28% 3,283 21,231 Effects of: Group Relief (2,308) Permanent differences (1,063) (1,319) Timing adjustments 199 (23,524) Non-UK tax in excess of UK Tax 205 480 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years including non-UK tax charge (676) (234) Unrelieved losses carried forward 22 Current tax credit (338) (3,366) c) Factors affecting current and future tax charges During the year, a change in the UK main corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% was substantially enacted on 20 July 2010 and will be effective from 1 April 2011. Following the March 2011 Budget Statement, the main rate of corporation tax was further reduced from 27% to 26% from 1 April 2011, and the relevant deferred tax assets have been re-measured. Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014 but these later reductions had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and therefore are not included in these financial statements. The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted separately each year. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 12 9 Tangible fixed assets £’000 Furniture, Leased Leasehold fittings & Motor motor property equipment vehicles vehicles Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2010 32,140 45,551 132 15 77,838 Additions during the year 1,410 3,821 26 56 5,313 Disposals during the year (265) (4,914) (16) (31) (5,226) Adjustment for exchange differences (87) (2) (89) Balance at 31 March 2011 33,285 44,371 140 40 77,836 Depreciation Balance at 1 April 2010 7,605 30,304 113 7 38,029 Charge for the year 3,990 6,564 9 55 10,618 Eliminated in respect of disposals (265) (4,904) (15) (31) (5,215) Adjustment for exchange differences (67) (1) (68) Balance at 31 March 2011 11,330 31,897 106 31 43,364 Net book value at 31 March 2011 21,955 12,474 34 9 34,472 Net book value at 31 March 2010 24,535 15,247 19 8 39,809 10 Subsidiary undertakings Ove Arup & Partners International Limited owns ordinary shares in the companies noted below and these companies were all wholly owned subsidiary undertakings of Ove Arup & Partners International Limited at 31 March 2011. The operating companies were all engaged in the same principal activities as the parent company. Direct holdings Country of incorporation Arup Associates Limited England & Wales Arup doo Serbia Arup Gulf Limited England & Wales Arup International Limited England & Wales Arup Limited England & Wales OASYS Limited England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Limited England & Wales Indirect holdings Arup Engineering Design and Consulting Services India Private Limited India Ove Arup & Partners Scotland Limited Scotland Movement of investment £’000 Cost at 1 April 2010 and 31 March 2011 25,352 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 13 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 2011 2010 11 Debtors £’000 £’000 Amounts recoverable on contracts 16,786 17,122 Trade debtors 41,185 47,956 Amounts owed by group undertakings 155,315 95,275 Foreign tax recoverable 212 124 Deferred tax asset 3,240 1,053 Corporation tax 4,083 8,738 Other debtors 3,496 2,857 Prepayments and accrued income 18,915 25,589 243,232 198,714 2011 2010 12 Creditors £’000 £’000 Amounts falling due within one year Fees in advance 62,914 73,349 Trade creditors 8,490 9,075 Amounts owed to group undertakings 85,213 31,267 Provision for foreign tax 27 Taxation and social security costs 9,177 7,429 Other creditors 262 402 Accruals and deferred income 37,727 48,286 203,783 169,835 13 Provision for liabilities and charges £’000 Balance at 1 April 2010 Charge to the profit and loss account in the year 1,850 Balance at 31 March 2011 1,850 This provision relates to dilapidations on buildings leased by the Company, in accordance with our lease contracts. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 14 2011 2010 14 Deferred taxation £’000 £’000 Movement of deferred tax asset: At 1 April (1,053) (782) Under provision of deferred tax in respect of previous years (6) (137) Restated opening balance (1,059) (919) (Charge)/credit for the year (986) 23,566 Less: deferred tax on pension scheme deficit 890 (23,700) Adjustment for change in corporate tax rate (2,085) At 31 March (3,240) (1,053) The provision comprises: Accelerated capital allowances (2,887) (659) Short term timing differences (353) (394) Deferred tax asset as at 31 March (3,240) (1,053) 2011 2010 15 Share capital £’000 £’000 Issued, called up & fully paid 45,000,000 ordinary shares of £1 each 45,000 45,000 2011 2010 16 Profit and loss account £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April (20,122) (28,235) Retained profit for the financial year 13,054 55,761 Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the pension scheme 1,000 (66,000) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial gain/loss (3,398) 18,500 Adjustment for exchange differences 436 (148) Balance at 31 March (9,030) (20,122) Profit and loss reserve excluding pension liability 68,300 61,708 Pension liability (note 23) (77,330) (81,830) Profit and loss reserve (9,030) (20,122) 2011 2010 17 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April 24,878 1,765 Increase in share capital 15,000 Retained profit for the financial year 13,054 55,761 Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the pension scheme 1,000 (66,000) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial gain/loss (3,398) 18,500 Adjustment for exchange differences 436 (148) Closing shareholders’ funds 35,970 24,878 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 15 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 18 Contingent liabilities The Company has recorded a liability for the best estimate of certain claims that have been brought against the Company. At this time it is not possible to measure reliably any other items that may have been incurred but have yet to have a claim raised in respect of it. The Company monitors all claims and takes appropriate insurance procedures to mitigate the Company’s risk. 2011 2010 19 Capital commitments £’000 £’000 Authorised and contracted for 226 435 20 Other financial commitments The Company has the following annual property leasing commitments at the year end, in respect of leases expiring as follows: 2011 2010 £’000 £’000 Within one year 223 644 In two to five years 2,725 1,472 After five years 14,936 17,005 21 Ultimate parent company The Company’s immediate and ultimate parent company is Arup Group Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales. Arup Group Limited is owned by the Ove Arup Partnership Employee Trust, the Ove Arup Partnership Charitable Trust and the Arup Service Trust. 22 Related party transactions The Company transacts with other Group companies in the normal course of business. These transactions, in accordance with FRS 8 paragraph 3, are not disclosed as the Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Arup Group Limited whose consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, are publicly available. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 16 23 Pension commitments At the beginning of the financial year, the Company operated a UK registered, contributory pension scheme, which had a defined benefit and a defined contribution section, for employees. On 31 March 2010, the scheme was closed to new members. With effect from 30 June 2010, the future accrual of benefits for existing members ceased. The company replaced this scheme with a group personal pension plan for employees who were able to join it with effect from 1 July 2010. All contributions for the new plan are held and managed by BlackRock Pensions Limited. The Company has no ongoing liability to the funds held by BlackRock in respect of the employees. For the pension scheme which closed on 30 June 2010, contributions were made in accordance with the rules of the scheme and the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of triennial valuations. The most recent valuation was at 31 March 2010 using the projected unit method. The actuarial valuation of the scheme’s assets at 31 March 2010 (which took into account the closure of the scheme to come on 30 June 2010) on an ongoing basis represented 74% of the actuarially calculated liabilities for benefits that had accrued to members and the scheme’s assets had a market value of £494m at that date. The most significant assumptions made by the actuary in carrying out this valuation were the discount rate of 7.3% pre retirement and 5.0% post retirement and the consumer price inflation of 2.5%. Allowance was made for the closure of the scheme and no assumption was made for future salary inflation. There was an employer’s contribution for the year to 31 March 2011 of £4.0m (2010: £16.5m). A special employer’s contribution was made during the year to 31 March 2011 of £8.8m (2010: nil). The next actuarial valuation will be carried out no later than 31 March 2013. The valuation position of this scheme was reassessed at 31 March 2011 by a qualified independent actuary for the purposes of the financial reporting standard FRS 17. Relationship between the reporting entity and the trustees (managers) of the defined benefit scheme The pension assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long term pension liabilities to past and present employees. The trustees of the scheme are required to act in the best interest of the scheme’s beneficiaries. The appointment of trustees to the scheme is determined by the scheme’s trust documentation. The Group has a policy that one-third of all trustees should be nominated by members of the scheme, including at least one member by current pensioners. In addition to its statutory duties, the board of trustees have been granted the power to ‘call’ for additional contributions in the event of certain circumstances. The circumstances in which the trustees can exercise this power include a disposal that accounts for more than 15% of the net assets, as reported in the consolidated balance sheet or when the funding position of the scheme falls below 65% of the scheme liabilities. This disclosure is also provided in accordance with FRS 12 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 17 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 23 Pension commitments (continued) Assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return at 31 March: Long term rate Value of assets of return expected in the scheme 2011 2010 2011 2010 £’m £’m Equities and property 8.4% 8.5% 320.9 303.9 Bonds and cash including net current assets 4.5% 4.6% 203.7 190.9 Total market value of assets 524.6 494.8 Present value of defined benefit obligation (629.2) (608.5) Deficit in the scheme (104.6) (113.7) Less: related deferred tax asset at 26% (2010: 28%) 27.2 31.8 Net scheme liability (77.4) (81.8) Major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets 2011 2010 Equities 57% 56% Gilts and bonds 38% 38% Property 4% 5% Other 1% 1% 100% 100% Amounts recognised in the profit and loss account: 2011 2010 £’m £’m Current service cost (4.2) (5.8) Interest on obligation (34.8) (34.3) Expected return on scheme assets 34.3 27.3 Past service income 38.5 Curtailments and settlements 42.3 Net (charge)/income (4.7) 68.0 Actual return on scheme assets 38.4 129.1 Movement of deficit during the year 2011 2010 £’m £’m Deficit in scheme at 1 April (113.7) (132.1) Movement in the year: Current service cost (4.2) (5.8) Employer’s contributions 12.8 16.5 Past service income 38.5 Interest cost (34.8) (34.3) Expected return on scheme assets 34.3 27.3 Actuarial gain/(loss) 1.0 (66.0) Curtailments and settlements 42.3 Deficit in scheme at 31 March (104.6) (113.7) Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 18 23 Pension commitments (continued) Reconciliation of the present value of the defined benefit obligation 2011 2010 £’m £’m Present value of defined benefit obligation at 1 April 608.5 492.0 Current service cost 4.2 5.8 Interest cost 34.8 34.3 Members’ contributions 2.0 8.3 Actuarial loss on scheme liabilities 3.1 167.8 Benefits paid (23.4) (18.9) Past service income (38.5) Curtailments and settlements (42.3) Present value of defined benefit obligation at 31 March 629.2 608.5 Reconciliation of fair value of scheme assets 2011 2010 £’m £’m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 April 494.8 359.9 Expected return on scheme assets 34.3 27.3 Actuarial gain on scheme assets 4.1 101.8 Actual return on scheme assets 38.4 129.1 Employer contributions 12.8 16.5 Members’ contributions 2.0 8.3 Benefits paid (23.4) (18.9) Fair value of scheme assets at 31 March 524.6 494.8 Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) 2011 2010 At 31 March Future average rate of increase in salaries N/A N/A Future average rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.5% 2.9% Future average rate used to discount liabilities 5.8% 5.8% Retail price inflation 3.5% 3.6% Consumer price inflation 2.5% 2.9% Pension increases: Pre 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 0.0% 0.0% Post 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 2.3% 2.4% NGMP accrued before 01/10/2006 (5% LPI) 3.3% 3.4% Pension accrued after 31/09/2006 (2.5% LPI) 2.3% 2.3% NGMP Non Guaranteed Minimum Pension LPI Limited Price Indexation Mortality 2010 & 2011 PNA00 birth year mortality tables using the 92 series medium cohort projections, allowing for minimum improvements in mortality of 1% pa. Cash commutation 2010 & 2011 30% of members’ pensions assumed to be taken as cash. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 19 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2011 23 Pension commitments (continued) The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are: 2011 2010 Number Number of years of years Retiring today Males 22.5 22.4 Females 24.9 24.8 Retiring in 20 years Males 24.4 24.3 Females 26.8 26.7 The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions. History of experience gains and losses 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m Defined benefit obligation (629.2) (608.5) (492.0) (511.8) (538.5) Scheme assets 524.6 494.8 359.9 453.7 463.6 Scheme deficit (104.6) (113.7) (132.1) (58.1) (74.9) Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (23.7) 12.4 11.9 (5.0) (20.6) Experience adjustments on scheme assets 4.1 101.8 (138.2) (54.3) 5.4) Total actuarial gains and losses recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses 1.0 (66.0) (81.9) 5.1 4.8) Estimated contributions The employer’s best estimate of contributions to be paid to the scheme by the employer next year is £10m. Defined contribution schemes The Company has also made payments to defined contribution schemes of £11m (2010: £0.8m).­ Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Arup Group 13 Fitzroy Street London W1T 4BQ United Kingdom t +44 20 7636 1531 www.arup.com
