Sustainability Report 2012 Summary 1. Message to the reader 3 2. Report Profile 4 3. The Visão Sustentável 5 3.1. Management and governance 5 3.2. Operational structure 7 3.3. Products and services 8 3.4. Participation and Support for Organizations 11 4. Relationship with stakeholders 12 4.1. Employees and partners 12 4.2. Clients 14 4.2.1. Client portfolio 16 5. GRI Index 17 6. Credits . 23 Sustainability Report 2012 1Message to the Reader GRI 1.1, 1.2 It is with great pleasure that I present Visão Sustentável’s (CBPG) and Amil, the largest operator of supplemental first Sustainability Report. It applies the Global Reporting health in Brazil, representing the adherence of the comInitiative’s guidelines in exposing the practices and acpany to the initiative. I was also invited to participate in tions developed by the Consulting firm throughout 2012. the Global Compact’s panel, organized during the UnitSince 2003 we have been publishing our Communication ed Nations Conference, Rio+20, concerning important on Progress (COP) of the United Nations Global Comdiscussions on advances and obstacles in the adoption pact, which, from now on, will be replaced annually by and promotion of the Global Compact and Sustainability the following report, its content in accordance with the Principles in the business environment. requests and requirements of the COP. Noteworthy are other two main events: the development This transformation was a natural process, since the GRI of the Sustainability Report Management System (Sis considered, by the United Nations Global Compact, GRS), the first of many tools that the Visão Sustentável compatible and equivalent to the Communication on intends to develop, created to professionalize and simpliProgress (COP). Thus, this report also meets the commitfy the deciding process which is the collection of data for ment of responsibility assumed by the Visão Sustentável Sustainability reports. The other important event of the with the Global Compact, to present the progress of the year was the partnership with companies in the states of Consulting firm in meeting the ten established principles. Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, representing an addition to our Global Network of Consultancies in CorI can say that in 2012, the team of consultants from the porate Responsibility that, since 2008, brings together Visão Sustentável has developed important projects that members from Latin America, China and Africa. have strengthened the efforts to diffuse the initiatives All these achievements and more that will be presented and principles, of the Global Compact and GRI, among on the following pages, were made possible thanks to the our clients. We have also presented the first Sustainabilconsultants, partners, suppliers and clients that contribity Report, using the GRI guidelines, for a sports adminuted to the construction of a year of great progress for istration organization, the Brazilian Volleyball Confedthe Visão Sustentável. I am sure many others will follow eration (CBV). Furthermore we have collaborated in the it in the coming years, reinforcing each day the innovadevelopment of the GRI «Events» supplement guidelines. tive character of the Consulting firm, always in line with expectations and market needs. And we do not rest there: to expand the mobilization of the Brazilian private sector in adopting the principles of the Global Compact, we have promoted direct contact José Pascowitch between the Brazilian Committee of the Global Compact President and CEO Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 3 2Report Profile GRI 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11 This Sustainability Report follows the GRI G3.1, in the self-declared «C» Level, and is the first of the Visão Sustentável. The period covered in from January 1st to December 31st, 2012. During this period our consultants attended meetings to define the issues of the publication, which were validated by the executive director. There are no specific restrictions on the boundary of the report and there is no basis for this report relating to other facilities that can significantly affect the comparability between periods or organizations. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 4 3The Visão Sustentável 3.1. Management and Governance GRI 2.1, 2.3, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 4.1, 4.2, 4.8, HR6, HR7, SO4, SO5 We are a small, privately held, Brazilian Consulting firm (limited company), which brings together talent, experience and strategic vision in developing business solutions for the demands generated by global values of sustainability. Our portfolio includes national and foreign clients, primarily large and midsize companies that reinforce the multiplicity of the work, as well as the authority on the building of projects and exclusive actions. We have been signatories of the Global Compact since 2003 and a GRI Organizational Stakeholder (OS) since 2006. In 2008 we were pioneers in the organization of a cooperative network of consulting firms, in Latin America, specialized in sustainability, the Global Consulting Network on Corporate Responsibility. This initiative has gained importance and currently brings together consultancies from 8 countries: 6 Latin American, 1 Asian and 1 African. The Network’s mission is the spread of Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability through the sharing of knowledge, information and mutual assistance in multinational projects. Our main Market segment is Brazil, but we have also conducted projects on Sustainability in Africa (Mozambique) and in other Latin American countries. Our Consulting firm is comprised of a president who is also the executive director, a Project director and seven employees, one being responsible for administrative affairs, four senior consultants and two junior consultants, all serving in Brazil. Field consultants also integrate the structure of the organization, hired to work on specific Jobs. No changes to the administrative or operating structure were recorded during the covered period of this report. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 5 3The Visão Sustentável Visão Sustentável’s organizational structure President executive Director project director administrative senior consultants field consultants junior consultants Since we operate in the consulting segment, we do not directly address the contractor’s established working relations. However, all of our projects are based on the ten principles of the Global Compac t, on the respect and promotion of the right to work and on local regulations. Therefor, we do not work with those who maintain forced labor relations, slavery and/ or child labor. We also reject any practice of corruption and the use of illegal means to obtain privileges and we do not participate or exert influence on public policies of any kind. With some public sector clients we have promoted initiatives related to these policies, like the Project Nós do Centro, in 2009, a partnership between the City of São Paulo and the European Union, contributed to the social, economical and cultural inclusion of the most vulnerable groups in the center of Sao Paulo. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 6 3The Visão Sustentável 3.2. Operational Structure GRI 2.4, EN1, EN3, EN6, EN7, EN18 Our headquarters are located in the city of São Paulo/SP, but our employees work in a home office arrangement, which reduces the emissions of greenhouse gases. In the office, only weekly meeting are held for the team of consultants. The administration of the office building, were the office is located, is in charge of all the waste management and sending recycled materials to a specialized company. Due to the size of our office and to the practice of home office, few materials are used; only bond paper and printer ink are notable. All of the paper used is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), i.e. not from deforestation. In 2012 we consumed, 1.500 sheets of paper and three printer ink cartridges. Out biggest consumption is related to electricity, with peaks between the months of November and April, which is when the team of consultants meets more often due to the increasing number of projects in that part of the year and the greater use o fair conditioning. . Total energy consumed in 2012 (kW) (december is an average of the year) 107 105 136 108 66 69 58 50 62 65 106 84,7 jan feb mar apr mai jun jul aug set oct nov dez Another important initiative we developed to reduce the environmental impacts is hosting our personal website and the S-GRS tool on the LocaWeb, a supplier that adopts Green IT practices to reduce energy consumption through: the rationalization and server virtualization, air conditioning settings and its flows in the data centers, and the purchase of certified ECO equipment, among others. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 7 3The Visão Sustentável 3.3. Products and Services GRI 2.2 We offer services in the line with the precepts of Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility, which allows the consultant to organize a robust strategic plan. Sustainability for us is an essential theme in relations and business practices, regardless of economic sector, size or nationality. Such initiatives are being increasingly demanded and developed in internal and external areas by different audiences. It is therefor possible to say that the inclusion of principals and guidelines of Sustainability and Social Responsibility are imperative in management and governance processes Visão Sustentável operates on two fronts in Corporate Sustainability: 1. Communication and Reports GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Report Adoption of a report production process aligned with the GRI guidelines in their current version G3 and 3.1. We produce reports of C/B/A levels (following the GRI guidelines), audited ones and endorsed with the GRI Checked Social Balance IBASE (Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analyses) We develop the format of the report from the Social Balance IBASE, demonstrative composed by quantitative financial, social and environmental indicators. Communication on Progress Report of the United Nations Global Compact (COP) The Communication on Progress is an annual report sent to the UN by all the signatories to the Global Compact1. 1 The Visão Sustentável also elaborates GRI Sustainability Reports complatible with the COP requirements . Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 8 3The Visão Sustentável 2. Management in Corporate Sustainability We develop processes, actions and tools for the development of the Sustainability Strategy Practice, which allows for the adoption of sustainable practices in an efficient and evolutive way. They are: • S  ustainability diagnosis • Strategic planning for sustainability; • Transformation of the supply chain into a value chain • Preparation and rooting of a model for monitoring, measuring and evaluating the actions from GRI indicators as means of management; • Mapping and engagement with stakeholders; • Materiality Matrix; • Formation of the Sustainability Committee; • Development and implementation of a Code of Ethics; • Workshops and Trainings; • Structuring strategic pro-sustainability alliances. All o four services have a technical background in very different methodologies and international guidelines, directly or indirectly related to sustainability, such as: • ISO 26.000 • Ecuador Principles • Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • United Nations Global Compact • Corporate Sustainability Index (CSI) • Brazilian Institute for Social and Economic Analyses (BISEA) • Brazilian Institute for Corporate Governance (BICG) Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 9 3The Visão Sustentável S-GRS In 2012, Visão Sustentável developed a Sustainable Management tool The S-GRS is a product developed by the Visão Sustentável in 2012 to facilitate and manage the collection of data and information for Sustainability Reporting. Over the years, our consultants have realized that the process of reporting could be facilitated, this resulted in the development of a secure platform for online filling that professionalizes and simplifies the process of the collection of information that enables sharing and allows for real time validation. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 10 3The Visão Sustentável 3.4. Participation and Support for Organizations GRI 4.12 In 2012 we supported the GRI in the elaboration of the events sector of the guidelines and we were the first Consulting firm from Brazil to use it for client, even before the final version was published, at the beginning of 2012, and presented to the public. In this same year our consultants were invited Global Compact to participate in their Corporate Sustainability Forum, aimed at the private sector, promoted during the United Nations Conference – Rio+20. Other than these initiatives, we support others. Please see below: Instituição Missão da Instituição GRI is an international NGO, with headquarters in the Netherlands whose misGlobal Reporting Initiative sion is to make the practice of sustainability reporting become standard, providing guidance to supporting organizations. The Ethos Institute of Business and Social Responsibility’s mission is to mobiliETHOS Institute ze, sensitize and help companies manages their business in a socially responsible manner. Initiatives developed by the United Nations The Global Compact aims to mobilize the business community to adopt interGlobal Compact nationally accepted values which are represented by 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor rights, Environmental Protection and Anti-Corruption. UNWOMEN The UNWOMEN aims to propagate gender equality and women’s empowerment2. This pact’s mission is to mobilize entrepreneurs, executives and managers of Business Pact for Integrity companies and business entities for the accession to commitments in promoand Against Corruption ting policies of integrity and anti-corruption. This pact’s mission is to implement tools so that the business sector and the National Pact for the Brazilian society do not commercialize products from suppliers who have used Eradication of Slave Labor slave labor. 2 E  mpowerment means a collective action developped by individuals when they participate in privileged decisionmaking spaces concerning social awareness of social rights. This awareness goes beyond the individual decision making initiative of consciousness and overcomes the reality in which it is found. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 11 4Relationship Stakeholders with 4.1. Employees and Partners GRI 4.4, 4.6, 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, EC5, LA1, LA2, LA10, LA12, LA13, LA14, HR4 Our multidisciplinary team has extensive experience in implementing sustainability as a cross-practice, to strengthen organizational governance and internal management processes of contracting organizations. Of the total eight employees, four work as part of the CLT regime, and four are associated consultants. When necessary we work with partners hired per project, consultants, writers and others – we are responsible for overseeing all projects that are developed in support of our team of consultants. We also resorted to collaborating with institutional partners. In 2012 we established three important partnerships: The Sorrentino Communication and Design, a graphic and digital design company based in São Paulo/SP, the Berlando Associates, based in Porto Alegre/RS, specializing in business development and corporate communications, and the press office Presse Business Communication from Blumenau/SC. All of our partners fully follow the ethical codes of the VS and pursue excellence in the delivery of the work. In all of our actions and relations with clients, employees, suppliers, partners and the Market, we appreciate diversity and the elimination of all types of discrimination. Hence, there were no registered cases of discrimination during the reporting period. The ratio of wages compared to the local minimum wage is 3 to 1 and Visão Sustentável does not show a difference between the salaries of men and women. In the scope of our work, our consultants can ask questions and give opinions during the weekly meetings or at any other time. Thus, the highest governance body can ensure that conflicts of interests are avoided. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 12 4Relationship Stakeholders with The employees are divided as follows: Employees by gender 33% Women 67% Men Employees by age group 22% < 30 45% 30 50 33% > 50 Employees by field of studies 14% 14% Social Sciences 15% Nutrition 57% Administration Journalism Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 13 4Relationship Stakeholders with The expertise of the staff is also a highlight of professionals. They have complete skills with the indicators and guidelines of the GRI, with the principles of the UN Global Compact, as well as other important references for evaluation and control practices in management and sustainability operations. There were no internal trainings in during the reporting period, however the employees participate in forums and workshops related to sustainability, which contribute to knowledge and experience. Due to the small size of the consultancy, there is no formal process for analyzing the performance of our employees. This process is done as needed, throughout the year, as the projects advance. The consultants always have direct contact with the clients, with the support of the CEO, who tracks all the projects and services. In addition to this direct contact with the CEO, all Jobs are discussed among the consultants during meetings, conference calls and face-toface meetings to help in the improvement and continuous evolution of services and performances of the consultants from the Visão Sustentável. 4.2. Clients GRI 4.13, HR1 VS’s portfolio brings together national and international clients, large and medium companies, which enhance the multiplicity of the consultancy’s work as well as the authority on building unique projects and actions. Over the years our consultants have always sought to spread ethical principles and better business practices among the clients. The VS has developed Codes of Ethics and has helped in the implementation of Sustainability committees as for the Copagaz company, Leroy Merlin, Brasilprev, Totalcom Group and Roche Brasil. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 14 4Relationship Stakeholders with Some noteworthy projects are: at the beginning of 2012, the Brazilian Volleyball Confederation (CBV) published its first sustainability report based on the GRI indicators, this is the first report of a sports administration entity in the world. Another noteworthy project is the monitoring and field survey of information on the suppliers of Pão de Açucar’s Caras do Brasil program, spread over ten Brazilian states, in order to analyze the actions, in the economical, environmental and social aspects in each one, investigate the human rights and labor practices of these small producers and find out the difficulties and vulnerabilities to be able to collaboratively develop this partnership3. We support and encourage the development of partnerships with institutions that defend principles and better business practices. We would like to make note, therefor, on the process of adherence of Amil, the largest provider of supplemental health in the country, to the Global Compact, which had our support. By becoming a signatory, the client had the opportunity to participate in the Global Compact’s Corporate Sustainability Forum during the United Nation’s Conference, Rio+20, in the city of Rio de Janeiro/RJ, as an organizer of a debates table with the theme “The Future of Health Care in Brazil”, with the technical assistance of Visão Sustentável. It is possible to notice the satisfaction o four clients by the continuity they put in us over the years in developing solutions and Sustainability projects. Two important clients stand out: Pão de Açucar Group and Copagaz. For them, Visão Sustentável has developed several projects between 2008 and 2011 and 2006 and 2012 respectively. 3 The program Caras do Brasil has existed for over 10 years and was implemented with help of the Visão Sustentável. The goal is to value and make visible the small producer who has his products sold in various Pão de Açucar stores. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 15 4Relationship Stakeholders with 4.2.1. Client portfolio • Mining: Albras and Alunorte + Unimetal + Sasol + Votorantim • Food: Braslo + JBS + Penasul + Unilever Brasil • Agribusiness: Ihara + Agra-agro + Brenco • Events: SWU + BrasilConnects + CBV • Energy and Electricity: ISA CTEEP + Itaipu + Endesa • Retail: Copagaz + Pão de Açucar Group + Leroy Merlin • Municipalities: Prefeitura de Barueri + Prefeitura de São Paulo + Prefeitura de Mauá • Health: Amil + Roche + Dasa • Cleaning and Hygiene: Bombril + Unilever Brasil • Engineering: Hidrogest • Auto parts: ZF Sachs • Communication: Totalcom Group • Electronics: Sony • Telecommunication: Algar • Financial System: BI&P Indusval Bank and Partners • Cosmetics: Natura Clients by industry 3% Telecommunication Financial System 3% 3% Communication Enginnering 3% 3% Cosmetics Auto Parts 3% 3% Eletronics Cleaning and Hygiene 6% 11% Mining Health 9% 11% Food Municipalities 9% 9% Retail Events 9% 9% Energy and Eletricity Agribusiness 9% Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 16 5GRI Index Principles of the United Nations Global Compact GRI 3.12 Principles Description Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection 1 of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 3 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5 the effective abolition of child labor. 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 17 5GRI Index Global Compact Indicator Description Remarks Page(s) Principles STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior 1.1 3 decision-maker of the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 3 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization. 5 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 8 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 5 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 7 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 5 2.7 Markets served. 5 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 5 Significant changes during the reporting 2.9 5 period regarding size, structure, or ownership. A Visão Sustentável 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. did not receive any awards. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period. 4 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 4 3.3 Reporting cycle. 4 Contact point for questions regarding 3.4 23 the report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. 4 3.6 Boundary of the report. 4 State any specific limitations on the 3.7 4 scope or boundary of the report. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 3.8 4 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 18 5GRI Index Global Compact Indicator Description Remarks Page(s) Principles Data measurement techniques 3.9 4 and the bases of calculations. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of 3.10 4 information provided in earlier reports. Significant changes from previous reporting 3.11 periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 4 methods applied in the report Table identifying the location of the 3.12 17 Standard Disclosures in the report. There was Policy and current practice with regard to no external 3.13 seeking external assurance for the report. assurance for the report GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 5 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance 4.2 5 body is also an executive officer. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of 4.3 Does not apply. members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4.4 to provide recommendations or direction to 12 the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, 4.5 and executives (including departure arrangements), Does not apply. and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance 4.6 12 body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 5 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Externally developed economic, environmental, 4.12 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 11 to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 19 5GRI Index Global Compact Indicator Description Remarks Page(s) Principles Memberships in associations (such as industry as4.13 sociations) and/or national/international 14 advocacy organizations. List of stakeholder groups engaged 4.14 12 by the organization. Basis for identification and selection 4.15 12 of stakeholders with whom to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, 4.16 including frequency of engagement by 12 type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised There was no through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 stakeholder organization has responded to those key topics and engagement. concerns, including through its reporting. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Visão Sustentável did not receive Significant financial assistance EC4 any financial received from government. assistance from the government. Range of ratios of standard entry level EC5 wage by gender compared to local minimum Principle 1 12 wage at significant locations of operation. The scope of work of the Understanding and describing Visão Sustentável EC9 significant indirect economic impacts, Principle 1 does not develop including the extent of impacts. significant indirect economic impacts. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8 7 Direct energy consumption EN3 Principle 8 7 by primary energy source. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, Principles EN6 7 and reductions in energy requirements as a 8e9 result of these initiatives. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 20 5GRI Index Global Compact Indicator Description Remarks Page(s) Principles Initiatives to reduce indirect energy EN7 7 consumption and reductions achieved. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Princípios EN18 7 emissions and reductions achieved. 7, 8 e 9 Monetary value of significant fines and total number There were EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Princípio 8 no fines. with environmental laws and regulations. LABOR PRACTICES Total workforce by employment type, employment LA1 12 contract, and region, broken down by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and LA2 Princípio 6 12 employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Average hours of training per year per employee LA10 12 by gender, and by employee category. Percentage of employees receiving LA12 regular performance and career 12 development reviews, by gender. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee LA13 category according to gender, age group, 12 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of LA14 women to men by employee category, by Princípios 1 e 6 12 significant locations of operation. DIREITOS HUMANOS Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts Principles HR1 that include clauses incorporating 14 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 e 6 human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Total number of incidents of discrimination Principles HR4 12 and corrective actions taken. 1, 2 e 6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Principles HR6 5 labor, and measures taken to contribute to 1, 2 e 5 the effective abolition of child labor. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 21 5GRI Index Global Compact Indicator Description Remarks Page(s) Principles Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Principles HR7 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute 5 1, 2 e 4 to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. There were no incidents of Total number of incidents of violations involving violations HR9 rights of indigenous people and actions taken. involving rights of indigenous people. There were Number of grievances related to human rights no grievances HR11 filed, addressed and resolved through formal related to grievance mechanisms. human rights. SOCIETY SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Principle 10 5 Public policy positions and participation in Principles 1, 2, 3, SO5 5 public policy development and lobbying. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 e 10 There were no financial Total value of financial and in-kind contributions contributions to SO6 to political parties, politicians, and related political parties, institutions by country. politicians or related institutions. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive There were no SO7 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices legal actions. and their outcomes. Monetary value of significant fines and total There were SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for no fines or non-compliance with laws and regulations. sanctions. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes There were PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of Principle 1 no incidents of products and services during their life cycle, non-compliance. by type of outcomes. Monetary value of significant fines for nonThere were PR9 compliance with laws and regulations concerning no fines for the provision and use of products and services non-compliance. Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 22 6Credits GRI 3.4 Content and Composition This report was prepared by consultants from Visão Sustentável Graphic Project Sorrentino Comunicação e Design Contact Visão Sustentável Telephone: +55 11 3051-3347 info@visaosustentavel.com.br Sustainability Report 2012 back to summary 23 Al. Lorena, 800 – cj 503 São Paulo, SP – CEP 01424-001 Telephone: +55 11 3051-3347 www.visaosustentavel.com.br
