COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMITMENT STATEMENT Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our Society. As a member of the Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact and endorse the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Here we summarize the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future. ~~~1~ (AMAR PRASAD) Executive Director (HR) 1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – COP Participants Name : M/s Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd. Country : INDIA Sector : Cooperative Sector Annual Time Period : 2011 – 2012 (Financial Year Aprilcovered March) Contact Person : Sh. Amar Prasad, ED (HR) Contact E-mail : amarprasad@kribhco.net Date : 30-08-2012 Other Relevant Links : www.kribhco.net 1 For the year 2011-2012 The brief report on various activities undertaken by KRIBHCO showing its commitment towards Global Compact Principles, as per the suggested pro-forma, are as under :1.HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ACTION & OUTCOME  We believe that the farmers who buy our products and the other sections of the public have a stake in the healthy functioning of the Society. Therefore, we maintain maximum transparency in our dealings. With that end in view, teams of farmers, cooperators, students and other sections of the public are invited to visit our Factory at Surat to have first hand knowledge about its working. Accordingly, during the year 2011-12, a number of such visits were organized in which numerous persons participated, when the officials of KRIBHCO explained the working of our Plant at Surat and the measures taken to ensure that they get quality products at affordable prices.  Training and Development activities were conducted not only for the employees but also for the benefit of their dependent family members and the students sponsored by nearby educational institutions.  Accordingly, 85 programs – both in-house and external were organized for 801 employees at our Plant Office – Surat and at our Corporate Office, Noida.  Similarly, three programs were arranged for their dependent family members benefiting 189 persons.  In addition to imparting apprenticeship training to 20 persons in various trades and giving training to 23 Engineers and other Trainees of the Society, vocational training was also given to 168 students from nearby educational institutions.  We conducted 3509 field programs such as Farmers meetings, Soil Testing Campaign, Block demonstration, Field day, Technical Wall Painting, Farm literature campaign, Kisan Mela & Crop Seminar, Cooperative conference, Dealers Conference, Group discussions, Coop. Society adoption, Drinking water & Minor irrigation facility, Human & Health campaign, Income generation 2 program and new products promotion campaign etc. benefiting 5.36 lakh farmers and cooperative officials across the nation.  As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), KRIBHCO carried out Rural Development Activities like construction of class rooms, Bhojan Shala, drinking water facilities in schools, providing school benches, computers and other furniture items, distribution of uniforms, books, science equipments and sports materials to school children, sponsoring construction of houses for the weaker sections through Gram Panchayat, health checkups and eye camps for villagers with special attention to the weaker sections Including those belonging to Schedule Tribe. In its adopted village, Kavas, drinking water was provided by KRIBHCO. For maintaining rural health and hygiene, KRIBHCO organized Blood Donation Camps and Malaria Control activities like Fogging in nearby villages. Further, acknowledging the need for protecting the human rights, a Senior Citizens Club has been set up in KRIBHCO Township at Surat (Gujarat) where senior citizens were provided recreation facilities.  For first aid facilities, the Society has a First Aid Centre working round the clock in our Plant at Surat with all the required facilities including Ambulances. In addition, KRIBHCO also runs a well-equipped Hospital in its Township (situated near the Plant at Surat) for providing medical facilities to the employees and their dependent family members, completely free of cost. For specialized treatments, KRIBHCO has got arrangements with Hospitals in Surat city (Gujarat) where the patients are referred to and the cost thereof is paid by the Society.  KRIBHCO has also arranged : • Annual medical check-up of all employees in 2011-12. • First Aid Training was imparted to the Trainees. • Bio-medical Waste Management was done regularly. • Hygiene tips of epidemics were also regularly given through CCTV to Township residents at Surat. • Blood Donation Camps were organized during the year. • Round the clock Emergency treatment for accidents in Hazira industrial area is provided by the Hospital irrespective of residence of the patients.  KRIBHCO maintains a Township at Noida and at our Plant at Surat (Gujarat) for accommodating its employees and their family members where all educational, health and recreational facilities are provided including Health Club, two Schools, a Hospital, Bank, Shopping Complex and all other related facilities. Therefore, everything possible is done to take care of the welfare of its employees and their families. It has also schemes for extending loan facilities for 3 housing facilities of the employees which are extended on liberal terms and conditions.  KRIBHCO provides safe working environment to its employees and the vision to achieve its objective “SAFETY FIRST; PRODUCTION MUST” is being persued.  Safety objectives of the Hazira Plant at Surat have been derived from following VALUES of KRIBHCO: (a) Creation of safe, efficient and pleasant working environment in the Plant at Surat. (b) Continual Enrichment of Safety culture of the Plant. (c) High level of emergency preparedness at all times. (d) Extending support to the neighboring villages, industries and government agencies for any emergency mitigation beyond Plant boundaries.  To achieve the above objectives, state of the art safety systems and infrastructure have been provided. These are well maintained and continually improved upon by a team of highly motivated Fire & Safety personnel. In addition, these systems and infrastructures are got audited by internal safety committees as well as by external experts. KRIBHCO has constituted a Central Safety Committee at Plant level with representation of employees working in various departments like Production, Maintenance and Commercial. It consists of representatives from the Management and work force in equal number which meets regularly to review the safe working conditions. During 2011-12, Comprehensive Risk Assessment of the entire Plant at Surat was done by a third party for further improving the safety environment.  Safety training and awareness are given top priority. On their initial joining, all employees are given induction training on safety. No worker is permitted to work in the Plant at Surat without the induction safety training. Refresher safety training is imparted from time to time. Training sessions on First-Aid are conducted by internal and external doctors. At shop-floor level also, safety related lectures and fire fighting practices are conducted regularly. Safety training includes safe behavior and conduct in the Plant, general safety rules, hazards in the Plant, use of personal protective equipment, basic fire fighting, response to various emergency conditions etc. Practical fire fighting training is also imparted to various categories of employees at the KRIBHCO Fire and Rescue training ground. During the year 2011-12, more than 10000 persons were imparted safety training. For ensuring the safety of persons visiting the Plant at Surat, Safety Leaflet in the form of “Dos and Don’ts” was devised and used. 4  Films on Road Safety and Home Safety were shown in the Township through Cable TV Network. An in-house Seminar on Home Safety was organized for the benefit of house wives.  During the year 2011-12, not a single dangerous occurrence took place in spite of massive Revamp activities carried out. In addition, KRIBHCO’s Fire & Safety Department attended more than 30 calls from government agencies for rendering emergency services to neighbouring areas and industries earning a lot of goodwill from them.  Full protection is given to all female employees from any type of harassment at work place. During the period, no complaint was received in this respect. Provision has been made in the Service Rules and Standing Orders of employees for firmly dealing with such matters. Award: During the year, KRIBHCO received Fertilizer Association of India (FAI) Award for “Production, Promotion & Marketing of Bio-Fertiliser”. 2. LABOUR Principle 3 : Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ACTION & OUTCOME  KRIBHCO fully recognize the employees’ right to form associations. In accordance with that, the workmen have formed their own Trade Unions which are registered and recognized for the purpose of collective bargaining. All important decisions affecting the workmen are taken in consultation with the said unions. Complete industrial peace and harmony has been prevailing in KRIBHCO since the setting up of the Society about three decades ago, which is a record as not even a single man-hour has 5 been lost due to industrial strife. KRIBHCO has displayed fairness and transparency in its dealings with the Union.  KRIBHCO does not encourage any form of forced or compulsory labour. No child labour is engaged either directly or indirectly. No discrimination is shown in employment or in extending any type of benefit/advantage on the ground only of gender, place of birth, caste or community. 3. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 : Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ACTION & OUTCOME  Fully conscious of its responsibility to the environment, KRIBHCO takes good care of the environment. The Society recognizes its responsibility to protect environment and is committed to regulate all its activities using best available technology to mitigate adverse environmental impact, if any that may arise out of its operations. A comprehensive Environmental Protection Plan based on the principle of “Reduce, Re-cycle & Re-use” has been adopted to conserve scarce natural resources.  E-waste disposal has been streamlined through an authorised agency at our Corporate Office, Noida.  KRIBHCO is exploring the possibility of total re-use of treated effluent generated within the Plant to further reduce the water consumption and extend its role in water conservation.  Emission of pollutants to air from the various stacks is far below the limits specified by regulatory bodies. An Automatic Ambient Air Quality Station continuously monitors the effects of emission from stacks. Six Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations set up within a radius of 10 kms are monitoring the air quality in surrounding areas. Wet de-dusting system at the Prilling Tower top has been installed and emission of the Urea dust and Ammonia in the atmosphere is well below the specified limits. 6  To check the effectiveness of Environment Management System implemented in Plant, Surat, every year KRIBHCO is carrying out third party Environment Audit by Pollution Control Board recognized third party.  To ensure clean and green environment, KRIBHCO maintains a Green Belt by planting more and more trees of different species based on Air Pollution Tolerance Index, thereby helping improve the ambient air quality within the entire Fertilizer Complex. Besides, a Demonstration Farm covering an area of 41 acres has been developed near the Plant at Surat.  To enrich Marine and Coastal eco-system, KRIBHCO has undertaken the project of Mangrove plantation with Gujarat Ecology Commission, Gandhinagar, on an area of 100 hectares at village Kantiyajal, District Bharuch, Gujarat. Mangrove is a highly valuable plant species and forms one of the most important eco-systems of coastal and marine area.  Environmental Management System (EMS) of KRIBHCO has been certified as in-line with international standard ISO 14001. Internal & External Audits are conducted periodically for checking efficacy of the system. KRIBHCO also plans to adopt ISO 14001 for its residential Township for creating awareness in township residents towards Green Environment.  To promote awareness of Environment Protection among Township residents and School children, Environment Day was celebrated on 5th June 2011.  Society has replaced CFC refrigerant from its central AC unit at Corporate Office, Noida with a CFC free refrigerant system, thus aiding in efforts to combat ozone depletion.  Old Compressors of the central AC units have been replaced with more energy efficient units thus helping in GHG mitigation.  Society is maintaining the adopted water harvesting system for conservation of water at its Corporate Office and residential housing complex located at Noida. 7 Anti-corruption: Principle 10 : Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ACTION & OUTCOME  KRIBHCO considers Vigilance as an integral part of its Management functions. There is a separate Vigilance Section functioning at Plant and Corporate level. This section takes care of the vigilance functions. Keeping in view the importance of preventive vigilance in checking corruption, periodical inspections of sensitive areas are carried out. Sensitive posts have been identified in various departments and persons holding such posts are periodically rotated to ensure transparency. Procurement files are reviewed by the Vigilance Section on random basis with a view to identifying irregularities, if any, and to give suggestions for improvement and to take corrective steps wherever called for. All officers are required to submit Annual Property Returns on moveable and immoveable properties for the period from 1st January to 31st December every year.  To create and broaden the knowledge of vigilance amongst our end users, viz. farmers and various intermediaries Vigilance Awareness Week 2011 was celebrated on all-India basis from 31st October to 5th November 2011, wherein apart from pledge ceremony, Dealers Conferences, Farmers Meetings, Group Discussions, Society Adoption programmes and Cooperative Conferences were held in all the states of the country where our marketing offices are located.  During the week, banners and slogans in Hindi, Gujarati and English were displayed. Folders, supplied by CVO, containing the message: “If anybody of this office asks for bribe or if you have any information on corruption or if you are a victim of corruption in this office, you can complain to…” and GOI Resolution on Pubic Interest Disclosure and Protection of Informer (both in Hindi and English) were distributed to all the vendors and contractors.  Notice Boards were displayed at all important places in KRIBHCO premises exhorting the public to report to concerned authorities about corrupt practices which they come across and also giving details of the authorities to whom they have to contact if they find any employee indulging in corruption. 8  Stress was both on preventive vigilance as well as punitive vigilance. In this connection following steps were taken by the Society : Simplification of procedures and decentralization of decision making;  Interactive sessions with employees at all levels were organized to change the image of Vigilance Administration.  Work relating to computerization through SAP has been introduced. Through greater use of Information Technology in reporting and its analysis at the senior level, proactive and predictive vigilance management is gradually being emphasized in the changed scenario;  Electronic fund transfer system, e-tendering, e-procurement and ereverse procurement have since been adopted by the Society. The relevant information on the web is being gradually made available.  Although we have a separate Vigilance Department, it is stressed that every manager should become vigilant.  The main aim in vigilance is not to be punitive but we try and use this essential and very useful management tool to help us in: 1. Disciplining the wrong doers; 2. Protecting honest performers; 3. Increasing transparency and fairness; 4. Ascertaining accountability; 5. Reducing wastages/leakages. ***************** 9
