Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 The ISS Way 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Contents Letter from the Executive Group Management 3 ISS at a glance 4 The ISS Approach to Corporate Responsibility 6 Governance 10 Our Performance and Targets 14 ISS and People 16 ISS and the Planet 24 ISS and Profit 28 ISS and Partners 30 Reporting Principles and Compliance 34 Front cover: ISS Corporate Responsibility logo Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 3 Letter from the Executive Group Management For ISS, Corporate Responsibility (CR) is simply of matter of Nations Global Compact. Our customers and employees can rely good business sense. In fact our company was originally built on our solid HSE and CR performance, helping reduce the risks on delivering services to protect people and their values. In the associated with the services we deliver, while protecting people, beginning of last century ISS was one of the first companies to businesses and images. This is our CR promise and a core part professionalise various facility services. We turned services like of our value proposition to our customers and employees. cleaning and security from casual work into respected professions with orderly work conditions, training schemes and career The CR performance of ISS improved over a broad set of measures opportunities – much of this achieved in close partnership with in 2011. We are pleased with this progress, but we recognise the relevant unions and customers. that we still have much to do. We are particularly focused on bringing down the number of fatalities. We insist that one fatality Today, through our strategy ‘The ISS Way’, we have committed is one too many and we will persist in our efforts to reach our ourselves to being the best facility services company in the world. goal of zero fatalities among our more than 530,000 employees. We recognise that achieving this vision depends on our ability We think of colleagues as members of our family – and we want to win in the marketplace, the workplace, and the community. our family to be safe! Corporate Responsibility plays a central role in each of these three arenas. We are leveraging our company’s history, vision, and core competencies to define our opportunities and our brand in the We win in the marketplace by meeting the needs of our communities in which we operate. Most importantly, we are existing and future customers. While it is obviously important to harnessing the expertise, sense of purpose, and dedication of deliver the right services – ISS is also very focused on how these our employees. services are delivered. We know that our customers are becoming more interested in how the products and the services they buy Thank you for your interest in ISS and our Corporate Responsibility are produced and delivered. It has become a key factor in winning Report 2011. and retaining contracts that the services are delivered in a responsible way. Yours faithfully We win in the workplace, because we recognise that the only way to satisfied customers is through engaged employees. Doing business in a responsible way contributes to providing our employees with a sense of purpose and a source of pride in their daily work. As our company is based on human capital, we thrive on having well-trained and engaged employees. We believe our efforts and investments within Corporate Responsibility are contributing to a positive customer experience. We win in the community by building on our long tradition of responsible citizenship, particularly in the areas of the right to work, diversity in the workforce and access to education. ISS created almost 12,000 additional new jobs across the world in 2011. In addition, our country organisations and employees are highly active in our communities around the world as you will read in the case stories in this report. Through our global presence in countries covering more than 90% of the world’s GDP, we understand the CR issues at hand and are already addressing them through structured efforts. Our systematic approach through our Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management system supports consistJeff Gravenhorst Group Chief Executive Officer (right) ent delivery, as does our continued commitment to the United Henrik Andersen Group Chief Financial Officer (left) 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ISS at a glance ISS is all about providing service. We have delivered and stable income to more than 530,000 employees. In 2011, service for more than 110 years and today we cover we created almost 12,000 new jobs. more than 50 countries worldwide. We clean, we cook and we provide care – serving more than 200,000 public and private-sector customers every Organisation day. Our focus is on how we can add to the success From our head office in Copenhagen, Denmark, we ensure a of our customers. coherent direction for the Group by providing strategic direction, managerial support and financial control combined with It all started with a small group of employees in Copenhagen, functional leadership. At the same time, ISS maintains a deDenmark in 1901, and since then ISS has grown to become one centralised organisational structure and our country operations of the world’s leading providers of facility services. have significant autonomy, led by a strong regional management structure. The multi-local structure ensures a coherent and yet entrepreneurial organisation that is highly responsive to market Service offering conditions everywhere in the world. ISS is built on the basic insight that for most companies cleaning services, support services, property services, catering services, security services and facility management do not form a core Ownership part of their business process. At ISS, we have made these ISS A/S is owned by FS Invest II S.à r.l (Luxembourg), a company services our core business. We provide our customers with a indirectly owned by funds advised by EQT Partners and Goldman compelling value proposition built around efficient, reliable and Sachs Capital Partners. ISS A/S has no operating activities of flexible services. its own and its primary assets consist of shares in ISS World Services A/S. Even a basic service – like cleaning a floor – can be done in many ways. Because providing facility services is our core business, we have become real experts. Our service offering is built on a What is Facility services? strong foundation of service excellence tailor-made to specific customer needs. We are keen on ensuring that our customers Facility services covers a range of services: constantly benefit from partnering with a facility services expert. • Cleaning services – office cleaning, industrial cleaning, specialised cleaning, washroom services and more; ISS’s service offerings are constantly being developed to meet • Office support services – reception and hospitality services, customer needs. In recent years our customers have realised the internal moves, helpdesk/call centre internal services & benefit of having fewer suppliers taking care of their facilities. In logistics and more; response, we have expanded our service offering and developed • Property services – building maintenance, technical maina full range of services, including our integrated facility services tenance, pest control services, damage control, landscaping (IFS) concept. This gives the customer a single point of contact and more; and only one company delivering all facility services instead of • Catering services – company restaurants, canteen services, having many different service providers on their premises. This is vending machine services, events & conference dining and not only convenient for the customers, IFS is also more flexible and more; efficient and it provides our customers with a consistent delivery • Security services – access control, manned guarding, alarm model across all their operations – locally or across borders. response, surveillance systems and more; • Facility management services – on-site management of facility services, change management, space management, consultEmployees ing and more. Some service providers primarily work through subcontractors. At ISS, on the contrary, we are strong believers in self-delivery. ISS offers three models for providing services: By delivering our services through staff employed directly by • Single service, where the customer buys just one of the ISS, we have much better control of the quality of the service services ISS offers; delivered to our customers. ISS aspires to be a great employer • Multi service, where the customer buys two or more of the by focusing on corporate responsibility and being a good corservices ISS offers; porate citizen as we believe that it is the best way to keep our • Integrated facility services, where ISS takes over all, or most customers engaged. The self-delivery model has made ISS one of, the facility functions at the customer’s premises. of the world’s biggest private-sector employers providing jobs Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 5 Kalkanov Serzod Czech Republic 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 The ISS Approach to Corporate Responsibility This section describes our approach to integrating challenge. On top of this come migration, urbanisation, poverty Corporate Responsibility in our business strategy. and global health challenges. In corporate responsibility there are two overall dimensions to consider and integrate: what is our business and where is global development headed? “ In 2010, we laid the foundation for a struc tured approach for For ISS the first question appears easy: we are in the facilities Corporate Responsiservices industry. We clean, cater, plan and maintain workspaces, bility in alignment with manage office spaces and provide security services. the United Nations Global Compact. In everything we do, regardless of whether it is cleaning people’s workspaces and surroundings, providing food and drinks at work, providing an engineer for your electric installations, looking after your energy consumption or safeguarding facilities, we touch many Joseph Nazareth, millions of people. When our employees perform ISS services, they Head of HSE and alleviate the daily lives of our customers’ employees and clients Corporate Responsibility by providing a clean, nurturing and secure environment. When we are working at hospitals, our employees are helping patients get healthy; when we are working at an aircraft manufacturing How ISS can contribute? plant, we are helping build a plane. Labour & Human Rights This is a huge responsibility. ISS needs to ensure that we treat • Giving people an opportunity to enter the labour market; our people respectfully and keep them safe while they are per• Working with our employees and the local community and forming their duties. If not, we cannot expect them to deliver society at large in improving employees’ lives in ways that the services we promise to our customers, impacting signifisupport sustainable development and our business; cantly on other people’s lives. Therefore, the health and safety • Ensuring fair and equal treatment and no discrimination in combination with training and education of our employees is or harassment; one of our top priorities. • Respecting employee’s right to collective bargaining and the right to join trade unions; “ We provide facility services. But our business is people. • Supporting introduction of minimum wages and compliance with working time regulations; • Avoiding use of child labour as well as forced or compulsory labour. Trend: sustainability To get a grip on global development trends and how they may Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) affect our industry, in 2011 we carried out a scenario project. • Providing proper working conditions including a safe (The full report: “ISS 2020 Vision – Scenarios for the future of working environment for our employees; the global Facility Management Industry” can be downloaded • Managing our business activities in an environmentally from our group website www.issworld.com). responsible way. We have learned many things from this process, but most releBusiness Ethics vant to our approach to corporate responsibility is the unfaltering • Conducting our business in a lawful manner; conviction of both ISS managers and facilities management indu• Competing for business on fair terms and solely on merits stry experts globally that issues related to sustainability will be of our services; fundamental to global development. • Combating corruption and bribery; • Carrying out our activities according to principles of good Increasing middle classes in emerging markets such as Brazil, corporate governance; China, India and Indonesia challenge economic systems in pro• Ensuring that the social, environmental and ethical commitviding resources without fundamentally altering the global ecoments of ISS are reflected in dealings with customers, supsystem. Environmental issues such as consumption of energy and pliers and other stakeholders. water, how to manage waste and indoor climates will add to this 7 Serkan Atsiz, Daniel Tuladhar DENMARK ISS holds one of many keys Serving our customers in the best way possible, in ISS we are conFor ISS, this is where global trends and our business intersect. The fident that our corporate responsibility efforts will aid us in work we perform can help ISS, our clients and society towards: gaining a competitive advantage that will allow us to reach our • more efficient use of resources; strategic goals by: • provide employment and training which helps alleviate • Making us a preferred partner due to our solid Health, poverty; as well as Safety and Environment and Corporate Responsibility • creating healthy environments for work. performance; • Demonstrating ISS’s understanding of the issues and ability In other words, we acknowledge that ISS as a leader in its industo address them through proactive risk management; try and one of the world’s largest employers, can influence global • Delivering resource preservation and hence cost savings; efforts to reduce or eliminate the less desirable effects of a century • Enhancing our reputation, helping us attract, motivate and of unbridled economic growth. It will take a lot of keys to unlock retain our employees; the door to a more balanced society, but we recognise that we • Attracting new business opportunities though a stronger have one of these keys. brand and reputation. This is the how we see it. In the rest of the report, we describe and document how we do it. Guided by UNGC principles ISS has chosen a principles-based approach to Corporate Responsibility (CR), integrating universally accepted principles Corporate responsibility supports strategy into the way we do our business. This approach comes recomIn the world of business and strategy, corporate responsibility mended by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), to which can hardly be seen as a niche product anymore, but rather an ISS has been a signatory and supporter since its inception in 1999. element of strategic leadership. Signatories are requested by the UNGC to align strategy and For example, the 2011 edition of PwC’s annual CEO survey business operations with the UNGC’s ten principles on human showed that nearly half of the participating CEOs are prepared rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anticorrupto highlight their corporate responsibility practices, including tion. We have translated these areas into what we find is their those of their suppliers, within the next three years to address relevant expression within our sphere of influence. society’s changing sentiments. Moreover, two-thirds of CEOs stated that developing environmentally friendly products and In 2011 the embedding of these principles into our business services is an important part of their growth and innovation processes has been the mainstay of our Corporate Responsistrategies. Furthermore, 80% of Global Fortune 250 companbility work, compared to 2010 when we laid the foundation by ies are now releasing data on their CR performance and an preparing policies, updating standards and creating manuals. increasing number of these cite economic concerns as a driver for their corporate responsibility efforts. Our 2011 priority was to implement the content of the many initiatives that were taken in 2010 in terms of the ISS Corporate The key driver for these activities is customer expectations, parResponsibility framework. Among these are implementation of ticularly those of large corporate clients. Increasing our share of policies and manuals, self-assessments, management systems the market for integrated facilities services with global companand risk surveillance. ies is one of ISS’s strategic priorities. We know that we can only partner such prominent customers if we can document a good performance record and governance system for HSE and CR Defining what is material to ISS components. Another strategic priority is increased presence in Our 2009 materiality assessment remains a good guidance emerging markets, which historically carry more risks within the document in our prioritisation of issues within Human Rights, corporate responsibility sphere. Labour Practices, Environmental and Anti-Corruption. 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 With the help of an external partner, ISS’s seven regions were companies. We have a very close relationship with these assessed and a consolidated and prioritised list of corporate investors through a professional Board. responsibility issues and topics produced. These issues are still • Financial Institutions – we have an on-going dialogue with the key to our corporate responsibility initiatives. our banking partners and undertake to keep the broader financial community abreast of developments at ISS through Moreover, the materiality review pointed to three areas where e.g. quarterly results announcements and related presenISS holds a unique position to contribute, and which support our tations. overall business vision and business strategy, The ISS Way: • Facilitating the Right to work; Other important stakeholders are: • Non-discrimination, equal opportunities and diversity; • Users – who work at the facilities we manage but are not • Access to education. involved in the decision to have ISS as a provider. We also tested an User Satisfaction survey concept for the daily Throughout the report, initiatives from ISS around the world user of the services provided by ISS in 2010. Due to resource will show how these areas are being brought to life through priorities we did not carry out this survey in 2011. However the business endeavours of our company. some countries such as Finland, Hong Kong and Australia carry out these surveys locally. • Unions – to improve standards for employees and to make Targeted stakeholder engagement sure issues are dealt with we engage in dialogue locally, To continuously validate our strategic priorities, both commerregionally and globally. Read more on page 31. cially and for corporate responsibility, we pursue different stake• Suppliers – where we have begun implementation of a selfholder engagement activities. assessment questionnaire in 2010. We intended to follow up on this with audits of key suppliers in 2011. However, these ISS’s web of stakeholders, internal and external, provides us with activities were postponed as efforts related to ownership insights into how we are perceived and the legitimacy of our actions, change preparations took priority. as well as access to client and employee priorities and wishes. • Media – with whom we had more contact than usual, due to the planned – but postponed – changes in ownership. Though sensitive to local customs, we endeavour to communicate with one voice to all stakeholders in all geographies to support our aspiration to lead our industry globally as one company Reporting for accountability with one culture and one brand. This voice should be open and We published our first data based corporate responsibility honest in both good times and bad, and resonate with fairness report in 2010, intending for all our stakeholders – and partiand respect toward our stakeholders. cularly our primary stakeholders – to know that we have a strong framework in terms of responsibility and that we are We communicate with our primary stakeholders regularly, accountable and transparent in our activities and performance. also in 2011: • Employees – besides daily communication, we ran our second This remains the intended purpose and audiences for the 2011 Corporate Employee Engagement Surveys (EES), offering around report. 30% of our employees the opportunity to voice their opinion. Read more on page 21. The data in the report covers ISS employees and their contrac• Customers – with whom we interact daily and in 2011 tors and electricity and water consumption at ISS offices and offered a chance to participate in a customer experience own facilities such as central kitchens. The report does not survey system, which provided us with many insights. The cover our customers or electricity consumption at our customer survey was sent out to approximately 80% of our turnsites. Items reported on in this report have been chosen based over, in line with our target. Read more on page 31. on our work to determine materiality in terms of corporate • Investors – who are at present limited to two private equity responsibility for ISS. Prioritised corporate responsibility issues in ISS are: Labour Rights Human rights Environment Anti-Corruption 1. Health & Safety 1. Freedom of association 1. Systematic environmental 1. Systematic anti-corruption 2. Work time & overtime collective bargaining management management 3. Harassment 2. Child labour 2. Chemicals Gifts and entertainments 4. Security 3. Discrimination Price fixing 5. Responsible sourcing Kick-backs 6. Privacy Use of agents 7. Living wage Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 9 Aligned with strategy and leadership Aligned with our strategic cornerstones Business Growth: Our corporate responsibility performance 1. Customer focus: We build sustainable partnerships with our inspires customers’ trust in our company leading to increased customers who value our approach in how we deliver our services business opportunities. in for example an environmentally friendly way; 2. People management: We excel in managing our people by managing our HSE risks in our operations and provide opporLeadership principles tunities for development; The leadership principles describe the way leadership is per 3. Integrated Facilities Services strategy: By integrating our formed at ISS. In combination, they serve as a guideline and a service deliveries into our customer’s organisation, we can also benchmark for leaders and help us bring out the full potential create value for our customers in helping them reduce their risks of our employers. They translate our Values into actions and in the corporate responsibility area; describe behaviour that characterises a successful leader within 4. Multi-Local Approach: Our global framework in managing our company. In other words, it is the framework for the way health, safety, environment, labour practices, human rights and we do business. The nine Leadership Principles are: anti-corruption allows us to leverage a systematic approach to 1. In ISS we put the customer first; these areas regardless of location. 2. In ISS we have passion for performance; 3. In ISS we encourage innovation; 4. In ISS we treat people with respect; Corporate responsibility and our value chain 5. In ISS we lead by example; The implementation of the ISS Value Chain as a management 6. In ISS we lead by empowerment; tool is an integral part of the Group’s strategy process in imple7. In ISS we develop ourselves and others; menting the ISS Way. We believe that value is created through 8. In ISS teamwork is at the heart of our performance; dedication in each link of the Value Chain, and that corporate 9. In ISS we are one Company with shared values, one responsibility activities support the links in the Value Chain. brand and one strategy. Business Platform: Our corporate responsibility commitment, strategy and performance are important aspects of the Business Platform in determining what to do and what not to do. The choices made in the business platform must be aligned Acquisition Growth with our commitment to the ten principles of the UNGC. Service Concept: The purpose of the service concept process is to convert the needs of our customers into concrete and attractBusiness ive service offerings. Global challenges deeply embedded in Platform corporate responsibility can inspire business opportunities such as ‘Green Cleaning’. Extended stakeholder engagement activService Concept ities will also provide more sources for market understanding. Business Employee satisfaction: To have satisfied customers, you need Growth capable and engaged employees motivated by being part of a strong team and capable through training. Research clearly shows that in companies that focus on corporate responsibility, employees find it provides a sense of purpose and a source of pride. Employee Engagement Service Value: Our customers may have different needs but they Customer all request a consistent service product. Our Group Health, Safety Experience and Environment Management system supports a systematic approach in delivery of our services. Service Customer Experience: A positive customer experience supported Value by capable, engaged and motivated ISS team members. In line with research, we believe our focus on corporate responsibility will provide our employees with a sense of purpose that will contribute to a positive customer experience. The ISS Value Chain 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Governance In this section, we highlight key aspects of our Corporate Values business fundamentals – our governance structure, policies and processes. ISS has a two-tier management structure consisting of the Board of Directors and the Executive Group Management (EGM). The Board of Directors regularly reviews the Group’s corporate HONESTY governance in relation to the Group’s activities, business envirWe respect onment and statutory requirements. A set of specific corporate governance guidelines for the ISS Group has been adopted by EGM and subsequently implemented by all regional and local entities. According to these, all operations in ISS must adhere to the following fundamentals: Compliance with law ENTREPRENEURSHIP – a fundamental implying always operating in accordance with local laws and regulations. We act The ISS Corporate Values the guiding principles of how ISS conducts its business which each manager is expected to understand and follow. The ISS Code of Conduct – each manager is responsible for managing the ISS business in RESPONSIBILITY compliance with our Code of Conduct, and for ensuring that We care employees are aware of and adhere to the same principles. The Code of Conduct has been updated in 2010 to ensure alignment with the UNGC, and has been distributed first to white collar workers, followed by front-line employees. The Code of Conduct is considered part of the terms on which all employees accept employment in ISS. Compliance with ISS Group policies QUALITY – falls under the responsibility of ISS regional and country We deliver management. The operations of ISS must comply with policies and guidelines designed by the ISS Group functions, and document their implementation. As part of the work to build a solid foundation, most of our policies related to corporate responsibility have been revised or developed in 2010, and their implementation and testing began in earnest in 2011. The Head of Group HSE and CR reports to a member of the Group Management Board (GMB) – a forum within which our CR strategy is set. Under the mandate of the EGM and GMB, Governance of corporate responsibility Group HSE and CR works with other Group functions, Regional Corporate responsibility is anchored in ISS’s Executive Group CEOs and Country Managers in implementing the strategy in Management comprised of the CEO and CFO. our operations and countries. Countries in the ISS Group report on corporate responsibility aspects as part of the annual reportWhile Executive Group Management is ultimately responsible for ing process thus contributing to the overall ISS Group Corporate ISS Corporate Responsibility activities, Group Health, Safety and Responsibility reporting. The reporting requirements for CR are Environment and Corporate Responsibility (Group HSE and CR), detailed in a yearly Group HSE and CR Reporting manual that is responsible for the development of the ISS Group’s Corporate specifies and defines the indicators and data parameters that Responsibility strategy, including Health, Safety and Environment. all countries need to report on. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 11 Laurinda Camacho FRANCE 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Multi-local has benefits and challenges The target for 2012 is to include more corporate responsibility In our governance, we aim to strike the right balance between and HSE-related subjects in the control self-assessment. extensive autonomy and strategic alignment. On the one hand, we operate with strong local leadership and Internal audits extensive autonomy to ensure timely responses to local operGroup Internal Audit plays a key role in ensuring compliance ational and customer demands and to benefit from knowledge with commitments and governance frameworks across the of local labour and business conditions. We also develop and Group. In 2011, the scope of certain internal audits in 15 implement overall Group policies and strategic directions to countries included management systems and controls related enable us to exploit best practices and leverage our geographto labour and human rights. ical footprint. Although certain weaknesses were identified locally, none of This extensive autonomy, as expressed in the strategic cornerthese were of a general nature applying to the whole Group. stone multi-local, is an integral part of the way ISS is governed, and we are wholly convinced that it brings us the benefits mentioned above. Notwithstanding, a very decentralised The overtime dilemma governance model comes with inherent challenges in terms of alignment and in 2011 we made a focussed effort to align As do many other companies, ISS has to find a solution to the frameworks and ensure relevant documentation covering the dilemma of overtime. The UNGC frames the dilemma as whole organisation. follows: “ ISS will always be a multi-local business, but a company of the size we have grown to, needs “How does a company ensure it respects relevant international standards and national laws relating to working hours… when clarity on processes, decisions and mandates. workers are either compelled, have no choice, or operate in a context which makes them accept excessive working hours? “We truly want to maintain the ability to make decisions fast Workers, including migrant workers, for example, may be comand be light on our feet, but we also need a greater degree of pelled to work longer hours in order to earn a living wage or accountability and transparency – internal and external,” says maximise their income. This could also occur in a country where Bjørn Raasteen, Group General Counsel in ISS. the culture expects long working hours or where the government does not restrict working hour limits or does not effectively The need has been growing since 2009, when ISS focussed on enforce the law.” sustainable, organic growth, after having acquired more than 600 different companies worldwide in the preceding eight year These examples are nearly all relevant to ISS’s operations in a period. number of countries. The ISS International HR standards address this question through these guidelines and responsibilities: Based on a risk identification exercise in 2010, the increased governance effort focuses on six risk areas: finance, contracts, ISS is committed to meeting the labour standards under the corporate governance, HSE (health, safety and environment), United Global Compact. anti-corruption and human resources. For each of these areas corporate initiatives exist and we need to develop control This includes: mechanisms for each area. So far these have been formulated • Set working hours that comply with national laws or benchfor corporate governance, finance, HSE and anti-corruption. mark industry standards; • Respect international standard allowable working hours, overDuring 2011 Group Legal and Group Internal Audit have visited time and maximum working hours to ensure time for rest and all the seven ISS regions, Western Europe, Nordic, Asia, Pacific, leisure; Latin America, North America and Eastern Europe. The visits • Agree overtime should be voluntary and infrequent; intended to support similar and equal implementation of the • Business Units respect workers’ right to at least one free Corporate Governance guidelines, which were first introduced day following six consecutive days worked as well as public in the second half of 2009. and annual holidays. The implementation of these key control activities is monitored in Specific rules may apply to various types of work (such as shift a control self-assessment tool, which by the end of 2011 was in work, offshore work, seasonal work etc.) where flexible working place for subsidiaries representing more than 95% of Group turnhours may be the norm . over. Group internal audit will as part of their ordinary activities evaluate the accuracy of information submitted in self-assessments. Specifically, ISS provides right pay, pay slips with detailed information and payment on time. “We have made great strides in terms of governance this year,” says Carsten Højlund, Head of Group Internal Audit. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 13 Compliance mechanisms Our commitment to corporate responsibility has been communicated to suppliers, major customers and our employees. Also, when we enter new markets and joint venture opportunities, we actively promote the ISS Code of Conduct. We have a zero tolerance approach to significant breaches of the Code of Conduct and have, when necessary, terminated contracts with managers and employees if they were found to behave in breach of the Code of Conduct. The company’s Group Business Integrity Committee consists of the Group CFO, Head of Group Legal, Head of Group HR, and Head of Group Internal Audit. The Committee is responsible for investigating reports of possible significant breaches of the Code of Conduct throughout the Group. The Committee meets at least once per quarter and is convened as and when required. The Committee is authorised by the EGM to monitor fraud controls and fraud losses; decide how to investigate fraud suspicions and suspected non-compliance with laws, ethical standards and the ISS Code of Conduct; and to direct appropriate actions in response to investigation results. “ Within the scope of its responsibilities, the Committee has authority to obtain any information required from employees, officers and external parties within the scope of its responsibilities and applicable legal requirements. The Committee has authority to request audits, and when deemed appropriate to secure investigation of issues or concerns. Astrid Abrahamse HOLLAND 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Our Performance and Targets This section presents our Key Performance Indicators We report on our performance within three areas: and results against objectives and targets for 2011. People, planet, and profit We also establish objectives and targets for 2012. At this stage of our reporting journey, we do not have data or targets for the partner area. People 2011 2010 2009 2008 PLANET 2011 2010 No. of employees 534,519 522,700 485,847 472,801 Electricity consumption (Mwh) 100,734 91,995 – Full time % 73% 73% 71% 69% – Part time % 1) 27% 27% 29% 31% Electricity emissions (tonnes CO2 eq.) 39,341 30,710 Total workforce Electricity costs (million DKK) 88.4 76.2 – Front line 505,265 494,109 – White collar 29,254 28,591 Vehicle emissions 3) (tonnes CO2 eq.) 92,834 72,924 Turnover Business Travel emissions 4) (tonnes CO2 eq.) 16,510 3,660 – % All employees 45% 49% 39% 49% – % Front line 46% 53% 41% 51% Water consumption (m3) 702,690 – % White collar 23% 16% 16% 24% PEOPLE 2011 2010 PROFIT 2011 2010 Hours of training Revenue (million DKK) 77,644 74,074 – Front line 2,212,730 2,605,633 – White collar 396,402 382,255 EBITA (million DKK) 4,165 4,192 Absentee rate 2.3% 2.3% Net Finance costs (million DKK) 2,807 2,566 Incidents of discrimination 29 48 Taxes paid (million DKK) 749 697 Fatalities 7 5 Staff costs (million DKK) 50,089 47,990 Lost time Incident Frequency (LTIF) 2) 10 11 Exposure hours (million hours) 930.7 908.4 1) Defined as employees working an average of less than 30 hours per week for ISS. 2) A LTI is defined as any work related injury or occupational illness which results Number of Vehicles 23,485 24,960 in a person being unfit for his/her normal duties for more than 24 hours any day after the injury. The LTIF is based on 1 million exposure hours. Number of Vehicle Accidents 6,453 5,574 3) Covers 17,206 leased vehicles comprising 74% of the fleet in 2011; 13,824 leased vehicles comprising 55% of the fleet in 2010. 4) In 2010, we reported emissions from Group and 5 countries. In 2011, we report emissions from Group and 30 countries. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 15 Performance against objectives and targets for 2011 Targets 2011 Performance 2011 Trend In accordance with the HSE Vision, our first priority is We regrettably experienced seven fatalities. ä ä to prevent fatalities at our work places. Our Group See page 20 target is 0. In terms of Lost Time Incidents Frequency (LTIF), the LTIF decreased by 23% from the baseline value Group target for 2011 is to reduce LTIF by 25% to of 13, to 10 in 2011. below 10. Related to the LTIF are Lost Work Days (LWD) as a result of The total number of Lost Work Days per 1000 ä lost time incidents. The Group target for 2011 is a reduction exposure hours was the same as in 2010. of 15% from the baseline in 2010 per 1000 exposure hours. In terms of Total Reportable Cases Frequency (TRCF), TRCF decreased by 35% from the baseline value ä ä the Group target for 2011 is to reduce our TRCF by at of 23, to 15 in 2011. least 25% from the baseline in 2010. At least one yearly Management review by Country 98% of countries have carried out at least one management of the suitability, adequacy and effectivemanagement review for 2011. ness of the Country’s HSE Management system. Systematically measure the carbon emissions across Began measuring consumption of electricity at the Group from electricity in 2011. our own sites, enabling us to establish baselineä data for these consumptions. We can start to establish baseline data for improvement targets. Reduce the emissions from our leased cars (gm/km) In 2011, we have reduced the emissions from our ää ä from 2011 over the leasing period of 4 years by 15%. leased cars (g/km) by 4%. All Countries translate the ISS Code of Conduct in In 2011, all countries have translated the Code of their local languages in 2011 and to make this Conduct in their local languages and are making available during the induction for every employee. this available for induction training. All countries must carry out a customer experience Approximately 6,500 customers, equal to 80% survey to customers representing 80% of revenue of our total revenue, were given the opportunity in 2011. to participate in the survey, which 46% choose to do. To conduct an annual employee engagement survey We offered more than 190,000 employees, over with a target to have offered 250,000 of our one third of our workforce, the opportunity to ä employees to respond to the questionnaire by the express their opinion of working for ISS. 38% end of 2012. chose to make use of this opportunity. To have a minimum of 350 of our Top Managers By the end of 2011 this training had been comä ä across the Group take the E-learning modules on pleted by 762 managers. Anti-Corruption and Competition laws in 2011. To carry out audits on at least 20% of countries we In 2011, the scope of internal audits in 15 operate in regarding compliance with Child Labour countries included management systems and and working time regulations. controls related to labour and human rights. Objectives and targets for 2012 ment of the suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the 1. In accordance with the HSE Vision, our first priority is to Country’s HSE Management system. prevent fatalities at our work places. Our Group target is 0. 6. Systematically measure the carbon emissions across the 2. In terms of Lost Time Incidents Frequency (LTIF), the Group Group from electricity in 2011. target for 2012 is to reduce LTIF by 40% relative to our 7. Reduce the emissions from our leased cars (gm/km) from baseline figure. 2011 over the leasing period of 4 years by 15%. 3. Related to the LTIF are Lost Work Days (LWD) as a result of 8. To conduct an annual employee engagement survey with Lost Time Incidents. The Group target for 2012 is a reduca target to have offered 250,000 of our employees to tion of 25% relative to the baseline figure in 2010 per 1000 respond to the questionnaire by the end of 2012. exposure hours. 9. To carry out audits on least 20% of countries we operate 4. In terms of Total Reportable Cases Frequency (TRCF), the in regarding to issues within Corporate Responsibility. Group target for 2012 is to reduce our TRCF by at least 30%. 10. To roll-out the e-learning module on Anti-Corruption in 5. At least one yearly Management review by Country managedifferent languages. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ISS and People – a safe and respectful employer This section describes how we care for our most important resource – our employees. EMPLOYEES PER REGION Total People are the core of ISS’s business. Of our over 530,000 employees more than 500,000 are in the front line of our business • Western Europe 40% serving over more than 200,000 customers and they are our • Nordic 8% most valuable resource. • Asia 33% • Pacific 3% Managing risks in terms of health and safety for our employees • Latin America 10% is demanded by our customers, required by our investors but • North America 3% above all our employees deserve that we care deeply for their • Eastern Europe 4% safety at work. This is a basic human right. The success of our HSE efforts is dependent on every individual Full Time in the company taking on the responsibility for eradicating risk behaviour in themselves and among colleagues. In this way, we • Western Europe 28.2% all share the responsibility for: • Nordic 7.5% • Managing our HSE risks systematically; • Asia 44% • Learning from our collective experiences in order to • Pacific 2.7% continually improve our HSE performance; • Latin America 12.5% • Being Ambassadors by promoting and driving a strong • North America 2% HSE culture. • Eastern Europe 3.1% Governance framework for health and safety The basis for all governance questions in ISS is the ISS Code of Conduct, which clearly calls for us to secure and protect the The ISS vision and policy for HSE personal health and safety of our workforce. Our HSE vision is called ‘100’. The Code of Conduct also protects employees’ right to fair and 1: We aim to be number 1 in our industry and recognised as an equal treatment, freedom of association and collective bargaining. industry leader in the way we deliver health, safety and environIt further states that we do not use forced labour or employ mental performance; children, and that we offer adequate wages and training oppor0: We operate with 0 fatalities in our workplaces; and tunities as well as respect employee privacy and protection of 0: We incur 0 serious incidents and occupational injuries at our personal data. That health, safety and environment is a top workplaces. priority is also embedded in our leadership principles. Our HSE Policy is to: “ In ISS we treat people with respect: We respect the laws of the localities where we operate and we • Have a systematic approach to HSE management designed to ensure compliance with the law and achieve continuous consider Health, Safety & Environment a top priority. improvement; From our Leadership Principles • Measure, review and report performance and set targets for improvement; Furthermore, we are fully aware that healthy business perfor• Investigate incidents to determine their root causes and take mance depends on healthy people and safe processes and equipappropriate corrective actions; ment. We recognise that our success and our future require us to • Require our suppliers to manage their HSE in line with carry out our operations in a safe and environmentally conscious this policy; manner. This is part of the ISS Way. • Include HSE performance in the appraisal of staff and reward accordingly. The next layer in our governance framework for HSE is our HSE vision and policy. These are reflected on this page. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 17 Making HSE operational In line with the efforts to strengthen governance across our multicountries that have certified their local organisation, for the past two years we have built and MANAGEMENT system implemented an operational framework to create a consistent approach to HSE across the Group. The objective is to achieve 25 continuous improvement in quality and performance, in the • Covering all services 20 daily dealings of the vast majority of people employed by ISS, • Covering certain 15 as they clean, guard, garden, prepare meals, etc. services or divisions 10 The ISS Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Manual, 5 based on four international standards, (OHSAS 18001, ISO14001, 0 ISO 22000 and ISO 9001), provides the countries with a road ISO 9001 ISO 18001 ISO 14001 map to a systematic approach to health, safety and environmental management. The manual was rolled out in 2010, as was an ISS Group HSE and CR Action Plan. Full compliance with the manual was required by the end of Monitoring supports transparency 2011 and we are pleased to report that all countries have now A part of the overall strategy for HSE and CR is demonstrating performed self-assessments, identified gaps and completing our performance through measuring, monitoring and reportaction plans to close these. ing. Supporting this goal in 2011 we implemented an HSE-IT tool, a performance management tool that will enable ISS to A number of countries have also certified their Management monitor and document our performance, compliance and risk systems in accordance to ISO 9001, 18001, 14001. The bar management in HSE. The tool will provide ISS with: chart on the right side shows the number of countries that • A systematic approach to reporting across the ISS Group; have certified their system to cover all their operations or cer• Simplified reporting to Group and at country level; tain services or divisions, • Monitoring of our performance and progress across the Group and to country management in terms of their performance; The objective of the Group HSE and CR Action Plan are targets • Increased awareness across the Group through reporting; and actions to: • Opportunity for building a value proposition for our customers. • Improve our HSE and CR culture; • Improve our HSE management systems; and With the HSE-IT tool ISS can have oversight of incident report• To monitor our HSE and CR performance. ing, corrective actions performed as well as audit outcomes. In 2012 we plan to integrate a sustainability module to cover In 2010, we also launched the ISS Safety Rules to align behaviours environmental data as well. The system is being deployed to all in daily operations. These have been rolled out in all countries countries. in 2011 by way of translation to local languages and communication through locally available channels such as personal handbooks, brochures, posters, etc. Reviews support accountability Beginning in 2011 we enhanced accountability by including Based on our HSE and CR performance, the stated targets and health and safety items in existing periodic business reviews actions will be reviewed and amended yearly as deemed approof each country in which the Group operates. The reviews will priate to meet our HSE Vision. The Action Plan also has a road focus on how the country is progressing in meeting the action map for targets and new indicators to be measured in the next plans established in 2010. five years. To facilitate this process, Group HSE held in 2011 two Regional HSE meetings in Helsinki, Finland and Buenos Aires, Argentina ISS Safety Rules with the HSE heads from nine countries representing the Nordic and Latin America regions to develop a common understandThe rules cover: • Driving safety; ing of the Group strategy and to share best practices. These • Stopping unsafe work; • Working at heights; Regional meetings will continue to be held in 2012 in order to • Permit to Work; • Housekeeping; facilitate this common understanding with meetings in Asia • Energy isolation; • Manual Handling; Pacific and the US already planned. • Electrical safety; • Working with Chemicals. • Confined space entry; One of the key elements in the Group HSE manual is a Management Review. From 2011 onwards, Country Management will 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 be required to carry out at least one Management review of Posters highlighting these subjects were sent to HSE-managers the suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the Country’s HSE in all countries, also in a version fit for translation to local lanManagement system annually. guages. The posters were translated into Chinese, Croatian, Danish, Dutch, Estonian, Finnish, German, Indonesian, Malay, “ In 2011, 98% of countries have carried out at least one management review. Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, Thai and Turkish languages. In addition to these posters, one on the STOP methodology was included in the campaign materials and explaining how to use it. This is a recognised method of identifying hazards Campaigning to improve when carrying out work. One element in the Group HSE and CR Action Plan is what has been termed ‘Me and You’ campaigns which will run every The campaign subjects for the 2nd quarter of 2011 were, under quarter of the years to come. The first campaign focused on the overall theme “Health”: Healthy Back, Working with chemsafety, and ran in March 2011 under the name ‘Drive to 100 icals; and Personal Protection Equipment. Safety Campaign’. The ‘Drive to 100’ refers to our HSE Vision of 100. ‘Drive to 100’ Health Campaign 2011 ‘Drive to 100’ Health Campaign 2011 ‘Drive to 100’ Health Campaign 2011 Healthy Back Working with chemicals Personal Protection Your back needs your support! Use only approved chemicals you have been trained Equipment (PPE) Back problems can be avoided by understanding the to use – if you don’t know it, don’t use it! best way to maintain good posture, to sit and lift. Use the PPE correctly. If you are not sure, ask your supervisor on how to use the PPE. The campaign focused on three safety subjects: Working at heights Falls from height was the cause of GOOD POSTURE WHEN SITTING WHEN LIFTING • Pull your shoulder blades • Keep your back against Preparation is the key. two of the fatal injuries in 2010 and several serious injuries. back slightly toward each other and down away from your ears; • Lift your chest up and out; the back of a supportive chair with your feet flat on the floor, knees slightly higher than your hips; Before you lift a load, ask: • Have I got a clear path? • Do I need help? • Is my route as straight REMEMBER TO • Wear the correct Personal Protective Equipment for the job and follow safety • Follow safe working procedures; • Follow advice from Material Safety Data Sheets • Keep flammable chemical away from any heat source; • Use trays where possible to contain any leaks and spills; MAKE SURE THAT YOUR PPE • Is in good working order; THE PROPER USE OF A RESPIRATOR • There are two main types: • Storing and maintaining your respirator is just as important as changing Moreover, many of ISS’s work activities involve working at • Pull your head back just • Work with your keyboard and flat as possible? signage; and Safety Labels when • Clean up or report any • Fits correctly; air purifying and air the filters; enough to keep it in line and screen directly in • Are there safe places to • Only use chemicals from transporting, storing, chemical spills imme• Is clean; supplying; if you are • Your respirator must fit with your spine; front of you; stop and rest? containers or bottles with using and disposing diately; • Is stored correctly; unsure which one to use, correctly; • Position your hips to create • Have your forearms hori• Is the weight of the load correct labels; chemicals; • Only use original contain• Has been checked for ask your supervisor; • Avoid anything around or maintain a natural zontal; evenly distributed? • All Chemicals should be • All approved chemicals ers/ bottles / cans for cracks and scratches. • It is important you are the face area that could height. Working from ladders, scaffolds and platforms are arch in your lower back; • Have your eyes level with identified for hazards and for use are to be recorded storage and keep them trained to use this equipinterfere with the respir• Pull your belly button in the top of the monitor. assessed for risk; in a register; closed when not in use. ment; ator’s seal. toward your spine without changing or tilting your hips or losing the obvious examples. arch in your back. Slips, trips and falls According to statistics from e.g. the UK Health and Safety Executive (HSE), slips and trips are the Safety Flash communication single most common causes of injuries at work and account Another kind of campaigning is carried out through sending for over a third of all major work injuries. out what is termed as ‘Safety Flashes’. These are letters sent to Driving safely It is estimated in some countries that up to a safety responsible persons across ISS at times where obvious third of all road traffic accidents involve somebody who is at trends are showing. In 2011 we sent out two such flashes. One work at the time. This includes employees driving to meetwas concerned with working at heights, the other with fatalities. ings and events, visiting customers or clients and driving The Safety Flashes recounts the current trend and points out between sites. ISS has also experienced incidents related to potential learning and suggest subjects for discussion across driving, leading to three fatalities last year. With over 20,000 the organisation. vehicles in our fleet, driving safely is an important aspect of our safety culture. How campaigns are run ‘Drive to 100’ Safety Campaign 2011 ‘Drive to 100’ Safety Campaign 2011 ‘Drive to 100’ Safety Campaign 2011 Working at heights... Slips, trips and falls... Driving safely... • Posters and the ‘You and Me’ slogan from the campaign are hung in offices etc.; • Top and middle management should be involved in campaigns; • Posters and flyers are distributed, ideally by management layers for ManaGinG WorK at HeiGHts, use tHe folloWinG WHen WorKinG at HeiGHt, ensure Your actions can Main causes of slips, as well; HeirarcHY • It is properly planned and organised protect You trips and falls do do not • Avoid working at height where it is possible • Use work equipment or other measures to prevent falls where working at height • It takes account of weather conditions that could endanger health and safety • Those involved in working at heights are medically fit, trained and competent • Do not run • Concentrate on where you are going and what you are doing • Use equipment correctly • • • • Uneven floor surfaces Unsuitable floor coverings Wet floors Changes in levels • Check your vehicle (lights, mirrors, tires, window screen liquid, brake fluid, radiator water levels, emergency equipment, window wipers) • Make sure you and your passengers use • Use hand held mobile phones or radios while driving • Mix driving with alcohol or drugs • Drive if you are tired • Supervisors/facility managers are encouraged to hold Tool Box talks or start work shifts by discussing the posters; cannot be avoided • The place where working at height is safe (for example ladders and scaffolds) • Wires and cables seat belts • Where the elimination of a risk of fall • Equipment for working at height is • Do not jump from one structure to • Poor lighting • Plan your journey cannot be eliminated, use work equipappropriately inspected another • Poor housekeeping • Reduce your speed to suit the road ment or other measures to minimise • The risks from fragile sur• Hold the handrails conditions and weather conditions the distance and consequences of a faces and falling objects • Wear the appropriate PPE, • Use a helmet when using two wheel • Safety committees or safety forums are involved in campaigns; fall should one occur are properly controlled especially footwear transport • Campaign messages are communicated by intranet, meetings, newsletters, posters on boards. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 19 Thomas Mälström SWEDEN 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Health and safety performance 2011 Part of the framework is our requirements of local management Regrettably we had seven fatalities at our workplaces in 2011, two to carry out investigations of root cause for each of these accimore than in 2010. Each of these is a tragedy and we will never dents, by analysing what caused the incident and what can be accept that working for ISS can be fatal. The safety of our emdone in order to prevent similar incidents in the future. All these ployees is our number one priority in terms of corporate responfatalities should have been avoided. sibility, our most material issue. For the same reason, the only acceptable performance statistic on fatalities is zero occurrences. In order to achieve our HSE vision, we have set targets for reducing injuries significantly over the next few years, beginning with The only way to reach this target is by establishing an impenea 25% reduction in 2011 from the baseline value of 13, to trable safety culture across the entirety of our operations rebelow 10 in 2011. Our Lost time Incident Frequency based on gardless of variations in local cultures and management styles. incidents per 1 million exposure hours across the Group was 10 in 2011, compared to 11 in 2010. Our health and safety governance framework, which was strengthened and expanded in 2010, is an important element in enhancing our safety culture as is the campaigns described above. LOST TIME INCIDENT FREQUENCY (LTIF) 2008-2011 “ As we all agree any loss of life is one too many. While we are all working on improving our safety 25 20 processes, we still need to reflect on what more we can do to prevent fatalities and serious injuries at the 15 work place. … I would therefore encourage you and your management team to take time to stress our 10 commitment to safety to our staff. We need to show 5 LTIF based on incidents our employees this commitment starts at the top and per 1 million exposure that we must carry out our tasks safely and avoid hours across the Group 0 injury at our work place. 2008 2009 2010 2011 Jeff Gravenhorst, CEO Fatalities Location Date Services Worked Description India Mar 15 Security 5 months Employee was working as a security guard at an aluminum plant. He entered the yard to replace his radio battery. While he was returning back from the yard gate to his duty post, a truck ran him over and he died instantly. The truck driver’s visibility was limited due to heavy dust in the area. Brazil May 2 Cleaning N.A. An ISS sub-contractor was contracted to paint a building and also clean the roof gutters. In order to work on the roof gutters, the sub-contractor was working on the roof surface where he lost his balance and stepped on tiles that did not support his weight. This resulted in him falling through the roof into the interior of the building, a fall of 6 meters that resulted in his death. Australia Aug 16 Mechanic 28 days Our employee was driving back to the office after servicing an ISS vehicle when his car had a head on collision with another car. He was air lifted to a hospital with critical injuries but passed away shortly after. India Sep 5 Cleaning 8 months Our cleaner was working at a Laboratory. While carrying out cleaning activities, he stepped on a cement sheet which was used as cover for the underground water tank opening. The sheet broke and our employee fell into the tank. He was immediately shifted to hospital but he had passed away. Thailand Sep 7 Security 1 year Our security guard was working at a building under completion at a University. Our guard opened the lift doors and fell down the lift shaft, leading to his death. Czech Oct 3 Cleaning 6 years Our employee worked at a recreation centre where she managed special cleaning Republic services and laundry. She was driving to the site when her car had a frontal impact with a truck, resulting in instant death. India Nov 13 Security 26 ½ years Our Security supervisor was on transport escort when his car was hit by a truck that had lost control and crossed a 4 foot median and entered into other side of the road resulting in a head on collision. All the five travelling in the car sustained injuries. Our supervisor sustained chest and head injuries and later succumbed to the injuries. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 21 Next steps in International Human Resources standards Year ended 31 December Integrated in the management of human resources is compliance to and measurement of the ISS International HR Standards. It is 2011 2010 2009 2008 essential that local legislation and practices are respected everyEmployees length of service where and that the implementation of all policies is conducted Share of employees with less 34% 39% 36% 35% with sound judgement, compliance with local market laws and than one year of service common sense. Share of employees with one 41% 38% 40% 38% to five years of service Our International HR standards are rooted in the ISS Way and Share of employees with more 25% 23% 25% 26% constitute the basis for effective HR Management across the ISS than five years of service Group. They enable us to have the right employees in the right positions, for maximisation of staff performance. The standards apply from the first point of contact with a possible future employee and help us keep focus on vital aspects of employment ISS International Human Resources standards for as long as we continue a relationship with an employee. Subjects covered by the standards: A 2011 edition of the standards was distributed to more than • Recruitment; 700 HR staff in ISS, with the inclusion of strengthened stan• Forced and compulsory labour; dards in the areas of Human Rights, Forced and Compulsory • Child Labour; Labour, Child Labour, Working Hours and Anti-Corruption. This • Working Hours; was an outcome of a review of our standards up against the • Discrimination, harassment and abuse; UN Global Compact performed in 2010. • Remuneration, Benefits and Incentives; • Employee Appraisals and Reviews; The model for implementation of these standards into daily • Training and Development; practice is chosen by the countries exclusively, but as part of • Health and Safety; Group Internal Audit’s new control self-assessment tool and • Succession Planning; subsequent guidelines for internal auditing, we are developing • Motivation and Loyalty; a form of monitoring and accountability measures. • Employee Relations; • Managing Sickness and Absenteeism; A first step has been significant changes to the parameters on • Reporting and Monitoring. which the countries report to Group level, with an increased focus on monitoring and dialogue over a few HR areas. The purpose is to align reporting with our multi-local approach by design programmes to promote teamwork and skills developachieving accountability, but only on business critical issues. ment. These activities and programmes are, however, subject to local judgement of suitability. Prime examples of business critical issues are retention of employees and absenteeism. In 2011, the share of full-time employees (working 30 hours or more a week) was 73%, same as in 2010. This indicator is important, as, on average, full-time employees develop stronger Having a stable workforce ties with ISS. The distribution of employee seniority (in years) Our industry is known for high levels of employee turnover, provides another perspective for employee loyalty within ISS. where jobs are often used for short-term or secondary emThe number of employees with more than one year of service ployment, as well as for high rates of absenteeism. However, increased from 61% in 2010 to 66% in 2011, with 25% of our a stable work force increases our productivity and the value employees with more than 5 years of service. proposition we can make to our customers. We have increased the frequency on reporting demands on Satisfied employees are critical absences, and included employee turnover and absences due Being in the services industry, ISS can only make our customers to illness in the demands for countries’ reports to Group level. satisfied if our employees experience opportunities for engageAdditional areas are correct pay and individual performance appraisals. We have also increased our efforts in succession planning for management positions. Employee User Customer Business We also work to reduce turnover among front line employees Engagement Perception Experience Growth by offering more full-time and daytime work, by providing multitasking jobs, encourage career development opportunities and 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ment and the motivation to grab these. In fact, the principle The topic of this year’s EWC meeting was ‘Social Dialogue’, i.e. that engaged employees are a prerequisite for satisfied customers ways to improve communication between employer representais at the heart of the ISS Way and the core of our belief system. tives and employees. At the end of the three-day meeting, all participating countries walked away with an action plan based In 2010, we began to measure the engagement of employees on sharing of best practices from around ISS. through a structured employee engagement survey method. The method was tested in a survey for 4,500 employees in Portugal The meeting also makes room for a half-day training session for and 30,000 in the Nordic countries. In 2011 we expanded the union representatives conducted by the European Trade Union same survey method to more regions and countries. As a result Institute. we offered more than 190,000 employees from our Nordic, Western Europe and Latin America regions the opportunity to express their opinion of working for ISS. Almost 38% chose to ISS University curriculum make use of this opportunity. Which programmes does ISS University offer? A very important part of implementing an aligned Employee Engagement Survey has been the involvement of Country • Advantage programmes Management Teams, managers, first line employees, unions The ISS Advantage Programme is the first step to enabling and other stake holders in the country organisations. From employees for key roles in the ISS Strategy – The ISS way. the beginning it has been very important that the survey is anonymous for all our employees; both white collar and frontThe Advantage Programme is an energised forum with line employees. All employees have answered the same 24 involvement from Group Management Board who presents questions and to ensure that our employees fully understood the ISS Group Strategy and focus on giving an in-depth the questions all information and questionnaires have been understanding of all of the steps in The ISS Way. translated into 21 different languages. • Strategy and the Value Chain programmes The Strategy and the Value Chain Programme has been What are the questions about developed for Regional and Country Management with the objective to secure a more in-depth understanding of The • ISS in general ISS Way strategy and the ISS Value Chain and how to apply • My work conditions it. Participants will further be introduced to the ISS Value • My manager Chain toolbox and communication/implementation of our • My personal development strategy and the change management required securing its • My team success. • Value Proposition programmes Measured on a scale from zero to five, the average result of the This hands-on workshop moves through the steps necessary surveys was 4.3 implying that our employees in these countries to create a value proposition that motivates the buyer. It indeed are engaged and happy to work for ISS. The honest shows how to select the right kind of value, quantify it and feedback from our employees gives extraordinary good input link it to ISS’s differentiators. It also provides practice in using for future initiatives on how our employees can become even the most effective pattern for presenting value, the NOSE more engaged working for ISS and provide our customers with structure. better service. Most of these training programmes were developed exclusively The embedding of the Employee Engagement Surveys throughat ISS University, while others) were designed in cooperation with out the ISS world will continue in 2012. The Asia and Pacific institutions, such as Stanford University, International Institute regions will begin the implementation of the same process, strucfor Management Development, Henley Management College ture and questionnaire in up to 11 Asian countries. Our target and INSEAD Business School. is to offer up to 250,000 of our employees the opportunity to respond to the questionnaire by the end of 2012. As part of the ISS University philosophy, regional and country managers are being certified to run ISS Academy programmes in local languages, which will facilitate the flow of knowledge Labour relations in Europe to our employees. For our European operations we conduct our employee relations according to an established model of a European Works Additionally, in order to implement strategic initiatives, such as Council. In this model, quarterly meetings between manageCleaning Excellence and the integrated facility services concept, ment and union representatives are held, as well as one annual ISS University continues to develop key specialists and train-themeeting for all union members and a greater share of managetrainers. ment representatives. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 23 Skill training is conducted locally The success of each of the services we offer to customers depends on the skills of the people who deliver it. Therefore, it DENMARK is essential that the organisation is staffed with people who can deliver services that strengthen our customers’ experience of Proof established that diversity pays service value. Out of 10,000 employees in ISS Denmark 60 % are female and 40 % are male. Nearly half of our employees have Consequently, our ability to train and develop employees remains another ethnicity than Danish, descending from more than one of the cornerstones of the ISS human resources strategy. 130 countries and are evenly distributed in regards to age. In 2011 ISS and PwC measured the effects of our work with As part of our International Human Resources Standards we ask diversity on the operational performance. The measurement the countries to ensure that all employees receive the necessary is the first of its kind and shows that diverse teams are 3.7% training to enable them to fulfil their job requirements, as well more effective than non-diverse teams. as relevant training in health and safety. Training needs to be planned, implemented and evaluated to ensure that it meets In other words, it has a proven economic effect to work business needs and defined objectives, and to be adjusted to strategically with diversity as a part of the overall HR strategy. match business strategies. Most training is conducted at ISS academies and training facilities in national and local operations. In ISS we also give attention to developing the first management SPAIN layer e.g. team leaders, supervisors and contract managers, who are responsible for the immediate staff and customer contacts. 300 service managers trained in management ISS Spain innovates in the industry creating career opporOur focus on training was validated by findings in the 2010 emtunities for Service Managers with two-year training course ployee satisfaction survey which found that units where trainin management. Since 2007, ISS Spain has implemented a ing had been very high on the agenda in the past year had a complete educational program for all Service Managers. This higher score in the survey. program, PDHG (“Programa de Desarrollo de Habilidades de Gestión”) has been developed by high quality professors In 2011, 176,356 front line employees participated in class room who collaborate with the renowned international IESE type training across the Group. There were various types of Business School. The program’s length is two years, with training including health and safety, technical training, managemonthly one-day sessions. At the end of the program, a ment, language training, leadership and supervisory, IT, security formal graduation ceremony is held in the facilities of IESE and fire prevention. Business School (in Barcelona & Madrid). Training for leadership Leadership development is a clear strategic priority for ISS, as UK we progress to create the one company, one brand, one strategyoperation which we desire. Due to ISS’s accelerated acquisitive Getting low-risk ex-offenders back into paid growth in the first eight years of this millennium, pockets of employment individual company management culture remain and leadership ISS Facility Services Landscaping in co-operation with the deve-lopment is a valued tool in becoming One Company. Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead and social enterprise firm, Blue Sky is helping ex-offenders to turn them away The ability of our leaders, at all levels, to guide and motivate from their former lives and back into paid employment. must be based on human understanding, respect and responsiThe Royal Borough is the first local authority in the country bility, as people management is our core competence in deliverto turn temporary placements into permanent jobs following ing excellence to our customers. a successful six-month pilot scheme last year. Five young exoffenders are working with ISS FS Landscaping as fully paid Part of the efforts is ensuring that our Leadership Principles employees involved on tasks such as maintenance of parks (see page 9) are embedded in the local leadership training proand cemeteries, grass cutting and tree planting. Although grammes. Furthermore, in addition to the training provided in grounds maintenance work can be erratic due to seasonal the countries and on a regional level, we have established the changes, ISS and the Council committed to provide employISS University, an in-house education centre in Copenhagen, to ment to the five young men throughout the twelve months educate and train our managers and executives. of 2011. It is hoped that this will provide them a spring board for seeking further employment beyond this contract. The reIn 2011, 165 senior managers and specialists attended workoffending rate of employees placed through Blue Sky is 15 pershops and programmes at ISS University. cent, just a quarter of the national average. 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ISS and the Planet – influencing impact globally This section highlights initiatives we are underCampaigning for the environment taking to increase our operational efficiency and As part of the Group HSE and CR Action Plan for 2011, ISS has thus reduce our environmental impact. carried out quarterly HSE campaigns in 2011. The third quarter campaign focused on the environment emphasising awareness in terms The main environmental impacts from ISS’s operations derive of consumption of energy and water, and production of waste. from our cleaning services and consist of use of chemicals as well as water and energy consumption. We also emit CO2 As the campaigning material emphasised, doing something to through the use of cars in our operations and travel activities. protect our environment starts and ends with each of us, and if we duplicate these initiatives by 534,519 – the number of There are three ways in which ISS can influence the extent of people working for ISS – we believe our environmental footour impacts: print can be reduced quite substantially. (For information on 1. Through conscious behaviour in terms of consumption how the campaigns are rolled out see page 18). at our own sites; 2. Through the design of processes and equipment we use In the same vein ISS has also entered a climate partnership with at our customer sites; Danish utility company DONG to reduce the consumption of 3. Through the portfolio of services we offer to our customers. energy at our head office. This partnership is presented in more detail on page 31. Limiting our own footprint ‘Drive to 100’ Environmental Campaign 2011 Don’t use all your energy ‘Drive to 100’ Environmental Campaign 2011 Don’t waste it! ‘Drive to 100’ Environmental Campaign 2011 Turn off the electricity when not in use! reduce waste by reducing your consumption! Turned off the tap? Many ISS operations are already certified in accordance with Think about your water consumption! environmental standards such as ISO 14001, LEED, Green Seal OFF etc., but with the implementation of the HSE manual, including ON a management and reporting system, in 2011, we can now energy bulbs with 15-watt bulbs 35 watts per hour, also WATer govern our own impact on the environment with more struc• Remember to turn the reduces energy usage by with the screen saver on, not required saves six litres • Consider buying low flush lights off when you leave 80%. Replacing them adding up to an energy • Carry out audits to idenof water a minute. toilets. 75% of water used the office or your home with CFL’s or LED lights consumption of more WASTe • Increase the proportion of • Choose suppliers and tify and tackle areas of • Introduce plant watering indoors is in the bathroom, even for just a few minutes. saves even more. than 100 watts per hour. • Where possible, print waste sent for re-cycling products to ensure that waste and leakage and arrangements that miniand 25% of this is for the • Change your bulbs to • Allow your computer to • Turn off equipment when double-sided and/or with by improved waste segall product/materials using repairs, retro-fitting mise evaporation and use toilet. An old style single ture and systematically. compact fluorescent light sleep and hibernate when they are not being used. two pages on one side. regation. packaging is robust and of smart devices (e.g. senrain/grey water when posflush toilet can use up to bulbs (CFLs); the switch away and turn it off when • Use recycled paper when This can even be made • Reuse paper that has reused by suppliers. sor taps) and new effisible. Carry out outdoor 13 litres of water in one will save 70% on energy leaving the office. Do not possible. 40% less energy your “default” setting! only been printed on one • Recycle the cartridges cient equipment to quickly watering during the early flush. New, more waterand they last 10 times use a screen saver as is used in producing one • Switch to a reusable side for draft or scrap from your printer, fax reduce consumption levels. parts of the day; avoid efficient dual-flush toilets longer than the traditionscreensavers use the same tonne of recycled paper ceramic or glass cup for message pads. and copier. • Report leaks in bathrooms watering when it is windy. use only six litres for a full al bulbs. electricity as a computer compared to new paper. your beverages instead of • Increase the use of conand kitchens. Leaks can • Review arrangements and flush and four litres with • Use the lowest-wattage being used. A typical deskusing plastic or foam cups! centrated chemicals and easily double water coninfrastructure for the use of a reduced flush. bulbs for lights that are top computer uses 65-250 Plastics require 100 to dosing technologies which sumption and waste grey water and rainwater always on (e.g., stairwatts per hour and a typi400 years to break down provide accurate dosing large amounts of water. catchments, especially for In 2011 we have begun measuring consumption of electricity ways). Replacing 75-watt cal monitor uses at least in a landfill. of cleaning chemicals. • Turning off the tap when use by landscaping teams. and water at our own sites, enabling us to establish baseline data for these consumptions. We continue to measure the CO2 emissions from our car fleet and business travel. Greener equipment on the way ISS’s second route to influencing our environmental impact is The consumption of electricity for 2011 was 100,734 MwH, an through the tools and processes we use delivering our services. increase from 2010 when we reported 91,995 MwH. This is because in 2011, we have 11 more countries that have reported From our materiality review it was clear that our main impact in their consumption. If we consider this, the consumption would terms of tools and processes stems from transportation, i.e. our be the same for 2010 and 2011. The emissions from business car fleet and business travel, and from our choice of chemicals travel also increased to 16,004 tonnes. This was due to the when delivering cleaning services. number of countries reporting their emissions from business travel increased from 5 to 30 countries. We began measuring our CO2 emissions from transport in 2010, and are pleased to report that from 2010 to 2011 the average We measured water consumption at our own sites for the first CO2 emission decreased from 165 g/km to 158 g/km. We have time in 2011 and we consumed 702,690 m3. replaced 21% of the global fleet of more than 17,000 leased vehicles with energy efficient models in 2011. For example in the UK, the average CO2 emission has decreased from 184 g/km to 158 g/km from 2010 to 2011. In addition, fleet managers in ISS Environmental policy our countries continue car driver safety programmes that include reducing speed and hence fuel consumption. ISS is committed to continuously reducing the adverse environmental effects of its operations. Everyone wins This policy is included in the ISS Code of Conduct. Ways to reduce our environmental impact from our operations are often linked to and even initiated by potential economic gains. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 25 This was the case in 2011, when a price restructuring was negoGreening cleaning tiated with Diversey chemicals in Europe, who for nearly a decade Finally, our product offerings to clients can aid in reducing environhas been ISS’s strategic supply partner for cleaning chemicals. mental degradation. In the facilities management’s current state, we find ISS is uniquely positioned to deliver leadership in greener Part of this re-negotiation of our contract with Diversey confacilities management. We have worked for decades to develop sisted in an upgrade from old cleaning technologies to new documentation of processes, supplier relationships and a structured dilution systems using super-high concentrate chemicals. As the management approach securing uniform services worldwide. consequences of the upgrade were calculated, it became clear that not only would it imply significant cost savings, it also held The part of our business where we can be most influential is sustainability benefits: cleaning. Of ISS’s revenue, 50.8% originates from cleaning services. • Highly concentrated products require less use of raw mateAs shown in the examples above, ISS works to reduce the amount rials and packaging, and reduce the amount of water transof chemicals we use for cleaning, and to design processes and ported when compared to conventional products; employ tools which can reduce water consumption. This is in line • Products covering 90% of our daily cleaning needs are ecowith recent research and recommendations for making cleaning label certified by the European Union; greener. • Benefits are not limited to ISS, customers will also see costsavings and sustainability improvements with reductions in We have even developed a cleaning service offering named ‘ISS chemicals and plastic consumed, less energy consumed in Green Cleaning’, integrated in the principles of ‘Cleaning Excelmanufacturing, lower CO2 emissions and improved health lence’, also developed by ISS, which already brings sizeable reducand safety. tions in terms of water and cleaning substances consumption. This is completely in line with our goal of increased use of conThe benefits from ‘Cleaning Excellence’ alone include reductions centrated chemicals and dosing technologies, which provide in detergents by 75% over one year and in water consumption accurate dosing of cleaning chemicals to the benefit of the by up to 70%. In addition to this, ‘ISS Green Cleaning’ is a cleanenvironment and for the safety of our workers. ing concept using and procuring certified and environmentally friendly chemicals, employees educated in greener cleaning, and On a broader scale, it is comforting to know that through this day time cleaning, which reduces energy consumption between win-win agreement we can contribute to a decrease in the four to eight per cent annually from eliminating night time global consumption of cleaning chemicals, which the Interlighting and heating. national Facilities Management Association (IFMA) estimates to be at least 2.7 million tonnes annually in the performance ISS Green Cleaning wants to affect the entire process of creatof cleaning tasks. They also find that misuse and overuse due ing a healthy environment for the people who work and visit to lack of training is very common. the facilities managed by us. Our research shows us that current and potential customers New equipment, increased synergies around the world are experiencing a growing need to demonCleaning tools and equipment that electrolyse regular tap strate their commitment to sustainability in their operations. ISS water, transforming it into a powerful cleaner have already has the products and tools to be part of the answer. However, entered the market. According to the manufacturers of such we have also found that companies and organisations do not tools and equipment, changing the chemistry of normal water seem to include cleaning and other facilities management sergives it new properties and allows the charged water to act in vices in their considerations of reductions of their environmenthe same manner as a general purpose cleaner and, in some tal impact. cases, a sanitising agent. Shortly after the charged water has been applied, it transforms back into its original state, leaving no residue or lasting effects. A broader impact On a global scale the cleaning industry consists of more than After pilot projects at a number of ISS customer sites, which indi250,000 companies using facilities, equipment, water, electricity cated effectiveness and saving potentials, in 2010 ISS purchased and cleaning substances every day, producing by-products and over 275 machines from Tennant with the ec-H2O technology in other ways impacting the environment. ISS wholeheartedly described above. Should they prove equally efficient in terms of believes that this represents a significant opportunity for facility cleaning quality, the benefits of water-based technology are managers and other end users to choose vendors and suppliers numerous. The elimination of potentially harmful chemicals helps who have a proven commitment to sustainable practices. protect the health and safety of cleaning workers, as well as facility employees and guests. Because there is no residue left behind, And many things can be done to back up the efforts of manuconcerns over chemical disposal are eliminated. From an econofacturers to create the products, equipment and supplies to mic standpoint, the potential to purchase and use fewer chemaddress these environmental impacts. Other opportunities can icals can have a positive impact on the bottom line. An indecome from working in partnership to find ways to reduce envirpendent test will be carried out in 2012 to verify the savings. onmental impacts. 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ISS tries to influence the entire industry to move towards greener cleaning by working with suppliers, as described above, and our membership of the International Facilities Management AssoINDIA ciation. Read more about our partnerships on page 30. Volunteering for a greener community On the Occasion of World Environment day 2011, ISS Chennai team conducted an Awareness program on Plastic Use called “Gyaan Gu Sa” (“Green Planet”) in Tibetan Language. It was NORWAY an awareness drive among the public on reducing the usage of plastics and make the environment healthy. Part of this proClimate neutral business areas gramme consisted in a beach cleaning activity in one of the Big achievements are often the result of many simultaneous well-known local beaches by ISS Employees. Similarly, an awareinitiatives. Through structured efforts, ISS Norway in 2011 ness and a massive cleaning drive was conducted by ISS near has achieved climate neutrality within the business areas Mumbai, in collaboration with others companies, local governFacility Management, Catering and Security. This was an ment and NGOs. A lot of unwanted waste materials, plastic expressed goal for 2011 and was achieved through a multicovers, water pet bottles etc. were removed from an open tude of target points, among these: Reducing fuel consumproad-side area which was highly appreciated by the locals. tion through drivers’ education, GPS Fleet Management, increased use of video and telephone conferences, and initiating an environmentally conscious renewal of the fleet. Also energy optimisation and waste sorting, increased sales of CHINA environmentally friendly waste solutions, as well as increased use of eco-labeled products. Water recycling initiative praised by customer At the site of DuPont Shanghai, ISS has initiated an energy conservation programme through recycling condensed water from the air-conditioning system. With a small investment in FINLAND pump and pipes, low temperature (about 15) air-conditioning refrigeration water is stored instead of discharged and ISS helped many customers join the national pumped to a cooling tower where it is mixed with cooling Energy Saving Week water for the system. By doing this, 4663 m3 was saved since Since 1997 Finland has run the national Energy Saving its installation in May 2011, and the effect of the AHU is Week once annually, to remind everyone that we all have improved at the same time. The programme is also highly an impact on energy consumption. In 2011 many of our praised by DuPont. customers participated in the week for the first time – on ISS’s initiative. For example, in a large national retail chain ISS personnel was responsible for planning the schedule and distributing material for the week, implementing the UK energy saving-operations and informing together with the customer. 2011 Green Business Award for Partnership ISS Facility Services Healthcare and 3663 have won the 2011 Green Business Award for Partnership. Under the ISS sustainability banner of “Treading Lightly Together”, the two firms HONG KONG showed how an innovative and open approach to working together made a significant difference to reducing carbon The Hong Kong No Air Con Night 2011 emissions, improving efficiency and cutting costs. 3663 is “No Air Con Night” is a promotional event organised by Green one of the UK’s leading foodservice distributors. The comSense, to encourage reducing the use of air-conditioning. panies worked closely to rationalise ISS’ foodservice logistics The event targets the general public including Hong Kong requirements as vehicle use accounts for the majority of the households, government officials and university hostels. company’s carbon emissions. Detailed analysis and planning saw suppliers reduced from The event was held on 29 September 2011, when all partici51 to 23 and ultimately delivered 84% fewer deliveries – or pants were invited to switch off air-conditioners for 12 hours 33,147 fewer deliveries each year. This reduced vehicle movebeginning at 7pm. ISS Facility Services Limited participated ments by 134,000 kilometres annually, cutting carbon emisby switching off the air-conditioner at our offices during that sions by an estimated 96 tonnes. ISS also joined 3663’s cooking period and encouraged all staff to join the event. oil recycling scheme, generating 141,000 litres of biodiesel, which the majority of the 3663 fleet runs on. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 27 Luis Garcias, INÊS Costa and Joao Sequeira Armazem PORTUGAL 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ISS and Profit – stronger governance, stronger accountability In this section, we present an overview of our financial performance, highlight our principles related to Anti-Corruption in the ISS Code of Conduct economic sustainability and report on related activities in 2011. 1) ISS is against any form of corruption and bribery and is committed to combat such practices. Running a sustainable and profitable business is the first order for ISS, and we delivered a strong performance once again in 2) ISS competes for business on fair terms and solely on the 2011. ISS seeks to maintain and enhance operational efficiency merits of its services. by focusing on three operational objectives: (i) Organic Growth, (ii) Operating Margin and (iii) Cash Conversion. 3) Regardless of local practice, any personal payments, kickbacks or bribes between ISS and customers, suppliers or public serWe focus on organic growth through new sales and cross-selling vants are strictly prohibited. of facility service solutions to both new and existing customers. Our strategy is focused on developing value propositions within 4) It is unacceptable to receive gifts or other gratuities from busieach of our defined services based on the needs of our customers. ness partners – unless customary in the environment, of modest These services can either be delivered as a single service, multinominal value and serves a business purpose. service or as an integrated solution. We also seek to leverage our corporate responsibility performance to become a preferred These rules form the basis of our Anti-Corruption Policy. partner for our customers and to develop this into a value proposition that can help our customers reduce their risks in this area. our values (see page 10), and by signing the UNGC we are publicly We are applying a commercial strategy aimed at specific customer and automatically committed to combat the use of corruption, segments and implementing commercial planning processes and extortion and bribery, wherever we do business. tools. This is further supported by our Global Corporate Clients organisation which enables us to win and deliver on large global Since its first edition in 2003 rules against corruption and bribery contracts. The organic growth was 6.2% in 2011 and has on have been part of the ISS Code of Conduct, as it is also a key average been on 4.4% per year from 2007 to 2011. risk to our business. Another objective is to improve our Operating Margin, which During 2011 we continued to expend a sizeable amount of has been on average 5.8% per year from 2007 to 2011. We energy on strengthening our governance structures, even seek to improve operational efficiencies by implementing though we strongly intend to continue operating according to Group-wide excellence and best practice initiatives. the multi-local principle. “ We also focus on cash flow through our Cash Conversion which reflects our ability to convert accounting Our business integrity is a central part of the terms on which we hire and potentially give members of our staff notice to profit into cash. Over the period from 2007 to 2011 leave. And operating in countries with a weak legal framework the Cash Conversion has been on average 98%. for anti-corruption is no excuse: the ISS Code of Conduct principles on Anti-Corruption still apply. Very importantly we work with Unions, customers and employees to improve ‘payment on time’ behaviour, as late payTo make these types of demands on our employees, the ISS ment is a significant threat to sustainable business behaviour. Code of Conduct must be available to our employees in a Our premise to pay our employees on time depends on being language understood by them. This is why one action in the paid on time. Group HSE and CR Action Plan for 2011 was for all countries to translate the ISS Code of Conduct into their local languages and integrate this in the induction for every new employee. Making our Code of Conduct available As recognition of the global consensus on the many detrimental effects of corruption, such acts are a criminal offence in E-learning boosts training in anti-corruption most jurisdictions. In line with a steady global focus on combating unclean business practices, as demonstrated by the enforcement of the US ISS has always had very strict rules against the practice of corrupForeign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as the passing of the UK’s tion and bribery in its business. It is not The ISS Way, it is against bribery act, we launched the ISS Anti-Corruption Policy in 2010. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 29 Building on the principles set forth in the ISS Code of Conduct, We had expected the system to be functional and implemented the ISS Anti-Corruption Policy brought new demands for comby the end of 2011. However, the implementation was held pliance by all our ISS country managers. It was sent out to all back due to activities related to ownership change. countries and Group Legal reached out to all regions to explain the implications of the new policy, and train top manageRoll-out has since been activated and an external provider was ment (with a particular focus in 2011 on Asia and Iberia/Latin chosen to set up a secure, externally hosted, system handling America). any potential complaints and the system will go live in second quarter 2012. We took a new step in 2011 by rolling out our e-learning based training modules to ensure that all relevant managers complete This system will offer a channel for employees, business partcompliance training in anti-corruption and competition law. By ners and other stakeholders to raise serious and sensitive conthe end of 2011 this training had been completed by 762 manacerns, protecting any person raising a serious concern in good gers. Participants are required to go through both modules and faith from reprisals or retaliation. A complaint will be able to be complete and pass the quiz at the end of each module. Comfiled online, using a dedicated link on the ISS website. pliance training is also an integrated part of the ISS Advantage Course as well as some of the ISS Academy programmes in conComplaints or concerns will be received and recorded by the tract management. Head of Group Internal Audit who will consider the seriousness and credibility of the complaint or concern raised, as well as We are currently translating the e-learning module to Chinese, proceed to determine the appropriate action in coordination Spanish, French and German to ensure an even broader roll-out with the Business Integrity Committee. throughout the ISS Group. Some complaints or concerns may be resolved without requiring investigation. Others may be investigated by Group Internal Clean growth Audit or external auditors, investigators and/or legal counsel It is crucial to us to protect what we stand for and to show may be engaged to assist in the investigation and analysis of respect for our Values, Code of Conduct and Leadership Printhe results thereof. ciples. ISS therefore allows anyone privy to information of that nature, to report experienced irregularities in our business. The conclusions of the investigation are submitted to the Audit Committee, established by the ISS Board of Directors. Depending A management representation letter is signed annually by our on the gravity and magnitude of the violation, the report may country managers, stating that all country reporting is done be presented to the Board of Directors. accurately, fairly and according to the ISS Accounting manual. The letter now also includes a section confirming compliance with the ISS Anti-Corruption Policy and, in general, with the ISS Code of Conduct. In 2011 we responded to a potential vulnerability in ISS’s business in a South Asian country where ISS had apparently been given some privileges when paying locally established parking taxes. A clean-up took place in 2011 and tax consultants were hired to advice on future payments. Although such clean-up may hamper growth in the short run, only clean growth counts in ISS. We also worked on following up and terminating a case of excess sponsorship agreements in a Southern European country. For more about our corporate governance system, please see the annual report. Implementation of whistleblower system going live in 2012 Our whistleblower policy and system was approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency early in 2011. 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ISS and Partners – working together to find broad solutions This section highlights some of the many relationships we have established to find CR solutions in our industry. ISS has relationships with a multitude of stakeholders, and with the right amount of shared interests, desire to reach a common With GlobalFM goal or complementary competencies, these relationships can ISS is a long term partner of GlobalFM. GlobalFM is an organisaturn into partnerships. In a number of situations, ISS has through tion that connects regional and local FM organisations such as a close collaboration with such organisations managed to drive IFMA, EuroFM, AsiaFM etc. and provide guidance on education change in the market and create awareness on particular initiaand provide input on industry standards. tives such as new ways of working, sustainability and improved working standards and conditions. In 2011 ISS was involved with GlobalFM on celebrating WorldFM day, which is a day recognising the importance of the facility management function and especially provides recognition to all who is involved in FM. Also ISS sponsored and hosted the annual GlobalFM awards recognising facility management excellence across the globe. With International Facilities Management Association (IFMA) on green cleaning and more In 2011 ISS produced the ISS 2020 Vision “Scenarios for the ISS is a sustaining partner and sponsor of IFMA and ISS is espefuture of the Global Facility Management Industry”. We did cially involved in IFMA’s annual conference and exhibition called this project in collaboration with GlobalFM that involved more World Workplace. IFMA works to promote the facility managethan 50 of their members in an empirical research study carried ment profession through education, credentialing, government out by the Copenhagen Institute of Future Studies on behalf relations, leadership opportunities, publishing, research and of ISS. standards development. See also www.globalfm.com ISS partners with IFMA on several research project and have among other initiatives been involved in a project covering the diffusion of more sustainable cleaning services. One example is our co-authoring of a publication titled ‘Global Green Cleaning’. It was prepared in collaboration between ISS, DCS Global Enterprise LP® and ISSA. Besides practical advice on how to With International Association of perform green cleaning, its main message is that the facilities Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) management industry must play its part in explaining to cusISS is a sustaining partner of IAOP. IAOP is the global, standardtomers how cleaning services can become sustainable. So far, setting organisation and advocate for the outsourcing profession. this publication has been published in more than 2.000 copies. With a global community of more than 110,000 members and See also www.ifma.org affiliates worldwide, IAOP is the leading professional association for organisations and individuals involved in transforming the world of business through outsourcing, off shoring and shared services. In 2011 ISS was recognised as the 2nd best company on IAOP’s Global Outsourcing Top 100. ISS is very pleased by this great recognition by IAOP of our ongoing efforts to meet With IFMA Foundation customer demands. ISS is a proud sponsor and contributor to the IFMA Foundation, where we also sit on the Board of Trustees. The IFMA Foundation is a non-profit organisation providing scholarships for Facilities Management students, providing accreditations of universities With Regional and local industry organisations and educational programmes for FM credentials and the founOn a regional and local level ISS is involved in organisations dation offers research on FM related topics. such as; ISSA, Security league, EuroFM, AsiaFM, BIFM; Abrafac, FMAustralia, AustriaFM and more. ISS acts both as partners and In 2011 ISS has donated funds to support research, white papers sponsors of these organisations and many ISS managers are as well as found raising events. actively and personally involved in these organisations. see www.ifmafoundation.org Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 31 A responsible supply chain As an industry leader, ISS has to ensure a responsible supply chain, thereby guaranteeing partners and business associates protection of their brand. This is accomplished by working together With energy supplier to reduce climate impact with global partners that have integrated sustainability into In March 2011 the ISS Group entered a climate partnership their businesses. agreement with DONG energy, one of the leading energy groups in Northern Europe, headquartered in Denmark. To progress against this aspiration, a supplier questionnaire, based on recommendations of the Danish Institute of Human The basic element in the partnership is the ambition to reduce Rights and the Confederation of Danish Industry, was developed energy and resource consumption at ISS headquarters where and tested in 2010. We are now integrating this questionnaire DONG will use its experience in energy consulting to reduce into our audit programme. our energy consumption. The savings will then be utilised by ISS to buy renewable energy and that way the partnership contributes to the expansion of for instance wind farms. In 2011, an energy audit at headquarters was carried out by DONG EnWith UNI over good, global ergy that resulted in a report recommending saving projects. As employment standards it is the intent to move the headquarters shortly, only a limited Through a global agreement with Union Network of these actions were initiated. International (UNI), ISS has since 2003 committed to support 12 fundamental principles based on InternaPart of the same agreement is a project to develop an internatiotional Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. nal climate strategy for ISS, aiming at providing our customers with climate conscious frontline staff and solutions that reduce The agreement was renewed in 2009 with an increased focus customers’ energy consumption and costs. on labour and the right to join a union. The agreement aims at enabling all ISS employees worldwide to be able to exercise rights to union membership and collective bargaining. With customers over improved services The agreement and collaboration has prompted UNI to name ISS employees are present and visible in the daily life of our ISS as ‘an employer that treats its workers well and is setting a customers – and to their business partners as well. In this way, good example for other global employers’. people working for ISS become part of our customers’ image. That is a huge responsibility on our part and an equally great As part of the agreement, ISS and UNI created the Global UNIdeposition of trust on the part of our customers. We know this, ISS Foundation in 2009 with the purpose of monitoring and and have made it part of the way we do business. improving employment standards within the service industry globally. The Foundation aims to ensure that the annual ISS Enabling us to work systematically with these important bonds donation of EUR 100,000 is invested in projects within the of trust and service delivery, in 2011 ISS conducted our first global industry and countries in which ISS operates. customer experience survey. Approximately 6,500 customers, equal to 80% of our total turnover, were given the opportunity This has led to establishment of the Mexico City Fundación en to participate in the survey, which 46% chose to do. Pro de la Educación Sindical. The foundation will create the United Cleaning Workers Center in order to impact Mexico City Our main learnings from this process were that customers are facilities management in terms of compliance with labour laws satisfied with our frontline staff and describe them as positive, and improved bidding and contracting policies for cleaning conresponsive, fast to react and flexible. On the other hand, there tractors in public sector buildings. is room for improvement in showing how ISS differentiates itself from our competitors. This is an interesting communications Two major themes are in play: Human rights violations and exercise to which we believe our strengthened governance and lack of contributions to the health and pension system. The the full roll-out of HSE/CR can contribute. project will improve conditions for facilities management workers in general, as well as show that companies such as ISS and The survey was led by our corporate headquarters with the involveothers are important exceptions of these trends of non-comment of all the country operations including a ‘customer experipliance. ence champion’ in each country driving the local contributions. A web-based portal has been established where all countries can 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 slice and dice the data on their country to achieve maximum benefit from the exercise. Responding to the survey results, countries have prepared action SPAIN plans corresponding to their unique challenges, including among others follow-up with customers. This takes the survey from ISS Foundation creates 1,000 direct jobs in thermometer to dialogue tool. developing countries The aim of the ISS Foundation Una Sonrisa Más (One More Smile) is to facilitate the creation of decent and sustainable Country specific examples employment in the developing world, through training and professional development, micro-loans or other forms of investment help as well as market access assistance. In the last four years, the Foundation has financed projects in Ecuador, Peru, Burkina Faso and Morocco, creating over FRANCE 1,000 direct jobs in these countries. For its contracts, ISS France takes responsibility The Foundation was set up in 2007 and is supported by the in terms of social integration. two main trade unions in Spain: CCOO & UGT. Nearly 3,000 The integration of underprivileged young people is one of ISS employees contribute on a strictly voluntary basis by the pillars of ISS’s corporate responsibility commitment. In donating the cents of their monthly payroll and a further addition to the social aspect of this commitment, we believe 150 have agreed to do voluntary work for the Foundation. that it can also act as a differentiating factor for our clients. Support for the Foundation also comes from our suppliers, In June 2011, ISS France signed a partnership agreement who are converting the traditional Christmas gifts to donawith the “Etablissement Public d’Insertion de la Défense tions to the Foundation. In the same way, we have informed (EPIDE)” in Montlery (near Paris). The EPIDE works with all our customers that ISS does not send Christmas gifts young people aged between 18 and 25 who have dropped and instead donates the funds to the Foundation. All the out of school without a diploma or qualifications, offering administrative and management costs of the Foundation are them vocational integration courses. Based above all on the paid directly by ISS so that all the funds raised are used for idea of voluntary commitment, the EPIDE offers accommofinancing the development projects. dation and courses to young people who want to start over, helping them to regain their place in society by getting them started on working. With this agreement, ISS France acts as a real partner and has undertaken to pass on to the EPIDE INDONESIA regularly offers of placements in different jobs, contracts that alternate work and training. Both public and private Securing the blood supply customers are also extremely keen on these types of action. Indonesia’s stock of blood can only accommodate 70% of total blood needs, according to Red Cross Indonesia. ISS Indonesia has joined forces with Red Cross Indonesia and organised a blood donation event, which was also supported by the local INDIA management team. Our focus on humanity is high and we need to contribute to the nation via this blood donation and Employment Linked Skill Development we plan to conduct these blood drives regularly in the future. Programme for BPL (Below Poverty Line) In a public-private partnership working for a social cause ISS has joined forces with the Ministry of Rural Development of India in the ‘Employment Linked Skill Development Programme DENMARK for BPL (Below Poverty Line) Rural Unemployed Youth under Spl SGSY Scheme (Swarna Jayanti Swarojgar Yojana). The Learn Danish with ISS basic idea is to convert the rural unemployed / school drop Since 2010 ISS Denmark has offered intensive language proouts into employable persons through placement options gramme to employees who do not have Danish as their mother in seven Indian states. Within two years, 16,200 rural youth tongue financed by the Danish government, ISS and the ISS under this programme should have received training. These education fund. Participants receive 60 hours of intensive specified districts are very remote, tribal and undeveloped Danish lessons focused on work-related communication as areas of Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, UP, Maharashtra, AP part of their employment at ISS, maintaining their normal and Gujarat states. salary while part of the programme. So far 130 employees have completed the programme. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 33 Sammy Abraham Tatiul, Nina ArsiH INDONESIA 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 James Pask United Kingdom Reporting principles and compliance This report, the second comprehensive corporate responsibility not found ISO 26000 to impact our Corporate Responsibility report prepared by ISS, covers activities in the calendar year 2011. reporting as such. Our annual reporting on our corporate responsibility activities and management is also in accordance with the Compared to our first report we have added data on occupational “Danish Financial Statements Act (Accounting for CSR in large illness cases, fuel costs, fuel usage, and total water withdrawal businesses)”. The reporting furthermore serves to fulfil our obligaby source to our reporting. tion to communicate on progress (COP) as required by the UNGC. To improve the quality of data, we are in the process of implementing a global reporting IT system in countries. Internal guidelines As a basis for our reporting, ISS developed a Group HSE and CR Reporting Manual in 2010 to provide reporting principles and External principles and guidelines rules to ensure a consistent basis for reporting. We have designed our reporting to be in line with level C in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the world’s most widely used The principles listed are derived from generally accepted accountsustainability reporting framework. This requires reporting on a ing and reporting policies and include Relevance, Consistency, minimum of 10 performance indicators as well as a set of profile Transparency, Accuracy and Completeness. disclosures. An overview of the GRI standard disclosures included in this report can be found in the table on the following pages. They are intended to guide data gathering and reporting to ensure that the reported information fairly presents our HSE Late in 2010, ‘Guidance on Social Responsibility’ (ISO 26000) and CR performance. The Group HSE Manual requires that under the helm of the International Organisation for StandardiCountries and others collecting data manage their HSE and CR sation (ISO) was first published, and for our 2011 report, ISS data quality systematically as part of their management system. has reviewed the guidance to discover elements in the guidance which might affect changes to our reporting. In order to facilitate control and review of HSE and CR data, each reported parameter shall have an audit trail. An audit ISO 26000 provides guidance on the underlying principles of social trail is a clear (documented) record of definitions, assumptions, responsibility, recognising social responsibility and engaging stakeaggregation, calculations and references that result in the final holders, the core subjects and issues pertaining to social responsireported data. bility and on ways to integrate socially responsible behaviour into the organisation. The standard emphasises the importance The manual specifies the data that shall be available for moniof results and improvements in performance on social responsitoring performance and for reporting on corporate responsibility. As we are already reporting in line with the GRI, we have bility issues at Group level. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 35 Response to feedback on 2010 report We received valuable feedback from the Danish Accountants’ Association to which we have responded in the manner depicted in the table below. Comment Response Pos/Neg Broad, covering many interesting subjects. No change + Good links between CR and the value chain Customer driven emphasised, more country stories + explaining link. Good correlation between targets set and performance No change + Balanced and transparent in description of fatalities No change + Good GRI disclosure table Improved visual presentation + No description of report scope and target groups Addition of paragraph titled “Reporting for accountability” in section on ISS Approach to CR, including information previously contained in ‘Reporting principles and compliance’. More performance data compared to descriptive Data added on occupational illness cases, fuel costs, fuel elements preferable. usage, electricity consumption, electricity costs, and total water withdrawal by source to our reporting. We have also added figures on the 2011 actions. One comment that the People-Planet-Profit structure We reference the sections when this is the case. comes with disadvantages, exemplified by a partnership described in the Planet chapter rather than the Partnership chapter. Secondary effects such as consumption of electricity, The secondary effects at client sites are covered by the design water and heating at client sites are not dealt with. of processes and equipment we use at our customer sites described in ISS and the Planet. No third party assurance which would have increased We will consider third party assurance as we improve the credibility, particularly considering the size of the company. quality and increase the quantity of data. Changes and future outlook In 2011, the Group HSE and CR Reporting Manual has been expanded to include more corporate responsibility data parameters with the overall objective of improving our data in both quality and quantity. As such, in 2011 we added data on occupational illness cases, fuel costs, fuel usage, and total water withdrawal by source to our reporting. In 2012, we will focus on improving our data quality through the implementation of a global HSE-IT system. 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Overview of Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Guidelines and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) compliance The GRI serves as the foundation for compiling the ISS Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. In this section, we provide an overview of the GRI Standard Disclosures included in the Report and an overview of the progress on the ten principles in the UNGC. GRI Standard Disclosures 1 Strategy and Analysis Section in Report 1.1 Foreword by CEO Letter from the Executive Group Management 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ISS and People, ISS and the Planet and ISS and Profit sections 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation ISS at a glance 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ISS at a glance 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation ISS at a glance 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarter ISS at a glance 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates ISS at a glance 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. ISS at a glance 2.7 Markets served ISS at a glance 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation ISS at a glance 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Letter from the Executive Group regarding size, structure, or ownership. Management ; Annual Report 2011 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. The ISS world of corporate responsibility 3 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Reporting principles and compliance 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2010 3.3 Reporting cycle Reporting principles and compliance 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Colophon or its contents 3.5 Process for defining report content Reporting principles and compliance 3.6 Boundary of the report Reporting principles and compliance 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of Reporting principles and compliance the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Reporting principles and compliance leased facilities, outsourced operations etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Reporting principles and compliance calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Reporting principles and compliance information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Reporting principles and compliance in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying Standard Disclosures in the report Reporting principles and compliance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking n/a external assurance for the report. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 37 4 Governance, Commitment and Engagement Section in Report 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Governance 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Governance governance body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board Annual Report 2011 structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Governance; ISS and Profit provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary The ISS approach to corporate approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. responsibility (not required) 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and CEO message (not required) social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the The ISS approach to corporate organisation. responsibility 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders The ISS approach to corporate with whom to engage. responsibility 5 Management Approach and Performance Indicators EC1 Economic performance Our Performance and Targets; Annual Report 2011 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable ISS and the Planet energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Our Performance and Targets by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ISS and the Planet reductions achieved. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of ISS and the Planet products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Our Performance and Targets; ISS contract, and region. and People LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Our Performance and Targets group, gender, and region. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Our Performance and Targets; ISS absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities and People by region. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements ISS and People with trade unions. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors ISS and Partners that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Our Performance and Targets actions taken. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for The ISS approach to corporate incidents of child labour, and measures taken to responsibility; ISS and People contribute to the elimination of child labour. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s ISS and Profit anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ISS and Profit PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including The ISS approach to corporate results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. responsibility 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 The Global Compact Principles Read more on page Human rights 6, 8, 12 and 21 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards 12,21 and 22 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 6 and 24 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 6, 12, 21, 28 and 29 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 39 Share your opinion We welcome your feedback as it is an important part of our dialogue with our stakeholders. You are welcome to contact Joseph Nazareth, Head of Group HSE and CR at +45 3817 0000 or write to us at: Head of Group HSE and CR ISS A/S, Bredgade 30 1260 Copenhagen K, Denmark Layout and production: almaco Copy-writer: Eva Harpøth Skjoldborg Printed in February 2012. ISS A/S Bredgade 30 DK-1260 Copenhagen K Tel: +45 3817 0000 Fax: +45 3817 0011
