Emaar – Invest Group Overseas United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress Report 2012 Communication On Progress report The Eighth Gate Master Plan Emaar-IGO 2 Communication On Progress report Emaar-IGO 3 Communication On Progress report The Eighth Gate Seven gates were leading to Damascus, the oldest city in the world. The eighth gate will lead to Syria’s newest and most distinctive city; The Eighth Gate Project. The mixed-use USD one billion Eighth Gate project is being developed by the EmaarIGO Joint venture. The Eighth Gate introduces the city's first master planned community that includes several components; commercial, leisure, retail and residential touristic area. It is spread over an area of 300.000 m2 and located at Yafour only 17 Km from downtown Damascus, that is considered today as the new hub for business and commercial activities of Damascus. The project builds upon the ancient history of Damascus in its architectural style of ornately decorated buildings influenced by traditional design and pays homage to the city's ancient roots. The Project is divided into three zones, Commercial area, Residential Touristic area, and the Retail area with a signature tall gate marking the access to the main plaza. The exclusive development contains apartments as well as a classical style piazza, commercial tower, and a mall inspired by the souks of Damascus as well as high street shopping experience. Emaar international Emaar Properties PJSC, the global property developer, has a significant presence in key markets across the Middle East, North Africa, Asia, Europe and North America. In Syria, Emaar has joined hands with IGO, an offshore investment and property development company, to develop the Eighth Gate, the first master-planned community in the region. Emaar-IGO has commenced handover of office units in the first phase of The Eighth Gate, which is fast evolving as the new business hub of Syria, featuring the new Damascus Stock Exchange building in addition to various other growth clusters. IGOInvest Group Overseas Invest Group overseas is an off shore company registered in the British Virgin Island. The Head Quarters of IGO is located in Dubai United Arab Emirates. IGO is an Investment Company that specializes in exploring business opportunities in the Middle East and other potential markets. IGO aims to becoming one of the leading investment and management companies in the Region’s booming economies. This vision has been translated into a business philosophy that is guided by. Emaar-IGO 4 Communication On Progress report The Message As we embark on a new year, we are proud to herald our local and regional achievements. We are proud of 2012, as we launched the Fashion House project & Mosaic Residential buildings as valuable pillars to the Eighth Gate project. The plans are underway for the completion of the Taj Towers 2014 followed by the Eighth Gate Mall 2015. We owe this success to the business heritage of the shareholders besides the dedication and efforts of Emaar-IGO staff that helped make the Damascus business hub possible. We are looking at a new Damascus and it is this project that helped reinstate the stamp of our lifestyle. At Emaar-IGO we aim for the stars, and for that, nothing stands taller than our achievements. Nidal Turjman General Manger, Emaar-IGO The Image Emaar-IGO 5 Communication On Progress report The Image We at Emaar-IGO believe that customers are not just a source of revenue – they are the ambassadors of our brand and the life blood of our company. And that is how we always place great emphasis on ideas where we encourage people to experiment, explore, and test the boundaries of what is possible. Indeed, we believe that our starting point is that everything possible, furthermore we are aware that the best idea in the world means nothing without execution. Bottom line, Emaar-IGO is a lifestyle brand, and we work endlessly to improve the lives of our customers. The Vision Our Vision for Emaar-IGO is its Transformation into One of the Most Valuable Lifestyle Developers Beyond Real Estate Development. Emaar-IGO Corporate Social Responsibility Practices Emaar-IGO 6 Communication On Progress report Emaar-IGO is positioned primarily as one of the well differentiated market leaders in the real estate sector in Syria, where we have integrated our corporate social responsibility values with our business development strategy by behaving ethically and acting responsibly towards our social and ethical commitments. Through a consistent strategy, Emaar-IGO has developed the three main themes of its CSR projects in Education, Health, and environment with a core objective of improving a quality life for targeted segments in each project through promoting and supporting initiatives which contribute to the intellectual development of the Syrian economy. “a perfect small community first time experience in Syria”  Environment Sewage Treatment Plant The sewage treatment plant recycles landscape sewage water for irrigation of all Project’s. The sewage treatment plant is the result of our commitment to preserving water and keeping the environment clean. Companies around the world now face real limits on access to water. A rising population and growing economies are putting substantial stress on resources. Pollution is increasingly a concern. Electrical Power substation Emaar-IGO 7 Communication On Progress report Emaar-IGO has completed installing an underground based electrical power substation that converts the high-voltage electrical power to the average voltage (66/20kv) using a gas isolation system, which ensures a fixed source of electricity to all the Eighth Gate residents with power saving and reducing of global warming since it is an underground based substation.  Education Emaar-IGO 8 Communication On Progress report Emaar-IGO offers full scholarships, In accordance with Emaar-IGO’s strategy in supporting the education sector, and the enhancement of all creative talented skills to create a better future to the community, Emaar-IGO with an academic collaboration of Tomohi Institute has sponsored 10 highly qualified students through their university time by covering all their tuition fees with a continuous academic evaluation in co-ordination with Tomohi institute in Syria.  Health  First Aid “You never know when an emergency will occur, but when one does, having first aid training and skills can help to save a life of a human being”. Our first concern at Emaar-IGO is our human capital, therefore their health and lives are a priority for us, we have trained our employees with the First Aid procedures and techniques where such a skill may save a life of a colleague.  Non-Smoking offices Emaar-IGO 9 Communication On Progress report Emaar-IGO has adopted a Non-smoking policy, which is applicable to head office, main branch, sales centre. Besides the office areas, all stairways, kitchens, corridors, bathrooms…etc have been declared non-smoking zones. The National Paper Recycling Campaign Starting from 2010 to 2012 Emaar-IGO was engaged in the Paper recycling campaign through systemizing paper collection every week from all the project’s offices, and sending it to one recycling point in coordination with the child rights non-profit organization.  Other Landmarks  Full Facilities: The First serviced community in Syria with a full covered Facility management package that insures Safety Clean facilities. Continuous Maintenance.  Spotlight on Emaar IGO Human Resource practice  Evacuation Plan Emaar-IGO 10 Communication On Progress report Emergency evacuation plans are developed to ensure the safest and most efficient evacuation time of all employees and corporate data at any emergency when needed. Emaar-IGO trained its employees for the evacuation announcement; when heard they should walk immediately to the nearest emergency exit and evacuate the building where usage of elevators is strictly prohibited, employees are requested to gather at the assembly points outside the building until instructed by any further announcement. Besides that, Emaar-IGO has obtained regular effective backup plan for both corporate confidential files & data. Emaar-IGO 11 Communication On Progress report  Plantation At Emaar-IGO we practice protecting the environment with the Go Green strategy as a top priority. One of our most important practices is that we do regular planting sessions at the Eighth Gate project enhancing the Green responsibility at each of our employees.  Investing in our TEAMS We at Emaar-IGO do not offer people jobs, we offer them a chance to grow, where we work hard to ensure that people are valued, and good work does not go unrecognized. Emaar-IGO 12 Communication On Progress report Emaar-IGO 13
