RESPONSIBILITY 2011 Toms Confectionery Group A/S Toms Allé 1 DK-2750 Ballerup, Denmark Tel. (+45) 4489 1000 www.toms.dk 2 Toms in Brief Toms is the maker of leading confectionery brands and Sweden (1), have a yearly production output of such as Anthon Berg, and has a comprehensive around 30.000 tons of confectionery products and product range covering all chocolate and sugar employ around 700 people, depending on the season. confectionery categories. Toms has a strong position in its domestic market, Denmark, but 40% of the turnover is generated internationally, especially as a leading player in travel retail. Toms is owned by Gerda and Victor B. Strand‘s Trust. We have production facilities in Denmark (2) 3 UN Global Compact An overview of this report’s communication of progress made in the four issue areas of UN Global Compact in 2011 Human rights Labor Standards Environment Child labor: measures taken Occupational health and Environmental re-certification to reduce child labor in our safety p. 18 supply chain • Health promoting initiatives • School project, Read for the for Toms’ employees p. 23 Environmental improvements Future, initiated in cocoa • Reduction of dry matter districts in Ghana p. 10 • Safety at work and work emissions p. 19 injuries p. 23 • CCE Farmer training which • Reduction of noise p. 19 includes modules on child • Employee satisfaction p. 23 labor and forced labor in • Contingency plans p. 18 Ghana p. 13 Child labor: measures taken to reduce child labor in our Climate goal improvements • Child Labor Platform: 9 good supply chain • Shift towards renewable practices for companies • School project, Read for the energy sources p 21 developed for UNGC Future, initiated in cocoa endorsement p. 15 districts in Ghana p. 10 • Reduction of energy consumption p 20 • Village Resource Center in • CCE Farmer training which cocoa districts in Ghana p. 8 includes modules on child • Reduction of CO2 emissions labor and forced labor in p. 21 Sustainable cocoa Ghana p. 13 • Joint initiative to develop a Supply Chain European standard for cocoa • Child Labor Platform: • Joint initiative to develop a sustainability and traceability 9 good practices for European standard for cocoa p. 14 companies developed for UN sustainability and traceability endorsement p. 15 p. 14 • Ghana: CCE farmer training, Village Resource Centers, • Village Resource Center in Boreholes p. 8 cocoa districts in Ghana p. 8 Anti-corruption • Bolivia: organic, high quality cocoa p. 12 • Strengthening anticorruption measures p. 22 Managing the supply chain • Continued improvement of Supplier Questionnaire for Supplier Code of Conduct p. 22 4 Message from our CEO With this report we want to demonstrate our continued support of the UN Global Compact principles and the strong acknowledgement of our responsibilities as a business for the impact we have on society and nature both nationally and globally. Corporate social responsibility is closely linked to our commercial strategy, as we believe it is the basis for sustainability and creates new opportunities for the future. It is part of our mission to make social, environmental and economic improvements within our supply chain, amongst our employees and in the societies we integrate with alongside the building of our business. We are happy to report progress in a number of areas during 2011. Statutory statement of social responsibility, Statements Act § 99 a This report is a component of the management report in its annual report. The period covered in the report is the financial year 2010. 5 Our cocoa agenda Since 2006 Toms has been at the forefront of working sustainably with cocoa and our cocoa supply chain. All cocoa that is purchased by Toms is traceable to the villages in Ghana from which it is bought. We source from three particular districts in Ghana, namely Sankore, Sefwi Wiaso and Bibiani. As previous reports have shown, full traceability has enabled us to engage ourselves with the farmers that grow the cocoa we buy, improving fermentation and working conditions, establishing boreholes and wells, providing malaria nets, contributing to farmer training and more. Furthermore, Toms has been pioneering in efforts to combat child labor through collaboration with IBIS and Danida, improving school education in the cocoa areas and helping farmers to find new ways to work with the cocoa without involving children in hazardous ways. We are very proud of the results from this collaboration (COP 2010) and aim to engage in new projects building on the experience achieved so far. During 2011 we have sought ways to improve our efforts even further. This report will show how this has resulted in new steps, both in the cocoa districts and within our international engagement in developing standards and guidelines for working sustainably with cocoa and combating child labor. 6 Taking action at the source through Source Trust Each bag of cocoa that Toms buys is traceable back to the community of farmers who grew the cocoa. Toms pays a premium for every bag of cocoa which provides funding for projects implemented directly in the villages, and farms which produce Completed Source Trust projects in 2011 in the traceable cocoa supplied to Toms. Thereby cocoa districts supplying Toms we can make sustainable improvements directly in our supply chain – improvements that are of • Village Resource Center allocated providing IT shared value for Toms and the cocoa communities access for 310 students and several farmers that we source from. from the surrounding community. The voluntary premium on traceable cocoa • 5 boreholes providing clean drinking water for beans is paid to the Source Trust, a not-for-profit 12.000 people organization set up by Armajaro Trading Ltd. to help farmers improve their livelihoods. Toms’ goal • Startup of a new school project with IBIS, Read is through Source Trust projects to pave the way for the Future, for 2011/2012 improving reading for long term, sustainable cocoa production and skills of 2250 children at 15 schools. to create a direct relationship with the farmers. During 2011 Toms and Source Trust collaborated on a new model for the future work in our cocoa supplying districts which we expect to have impact already in 2012: • Seeking to match our premiums with donor funding to increase their impact. and community initiatives directly in the communities which supply cocoa to Toms. • Helping all farmers in the districts to improve income and livelihood through better crop yields1 by training in sustainable cocoa farming by the CCEcurriculum (see below) and improved cocoa trees. • Combating child labor through IBIS school 1) Farmers in Ghana still have very low output of cocoa from their farms (312 kg/ha according to an extensive survey carried out in 2010 by the World Cocoa Foundation’s (WCF) Cocoa Livelihoods Programme (CLP) on cocoa farming households as a baseline) although the potential of their trees are 2-3 times higher. Improvements in productivity would therefore significantly improve the household income of the cocoa farmer families. 7 Village Resource Center One of the completed Source Trust projects sessions. The Village Resource Centre therefore in 2011 was the donation of a Village Resource provides farmers with convenient access to Centre (VRC) to Sankore High School in Sankore training, which can have positive effects on crop that has a student population of 310. quality and yields. These training materials also address the issue of child labor. The VRC is a community learning IT center equipped with 6 computers and fully furnished. Prior to the installation of the VRC, Sankore High It is used by students during the school day, School had no IT facilities. The VRC has been and made available to farmers and extension such a success that Toms and Source Trust intend officers in the evenings and at weekends for Good to distribute more VRCs throughout the districts Agricultural Practice training. over the coming years. The computers are delivered with farmer training software and educational films and materials and extension officers are on hand to facilitate training 8 9 Read for the Future In November 2011 Toms in partnership with IBIS entry into secondary schools in Ghana. and Source Trust initiated a school project, Read for the Future, in 15 basic schools in the three The project will in involve training on and districts Sankore, Bibiani and Sefwi Wiawso, production of teaching-learning material and targeting at provision of reading materials to schools. Reading tests will be conducted to monitor the • Improved reading, comprehension and performance of the school children taught by the writing skills of 2250 children. trained teachers and these tests will be compared with other schools. • Improved reading skills methodologies being used by 30 teachers. Read for the Future is the first of such projects to take place directly in the traceable districts The Cocoa Labor Survey 2007/2008 which from which Toms procures cocoa, as previous was conducted by the National Program for the initiatives were started before Toms had full Elimination of Child Labor in Cocoa (NPECLC) traceability established. It ends in 2012 and will indicated that 54 per cent of basic school children be followed by a long term school initiative, also in cocoa-growing communities in Ghana could not in the districts, that will be integrated with other read or write. Consequently, they are not able to Source Trust activities to improve conditions perform well in the Basic Education Certificate directly in our supply chain. Examinations (BECE), which is a pre-requisite for 10 Boreholes 5 boreholes have been established in 5 capacity for the village population. Providing communities in Sefwi Wiaso and Bibiani, thus boreholes with full capacity in the villages also providing clean and safe drinking water to a enables school children to attend school, as they total of approximately 12.600 people. These no longer have to walk far to fetch water or stand communities relied previously on polluted water in queues by old inadequate boreholes to get streams 0,5-1 km away from the village or old water. inefficient boreholes that did not have adequate Community Beneficiaries Muano, Bibiani 4000 people Kunkumso, Bibiani 2600 people Domeabra, Sefwi Wiawso 1500 people Kramokrom, Sefwi Wiawso 1000 people Amafie, Sefwi Wiawso 3500 people 11 Bolivia Toms has since 2010 been partner in a 3-year project in Bolivia aiming at developing sustainable, organic and high quality cocoa. The project is carried out in collaboration with our local partner in Bolivia, Rainforest Exquisite Products SA, REPSA, and Danida. The goal is to create sustainable improvements through building capacity of the Bolivian farmers and REPSA and create a source for Toms of organic, high quality cocoa. In 2011 a total of 200 farmers were engaged therefore loss of income for farmers. and trained in good farming practices and fermentation and all have obtained organic To enable farmers to sustain income and to certification. secure supply, Toms and REPSA has decided to build a (central mechanical) drying facility Bolivian cocoa is genetically proven to be of in the Alto Beni cocoa area as a service to the very high quality, and when managed well in farmers. If weather conditions are bad farmers postharvest processes (fermentation, drying can use this facility to dry their cocoa efficiently etc.), it has won several international awards. to maximize yield and in this way avoid losses However, climatic conditions – fluctuating because of badly dried cocoa. There will also be temperatures, humidity, and frequent days with tray fermentation on the site, and there will be a no sun – has been a challenge for the farmer and pick-up system for collecting fresh or fermented during previous harvests it has led to inefficient cocoa. Construction will finish in 2012 before drying resulting in molding, rejected cocoa, and next cocoa harvest. 200 Bolivian cocoa farmers obtained organic certification in 2012 12 500 farmers in our cocoa districts in Ghana received training in sustainable cocoa farming practices in 2011 CCE In 2010 Toms entered the multi-stakeholder are trained in all aspects of sustainable farming initiative Certification Capacity Enhancement, practices, including environmental issues, CCE, a new innovative development project working conditions and child labor. Theory is developed by GIZ that aims at developing a complimented by practical demonstrations and joint curriculum for training cocoa farmers and observations on the farm. preparing them for later certification under Rainforest Alliance, Fair Trade or UTZ. We intend to increase the CCE training over the In 2011 the CCE training curriculum was next 1-2 years to include all farmers supplying developed and the training was pilot tested by cocoa to Toms and expect it to have a considerable training 500 farmers in Sefwi Wiaso, Ghana. positive impact on their income. The aim is to help the farmers improve their livelihoods and income through better crop yields and improved cocoa quality. The farmers 13 Developing a European Standard for sustainable and traceable cocoa During in 2011 Toms was actively involved in initiating the development of a new standard for traceable and sustainable cocoa under the European Committee for Standardizations, CEN, starting in 2012. Through a joint effort from chocolate industry, cocoa traders and cocoa organizations a proposal from the Danish Standards Institute was approved in November 2011 to set up a Project Committee for a CEN Standard. The committee, CEN/TC 415 “Project Committee – Traceable and Sustainable Cocoa”, will work over the next three years and involve the broadest spectrum of stakeholders possible, including the three main private certification schemes that currently coexist for cocoa beans and cocoa products. The objective is to develop a unified international standard for sustainable traceable cocoa, reduce consumer confusion, focus on consensus of sustainable criteria for cocoa production, and leave co-branding with logo labeling optional. Efforts have already been undertaken by private certification schemes, notably the Certification Capacity Enhancement initiative (described in a previous paragraph), to establish of a common curriculum. This work would be a founding element of the work program of the new Project Committee. 14 Child Labor Platform 2011 was the first year of the Child Labor Platform, which was established to facilitate sharing good practices and using the combined experiences of companies from multiple sectors to support the acceleration of results in combating child labor. The Child Labor Platform was coordinated by IDH (Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiative) following the Global Conference on Child Labor in The Hague, May 2010, where a Roadmap for Achieving the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labor by 2016 was agreed by governments, companies and civil society organizations. Toms has actively participated both in the steering group and the working group through this first year. The working group consisted of about 30 companies. In addition, the working group worked together with a group of experts (NGOs, sector organizations, standards and certification organizations, etc.), which advised, supported and challenged the working group in its activities and during its discussions. As of 2012, the CLP will continue under the coordination of ILO and UN Global Compact. Results: • 9 good practices have been identified and • A booklet has been developed, The CLP described. They will be published as a Good booklet of business practices and lessons Practice Note on the UN Global Compact learned on addressing child labor, presented website, after endorsement by the UN in December 2011 at the International Global Compact Labor Working Group. This Supply Management Congress 2011 in is expected in March/April 2012. Amsterdam. 15 International involvements in improving cocoa conditions Toms also works more broadly on cocoa Nordic Cocoa Initiative sustainability efforts through active memberships In 2010 Toms entered Nordic Cocoa Initiative, of national and international organizations: which focuses on sustainable cocoa in Côte d’Ivoire. World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) is an international membership foundation that The Nordic Cocoa Initiative consists of chocolate promotes a sustainable cocoa economy by producers in Norway, Denmark, Sweden and providing cocoa farmers with the tools they Finland together with WCF, ICI and Nordic need to grow more and better cocoa, market authorities. The aim is to roll out a comprehensive it successfully, and make greater profits. WCF program aimed at enhancing the capacity of members represent more than 80% of the global public institutions to train farmers, manage cocoa market. natural resources, provide efficient market access and ensure sound conditions for business International Cocoa Initiative (ICI) works in all regions. towards responsible labor standards for cocoa growing and eliminating child labor in cocoa Due to the political situation in Côte d’Ivoir this production. initiative has not been able to really roll out in 2011. 16 17 The Environment Successfully Completed Environmental Re-Certification All three factories at Toms had ISO 14001 environmental certification when starting 2011. During 2011 all factories successfully completed an independent review of their environmental management programs and processes. The review resulted in re-certification of the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System at Toms. The key commitments of Toms’ environmental policy include: • Reduction of dry matter in waste water • Reduction of noise • Contingency planning Contingency planning In 2011 we have focused on contingency specific roles in case of an evacuation. planning (emergency plans) at all 3 production sites. Through this work we have As part of this work we held an evacuations drill trained selected employees in firefighting. at the sugar candy factory in Denmark. Other employees have been trained in their 18 Reduction of dry matter in waste water Our goal is to keep dry matter in waste water content in a way that will give us measurements below 22 kg/ton product produced at our with considerably smaller uncertainty. We will chocolate factory in Denmark at the close of see results of this initiative in 2012. 2011, and below 25 kg/ton product produced at our sugar confectionary factory in Denmark by Rebuilding activities initiated in 2011 at the the end of 2012. factories, such as a new room for washing boxes, will help us improve trapping of dry matter In 2011 the wastewater target was met at the before waste water outlets. Furthermore, we sugar factory but not at the chocolate factory. have implemented several projects that reduce During 2011 we have determined a need for the suspended dry matter from cleaning and improving our method of measuring dry matter production. Dry matter in waste water for every ton product produced at our chocolate factory Dry matter in waste water for every ton product (kg dry matter/ton product) produced produced at our sugar factory (kg dry matter/ton product) 30 30,0 25 25,0 20 20,0 15 15,0 10 10,0 5 5,0 0 0,0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Reduction of noise During 2011 we have been able to reduce noise at of noise towards our neighbors by 2-3 dB(A), 7 critical sources. This has resulted in a reduction depending on the time of the day. 19 Climate As a company we wish to limit our impact on the Several projects have been taken on in 2011 at global environment. our factories to reduce energy consumption and emission of CO2. Some of these had impact in Our climate goals: 2011 already; others are expected to impact in • Reduce energy consumption by 10% in 2015 2012. compared to 2008 • Reduce CO2 emissions by 75% in 2015 compared to 2008 -> 25 % through energy savings and substitution of energy sources -> 50 % by procuring electricity from renewable sources Energy consumption: The energy consumption per ton product 8% in 2012, it was difficult to reduce the total produced at Toms is steadily decreasing. In 2011 energy consumption. At the close of 2011, we reached our goal for 2011 to reduce energy by however, we managed to keep the total energy 6% or compared to 2008. consumption to only 1 % more than 2010. As the production tonnage at Toms increased by Goal 2011: 6 % energy Energy Consumption MWh (MWh) reduction compared to 2008 58.000 56.000 Goal 2015: 10 % energy 54.000 reduction compared to 2008 52.000 50.000 48.000 46.000 2008 2010 2011 2015 Real Real (tonnage corrected) Goal 20 Green electricity In 2011 Toms initiated purchasing electricity, electricity consumption at Toms is converted to 5000 MWh, from windmills in the North Sea. renewable power by 2015 – this corresponds to This corresponds to 10% of Toms’ total energy 32% of the total energy consumption at Toms. consumption in 2011. Our goal is that all CO2 emissions: In 2011 we reduced total CO2 emissions by From 2008 to the end of 2011 Toms has reduced 26%: total CO2 emission by 41 %. • 16 % from converting to “green” electricity • 10 % as a result of energy savings and substitution of energy sources Goal 2011: 28 % reduction of CO2 emission CO2 emissions compared to ton 1000kg CO2 18.000 16.000 14.000 Goal 2015: 75 % reduction of 12.000 CO2 emissions compared to 10.000 2008 8.000 6.000 4.000 2.000 2008 2010 2011 2015 Real Real (tonnage corrected) Goal Toms reduced CO2 10 % of Toms power From 2008 to 2011 Toms emissions in 2011 by supply in 2011 was has reduced total CO2 26% “green” electricity from emission by 41% wind mills 21 Strengthening anticorruption measures Any form of corruption, including bribery, • Training buyers and other employees/units personal payments, extortions or kick-backs, is with the aim of helping them understand unacceptable for Toms, regardless of local laws and deal with dilemmas regarding and practices. Therefore, our commitment to corruption and bribery. Toms has already fight corruption is clearly stated in our Supplier in management groups used the UN Code of Conduct, which mirrors the ten principles Global Compact Dilemma Game as tool for of the UN Global Compact. discussing dilemmas, and this will continue in 2012. Aiming to further strengthen our focus on anticorruption in 2012, we will be taking actions more • As a part of both general risk assessment specifically targeting anti-corruption measures: of supply chains to Toms and evaluations of responses to Supplier Code of Conduct • Preparing a general anti-corruption policy Questionnaires, mapping potential high risk paper of Toms, thus covering general code areas. of conduct at Toms 22 Occupational health and safety Health promoting initiatives for Toms’ Employee satisfaction employees Annually Toms has a survey of employee For several years Toms has provided a range satisfaction through Great Place to Work Institute options for all employees to stay healthy and on a range of parameters with a view to identifying well, initiatives such as free treatments from areas for improvement and benchmarking to physiotherapists, masseuses, chiropractors etc., other companies. Our goal is to reach more than indoor and outdoor exercise facilities, discount on 75 % positive answers to the question about the gym memberships, health tests and assessments overall satisfaction with the work place. and more. The 2011 survey showed the overall satisfaction In 2011 a number of additional health-promoting to be 70%, which is acceptable but less than what programs were implemented: we aimed for and a decline compared to 2010 • Smoking Cessation Programs (79%). Less break time was implemented in April • Nutritional counseling by a dietician 2011 in the factory which led to demotivation • Life style counseling for employees with BMI among blue collar workers. > 28 • Body Age tests • Breathing test called • Breathing tests, called spirometry, to diagnose for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease Safety at work and work injuries In 2011 the health and safety organization has The number of work injuries at the factories had special focus on developing guidelines is shown below. There has been an increase for safe behavior at the workplace to prevent in accidents in 2011 which is unsatisfactory. injuries. This work has involved the whole We intend to keep at sharp view on reducing working environment organization in order to accidents at work and observe that the preventive ensure consensus and ownership. measures taken will have positive impact on the future rates. Accidents (with lost workdays) Accidents/1 mio. working hours 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 Chocolate factory Sugar candy factory, Denmark Sugar candy factory, Sweden 23 24
