2011 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Engaging TABLE of our partner here contentS companies 3 Mission 6 Message from the Chairman of the Board To raise our partners’ awareness of the various elements of sustain­able 7 message from the development and share with them President and CEO the positive impacts that they can 8 ethics and Governance have on their companies, we wish, 11 sustainable over the next financial year, to: development SEE PAGE 38 15 Our social impact 24 our shareholders 30 our economic impact 33 our partners 41 our environmental impact 47 Our Employees 49 highlights section 50 economic and social highlights REDUCING OUR 57 financial section Eco-footprint 58 Management Discussion and Analysis 81 Financial Statements During the last financial year, we continued our efforts to enhance our environmental performance, with a focus on continuing improve­ economic and 129 Glossary 131 THE GRI INDEX ment. SEE PAGE 41 social highlights 132 The Board of Directors 133 Members of our Committees and Boards WHO ARE external to Taking into account past and Number of jobs created, maintained THE fonds AND THE FTQ or protected in Québec by the Fonds current partnerships, from 1990 and its network to 2011, it is estimated that more ( A S AT M AY 3 1 ) 134 the management committee than 465,000 jobs were cre­ ated, maintained or protected 135 THE Governing in Québec by the Fonds and its 16 0, 150,133 bodies OF THE FONDS DE SOLIDARITÉ FTQ network. see page 54 789 142,902 AND THE UNION 126,035 122,460 11 10 09 08 07 THIS DOCUMENT DRAWS ITS INSPIRATION FROM THE BEST PRACTICES OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT. USING PAPER STOCKS MADE FROM FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL (FSC) AND ECOLOGO CERTIFIED 100% POSTCONSUMER FIBRE, THE FONDS DE SOLIDARITÉ FTQ HAS CONSIDERABLY REDUCED ITS ECO-FOOTPRINT IN COMPARISON TO AN EQUIVALENT PRINT RUN MAKING USE OF VIRGIN FIBRE. AS A RESULT, 91 TREES WERE SAVED, AS WELL AS 242,243 LITRES OF WATER. THEN THERE’S THE 4,113 KG OF SOLID WASTE THAT DID NOT GO TO LANDFILL SITES AND THE 11,047 KG OF CARBON EMISSIONS THAT WERE PREVENTED FROM ENTERING THE ATMOSPHERE. PLUS, THE PAPER WAS MANUFACTURED USING A CHLORINE FREE PROCESS THAT RUNS ON BIOGAS ENERGY. DESIGNED TO PRODUCE THE LEAST POSSIBLE IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT, THIS ANNUAL REPORT IS WORKING TOWARD A BETTER FUTURE FOR OUR PLANET… BECAUSE EVERY GESTURE COUNTS. AT THE FONDS DE SOLIDARITÉ FTQ, WE ARE MOVING FORWARD WITH CHOICES THAT ARE 100% RECYCLED, 100% RECYCLABLE AND 100% RESPONSIBLE TO MAKE A LASTING IMPRESSION, BUT ALSO TO HELP DEVELOP QUÉBEC’S ECONOMIC GROWTH AND GREEN VALUES. Mission Create, maintain or protect jobs Invest in companies impacting the Québec economy and offer them services to further their development and create, maintain or protect jobs. Train workers Promote economic training for workers so they can increase their influence on the economic development of Québec. Develop the Québec economy Stimulate the Québec economy through strategic investments that benefit both Québec workers and companies alike. Prepare for retirement Make workers aware of the need to save for retirement and encourage them to do so, as well as encourage them to participate in the development of the economy by purchasing fonds shares. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 3 Sustainable development: a corporate value S ustainable development is now an integral part of corporate values and culture for thousands of organizations around the world, and the Fonds de solidarité FTQ is one of them. Actually, sustainable development has been a fundamental value of the Fonds since its creation even if, back then, we did not call it that. The very reason underlying the creation of the Fonds and the mission it chose to pursue are based on social and economic responsibility and sustainability values. In 2010, 1,850 companies had prepared a sustainability report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, and 14% of them were from the financial services industry. Many predict that over 2,000 sustainability reports will be registered with the GRI in 2011, which goes to show how important sustainable development is in today’s society. The Fonds is pleased to adhere to this transparent, triple bottomObjective * line approach incorporating the social, economic and environmental To report on all activities, aspects of our activities, which are closely related and essential to sus­ both financial and tainability. The sustainability report is a tool that takes into account the extra-financial, performed well-being of individuals and the development of companies, as well as each year and on the progress made in their environment and their future. In this it reflects our concerns. terms of sustainable We invite you to read, in the following pages, about the activities development, the Fonds we undertook and the progress we made on the sustainable develop­ de solidarité FTQ will Michel Arsenault and Yvon Bolduc ment front during the financial year ended May 31, 2011. continue to issue an annual visited the Cégep Marie-Victorin You will therefore see that this year was a year of great perfor­ report incorporating its soccer stadium, a realization of Chantiers Chibougamau, a partner mances for the Fonds de solidarité FTQ. financial reports and of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ. H ave a good re ad ! its sustainability report. * Objective is used by the Fonds in this document to identify the objectives it has set for itself. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 5 Message from the Chairman of the Board Economic and social development, at the heart of our concerns In 2010-2011, the impact of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ on Québec society was once again major and positive. For almost 30 years, we have been continuously supporting Québec’s economic and social development through all the investments we make in Québec. Each investment by MICHEL ARSENAULT the Fonds helps local companies grow and persist, and Chairman of the Board of Directors thereby helps maintain, protect or create jobs in Québec. We must support the expansion of SMEs, since the busi­ ness devel­opment efforts they make outside Québec not only consolidate their Québec-based activities – and through this, the jobs they offer in Québec – but it also makes them stronger and more competitive and contri­ butes to retaining decision-making centres in Québec. Our past experience shows that companies that expanded outside Québec saw growth in their sales and number of employees in Québec. H ere is our second Annual and Sustainability Report! It The best way to predict the future is to shows good progress in the integration and achieve­ prepare it well, and we continuously strive ment of the principles established by the Global to do just that. Reporting Initiative (GRI). Relatively unknown a few years ago, the GRI has now become the international reporting benchmark, since the type of reports prepared under it Our good results also make it possible to provide a reason­ take into account, in addition to financial results, a set of able return to our shareholders-owners. The Fonds de extra-financial elements related to the social, economic solidarité FTQ is theirs. To this we must add that, through and environmental activities of businesses. our constant efforts to raise awareness of the need to The Board of Directors of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ save and encouragement to do so for 28 years now, the was proud to adopt, in 2010, this transparent and disci­ Québec workers who are shareholders of the Fonds have plined approach. And we are also proud to present in this developed good savings habits, crucial to their economic report the improvements we have made in these three well-being, especially at retirement. We can be proud of spheres of activity in the last financial year. Nothing is ever this additional achievement of the Fonds, which is at the perfect in the complex and demanding field of sustainable heart of its mission. development. But the commitment we made, both through The best way to predict the future is to prepare it well, our GRI approach and our adhesion to the United Nations and we continuously strive to do just that. The GRI gives us Global Compact in 2009, allows us to measure the pro­ the opportunity to report, once a year, on our economic, gress made during the year and, foremost, to reaffirm the social and environmental improvements. And building the commitments that we must continue to make year after future means we have to continue educating our main year with respect to sustainable development. stakeholders and raising their awareness of the concept of sustainable development, and we will keep doing this. A great year! In conclusion, I wish to warmly thank all the mem­ The financial year ended May 31, 2011 was exceptional for bers of the Board of Directors and other governing bodies the Fonds de solidarité FTQ as, once again, we broke several of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ for their integrity, their dis­ of our own records: our number of shareholders, our share cipline and their constant support to the Fonds’ mission. value, the amount of our net assets and several more, I would also like to give special thanks to all our LRs and to which are detailed in the following pages. all the Fonds’ employees. 6 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 message from the President and CEO Another good year for the Fonds! yvon bolduc President and CEO A s part of reporting our results for the most recent financial year ended May 31, 2011, I would like first to express my gratitude to my teams for our results. The Fonds de solidarité FTQ generated, for that year, an annual return of 8.8%, which drove our share value to an all-time high of $25.92, up $2.08 from May 31, 2010. The Fonds’ net earnings reached $650 million, also a record level, and our net assets broke the $8 billion mark for the first time in the 28 years of the Fonds’ existence. Our number of shareholders also reached a new high of 583,235. Furthermore, we have exceeded by nearly $40 million the volume of our cash inflows for the previous year, by issuing $698 million in shares. The Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s Scierie Forget), the culture industry (Fonds Capital Culture RRSP is a useful and efficient tool that Québec workers Québec and Fonds d’investissement de la culture et des appreciate. And we are proud of it, since it enables them communications), or the venture capital industry, specifi­ to adopt good retirement savings habits while contributing cally in the life sciences and information technology sector to Québec’s economic development. (Réal and AmorChem investment funds, seed fund CycleThe foundation of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, the C3E, as well as Medicago and Enobia Pharma). driver of our economic activity, is employment: the creation, maintenance and protection of quality jobs in Québec’s companies. And it’s because of the savings of our share­ we have invested $733 million, and our net holders that companies from all regions can count on the assets broke the $8 billion mark. Fonds, a patient investor, to develop and therefore con­ tribute to improving employment conditions in Québec. To grow, Québec companies must also benefit from In addition, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ has been support­ markets outside Québec. Overall, the expansion of the ing for more than 10 years now succession projects for Fonds’ partner SMEs outside Québec or the rest of Canada Québec companies. To date, we have supported about a helped them increase their sales even more significantly hundred companies going through this complex process and create or maintain even more jobs in Québec. The and have invested in them more than $175 million. Fonds will therefore continue to support SME development The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is a unique, innovative on international markets, which drives growth and helps and mobilizing tool. It is a solid organization with a significant strengthen the Québec economy. socio­economic contribution. This second Sustainability During its last financial year, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ Report eloquently reflects the importance and the impact of has invested $733 million in 161 companies, including its the Fonds in the social, economic and environmental spheres. regional fund network, of which 88 are new partners. These To conclude, I wish to thank the shareholders of the companies partnered with the Fonds and its network to Fonds de solidarité FTQ for their trust and support. To all undertake activities such as modernization, growth or the employees of the Fonds and our LRs, I want to convey succession projects. The Fonds and its network now have my congratulations and appreciation for the successes we 2,129 partner companies. had in the last 28 years. I also wish to express my deep­ You will be able to read, in the following pages, many est gratitude to the directors of the Fonds and to all our interesting examples of investments we made in various external representatives: thank you for combining your industries across Québec. I’m thinking, in particular, about experience with ours and joining in our efforts to enable the the wood and forest industry (Chantiers Chibougamau and achievement of our amazing mission. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 7 ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE STRONG, New charters MODERNIZED GOVERNANCE To improve their governance practices, companies often adopt charters that clearly describe The governance structure put in place by the the roles and powers of their various governing bodies. During the last financial year, the Fonds Fonds de solidarité FTQ was modernized over adopted two new charters: the Board of Directors Charter and the Executive Committee Charter. the years, and we continue to update and strengthen it so that it adequately supports all The Board of Directors has the overall The Executive Committee is comprised of the Fonds’ activities and allows us to meet authority to manage the affairs of the of six directors. It can exercise all the challenges posed by the transparency, ef­ Fonds de solidarité FTQ. This authority of the powers of the Board of Directors, fectiveness and accountability requirements comprises five main components: except allocating shares or granting for govern­ing bodies. To support its mission 1. Ensuring that the Fonds’ mission, options on these shares, removing and its values – but also all aspects of risk Incorporation Act and any other law it is from office or replacing directors, declaring management – the Fonds de solidarité FTQ subject to are followed while adhering to or authorizing dividend payments and developed a series of policies, standards, its values of solidarity and responsibility. adopting, amending or revoking By-Laws. guidelines and management procedures that In addition to acting when warranted consolidate its governance structure and are 2. Approving the main directions, by an emergency, this committee is regularly examined with a view to continuous policies and business strategies of the also responsible for overseeing the improvement. Fonds, notably in regards to integrated activities aimed at monitoring the The Fonds’ governance is under the financial assets management and management of the risks the Fonds responsibility of its Board of Directors, made up integrated risk management. must face. It also must, in exceptional of 17 members, of which 10 are appointed by 3. Ensuring there are controls over circumstances, approve and follow up the General Council of the FTQ, as set out in our the Fonds’ management, including on certain investments and confirm Incorporation Act. General management of the over risk management, and the appointment of its representatives Fonds’ operations is overseen by a Management ensuring a culture of integrity. to the board of directors of the Fonds’ Committee comprised of the President and partner companies. CEO and five senior executives. 4. Approving investment The Fonds de solidarité FTQ also set up recommendations for which it is committees and boards, such as the Investment responsible and monitoring them. These two new charters are in addition Special Boards, which are comprised of a to the existing charters for the Financial 5. Evaluating the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s majority of members who are external to the Assets Management Committee and performance on a regular basis. Fonds and the FTQ and are responsible for the Audit Committee. authorizing the Fonds’ development capital in­ The directors are stewards of the Fonds The complete text of these two charters vestments. Other committees, such as the Audit and therefore must ensure that decisions can be found on the Fonds’ Website at Committee and the Valuation Committee, are made are in the interest of the Fonds. www.fondsftq.com/chartes. comprised solely of external members. Objective Following the adoption of these two new charters (Board of Directors and Executive Committee), the Fonds de solidarité FTQ will continue to develop and adopt charters; these could be, for instance, with respect to its Ethics Committee and its four Investment Special Boards. the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s governance structure and management framework BOARD OF DIRECTORS management committee AUDIT COMMITTEE executive committee ETHICS COMMITTEE VALUATION COMMITTEE FINANCIAL ASSETS SPECIAL BOARDS Governing bodies MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE – Traditional of the FONDS IMMOBILIER – Mining Portfolio DE Solidarité FTQ – New Economy – Turnaround and Majority Interests For more details on the mission and the role of each committee, please refer to pages 77 to 79. 8 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Codes of Ethics: one more step Voting rights with respect Other effective controls To define the rules of conduct to be followed to public companies Among the controls in place to validate the by its employees, officers and directors and to The Fonds was also one of the first large rigour of our management and practices, a avoid, for instance, situations of conflict of inter­ institutional investors in Québec to have a complete financial statement audit process is est or appearance of such a conflict, the Fonds document containing guidance on voting performed twice a year by two external char­ de solidarité FTQ adopted, several years ago, rights as a shareholder; this document, which tered accountant firms. the Codes of Ethics and Conduct. is available on our Website (www.fondsftq. In addition, the Fonds’ Incorporation Act These Codes state that the interests of com/droit-vote-entreprises), describes the states that the Autorité des marchés finan­ the Fonds must always be put ahead of per­ guidelines that it will follow when there is a ciers is responsible for inspecting the internal sonal interests or interests of third parties. shareholder vote. In this document, the Fonds affairs and activities of the Fonds to confirm The Codes of Ethics and Conduct prohibit, also expresses its desire for these companies compliance with this Act, in addition to other for instance, all directors, members of man­ to adopt policies on major social issues in re­ functions it carries out in regards to the Fonds, agement and employees from entering into lation to their activities and have their board which is a reporting issuer as defined in the personal trading deemed conflictual, and re­ of directors implement practices that comply Securities Act. ceiving certain gifts and using any advantage, with these policies in the following areas: Finally, while not required to apply information or interest related to the Fonds MI 52-109 issued by the Canadian Securi­ that would be incompatible with their profes­ – environmental repercussions of their ties Administrators, the Fonds chose to base sional duties and responsibilities. activities; its work on the prin­ciples stated in this rule; The Codes also forbid the disclosure of – the effect of the company’s strategies and it is thereby demons­trating its willingness to confidential information for purposes other decisions on communities and individuals respect best practices in financial governance. than the execution of duties. Each year, all em­ affected by their products and operations; This framework applies to controls providing ployees, officers and directors must complete – the company’s practices in terms of hiring, reasonable assurance that the financial infor­ a statement of interests held and a statement work conditions and compensation; mation prepared and reported is reliable and on the compliance of their conduct with the – training and continuing education for that the financial statements are prepared in Code applicable to their position. The contents employees; accordance with Canadian Generally Accepted of such statements were reviewed during the – the criteria for selecting and retaining Accounting Principles. To this end, the Fonds last financial year to improve the quality of the suppliers, including those relating to social implemented a financial compliance frame­ disclosures and the annual follow-up. responsibility. work program commonly known as Confor1, The Codes of Ethics and Conduct were which allows following up on this process. updated in 2009, and all employees and direc­ Objective To ensure that its policy on voting rights tors were trained on the update. In addition, the always adequately reflects the values it adheres Regulation 31-103 Code applicable to employees now provides to and promotes, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ will The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is currently regis­ for a whistleblowing procedure for cases of review it in its entirety in the next financial year. tering itself as an “investment fund manager” in non-compliance with the Code involving finan­ accordance with Regulation 31-103 Respecting cial or accounting information or illegal acts. Integrated financial assets management Registration Requirements and Exemptions The policy that governs the integrated of the Autorité des marchés financiers. This Responsible policies management of its financial assets is also regulation contains certain provisions appli­ The Fonds de solidarité FTQ makes sure that the at the core of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s cable to investment fund managers that govern companies in which it invested meet the obliga­ activities. It includes, for instance, principles their conduct and proficiency, such as insur­ tions towards the Fonds to which they agreed. regarding responsible and ethical investment ance requirements, standards on proficiency Consequently, to better ensure that which prohibit, for example, the Fonds from for representatives (which must be based on partner companies respect the Fonds’ values holding securities of companies that generate passing certain exams), as well as the com­ during the entire period of investment, the more than 10% of their gross sales from the pliance system, books and records and the Fonds requires that the chief executive officer production of weapons or that have a history delivery of certain financial information. of each company regularly submit a written of irresponsible behaviour toward the environ­ declaration confirming that the company is in ment, labour standards or human rights. compliance with a set of laws, rules and other obligations concerning, for example, labour standards, compensation, and source de­ ductions. This declaration also addresses the company’s compliance with current environ­ mental laws and regulations. 1. For more details on Confor, please refer to page 79. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 9 ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE (continued) The United Nations Principles for Global Compact Responsible Investment (PRI) The Fonds de solidarité FTQ adhered to the United Nations Global Compact in 2009. We As an institutional investor, the Fonds de support the values promoted by the 10 principles of the Compact, which relate to human solidarité FTQ always aims to act in the best rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. These principles closely mirror long-term interest of its shareholders-owners. the values and practices advocated by the Fonds de solidarité FTQ within its sphere of influence, To always better maintain this commitment, in particular through its various Codes of Ethics and Conduct, its guidance on voting rights the Fonds has adhered to the United National with regards to public companies and its code of conduct for international business dealings, Global Compact and takes steps to report its as well as through the social audits it performs before investing in a company, that incorporate results in accordance with the principles of the these values. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Objective During the next financial year, the Fonds intends to also adhere the six Principles for Responsible Investment THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT (PRI) issued in 2006 by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT The PRI suggest investors take concrete Principle 1: Businesses should Principle 7: Businesses should action such as providing annual reports and support and respect the protection of support a precautionary approach committing to improving their practices year internationally proclaimed human rights. to environmental challenges. after year. Investors that subscribe to PRI take Principle 2: Businesses should make Principle 8: Businesses should on the commitment to consider environmental, sure that they are not complicit in human undertake initiatives to promote greater social and governance (ESG) issues in their rights abuses. environmental responsibility. investment analysis and decision-making proc­­ ess. They also commit to encouraging their LABOUR STANDARds Principle 9: Businesses should investment partners to apply these principles. encourage the development and diffusion As of April 2011, more than 700 compa­ Principle 3: Businesses should uphold of environmentally friendly technologies. nies and organizations, including around thirty the freedom of association and the from Canada, had adhered to PRI. In Québec, effective recognition of the right to ANTI-CORRUPTION institutions such as Caisse de dépôt et pla­ collective bargaining. Principle 10: Businesses should work cement du Québec and SSQ, Life Insurance Principle 4: Businesses should against corruption in all its forms, including Company, a Fonds partner company, are among eliminate all forms of forced and extortion and bribery. those making the commitment. compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should What are the principles? abolish child labour. These are the commitments Principle 6: Businesses should investors adopting PRI make: eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 1. We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision-making processes. 2. We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and practices. 3. We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which we invest. 4. We will promote acceptance Marketing communications and implementation of the Principles within the investment industry. The Fonds de solidarité FTQ makes sure to Autorité des marchés financiers to ensure comply with all the rules and standards re­ compliance with the applicable rules. 5. We will work together to enhance garding the public’s right to be adequately The Fonds also proudly highlights the our effectiveness in implementing the Principles. informed about the products and services respect of its shareholders’ rights by its local it offers. representatives (LRs) and its employees. Since 6. We will each report on our All marketing communications are rigor­ its creation, the Fonds has never had to pay activities and progress towards ously managed and the Fonds makes, when a fine regarding the sale of its shares to implementing the Principles. needed, the relevant verifications with the the public. 10 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 sustainable development A COMMITTED INVESTOR environmental This second sustainability report was prepared, like the Livable Viable one we issued last year, based on the Global Reporting Sustainable Initiative (GRI) guidelines, the world’s most recognized and used guidelines on sustainability. The GRI is a social Fair economic multi-stakeholder international organization established in 1997 and based in Amsterdam, whose objective is to promote sustainability best practices, in particular by providing companies and organizations with an analysis framework to to be sustainable, assess their social, economic and environmental performance development should and to report on it in a rigorous and transparent manner. integrate these three dimensions: social, economic and environmental A dopting a sustainable development approach By definition, a sustainability report details the extra-financial necessarily involves following a process. It is essen­ impacts of a company or organization; it complements the tial to follow the evolution of our decisions, actions financial data of the reporting organization. That is why we, and achievements to improve our performance in the the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, chose to integrate our sustain­ three dimensions of sustainable development: social, ability report with our annual report. economic and environmental. These three dimensions Like us, an always growing number of organizations Objective are closely interrelated: a report that would omit one of issue sustainability reports and therefore go through the For its next financial year, the objective of the them could not be deemed to reflect activities that are demanding, yet essential, exercise of reporting all of their Fonds de solidarité FTQ truly associated with sustainable development. social, economic and environmental impacts. This allows is to inform, raise the various groups and individuals concerned with our awareness and educate A strong commitment activities (see “The stakeholders” below) to have access its stakeholders about This second report attests to the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s to more complete information; it is one more step in the sustainable development commitment that strengthens with time and represents commitment we made to continuously improve the trans­ and its overall individual one more step toward even more effective internal man­ parency and the governance of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ. and collective implications. agement of sustainable development. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 11 sustainable development (continued) CONTEXT AND PARAMETERS THE STAKEHOLDERS The individuals and groups who are interested in our mis­ To pursue this dialogue, we make sure we really under­ sion and designated, according to the GRI terminology, stand their concerns and needs, and we put in place the as “stakeholders”, are those who have an interest in or an best means to meet them. First we consult them, in various influence on the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s activities or may meetings (individual or group, one-off or regular, and at be affected by them. various levels), in writing (through mail), by phone (for In certain cases, these stakeholders are at the very core instance the calls received by our Shareholder Services of our existence, the reason why the Fonds de solidarité FTQ agents), by e-mail, or through the surveys we conduct (by was created nearly 30 years ago: our shareholders, our phone or e-mail) and the discussion groups we organize. business partners and the Québec society as a whole. Using the concerns and needs expressed through these Given the important role they play in the achievement of activities, we modify, to the greatest extent possible, our Objective An information and our mission, our employees and our local representatives products and services to even better meet their expec­ training session on (LRs) are also stakeholders, and so are the Fédération des tations, and then we validate that the changes made are sustainable development travailleurs et travailleuses du Québec and its affiliated adequate. This is how the Fonds de solidarité FTQ was able will be held for the members unions, who are the founders of the Fonds. to offer new products to its shareholders – SÉCURIFONDSTM of the Management In everything we undertake to achieve our mission is a good example of this (see page 26) – and its partner Committee and the and reach our objectives, we are continuously interacting companies – such as the economic training adapted to Board of Directors with these individuals and groups. We develop close rela­ companies (see pages 17 and 18). in the next financial year. tionships with them that are based on trust, openness and, first and foremost, dialogue. relationships with OUR main stakeholders Our shareholders Our business partners Our employees Through our Shareholder Services, open This group comprises the entrepreneurs Showing an unfailing commitment, five days a week, our numerous points who manage our partner companies, our employees are one of the major of service (more than fifty during the RRSP as well as their directors, suppliers, drivers in achieving our mission. They campaign), our permanent presence in managers and thousands of employees. therefore expect to work in a stimulating all the regions of Québec, our network of We offer them financial capital that is environment and to enjoy good working 2,000 LRs who promote the Fonds in their flexible, patient and complementary conditions, and we offer such an workplace, our annual general meeting, to the capital provided by other financial environment and conditions, thanks our written communications (Shareholder institutions, and our multisectoral teams to a five-year collective agreement Booklet, Notice of Meeting) and other provide them with support on many levels. signed in 2010. The Fonds’ management means, such as discussion groups Applying the close and proactive approach communicates with employees and surveys, we maintain continuous they developed over the years, our on a daily basis via its Intranet site, and close relations with our shareholders. Investments sector teams follow closely on a regular basis through L’INTERACTION, Supported by the two government levels the evolution of our partner companies’ an internal newsletter, and on a one-off that grant them tax credits totaling 30% needs through individual meetings, basis by holding various meetings. of the subscribed amount, we encourage conferences, trade shows and numerous To help us achieve our mission, them to save for retirement. When industry associations. In addition, in addition to the employees of the they decide to contribute to the Fonds we have more than 70 representatives on Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s head office, de solidarité FTQ’s RRSP, they become the board of directors of those companies, we can count on the employees of our shareholders-owners of the Fonds and which constitutes for them an added vast investment network that comprises support our mission of stimulating value to the support we provide them. the regional and local solidarity economic and social development and funds, and on the employees of the creating jobs in Québec. They indeed Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ, expect that their investment will generate totaling approximately 100 people. a reasonable return, and we constantly endeavour to meet that expectation. 12 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 REPORTING PERIOD AND REPORT BOUNDARY For a second consecutive year, the sustainability report of Our report complies with application level A, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ is incorporated into its annual report. It covers the period corresponding to its financial which means that it reflects the highest number year, which is from June 1, 2010 to May 31, 2011. of indicators required by the GRI. This report reflects all environmental, social and economic indicators suggested by the GRI, i.e., the core The report covers a group of activities directly performed indicators as well as the supplementary indicators for by the Fonds de solidarité FTQ. The Fonds does not have to financial institutions, subject to a materiality analysis. include its 2,129 partner companies within the boundary of The data contained in this report were collected by a this report since each of them is responsible for reporting committee that determined which elements proposed by its own activities. However, in keeping with its mission and the GRI apply and are relevant to the Fonds; they were then values, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ has always encouraged validated by the Fonds professionals responsible for this its partner companies to adopt responsible behaviours in sustainability report and the whole report was also read by all respects. our independent auditors. Members of senior management On the other hand, the results of certain activities and members of the Audit Committee performed a review of of the 16 Fonds régionaux de solidarité FTQ, the 87 Fonds the report to validate all the information contained therein. locaux de solidarité FTQ and the Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ, which form part of the Fonds’ investment network, are highlighted in this report. Our LRs Government authorities The Fédération des travailleurs and Québec society et travailleuses du Québec (FTQ) They make up an exceptional network of over 2,000 people who promote the In addition to the Québec population, which The FTQ is the largest labour federation Fonds de solidarité FTQ and its economic should now be properly referred to as in Québec and, together with its and social development mission. These “civil society”, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ affiliated unions, it represents more than representatives are authorized to sell is in regular contact with the Québec 600,000 members. As the FTQ and its Fonds shares to their colleagues and in Ministry of Finance, the Québec Ministry unions are the founders of the Fonds their workplace in general. A team of Economic Development, Innovation and de solidarité FTQ, it is, for us, an important entirely at their disposal provides them Export Trade, and the Autorité des marchés stakeholder. with training, answers their questions on financiers, with whom we maintain ongoing It should also be mentioned that, a daily basis and takes note and considers relationships, and, in addition to these, as part of the retirement savings element their needs and concerns. The Fonds the Canada Ministry of Finance and of its mission, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ de solidarité FTQ has good reasons Industry Canada. These government and maintains institutional relationships with to take pride in the strength and skills regulatory bodies expect that we actively the Centrale des syndicats du Québec of this network, which has never failed it participate in the economic development (CSQ), the Fédération interprofessionnelle over the years. of companies and Québec. We maintain de la santé du Québec (FIQ) and the with them formal relationships to keep Confédération nationale des cadres du them as best informed as possible of all the Québec (CNCQ). Representatives of these economic issues related to our activities. various unions promote the RRSP and the mission of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ within their ranks. Bronze Partner The Conférence sur le développement durable et la responsabilité knowledge and good practices on sustainable development. The sociale des entreprises is an annual event organized by Unisféra, Fonds de solidarité FTQ is proud to have participated as a Bronze an independent, not-for-profit centre of expertise that performs Partner for a second consecutive year in this event that brings research and provides advisory services in the field of sustainable together experts in sustainable development and Québec sustain­ development. This conference, the sixth of which was held last able development professionals. April, helps companies, government organizations and cities share Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 13 sustainable development (continued) CONTEXT AND PARAMETERS (continued) OUR REPORTING PROCESS This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI princi­ standard strategic for the Fonds? The GRI Index, presented ples and reflects, in addition to the principle of stakeholder on page 131, shows the various indicators that should be inclusiveness, the principles of materiality and sustainability used to prepare a sustainability report. context and completeness, as follows: SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT AND COMPLETENESS — This MATERIALITY — We reviewed all the indicators proposed report has been prepared in the socioeconomic context spe­ by the GRI and reexamined the indicators discussed last cific to Québec. In the opinion of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s year to reconfirm their materiality to the socioeconomic management, its boundary and the treatment of the contents context of the Fonds for the most recent financial year. For and indicators present adequately the economic, social and each of them, we answered the following questions: does environmental impact of the Fonds on Québec society. the issue at stake still contribute to the implementation of the Fonds’ strategy? Does it represent a risk or an attrac­ tive opportunity for the Fonds? Is it deemed significant by our peers and stakeholders? Is it governed by a social Engaging all stakeholders Objective Over the next financial Québec entrepreneurs’ vision of the future year, the Fonds de The SME Confidence Index* is an indicator we created solidarité FTQ intends to continue issuing with Léger Marketing in 2009 to measure the “pulse” of Le partenaire PME, Québec SME managers. It allows us to take regular surveys but integrating into it throughout the year to understand the concerns of en­ a section dedicated to trepreneurs and the challenges they face (equipment actions and expertise on modernization, profits growth, financing conditions, com­ sustainable development. petition from emerging countries, raw materials costs, appreciation of the Canadian dollar, U.S. protectionism, The environment export barriers, and so on). Currently, though entrepre­ In May 2011, we asked more than 200 Québec entrepreneurs if they planned neurs remain rather optimistic about the future of their on taking any concrete sustainable development action in the next 18 months: company and Québec SMEs in general, rising oper­ 83% responded yes. ating costs are still their main concern. Their next major concern is labour recruitment, particularly skilled workers. The main measures they plan on adopting include: Pension plans – implementing a corporate printed document reduction policy, The surveys underlying the SME Confidence Index were or improving the policy if one already exists (52%); also an opportunity to ask Québec entrepreneurs about – implementing a recycling policy, or improving the policy if one already exists (41%). pension plans. For example, in November 2010 and We also obtained other interesting pieces of information through the surveys: February 2011, half of entrepreneurs surveyed (200 and – among entrepreneurs questioned, 22% affirmed raising awareness of the various 207, respectively) stated that their company already ways their employees can responsibly consume energy in the workplace; offers employees a pension plan or another form of – 28% anticipate replacing existing equipment with less energy-consuming equipment; contribution to retirement preparation. However, even though these entrepreneurs are aware that their em­ – 42% encourage their employees not to use disposable ployees are not saving enough for retirement, of those dishes (styrofoam cups, plastic utensils, etc.); that do not offer such plans, the vast majority unfortu­ – in 10% of companies, there are financial incentives nately do not expect to implement one in the next three to encourage employees to use public transportation years. This last statistic alone shows just how much or carpool; lower-cost retirement savings solutions, such as the – a very encouraging low percentage (17%) Fonds de solidarité FTQ, are a must for Québec society. of entrepreneurs do not expect to take any sustainable development action over the next 18 months. * The Fonds de solidarité FTQ SME Confidence Index is established based on four surveys taken each year by Léger Marketing. Participants are invited to complete a questionnaire hosted on the survey firm’s secure Website. For more details regarding the methodology of these surveys, visit www.indicedeconfiancepme.com. 14 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 OUR SOCIAL impact OUR SOCIAL ACHIEVEMENTS The Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s activities have a significant impact on overall society. F irst, the Fonds’ investments in companies impacting It is also critical to remember that one of the major elements Québec’s economy help maintain and create of the Fonds’ mission is to provide Québec workers an op­ jobs in our communities: as at May 31, 2011, the portunity to save for retirement, and that savings has been partner companies of the Fonds and its network the focal point of the Fonds’ concerns since its creation. All contributed to creating, maintaining or protecting the Fonds’ work on this front is part of the logic inherent 160,789 jobs in Québec. These investments also contribute to the concept of sustainable development, as this work Objective .. to the economic vitality of Québec’s various regions – at contributes to Québecers enjoying a higher quality of life in During the next financial the end of the last financial year, approximately 55% of retirement, which benefits all of society in many ways. year, a training session the investments of the Fonds and its network were made Finally, in light of its union beginnings, establishing will be developed for outside of the Montréal region. From a global perspective, good working relationships and respect for human rights the professionals working they thus contribute to the development and vitality of the are basic principles for the Fonds. For example, inter­ in the Investments overall Québec economy. nally, the Fonds applies diversity and equal opportunity and Other Investments The Fonds made these investments in compliance criteria to how it treats its employees, and provides all per­ on financial markets with the principles of socially responsible investment; for sonnel good working conditions and opportunities for sectors of the Fonds the Fonds, consideration of the social impact of an invest­ ad­vancement. This valuable union legacy also ensures that de solidarité FTQ to raise their awareness of all the ment in a company helps with enhancing risk management the Fonds continues to be concerned with the impact its elements of sustainable and implementing sound governance, and thereby im­ activities have on society. development and proves the company’s overall performance. In addition, the the clear implications Fonds indirectly encourages social economy by investing in they have on their work. investment funds specialized in this sector. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 15 OUR SOCIAL impact (continued) A socially responsible commitment, integrated into our practices Evaluating a company’s social dimension From beginning to end To further enrich its investments in companies looking to In addition to first ensuring that its investments adhere become its partners, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ performs as much as possible to its values, mission and economic a social audit of the company prior to investing in it. Since and social goals, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, before with­ its beginning, the Fonds has added this social dimension, drawing from a company, performs a global “exit” audit which is a prerequisite to any financial support, clearly ex­ to evaluate the impact of its investment and to measure pressing that its investments are not solely based on the the social and financial effect its withdrawal will have. The financial return, but also on the impact the company has Fonds does all this in complete transparency, throughout in the community. When a company calls on the Fonds, the life of the partnership, from the beginning to the end of our and once its business plan has been analyzed by our multi­ the investment cycle. investments disciplinary team of specialists in the Investments sector, The executives of the Fonds’ partner companies ap­ are not solely it is then subject to another kind of analysis, which focuses preciate these practices. For example, they see the social based on more on extra-financial factors, such as: audit as value added to the capital investment we make, the financial and this audit is carried out with open communication and – Management’s strengths and weaknesses; transparency. return, but also on the – Human resource management; Evaluating the level of risk in an investment impact – Respect for the environment; Beyond the financial and social elements of the overall the company assessment performed prior to making an investment, the – Labour and working conditions; has in Fonds de solidarité FTQ has instituted a strict due diligence the community. – Employment perspectives; review process to determine, as fairly as possible, the level of risk involved in each investment. It is a rigorous process, – The company’s communications; and the procedures applied are continuously updated to – Compliance with various laws, including those ensure we account for the issues and socioeconomic con­ covering workplace health and safety; text in which we make our investments. This due diligence review performed by the Fonds’ – Competition and the condition of equipment; specialists responsible for a potential investment results in – Reputational risk. a detailed assessment: all operational, financial, and extrafinancial (such as environmental or reputational) risks are In addition, in files where it is appropriate, the social audit defined and quantified, and the impact of each on overall is also used to establish a way to apply the code of con­ risk must be determined as precisely as possible. duct for international business dealings1, which the Fonds Objective The Fonds adopted as a framework for its investments in companies de solidarité FTQ will update, during the next dealing outside of Canada. The goal in this case is for our financial year, its code of partner companies and their suppliers to comply with conduct for international human and worker rights, and respect for the environment business dealings. in the countries in which they operate. Once the social audit is completed, it is included in the investment file by one of the Fonds’ development agents – who makes recommendations based on it – to the governing bodies responsible for approving the investment. This disci­ pline we have maintained over the years has let the Fonds really evaluate all the economic, social and environmental dimensions that are involved in its investments. 1. For more details, visit this section of our Website: www.fondsftq.com/code-conduite-international. 16 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Our training activities In addition to the investment work it does, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ also has undertakings that form a large part of We WANT TO ENSURE the growth of Québec companies, its central mission: economic training for workers. Economic training is now solidly entrenched in the Fonds’ culture, AS WELL AS PROTECT AND CREATE jobs. because of the creation of the Fondation de la formation économique over 20 years ago. In fact, it was in 1989 that the Fonds created this Fondation, which is wholly-dedicated The dialogues we have had over the years with workers and to training, to properly fulfill this fundamental element of its management in our partner companies have also led us to mission. It currently employs 13 people. see that workers who are better informed on the financial mechanisms and issues of the company where they work, Sustainable training its business plan, objectives and market conditions, tend To be sustainable, economic and social development must, to better understand the influence they have on the results according to the Brundtland formulation, “meet the needs of the company. of the present without compromising the ability of future Ensuring the growth of Québec companies, protecting generations to meet their own needs”. Training in partner and creating jobs – and doing it all through the training companies specifically contributes to creating within them offered with a long-term perspective that is respectful of a climate of trust that promotes transparency and com­ workers and entrepreneurs – is most certainly following munication between management and employees, so that the path to sustainable economic development. employees better understand the company’s issues and challenges to continue operating in the long term. Since listening and dialoguing help discover good and original solutions, economic training has a positive effect on the growth of companies that offer the training, and in some cases, even ensures the company’s continuity. Well-adapted training Year after year, the training team of the Fondation de la formation économique places a lot of importance on company needs in the field, where trainers are always listening to management and workers and really understand their dayto-day issues. This is how the Fondation was able to create adapted training, as much on business processes as on market conditions – a major component, if ever there was one, in the success of a company. This training is all focused on key basic goals: – Promote, within the company – Encourage teamwork – Inform participants about where the training is offered, and partnership; the company’s financial position communications between management so they can participate in and – Explain the role of financial and employees; be motivated about its growth partner of the Fonds and performance improvement. – Help provide a deeper understanding de solidarité FTQ; of the company’s development; Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 17 OUR SOCIAL impact (continued) Training committed socioeconomic players Through the various on-site courses the Fondation offers, it reaches company management and workers, but also work­ ers’ unions. But the Fondation’s work doesn’t stop there. In fact, the Fondation also provides training to the following socioeconomic players: The Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s local The Fonds de solidarité FTQ networks: The union representatives (LRs) the Fonds locaux de solidarité FTQ network and the Fonds régionaux de solidarité FTQ All new LRs, who promote the Fonds’ social The local and regional funds refer In collaboration with the FTQ, the Fondation and economic mission in their workplace, mandates to the Fondation, which then provides training to union advisors receive three days of training before designs custom, topical training that and local union leaders. These individual they start. In addition, refresher courses contributes to greater synergy within the must be in a position to understand the help them stay updated on their practices Fonds’ vast investment network. inner workings of the economic and social and deepen their understanding of issues of the companies in which they the Fonds’ financial products. As part are involved in order to properly assess the of their continuing education, they are financial position. also involved in regular update activities organized each year that take the form of regional workshops offered throughout Québec. The Fondation also collaborates with the FTQ’s training department to develop training activities covering supple­ mental pension plans, local and regional socioeconomic development, the Collège FTQ-Fonds, employment training, immigrant integration and the Fonds étudiant. During the financial year ended May 31, 2011, the Fondation de la formation économique provided 438 courses to 5,724 participants (see the detailed table on page 56). 18 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 The Fonds étudiant II, an incentive for the young to continue studying A memorandum of understanding for the continuation of the activities of the Fonds étudiant solidarité travail du Québec II for a period of 10 years was signed on December 2, 2010. Created by the FTQ, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ and the Government of Québec on March 31, 2000, this fund offers college and university students the opportunity to get a summer job as a monitor to high school youth who put together and manage a Youth Service Cooperative (YSC). The Fonds étudiant II complements the mission of Fonds étudiant I, which is creating summer jobs for the youth. Using the investment income from two non-interest bearing loans – granted by the Government of Québec and the Fonds de solidarité FTQ – the Fonds étudiant II What is the future of pension plans? reimburses the salaries of over 150 monitors and contri­ butes significantly to the training offered by the Réseau de Saving for retirement has been a core la coopération du travail du Québec, which supports YSC concern for the Fonds since its creation. projects. These monitors oversee a group of 10 to 15 co-op workers from 12 to 17, who have the opportunity to learn This is why the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, in collaboration with the Institut du Nouveau the principles of entrepreneurship. In over 10 years, the Monde, organized last February a major seminar on the complex issue of pension Fonds étudiant II reimbursed the salaries of 1,500 moni­ plans. This seminar gave fundamental insights on the current pension plan situa­ tors, which translated into the creation of 15,000 indirect tion and the options available in the shortand mid-term to ensure Québecers jobs for high school youth. have sufficient retirement income. In addition to having a rewarding summer job, monitors Michel Arsenault, President of the FTQ and Chairman of the Board of the Fonds, are invited to attend a training program offered by the was a speaker at that seminar, together with recognized experts in the field: Claude Fondation de la formation économique of the Fonds de Lamoureux, former President and CEO of the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, Pierre solidarité FTQ. This training program helps them better Plamondon, Director of Valuation, Statistics and Review and Chief Actuary at the understand the realities of the workplace and Québec’s Régie des rentes du Québec, and Michel St-Germain, Partner and Actuary at Mercer. socioeconomic issues, while familiarizing themselves with The participants made powerful observations. For instance, 30% to 40% of the role of the cooperative movement, community action Québecers do not have sufficient income at retirement, and this situation will not and social economy enterprises, as well as with the mis­ improve if all parties involved do not immediately take major actions. Further, the sion of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ. number of contributors to the Québec Pension Plan per retiree will drop from 3 to The objective of the Fonds étudiant solidarité travail 1.5 by 2040, which represents a heavy burden for future generations. du Québec II is to allow youth to gain meaningful experi­ These observations showed how fundamental it is to consider all possible al­ ence in the labour market and to continue studying. ternatives, including encouraging today’s workers to subscribe to savings solutions that are supplemental to the Québec Pension Plan, and involve all stakeholders (the government, businesses and all Québecers) in order to prevent financial insecurity, even poverty, during retirement. Live on the Web The seminar generated a lot of interest and the 120 available seats quickly sold out. In light of that success, the organizers decided to make it more widely available. It was therefore possible, for those who were unable to register, to watch the seminar live on the Web. We would like to thank the valuable sponsors who made this event possible: Montrusco Bolton Investments, Addenda Capital, Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton, L’actualité and SSQ, Life Insurance Company. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 19 OUR SOCIAL impact (continued) Our community involvement The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is a responsible institution that is involved in community organizations throughout Québec. Accordingly, the Fonds supports activities that its employees, its network of regional and local funds and its partners are involved in, all of whom share the Fonds’ concern for the economic and social well-being of individuals, communities and businesses. For several years now Centraide has been at the centre of this commitment: during the 2010 Centraide campaign, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, its network and its employees raised $230,000. This sum is the largest ever raised by the Fonds; each year, the Centraide campaign invariably gives rise to a large movement of solidarity. The Fonds also has numerous employees who give their time and their energy in their community, and this is highlighted in a section of our Intranet site devoted to their activities. 20 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 A fourth Québec companies and responsible community procurement skating rink! For a second consecutive year, As part of its BLEU BLANC ROUGE the Fonds de solidarité FTQ program the Montreal Canadiens partnered with the Québec Coalition Children’s Foundation gave a skating Against Sweatshops (CQCAM) to update a study entitled rink to the LaSalle Borough, “Are companies concerned about the fourth rink built by the Montreal responsible procurement in Canadiens Children’s Foundation. Québec?” (“Les entreprises ont-elles The first three are: le souci de l’approvisionnement responsable au Québec ?”). In 2010, the CQCAM issued 1st rink 2nd rink 3rd rink its report on this first comprehensive Parc François-Perrault Parc Le Carignan Willibrord Park research aimed at listing all Québec Villeray–Saint-Michel– Montréal-Nord Borough Verdun Borough organizations that implemented, Parc-Extension Borough (January 2010) (December 2010) as the Fonds de solidarité FTQ (Winter 2009) did, responsible procurement policies (RPP). Over 60 organizations from the public, private, association and The initiative is part of BLEU BLANC ROUGE, the The Fonds de solidarité FTQ financially contributes, union sectors were then identified. Montreal Canadiens Children’s Foundation’s flagship together with the Montreal Canadiens Hockey Club However, implementing an project, with the objective of building five outdoor and the FTQ, to this project which creates animated RPP does not necessarily mean multi-purpose and refrigerated community rinks, which gathering areas for sports and physical activity for the that an organization is acting represents an investment of over one million dollars in youth of these neighbourhoods. It should be rememmore responsibly. To verify this, Montréal’s less privileged neighbourhoods. Construcbered that the Fonds de solidarité FTQ also became it is important to assesss its RPP tion of the fifth rink is set for next year. The volunteer one of the owners of the Montreal Canadiens Hockey and determine if it constitutes work carried out by the workers of the syndicat des Club in 2009, including the Bell Centre and the Gillett a real commitment towards Cols Bleus and the FTQ-Construction is worth noting. Entertainment Group (now Evenko). sustainable development or if it is rather a promotion tool. The CQCAM www.fondation.canadiens.com therefore performed a thorough assessment of the identified The Maison du développement durable: organizations’ policies; the results of this assessment are also included making good progress! in its report, which is available on the Coalition’s Website. The construction of the Maison du développement The CQCAM, which works durable, which is targeting the highest LEED (Leadership closely with the International in Energy and Environmental Design) certification level Center for Labour Solidarity (CISO), available, is making good progress. Several guided visits brings together about thirty union organizations, NGOs and student of the worksite have been organized for building progroups. Its mission is to raise the fessionals to share its various environmental aspects. awareness of the Québec population The grand opening is set for Fall 2011. Built in the heart about sweatshops in the Northern of downtown Montréal, the Maison will house several and Southern hemispheres and non-governmental and community organizations under to develop alternatives to counter one roof, and it will offer a place to meet and exchange the proliferation of sweatshops. ideas not only among the organizations it houses, but It promotes responsible procurement also with the public. A public space will also be created in policies in order to encourage the heart of the building, to serve as a tool for promoting the respect of labour rights across and communicating sustainable development to the the entire supply chain. In addition, general public. it collaborates with organizations The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is proud to be finanand companies that wish to cially involved in the construction of the first Maison du obtain support in the development développement durable in North America. or implementation of an RPP. www.maisondeveloppementdurable.org Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 21 OUR SOCIAL impact (continued) Our neighbours celebrate Because multicultural we creativity! The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is proud believe to have supported, in August 2011, a colourful public gathering where people in… from all generations and various ethnic communities celebrated multicultural creativity, held as part of La FALLA, photo: Luce Tremblay Eradicating homophobia an event organized by La TOHU, in the To collaborate in raising the Montréal neighbourhood of Saint-Michel, population’s awareness of near the Fonds’ head office. homophobia in schools and thereby help in the fight La FALLA is a popular, unifying event, built around a well as the headquarters and artists’ residence for the against homophobia in schools, sculpture bearing the same name, that uses the carnival Cirque du Soleil. As one of the world’s largest gathering the Fonds de solidarité FTQ tradition in the service of an ambition dear to La TOHU: places for circus arts training, creation, production and supported the annual fundraising to involve the community in a unifying project that performance, La TOHU is remarkable not only for its campaign for GRIS-Montréal builds a strong identity and invokes shared pride. facilities but also for the extraordinary influence its “citi(Groupe de recherche In 2010, 7,000 spectators attended this event, zens” exercise on the international stage. It brings life to et d’intervention sociale). which offers 40 creation workshops hosting about the surrounding public spaces. www.gris.ca 150 participants. The event also includes training for Located alongside Highway 40, in Montréal, La youth at risk, which is given by 20 volunteers giving TOHU is a place where the residents of the Saint-Michel close to 1,400 hours of their time. neighbourhood meet and share ideas and where they The Cité des arts du cirque houses La TOHU’s are encouraged to participate in the economic and circular performance space, which is also the Welcome cultural life of the city. Pavilion for the SMEC, the National Circus School, as www.tohu.ca La TOHU’s mission is: – to secure Montréal’s place as an international – to actively participate in the revitalization of circus arts capital; the Saint-Michel Environmental Complex (SMEC), – to contribute to the revitalization of the Saint-Michel one of the largest urban landfill sites in North America, neighbourhood; which is about to become a large park. Macha Limonchik and Vincent Bolduc, spokepersons for GRIS-Montréal Working artists The Fonds de solidarité FTQ BOURSTAD, In 2011, over 2,800 participants from various schools and some 320 people from the general public entered is providing support, for the stock market the competition, which provides them the potential to the third consecutive year, to the Support for First Work simulation competition gain knowledge based on their level of expertise. The Experiences in Arts-related activity is used to reach practical economic training obPositions program. Created The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is pleased to have supjectives, introduce portfolio management strategies and by the Conseil des arts de ported, for the fifth year running, the BOURSTAD stock raise awareness on the issues of responsible investment Montréal, this program allows market simulation. The 24th annual competition, organ­ and corporate social responsibility. 20 young artists and culture ized by the Collège de Rosemont in close collaboration During the awards ceremony, which was held at the workers to work in internships with the Autorité des marchés financiers, was held Montreal Exchange on May 17, 2011, over 100 mentions in a relevant workplace February 7 to April 8, 2011. and grand prizes were awarded. The first prize winners each year, thereby acquiring BOURSTAD is a simulation of financial investments of the Responsible Investment section, for which the solid experience to help over the Internet whereby participants can learn about Fonds de solidarité FTQ is the exclusive partner, were them integrate into their area the stock market. It gives them the opportunity to grow Jinnie Liu (Collège Jean-de-la-Mennais), Jean-Philippe of specialty. a virtual portfolio of $100,000 over nine weeks by inAllard (Cégep Rivière-du-Loup) and Guy Rochette (gen­ www.artsmontreal.org vesting it in two types of investment portfolios: shares eral public). Each of these winners received a bursary of (130 securities) and diversified (225 securities). Partici$1,000. Congratulations! pants compete on three fronts: financial performance, portfolio management and responsible investment. www.bourstad.ca 22 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Supporting fast-growing From temporary housing technology to social companies reintegration By becoming a major partner in the Croissance Québec Techno (CQT) The Fonds de solidarité FTQ, the Fonds régional de training program for a fifth solidarité FTQ Québec and the Fonds regional de year in 2011-2012, the Fonds solidarité FTQ Chaudière-Appalaches have provided de solidarité FTQ provides ten years of support to the Fondation de Lauberivière, ambitious companies in the which was created to support the Maison Lauberivière, Mr. Jean Roy technology sector a unique to ensure the continuation of the Fondation and the Maison. opportunity to take advantage The Maison Lauberivière provides food and shelter of world-class support to to destitute men and women in the Québec City region. We would also like to highlight that the Regional Director design and implement strategies The popular soup kitchen, for example, serves up to of the Fonds régional de solidarité FTQ Québec and the for rapid growth. The program 500 people daily. Besides the welcome of warm food, Fonds régional de solidarité FTQ Chaudière-Appalaches, also provides a succession the Maison offers psycho-social services and therapy Jean Roy, also volunteers his time to the Fondation de component, which helps leaders through trained professionals to help individuals finish Lauberivière so it can benefit from his experience; he of technology companies high school, if they want, or use their time at the Maison has sat on its board of directors since 2001, and has in the start-up stage get support to re-enter society. By establishing trust with the people it been Chairman of the Board since 2004. from entrepreneurs who are helps, regardless of their needs, the Maison Lauberivière graduates of the Massachusetts helps them regain their confidence in their abilities and www.lauberiviere.org Institute of Technology (MIT) the will to live so they can go back to school or re-enter Entrepreneurship Center. the workforce. By providing them support customized to the critical issues A delicious inherent to the start-up stage, this training also helps difference! them enlarge their network Small changes in our consumer habits can have a big of contacts and steers them in impact: for example, putting something green on our terms of international marketing, plates during our meetings. This is why the Fonds de while targeting the growth solidarité FTQ has added Bernard & Fils Traiteur, a family and success of Québec companies company founded in 1904 that has stood the test of time on the international stage. by updating its menus, to its list of suppliers. AccordThe Ministry of Economic ingly, the products that form the foundation of its menus Development, Innovation and are organic or ecological certified, and are produced Export Trade offers this program locally. The company works with cutting-edge, energyin partnership with the efficient equipment and uses environmentally safe Business Development Bank cleaning products. In addition, it has a policy to reduce, of Canada, Québec International, reuse and recycle its products and – the cherry on top! – TechnoMontréal, the Fondation it has built partnerships with social and professional de l’entrepreneurship and training organizations. the Fonds de solidarité FTQ. That makes all the difference to us! www.croissanceqctechno.­ ning.com Génération d’idées Génération d’idées is a not-for-profit organization Génération d’idées held its first summit in November A position paper resulting from the Génération d’idées that offers Québecers aged 2010, which was attended by hundreds of people from 2010 summit was officially issued on June 8, 2011. 20 to 35 a milieu favourable across Québec. This summit allowed the organization This paper presents the issues and avenues for soluto expressing promising to take note of the significant questions – and also tion discussed during the summit. This document of ideas to meet the challenges answers – from the younger generation, notably in the about 100 pages also includes interesting proposals facing our society. field of Québec public affairs. The Fonds de solidarité FTQ to build a Québec that is adapted to the expectations supported this event. of today’s youth. www.generationdidees.ca Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 23 Our shareholders Launch of the Fonds’ new website This was a major project indeed: the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s Website was entirely revamped, both in terms of design and architecture. This new Internet showcase, which incorporates the new branding of the Fonds, was designed using the most recent ergonomics trends and best practices in content presentation. Our This colossal work was performed with the greatest synergy between all the people from the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, the regional and local solidarity funds and the Fonds shareholdersimmobilier FTQ involved in the project. Dozens of employees worked on the Website, and their work was well rewarded as, from January 21, 2011, the day of its launch, to May 31, 2011, the site received on average 2,500 hits per day. Thanks for visiting! owners These platforms of communication, of contact with today’s reality, are all opportunities to initiate the dialogue and relationships that we wish to have with our stakeholders. www.fondsftq.com If the Fonds de solidarité FTQ has a major socioeconomic impact on the Québec economy through its investments that benefit workers and companies, it’s foremost because of its shareholders-owners and the money they invest in the Fonds, which constitutes the capital that the Fonds makes available to Québec companies that want to grow and create or maintain jobs. The number of shareholders is still rising! Our shareholders, who have encouraged us to pursue our mission for nearly 30 years, truly understand: the Fonds de solidarité FTQ is their Fonds. They know that everyone working for the Fonds works for them: to help them save more easily to better prepare for retirement, to ensure their investment generates a reason­ able return, and to give them an opportunity to help grow their local economy as well as the The Fonds provides: Québec economy. the possibility of systematically tax savings of 30%, that are in addition As at May 31, 2011, 583,235 shareholders-­ saving through payroll deduction to the regular tax deduction granted owners contributed to the Fonds de solidarité FTQ: which provides immediate tax by both levels of government for a number that breaks last year’s record and just savings on each pay, or through RRSP contributions; keeps rising! Our shareholders, who develop automatic bank withdrawal; good saving habits, are loyal to us. 24/7 online access to the The advantages of the Fonds’ RRSP are the possibility of contributing shareholder’s account; numerous, the first of which is how easy it is to to its RRSP online using the 57 computerized field offices across contribute to it. “Bill Payment” function provided Québec where one can contribute by most major financial institutions; during the RRSP campaign and obtain Relevé 10 for tax purposes. New: subscribing online! The Fonds’ shareholders can contribute to their RRSP online. Beginning with the 2012 RRSP campaign, the Fonds will also allow future shareholders to subscribe through the Internet. Subscribing online is an easy, secure and quick way to save: you can do it without leaving home! Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 25 Our shareholders (continued) My Account Online rr if Shareholders have an online account they can access at any time and where they can execute certain payroll deduction or automatic bank withdrawal transactions. They can securely and confidentially consult their personal documents, such as the Shareholder Booklet, Relevé 10 for tax purposes, their portfolio summary, and transaction statements. fidence Systematic saving in the workplace Objective In addition Increasing systematic savings in the work­ to the other personalized place remains a priority for the Fonds de services offered, the Fonds solidarité FTQ because it is a simple way to de solidarité FTQ intends to save for retirement that thousands of workers offer shareholders, beginning can benefit from. Our network of local repre­ in Fall 2011, a click to call option for communicating sentatives (LRs), who have been integral to the with information agents Fonds since its beginning, significantly contri­ over the Internet. butes to reaching this important objective. Our LR network The LRs’ role in our strategy to raise aware­ ness and encourage savings is critical to the A safe payout product Fonds successfully executing its mission and multiplying the economic and social spinoffs SHAREHOLDER TESTIMONY SÉCURIFONDSTM* is a financial product especially of its investments across Québec. designed for the shareholders of the Fonds de As at May 31, 2011, the Fonds had “I did it all from home! solidarité FTQ that allows them to roll over to 2,029 LRs, men and women across Québec I have to say that when I an RRIF (Registered Retirement Income Fund) who encourage their work colleagues to retired, in September 2010, the amounts they accumulated in their RRSP sub­scribe to the Fonds’ RRSP. Their suc­ I didn’t even know that I could (Registered Retirement Savings Plan). cess during the year is evidenced by the transfer my RRSP into an RRIF. This new product is a segregated fund 11,147 payroll deduction subscriptions the An information agent of the Fonds that invests in bonds and shares and offers Fonds collected, mainly in workplaces with de solidarité FTQ called to explain a 100% principal guarantee at maturity or in unions affiliated with the Fédération des how I would benefit from such case of death, subject to certain conditions. travailleurs et travailleuses du Québec (FTQ), a transfer and, at the same time, This balanced fund is administered by SSQ, the Centrale des syndicats du Québec (CSQ), to tell me about SÉCURIFONDSTM. Life Insurance Company. the Fédération interprofessionnelle de la I filled out the required form, For a long time now, the Fonds de santé du Québec (FIQ) and the Confédération I didn’t have to pay any enrolment solidarité FTQ has wanted to offer its share­ nationale des cadres du Québec (CNCQ). fees, and a transfer was made holders an attractive and safe solution when to my SÉCURIFONDSTM account. they retire and look to roll over their RRSP to an For someone like me who RRIF. The partnership with SSQ, Life Insurance wants to take the least amount of Company, formalized in February 2011, led to financial risk possible, the principal the creation of this new product. guarantee at maturity offered by The shareholders of the Fonds de SÉCURIFONDSTM is the perfect solidarité FTQ who wish to do so may now solution. I feel confident, and choose a turnkey solution, SÉCURIFONDSTM. the service is impeccable.” They continue to benefit from quality service Suzanne Lauzon, and, above all, from an investment vehicle that a Fonds shareholder who helps them enjoy their retirement with confidence. chose SÉCURIFONDSTM www.fondsftq.com/securifonds * SÉCURIFONDSTM is a trademark of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ used under licence by SÉCURIFONDS Inc. and SSQ, Life Insurance Company Inc. 26 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 To be able to answer questions from their col­ And that’s not all: each year they attend leagues who already are or wish to become regional meetings to share their experiences Fonds shareholders, the LRs follow a contin­ and update their knowledge of the Fonds’ Objective Over the next uing education program that gives them the products, activities and achievements. In addi­ financial year, we will continue information tools they need to fulfill their tion, before each of the Fonds’ general annual our work to raise awareness role. They are strongly backed by the Fonds’ meetings in Montréal, they attend a national of sustainable development subscription coordinators and have access training and information session. among our LRs by adding to a call centre and have exclusive access to During the last financial year, the LRs elements addressing the main an interactive extranet. This is a way for them organized 1,494 subscription campaigns issues related to sustainable to communicate directly with the Fonds and throughout Québec. development to their training. get the information they need, to obtain infor­ mation and reference materials or to enrol in training activities online. Young adults and personal finance Question Retraite is an organization whose goal is In 2011, the Fonds’ promotion activities, including its pub-­ to raise Québecers’ awareness on the importance of li­city campaign, caught a lot of attention, and resulted in saving for retirement. To understand the perceptions an increase in the number of shareholders (27,811 new and knowledge of young adults ranging from 25 to share­holders, as at May 31, 2011). Yet, because it is critical 34 years old on personal finance, particularly savings to continue raising the awareness of young adults on the and retirement, the organization asked SOM Research importance of savings, and particularly retirement savings, and Surveys to take a survey of three young-adult target the Fonds will ensure that its next promotion activities and groups in March 2011. publicity campaign will specifically target people aged less The results showed that, while the young adults than 40 years old, in addition to its overall target public. are not completely unaware of various advertisements on savings and retirement, they do not encourage them The Fonds and Question Retraite to save more or begin saving earlier. This is why par­ A reference organization created in 2003 under the initia­ ticipants suggested that information on this subject tive of the Régie des rentes du Québec to raise awareness should be better adapted to young adults. To that end, of Québecers, mainly aged 25 to 45 years, on the impor­ they proposed several options, including organizing, tance of an early start to retirement savings, Question within companies, information sessions on financial Retraite is a public-private not-for-profit group made up planning and budgeting that specifically target younger of partners hailing from unions, employers, the financial employees, and broadcasting short videos on various community, universities and governments. The Fonds aspects of financial planning. de solidarité FTQ is actively involved in the awarenessThe Fonds: close to young adults in the workplace raising activities launched by the organization, particu­ larly with the Retirement Planning Month, which is held S cT The Fonds de solidarité FTQ understood that a person­ every October. alized approach that is adapted to young adults was important in any strategy for encouraging savings. Accordingly, through the work of our local representa­ www.questionretraite.qc.ca OJ E tives in the workplace, the awareness of many young adults has been raised regarding the importance of saving, and the ease and practicality of systematic savings PR in particular. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 27 Our shareholders (continued) Carbon-neutral annual general meetings The Fonds de solidarité FTQ believes in the importance of promoting the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) or offset­ ting them through environmentally-friendly activities. Our annual general meeting is one example of our commitment to this, and the Fonds has once again turned to Planetair for a fifth year. projects that reduce GHG emissions at the Objective The Fonds de solidarité FTQ set The Fonds has undergone significant source, thereby offsetting the emitted GHG a goal of holding carbon-neutral annual general efforts to reduce the environmental impact related to the Fonds’ annual general meeting. meetings while carrying out its efforts to reduce its ecological footprint. In addition, a short of its annual general meeting, particularly Planetair is a not-for-profit service pro­ video on sustainable development will be aired by encouraging carpooling. vided by Unisféra, an international centre during the coming annual general meetings to Planetair assesses the quantity of GHG of expertise on sustainable development lo­ spread the word to its shareholders and attendees. emissions that cannot be entirely elimi­ cated in Montréal. By raising the awareness nated that are related to transportation, of various social actors on the impact their lodging and meals for attendees. The Fonds activities have on the climate and encour­ then pays a monetary amount for each tonne aging changes in behaviour, Planetair helps of GHG. Planetair uses this money to invest individuals, businesses and institutions reduce in renewable energy or energy efficiency their climate footprint. Invest in the Fonds A $500 investment only and get costs about $160 + 30% 2010-2011 cash inflows: up $40 million! Through the involvement of our LR network Investment TAX CREDIT (30%) RRSP Actual and employees, as well as the activities we APPLICABLE DEDUCTION* Outlay TO THE FONDS undertook during the greater-public RRSP $500 $150 $190 $160 campaign, our cash inflows for the financial in tax savings * Example based on a marginal tax rate of 38%. year ended May 31, 2011 allowed us to issue $698 million in shares. In terms of cash inflows, the last financial year ranks among the five best years in the Cultural communities Fonds’ 28 years. We can call this a success, An in-depth study carried out by our market especially since this RRSP campaign occurred development and analysis department high­ during an economic recovery. In particular, lighted certain socio-demographic observations we collected nearly one third of these cash that helped us better understand the needs inflows ($221 million) during the month of and expectations of Québecers of various February alone. origins in order to help them benefit from the We must single out one fact that surely Fonds and enrich our shareholder base. contributed to this success: the campaign We also paid special attention to the was supported by media and advertising tools needs and expectations of young Québecers, that emphasized the numerous advantages for whom it is understandable that saving is of subscribing to the Fonds, while at the same not necessarily a priority. Our goal is to show time presenting some of our well-known part­ them that there are many advantages to sub­ Objective Over the next financial year, the Fonds ner companies such as Just For Laughs, BMR, scribing to an RRSP at a young age, particularly de solidarité FTQ will further intensify its efforts to connect the Maison des futailles and the Canadiens through payroll deduction, because this kind with young people and cultural communities so they can Hockey Club. of subscription barely reduces take home pay. all fully benefit, as early as possible, from the Fonds’ RRSP. 28 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 A major socioeconomic impact Because Québec is facing a more rapidly RRSP, and then continue contributing on a ments. Studies by SECOR, the last of which aging population than the rest of the Canadian systematic basis. As such, over the years, was carried out in June 2010, clearly show provinces and a large percentage of Québecers the Fonds was a big part of creating strong that the activities of the companies funded do not save enough to provide adequately savings habits, which allow Québecers to by the Fonds de solidarité FTQ allow the for their needs during retirement, retirement enjoy better financial security upon retire­ governments of Québec and Canada to col­ savings is a question of paramount impor­ ment. In addition, through steps taken by lect increased tax revenues. After three tance. Since its creation in 1983, the Fonds the Fonds, 6,357 companies are making it years on average, the governments effec­ de solidarité FTQ has been raising aware­ easier for their employees to contribute to tively recover the total cost of granting the ness among workers of the importance of the Fonds’ RRSP by providing the option of tax credits, and afterwards, they generate retirement savings. contributing through payroll deduction. a surplus as the shareholders leave their More than securing a comfortable money in the Fonds much longer than the retirement, buying shares of the Fonds three years necessary to recover costs. also means participating in developing the economy, since the savings the Fonds col­ A unique contribution lects is then invested in huge amounts in to financing companies companies impacting the Québec econ­ SHAREHOLDERS This substantial contribution by the • Reasonable return omy. These investments therefore • Retirement savings Fonds to increasing retirement sav­ equally benefit workers and com­ • Participation ings is certainly essential, but the panies, all while stimulating the in economic role of the Fonds, which trans­ development Québec economy. forms this savings into financing for Québec companies, is just A pool of retirement as essential. No other QuébecGOVERNMENTS COMPANIES savings making a major impact • Creating quality jobs • Patient and based retirement savings vehicle In addition to having a major • Supporting public complementary capital is dedicated in such a significant impact on the Québec economy, pension plans • Value-added services way to financing private companies. • Recovering • Throughout Québec the Fonds de solidarité FTQ plays costs quickly • At every In fact, little of the Québec re­ a major role in terms of retirement development stage tirement savings pool is channelled savings, which is often overlooked. toward private equity financing. Yet The Fonds de solidarité FTQ has ac­ this type of financing is crucial, par­ tually created, during the last 25 years, a ticularly in Québec where companies large new pool of retirement savings. Let’s use stock markets less to raise financing. look at the numbers: as at May 31, 2011, Therefore, by investing a quarter of its assets the Fonds had 583,235 shareholders, who in this kind of financing – whether directly collectively, as shareholders-owners of the in private companies or indirectly through Fonds, held net assets totalling $8.2 billion. We know that the tax credits granted to specialized venture or development capital The Fonds has therefore allowed share­holders of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ funds – the Fonds clearly distinguishes hundreds of thousands of workers to are a profitable fiscal investment, both itself from the other players in the contribute – often for the first time – to an for the Québec economy and the govern­ financial sector. Our shareholders’ satisfaction is a priority services and products. According to surveys We want to attract new shareholders, but we we have taken in the last financial year, 75% of also want to retain and earn the loyalty of our our shareholders have expressed pride in the existing shareholders. Our priority has always Fonds de solidarité FTQ and 83% have stated been our shareholders’ satisfaction – and our that the Fonds is a good organization. shareholders appreciate it. Objective Over the next financial year, the Fonds de Through the increasingly personalized solidarité FTQ will continue to take the necessary surveys services we provide, the clear and useful docu­ to measure the degree of shareholder satisfaction with ments we issue – particularly the Shareholder our products and services. The degree of shareholder Booklet – we continuously ensure that we are satisfaction has always been very high, but we want meeting their expectations, and we regularly to monitor it regularly to continue providing products gauge their degree of satisfaction with our and services that meet their expectations. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 29 OUR ECONOMIC impact OUR ECONOMIC ACHIEVEMENTS Stimulating the economy in many ways T he Fonds has a vast investment network that com­ Direct and indirect contributions prises, in addition to the Fonds de solidarité FTQ The activities of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ have both itself, 16 regional funds, 87 local funds, the Fonds direct and indirect economic impacts. Our investments immobilier de solidarité FTQ and 80 specialized in companies indeed generate a direct and observable funds. The regional and local funds give com­ economic value, such as quality jobs, but they also have panies across Québec the means to stay competitive and an indirect impact through income taxes (corporate and grow; this is another step toward sustainable development, personal) paid to governments and amounts reinjected as it necessarily implies regional development. Similarly, by companies and workers in the community. The fact innovation is crucial to company and economic develop­ that the Fonds, in its entire network, sources its goods ment, and this is why, particularly through its specialized and services inasmuch as possible from local and Québec funds, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ plays a pivotal role on suppliers is another example of indirect contribution to the that front. Québec economy. 30 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Grants and government assistance The Fonds de solidarité FTQ does not receive any govern­ ment grants. However, our shareholders receive tax credits of 30%, with 15% from the Government of Québec and 15% from the federal government, on a maximum annual contribution of $5,000. Our local procurement policy The Fonds de solidarité FTQ sources its goods and serv­ Close to 90% of the ices first and foremost in Québec. In accordance with the policy it adopted, it favours making purchases from com­ Fonds’ purchases of goods panies in which it has an interest, those with unionized employees, as well as Québec or Canadian companies. and services were made It goes without saying that the Fonds takes into account other criteria, such as product quality, the financial health from suppliers located of suppliers and meeting deadlines. Accordingly, in the last financial year, 88% of the in Québec. Fonds’ purchases of goods and services were made from suppliers located in Québec. Direct economic impact of the fonds for the year ended may 31, 2011 (in thousands of dollars) Direct economic value created Interest and dividend revenues 255,519 Realized gains on development capital investments and other investments and change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation 539,942 Direct economic value distributed Operating costs 47,875 Salaries and related benefits 65,931 Payments to shareholders 466,038* Payments to governments (income and other taxes) 26,136 Investments in the community (donations and sponsorships) 893 * Amount of shares redeemed. The Fonds does not pay dividends. The 60% Rule When we talk about the economic impacts of the Fonds de Assembly. The Fonds invests the remaining portion in other financial solidarité FTQ, it is important to highlight that the Fonds, even vehicles to diversify its overall portfolio and therefore appropriately though it may make development capital investments in any manage the amounts entrusted to it by its shareholders. company, with or without security, must invest each year at least Since the minimum percentage of 60% has been reached 60% of its average net assets of the previous financial year in as at May 31, 2011, the Fonds will be able to issue all the shares “qualified business enterprises” (generally SMEs) in the form of required in exchange for the amounts it will receive in the next unsecured investments. The parameters of this rule are set out in the financial year without any limitation. Fonds’ Incorporation Act, which was adopted by the Québec National For more details on the 60% Rule, please refer to page 65. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 31 OUR ECONOMIC impact (continued) The economic impact of our partner companies Commentary by Daniel Denis, Partner and Economist, SECOR Consulting The contribution to the Québec economy by the Fonds’ partner companies increased substantially over the last year. In 2010, their activities generated an added value estimated at $9,899 million in Québec. The economic wealth created by the Fonds’ partner companies therefore increased by 15% compared to 2009, a growth rate that is 4 times the rate for the Québec economy as a whole. This significant rise in wealth creation is attributable to the growth in the activities of companies already in the portfo­ lio and the increase in the number of partner companies. To understand the scale of this contribution, we need to highlight the fact that the total added value generated by the Fonds’ partner companies represents 3.4% of Québec’s over­ all Gross Domestic Product (GDP). If we limit the analysis to the main industries targeted by the Fonds’ investments, ECONOMIC IMPACT ON QUÉBEC RELATED TO THE PRODUCTION OF GOODS AND SERVICES it is almost 8% of Québec’s GDP that is generated by its BY THE FONDS’ PARTNER COMPANIES – 2010 partner companies. In addition, the added value per job supported amounted overall to $78,315 in 2010 and to Direct Indirect Total close to $80,000 for jobs directly offered by the Fonds’ effect effect effect partner companies. The average added value per job for Value added to base prices (in $M) 6,617 3,282 9,899 the companies supported by the Fonds is therefore very rep­ Jobs (in person-years) 83,111 43,289 126,400 resentative of the overall picture for the Québec economy. Added value per job (in $) 79,616 75,816 78,315 The table opposite presents the various positive Source: SECOR analysis and results of the Institut de la statistique du Québec (ISQ)’s intersectoral model. economic impacts of our partner companies, which are particularly related to salaries paid to their employees, income and other taxes paid to governments and the companies activities as such. DIRECT AND INDIRECT IMPACTS (in thousands of $) Salaries 5,107,784 Other gross revenues 4,790,800 Government revenues Government of Québec1 423,575 Government of Canada2 251,331 Incidental and indirect taxes3 1,136,063 1. Includes taxes on salaries, sales taxes and specific taxes. 2. Includes taxes on salaries, sales taxes, specific taxes and excise tax. 3. Includes QPP, HSF, CSST, employment insurance and indirect taxes. Source: SECOR analysis and results of the ISQ’s intersectoral model. 32 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 OUR PARTNERS Carbon credits investments of $733 million During the last financial year, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ formed a working committee whose mission fits within the Fonds’ sustainable development approach. The mission of this committee is to: The Fonds de solidarité FTQ invested – undertake legislative and – support the actions and efforts $733 million in companies over the market intelligence on the made to promote GHG reduction last financial year. The Fonds undertook issue of carbon credits and to our partners; these investments to encourage start-ups greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction – issue a guide that will help regulations and on sustainable in the technology sector, growth in our our external directors and development best practices; our representatives in acting SMEs, the competitiveness of companies – make available to our investment proactively on the board in strategic sectors such as wood specialists relevant and of directors of our partner and biotechnology, company succession, continuous information, in companies on carbon credit particular by posting news on and GHG issues. and, ultimately, the enhancement the Fonds’ intranet site; of Québec’s industrial fabric. The committee will encourage the execution of concrete actions in the coming year. In addition, it will play a central role in bringing together Below we present a few examples the stakeholders concerned and interested in the carbon credit issue in of these investments. A complete order to pool knowledge and expertise. Objective list of the Fonds’ investments and more In the longer term, and based on future legislation, the committee could During the next financial details on some of them can be found participate in the development of market strategies and appropriate year, the Fonds will financial products that will help our partner companies meet the continue implementing on our Website: www.fondsftq.com. sustainable development challenges facing the Québec economy… the Carbon Credit and our planet. Committee and making it operational. The wood sector: conserving our national forestry treasure The largest cross-laminated timber plant For the Fonds de solidarité FTQ and its regional Last spring, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ com­ Chantiers Chibougamau is a cutting-edge com­ investment network, the forestry sector is pleted a $5 million investment in Chantiers pany that has distinguished itself in its industry sig­nificant. This is a sector that creates Chibougamau, a family business that manuby its ability to innovate and integrating sus­ wealth and jobs, and is intimately related to factures and sells forestry products. The tainable development principles, in partic­ular our mission. Through our investments we “competitiveness loan” offered by the Fonds by reclaiming wood fibre from the beginning to aim to support strong companies involved in was used to finance the capital assets of the the end of the transformation process. Forest primary and secondary transformation. new cross-laminated timber plant, which is the Stewardship Council (FSC) certified, the com­ The Fonds is also committed to playing only such plant in North America and the larg­ pany began manufacturing large architectural an active role in the responsible management est in the world. This plant created 30 new jobs joists of superior solidity and stability that can of Québec’s forestry resources by contribut­ in the company, that now employs 465 people. replace concrete and steel. Not surprisingly, ing to keeping here the ownership of private the company is in full expansion. properties. This is also why the Fonds cre­ ated Société de gestion d’actifs forestiers Solifor, in 2006, which has invested since then over $130 million to acquire forest land to be sustainably harvested for the benefit of Québec. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 33 “When I created the Fonds d’investissement de Montréal (FIM), the Fonds de solidarité FTQ immediately lent its support. And I admit that without this help it would have been very difficult to build what we have. “Economic and The FIM is a private fund that shares the Fonds’ socioeconomic social development mission by helping housing renovation for lowerand middle-income families has been at the heart in Montréal’s less privileged neighbourhoods.” of the Fonds’ mission for nearly 30 years, and Le Devoir has been a witness to the Fonds’ successes, innovations Phyllis Lambert and achievements Founder, Canadian over the years. We share “Issuing a sustainability Architecture Centre and the Fonds’ vision of report forces company leaders Founder and President of FIM economic success, to report on their economic, and we believe that its social and environmental continued support for performance. This kind of Québec SMEs is a major exercise can then be used to contribution to our set targets for improvement Marc Paquin collective wealth.” and undertake specific President and CEO, measures to move toward Unisféra/Planetair integrating sustainable development in the various elements of company management. The Fonds de Bernard DescÔteaux solidarité FTQ is resolute in Director, Le Devoir its commitment to sustainable development and convinced that it adds value to the What Fonds and its stakeholders. I congratulate the Fonds on this socially responsible “I know that the economic commitment that requires they training in the workplace offered ongoing effort.” by the Fonds adds significant value to its financial support. Through the improved are communication that results, this training triggers ideas! Participants better understand the challenges for the companies saying… employing them in terms of growing and remaining competitive. Then everyone has the same success goals.” Germain Ouellet Senior Vice-President, Human Resources, Premier Tech 34 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 OUR PARTNERS (continued) The reopening of the Scierie Forget These investment funds allow the Fonds de Enerkem distinguishes itself through man­ Also in the timber industry, the Fonds invested solidarité FTQ to improve its venture capital agement of non-recyclable waste destined $2 million in May 2011 to restart activities of offering for technology companies. It is im­ for landfills. Enerkem can reclaim a large variety the old Scierie Forget, which was acquired by portant that Québec dedicates seed capital of waste that it transforms into value-added Groupe Crête (Saint-Faustin division), a family for companies looking to move from the fun­ products such as clean fuel for transportation, business in Saint-Séverin, in Mauricie. The damental research stage to the application green chemical products used to produce many company possesses several advantages, in­ and commercialization stage, whether in consumer products and even green electricity. cluding low production costs and cutting-edge information technologies, clean technologies The company is in full expansion. equipment. By adopting a business strategy or life sciences. In addition, in life sciences, focused on FSC-certified products that met the AmorChem fund is a very good example, the needs of regional clients, the company as it helps companies move toward the com­ will now turn to the reclamation of gray pine mercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic as a building material for terraces, the use of products and medical instruments designed by softwood for exterior cladding, and the sawing universities, companies and research centres of species such as larch for flooring and ter­ in Québec. races. Restarting the activities of the sawmill in the Laurentides and Lanaudière is wonder­ Enerkem and ultimate waste reclamation ful news for these forestry regions so hard hit In the clean technology industry, the Fonds de by the slowdown in the industry. solidarité FTQ supports companies that have the basic goal of protecting the environment Three start-up funds while stimulating the Québec economy. In for technology companies 2002, the Fonds was involved in the launch The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is a major player in of Enerkem, a company that the magazine the Québec technology industry. Accordingly, Fast Company names among the 50 most in partnership with the Ministry of Economic innovative in the world. This magazine puts Development, Innovation and Export Trade, thousands of companies under the microthe Fonds was involved over the last year in scope to perform its ranking, which includes creating three new start-up funds for tech­ companies such as Apple, Twitter and Facebook nology companies: the seed fund Cycle-C3E at the head of the list. Enerkem is even ranked (part of venture capital firm Cycle Capital second in the energy category! Management), which invests in companies specialized in the clean technology sector, the AmorChem fund, which invests in compa­ nies specialized in life sciences, and the Réal investment fund (created as part of Montréal 20 Start-Up), a venture capital fund specialized in financing young technology companies. Investing in years our future… now! Our local solidarity fund network “Investing in our future… now!” is the theme that Fonds The Fonds locaux de solidarité FTQ organization, head­ locaux de solidarité FTQ has chosen to mark their 20th quartered in Québec City, offers financing to each LSF. anniversary, in 2011. This limited partnership, to which The limited partnership makes an amount of $750,000 the Fonds de solidarité FTQ has contributed $76 million available to each LSF that has already raised a capital of since 1991, was created at the request of municipalities in $250,000 from local partners. With the LSFs, the com­ partnership with the Québec Federation of Municipalities. munities can thus benefit from a significant leverage. If we add to this the $24 million contributed by local As part of the 20th anniversary celebrations of Fonds partners, the network of 87 local solidarity funds (LSF) locaux de solidarité FTQ, on November 17 and 18, 2011, grouped within the organization has $100 million available over 200 stakeholders from the local socioeconomic to finance SMEs. environments that gravitate around LSFs will meet in During all these years, the LSF network, present Québec City to discuss the entrepreneurship culture in in all regions of Québec, financed over 2,500 projects Québec as well as the local solidarity funds’ successes and thus helped create, maintain and protect more than and the challenges to be met in the coming years. 23,000 jobs in Québec. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 35 OUR PARTNERS (continued) 15 years of active presence in the regions! The year 2011 marks the 15th anniversary of the Fonds régionaux de solidarité FTQ. With 16 offices located across Québec, the Fonds régionaux count on the knowledge, experience and passion of nearly 60 people who are well-connected in their community to help companies grow in their regions and drive our economy. Since it was created in 1996, the Fonds régionaux have helped create, protect or maintain over 29,000 jobs through investments amounting to $392 million in nearly 800 companies. The concerted efforts of this entire network, and the teamwork and contagious enthusiasm of its stakeholders are key to delivering such exceptional results. Innovation, regional strength, human capital, sustainable economic development, these are the key words that describe the Fonds régionaux de solidarité FTQ. The Fonds régionaux support companies in the growth stage that are moving forward, and provide them capital of up to $2 million, mainly through loans. With its focus on development and proximity, the Fonds régionaux’s structure easily adapts to the economic conditions in each region. Each of the 16 Fonds régionaux has a board of directors made up of people from the local socioeconomic and business communities. Therefore, it is people who truly understand the issues their regions face who review the files and make decisions about the investments that encourage development in their region. Québec SMEs, the core of our investments The Fonds de solidarité FTQ invests devel­ Cultural enterprises In the wake of these investments in the opment capital in companies in just about Active in the culture sector for numerous years – cultural sector, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ every activity sector impacting the Québec with nearly $350 million of investments – the also invested an additional $6.7 million in the economy. As at May 31, 2011, 83% of the Fonds pursues its commitment by de­di­cat­ Fonds d’investissement de la culture et des partner companies of the Fonds and regional ing $40 million for the new Fonds Capital communications (FICC), a limited partnership, funds have less than 100 employees. SMEs Culture Québec, created in collaboration with which brings to $26.7 million its total invest­ therefore occupy a predominant place in our the Government of Québec, which itself will ment in this fund. This investment is in addition investment portfolio since they are the basis of invest $60 million. Producing shows, publishing to the $400,000 provided by the Union des the Québec eco­nomic fabric; well modernized, books, producing television and movies artistes and the $3.3 million invested by the and especially, well financed to meet the com­ and multi-platform productions and sound Société de développement des entreprises petition, they can consolidate their market, re­cor­­dings are the main sectors targeted by culturelles (SODEC). develop new ones, make acquisitions and con­ these investments. tinue to grow jobs and wealth in Québec. The goal of the Fonds Capital Culture The Fonds is there to support them and Québec, with capital amounting to $100 million, help them in projects leading to growth. is to finance projects of large Québec enterprises that target international markets. Investment funds as varied as they are necessary As part of the budget tabled on March 17, 2011 TESTIMONY by the Government of Québec, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ committed to investing “The Québec culture is a strong economic force. Our culture shines across the world and $50 million to create two new investment it is with good reason that the success that our creators and performers enjoy reflects on the funds, one dedicated to companies in the rest of Québec. Culture needs investments to further encourage Québec talents who are emerging culture sector and another for entrepreneurial here and internationally. It must be given the means to go even further! I salute the Fonds succession in Québec. de solidarité FTQ for its solid support in a sector that is at the heart of Québecers’ DNA. Thank you!” Raymond Legault, President, Union des artistes and Chair of the Board of Directors of the Fonds d’investissement de la culture et des communications 36 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 The Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ Helping create and maintain jobs The Fonds immobilier in the real estate sector Since its creation in 1991, the Fonds immobilier de de solidarité FTQ at a glance: solidarité FTQ has invested, as stated in its mission, in diversified and profitable strategic real estate projects with the aim of creating and protecting jobs. Major As at May 31, 2011, the Fonds immobilier construction and renovation projects for office buildings de solidarité FTQ was committed and commercial, industrial, institutional and residential to the following projects: properties are at the centre of the Fonds immobilier’s activities. The Fonds immobilier’s real estate projects 29 office buildings authorized during the financial year ended May 31, totalling 2.1 million square feet; 2011 will, in total, create or maintain roughly 9,800 jobs. 8 retirement residences providing 1,849 units; Taking advantage of the real estate rebound and general economic recovery Over 4,400 condo units The Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ took advantage in 19 different projects; of last year’s economic recovery by concluding 12 new partnerships in the commercial, residential and office 25 million square feet of land sectors, representing projects valued at $1.3 billion. for 18 future projects. In addition, the Fonds immobilier continued work with about 30 real estate projects already underway in Gatineau, Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Brossard and Lévis. Over the last financial year, the Fonds immobilier signed contracts for two condo tower projects in Montréal’s northern and southern suburbs: one contract, with the groupe Le Versant, is to build 750 condo units in the Urbania project in Laval. The Fonds immobilier is also involved in Phase I of the District Griffin project in Environment: targeting LEED certification the Centre-Sud neighbourhood of Montréal (Ville-Marie Aware of its role as a socially responsible investor, the Borough). This immense project, which will create Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ accords a great deal 2,100 jobs, promotes sustainable development and is con­ of importance to the environment. Constructing ecolosidered by some to be a “neighbourhood rejuvenator”, gical buildings is part of its business plan. This is why it because the diversity of buildings in the area means it is aiming to help entrepreneurs obtain LEED (Leadership will be possible to live, work and play there. in Energy and Environmental Design) certification, which assesses a building’s performance in seven areas: sustainable site development, water efficiency, energy and atmosphere, materials and resources, indoor Place Telus, Québec City environmental quality, innovation and design process, and regional priority. Accordingly, through an investment of nearly $30 million by the Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ and its partners, the old Canada Post sorting centre in Québec City, now called Place Telus, was completely renovated and is on the way to LEED certification. Inte­ grating many windows, parking spaces for carpoolers and spaces for bicycles are a few examples of accom­ modations that were made. Mechanical systems were also equipped with cutting-edge technology to provide better control over lighting and air conditioning. Other buildings in the Fonds immobilier’s portfolio are also photo: stephane groleau on the way to LEED certification, including a building located in Brossard, in which the Fonds immobilier has invested over $13 million for construction, and whose main tenant is the Organisme d’autoréglementation du courtage immobilier du Québec (OACIQ). Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 37 OUR PARTNERS (continued) Entrepreneurial succession, the focus of our concerns As Québec faces the major issue of entre­ Visit our Business Succession Portfolio preneurial succession and continuation of Manager, Gabriel Nadon’s blog: companies, it should, now more than ever, support and finance a new generation of busi­ www.bloguereleve.fondsftq.com. ness leaders. The Fonds de solidarité FTQ agreed to invest $10 million in the new Fonds Relève Québec, an amount in addition to what In addition to investing to help with succession, Agricultural succession the Government of Québec ($20 million), the Fonds de solidarité FTQ also instigated Business succession is also a big challenge in the Fondaction CSN ($10 million) and Capital the Opération Relève Québec 2011, a wide-­ agricultural sector. The Fonds de solidarité FTQ régional et coopératif Desjardins ($10 million) spread information and networking campaign is aware of this, which is why it invested $25 million are investing. in 13 towns in Québec (from February to in the Fonds d’investissement pour la relève Company succession has been the focus October 2011). The conferences and work­ agricole (FIRA). of the Fonds’ concerns for nearly 15 years, shops of this effort, launched with specialists In March 2011, at the Congrès annuel de and we want to continue to financially and and major partners – the magazine Les Affaires, la Fédération de la relève agricole du Québec, strategically support entrepreneurs and their Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton, BCF law FIRA was officially launched. FIRA is a $75 million successors. By offering them innovative and firm, the Ministry of Economic Development, investment fund created through a partnership flexible financial tools, as a complement to Innovation and Export Trade and the entire between the Government of Québec, Capital other financial opportunities provided by regional investment network of the Fonds de régional et coopératif Desjardins and the more traditional financial institutions, the Fonds solidarité FTQ – will help carry on the work Fonds de solidarité FTQ, which each contributed allows business leaders and their successors already underway in this area, and contribute $25 million. This fund provides significant finan­ to be the best equipped to have a successful to increasing the success rate for company cial leverage to encourage succession in the transfer. In addition, the Fonds Relève Québec transfers in Québec. Québec agricultural sector. represents a new source of capital to encour­ To date, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ and www.lefira.ca age the transfer of control of Québec SMEs its network of regional funds were involved into the hands of Québec buyers. in nearly 100 succession cases, and invested over $175 million to encourage their success. To be continued! Engaging our partner companies Objective To raise our partners’ awareness of the various elements of sustainable development and share with them the positive impacts that they can have on their companies, we wish, over the next financial year, to: 1) Review and update, as needed, 3) Organize concrete activities (events, letter or within a sustainable development perspective: e-mail campaigns) to raise our partners’ awareness of sustainable development. – The investment policy of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, which sets out the general principles as well as main guidelines 4) Publish articles on sustainable development or for our investments. This policy establishes the issues that interviews with experts in this area, in particular in our the Fonds’ investment specialists must take into consideration newsletter Le partenaire PME. and the environment within which they must operate. 5) Review our investment procedures – The management declaration is signed upon closing an to adequately analyze environmental risks. investment. Pursuant to this declaration, the management of the partner company confirms annually that it complies 6) Continue studying and strengthening our with the main labour relations laws and that its operations due diligence practices, particularly in regards comply with applicable environmental regulations. to the new international ISO 26000 standard. 2) Survey our partners regarding their expectations of the Fonds’ 7) CONTINUE TO annually review our Other financing and investment activities, with respect to the environmental Investments portfolio, paying particular attention and social aspects of these activities. to concerns related to sustainable development. 38 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 What Luc Godbout Full Professor, Accounting Sciences Department, and Head Researcher, Public Finances, Research Chair in Tax and Public Finances, they Université de Sherbrooke “To be sustainable, development must absolutely account for social and economic are saying… issues in addition to environmental ones. A company that adopts a sustainable approach in its economic activities undoubtedly gains a better understanding of the significance of issues such as the impact of an aging population, as well as business succession and workforce training.” “You can’t talk about economic and social development if you don’t care about including the regions. Of the Fonds’ investments, 55% are made outside of the Montréal region. The Fonds is present throughout Québec and collaborates with regional stakeholders. We need a strong metropolitan area, but we also need resource-regions that are strongly anchored in our economy.” “Our economic environment is getting more complex, and to grow, companies have to stay competitive. Business succession is one of many challenges our society must Bernard Généreux face by creating financial President of tools and ongoing support the Québec Federation for entrepreneurs of Municipalities who will soon pass the torch to their successors.” René Vézina Journalist, Les Affaires Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 39 OUR PARTNERS (continued) Québec companies Transat A.T.: the will to always do better Groupe Robert runs on natural gas! and sustainable development Transat A.T., one of the world’s largest tour operators In 2010, Groupe Robert, in business for about and a Fonds partner since 1990, considers that 60 years and a leader in transportation, reached In January 2011, the Ministry of Economic host communities, cultural diversity and relations another milestone in its “green approach”. The Development, Innovation and Export Trade with its employees, customers and partners are company, a partner of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ (MEDIET) issued the results of its sustainable three critically important elements. Tourism is one since 1993, currently has close to 2,500 employees development survey of Québec companies, of the world’s leading industries; its benefits are and had sales of approximately $250 million in conducted on all companies located in Québec. manifold and, each year, it allows approximately 2010. Groupe Robert is one of the most innovative The analysis covered two major types of indus­ 900 million people to discover the world and companies in its industry, and its executives are tries: goods and services. The detailed results of new cultures. often considered true visionaries. this survey are available on the MEDIET’s Website. Transat A.T. is firmly committed to the re­ It is interesting to note that 70.4% of sponsible development of the tourism industry. For Québec companies first associate environmental the company, sustainable tourism entails respect protection with sustainable development, fol­ for nature, as well as for host communities and lowed by the social aspect (54.7%), economic and their values; it combines positive socioeconomic financial performance (52.5%) and issues related benefits for local populations with an enriching to governance responsibility in decision-making experience for travellers. (40.2%). While, as expected, the environment Transat A.T. issued, for its financial years stands out as the main sustainable development 2009 and 2010, a corporate responsibility report issue, many companies also incorporate other in which it reports on its achievements for the last social and economic issues into the sustainable two years and states its ongoing commitment to act In 2010, the company ordered 180 liquefied natural aspect of development. responsibly toward all individuals and groups affect­ gas vehicles. It is only the beginning but, with these It is also encouraging to note that 59% of ed by its activities, including communities that are new trucks, Groupe Robert will substantially reduce companies made their employees aware of sus­ vacation destinations for its customers. the greenhouse gas emissions of its fleet. The com­ tainable development, and it seems clear that the Transat’s sustainable development initiatives pany acknowledges that, to secure the future, it is vast majority of companies want to be trained on are numerous and innovative. They include, for in­ urgent to have a vision of the world that encom­ that topic. stance, its association with SOS Children’s Villages, passes the social, economic and environmental an organization that takes under its wings some aspects of development. By diversifying its activ­ 80,000 orphaned and abandoned children in ities and offering value-added services and systems Attractive 132 countries, and its partnership with Beyond to its customers, by adequately training its personnel Borders, an organization fighting against child and by using leading-edge technologies and vehicles business opportunities sexual exploitation. that are safe and in perfect condition, Groupe Robert The company is committed to ceaselessly does its share in terms of responsible development. Following are two examples continue its sustainable tourism efforts, with the The company is the first in its industry to use of partner companies of support of its employees, partners, suppliers and liquefied natural gas trucks. Natural gas is 30% the Fonds de solidarité FTQ travelling customers. less polluting than diesel. This decision obviously in­ For more details: www.resp.transat.com/en/ volves significant upfront financial investments but, that successfully integrated in the long run, it is certainly a winning choice for a sustainable development Groupe Robert… and the planet! approach to their activities. The Fonds’ Rendez-vous Conseil Since 2006, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ has sustainable development. She specified the showed that two out of three participating SMEs been organizing the Rendez-vous Conseil, which nature of the social responsibility and sustainable made progress in the application of good govern­ brings together the external directors represent­ development issues and their impact on current ance principles. This improvement necessarily ing the Fonds on the board of directors of its business strategies and management. She also depends on a continuously evolving process that partner companies. The 2010 Rendez-vous was clarified the role of the directors with regards to includes requirements that may seem stringent, held on November 22, 2010, and over a hundred these issues and explained the importance of but whose benefits are increasingly recognized by participants benefited from relevant informaadequate reporting once objectives are defined, business leaders. tion related to their responsibilities, as well as risks are managed, performance is measured and The IGPPO is a centre for excellence both training on new accounting standards and susactions are assessed to allow for follow-up. in Canada and worldwide for governance re­ tainable development. search and training and a centre for the study of Governance: notable progress by SMEs best practices at the senior management level. Directors and sustainable development Michel Nadeau, Executive Director of the Institute The Fonds de solidarité FTQ chose the IGPPO to Johanne Gélinas, Partner at Samson Bélair Deloitte for Governance of Private and Public Organizations develop and provide a training program tailored & Touche, gave a presentation on the challenges (IGPPO), presented the results of a survey to SME directors. that corporate directors face with respect to con­ducted by the IGPPO in October 2010 that 40 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Our environmental impact REDUCING OUR eco-footprint During the last financial year, we continued our efforts to enhance our environmental performance, with a focus on continuing improvement. T he Fonds de solidarité FTQ continued to raise the Responsible procurement policy (RPP) awareness of its employees on various environ­ The efforts made by an organization to improve its mental issues by encouraging them to change environmental performance are very important, and they some of their daily actions, at home and at work, should not focus solely on internal actions: they should be as we all have the responsibility, as organizations assessed as a whole. For example, companies should also and citizens, to protect the environment. take into consideration the impact of their practices to To go even further, a Green Committee was formed procure goods and services from their various suppliers. and its members reflected on the ways to reduce the Fonds’ To that end, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ decided to environmental impact. Convinced that the involvement of implement a new responsible procurement policy (RPP) all Fonds employees is essential, the Committee members to address various environmental issues. asked employees and management to share their ideas or In addition, the Fonds wants to position itself as an suggestions. They then met on several occasions and, on organization that privileges business partners that apply the basis of these ideas and suggestions, they pushed their sound social and environmental practices. thought process further and created sub-committees that developed action plans. Afterwards, the Green Committee Objective Consequently, the Fonds will continue to encourage regional and prepared a comprehensive action plan including priority local procurement and will raise the awareness of its stakeholders, including its objectives to be met by May 31, 2012. employees, on the importance of adopting responsible procurement practices. The action plan Adopted by the Management Committee, the Green Committee’s action plan proposes several initiatives to reduce at the source the quantity of various products consumed, including paper, and to optimize the use of electronic devices. Over the next financial year, the implementation of this action plan will improve our internal environmental practices. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 41 Our environmental impact (continued) 2010 Total materials consumed: 147 tonnes, ReCycled materials of which 77% are derived recycled materials Construction waste 53% 2011 Total materials Paper consumed: 39% 166 tonnes, of which Paperboard 94% are The Fonds wishes 7% derived recycled to pursue its materials projects aimed at Plastics/ water consumption Glass/Metal reduction. 1% Consumption of various materials and recycled materials Water Residual materials During the last financial year, the Fonds During the last financial year, we completed Overall, in the last financial year, we recycled consumed 166 tonnes of materials: office sup­ the installation of water meters and meas­ 52 tonnes of residual materials; building ma­ plies (paper, envelopes, ink cartridges), paper ured our monthly consumption overall and by terials, for instance, were recycled to the tune towels, tissue paper and kitchen supplies. supply section. We will now analyze these data of 85%. We will continue to actively manage Through our willingness to replace printing in more depth and implement changes in our building materials in order to maintain or paper made with 30% of recycled material consumption modes to reduce consumption improve that percentage. Other residual ma­ with paper made with 100% post-consumer at the source. terials are sent to landfills and converted into FSC-certified fibers, we significantly improved We do not discharge residual materials biogas (energy). the percentage of consumed materials derived in the environment, and wastewater is sent to from recycled materials, from 77% in 2010 to the sewers. Objective Over the next few years, we will work 94% in 2011. See the above comparative chart1. As the Fonds offers services and is not on implementing a residual material management plan involved with industrial processes, there were to reduce the quantity of waste sent to landfills. Objective The Fonds de solidarité FTQ will intensify no accidental spills. For the same reasons, the its efforts to reduce its paper consumption both internally, Fonds did not incur any fines or sanctions for Objective We will adhere to the ICI ON RECYCLE for its head office needs, and externally, such as for the recognition program, which recognizes organizations environmental matters. production of advertising materials. that apply the 3RV hierarchy principles (that are based on the consumption reduction, reuse, recycling Objective The Fonds wishes to pursue its projects aimed and reclamation principles) and will hold information at water consumption reduction. To that end, during the and awareness sessions for our personnel. next financial year, we will install water savers on bathroom and kitchen sink faucets. In addition, we will make sure These efforts will help us improve our residual to raise the awareness of all involved in order to reach our consumption reduction objectives. material reclamation performance. 1. These data reflect the internal activities of the Fonds and its practices related to head office management. 42 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Energy savings and energy efficiency The Fonds will therefore propose alternatives to encourage our employees to resort less and less to solitary driving. Adjusted energy consumption 27,440 GJ Adjusted energy consumption 26,820 GJ Measured energy Measured energy consumption consumption 25,953 GJ 26,589 GJ 2010 2011 Energy Sustainable transportation During the last financial year, our overall energy consumption for the head office needs slightly GHG are an increasingly important concern increased (2%). This energy comes from four sources: natural gas, electricity, fuel oil and pro­ for the Fonds. pane. We were able to reduce our natural gas consumption by 10% (2,181 GJ in 2011, compared to 2,417 GJ in 20101). Our electricity consumption increased modestly compared to the prior Objective The Fonds de solidarité FTQ will make year and reached 24,276 GJ (6,743,200 kWh), compared to 23,406 GJ (6,501,600 kWh) in 2010, its employees aware of the benefits of using public mainly due to a much colder winter. Fuel oil (121 GJ) and propane (11 GJ) represent less than 1% transportation and active transportation (cycling and walking). We will therefore propose alternatives of our total energy consumption. to encourage our employees to resort less and less Each year, many energy-saving projects are implemented to improve the energy efficiency to solitary driving. of the building. These projects included, for instance, replacing the heating, ventilation and In addition, during the next few years, the Fonds lighting systems. will analyze its employees’ travel from home to work to evaluate the related GHG emissions. Objective We believe it is essential that we continue to raise the awareness of the employees and tenants of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s head office on adopting daily energy-saving behaviours to help us reach our corporate objectives. The chart above shows that we improved our energy efficiency by 2.3% from 2010 to 20112. Energy efficiency is measured based on adjusted energy consumption. 1. Data adjusted based on our actual consumption. In 2010, the reported consumption of 2,426 GJ included an approximate measurement for the last month of the financial year. 2. Measured energy consumption represents the amount of energy from various sources effectively consumed in the building during the year, i.e. energy billed by the suppliers. Adjusted energy consumption takes into account changes in temperatures from one year to the next. In fact, it corresponds to the energy that would have been consumed during the year if the temperature had been equal to the average temperature from 1971 to 2000, which is the benchmark used to adjust annual energy consumption. Temperature differences between years are therefore eliminated since consumption is based on the same temperature benchmark, making it possible to determine whether the building’s energy efficiency has improved. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 43 Our environmental impact (continued) Energy and Water atmosphere efficiency Air pollutant emissions (in tonnes) Materials and resources Regional priority Fuel oil Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 0.01 t Sulfur dioxides (SO2) Indoor Innovation 0.02 t environmental and design process quality Sustainable site development BOMA and LEED Greenhouse gas emissions The Fonds de solidarité FTQ aims for excellence Objective The Fonds de solidarité FTQ aims to obtain During the last financial year, greenhouse gas with respect to the environmental manage­ the Gold Level LEED EB (existing building) certification (GHG) emissions generated by our activities ment of its head office in order to reduce its by May 31, 2014. represented 1,077 tonnes of CO2e (carbon eco-footprint. dioxide equivalent). Of this amount, 769 tonnes With these certifications, the Fonds will adopt, of CO2e are related to business transporta­ Objective To that end, the Fonds will continue to apply, for its head office, new measures to reduce tion (planes, cars and taxis), down 3% from during the next two years, its continuing improvement its energy consumption from various sources 2010. Business transportation also emitted process and will aim to obtain the Level 4 certification of (electricity, natural gas, fuel oil and pro­pane) 3 tonnes of air pollutants such as NOx (nitrogen the BOMA BESt program, which is the highest certification and drinking water consumption, while oxides), SOx (sulfur oxides), particulate matter level under that program. improving its performance on other BOMA 10 and VOCs (volatile organic compounds). BESt and LEED criteria (reduce the quantity GHG emissions not related to transportation Furthermore, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ of waste generated, increase multi-material are mainly attributable to natural gas and intends to adopt sustainable development recycling, etc.). electricity consumption and residual material standards by creating and using tools and processing. The table opposite presents these evaluation criteria understood and recog­ figures in more details. nized by the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) program. LEED promotes an overall sustainability approach by recognizing performance in seven impor­ tant areas (see illustration above). 44 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Electricity Business transportation Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 0.16 t 1.81 t Sulfur dioxides (SO2) Sulfur dioxides (SO2) 0.16 t 0.07 t Natural gas Particulate Particulate Nitrogen oxides (NOx) matter 10 (PM10) matter 10 (PM10) 0.14 t 0.01 t 0.04 t Volatile organic Volatile organic Volatile organic compounds (voc) compounds (voc) compounds (voc) 0.01 t 0.01 t 1.47 t Finally, for a third consecutive year, the Fonds Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions de solidarité FTQ participated in the annual Défi Climat campaign, and continued its aware­ness efforts with the objective of Carbon dioxide equivalent Percentage of GHG Source (Tonnes of CO2e) emissions by source having employees continue to take actions Direct Indirect having an impact on GHG emission reduction. emissions emissions Objective In the coming years, the Fonds wishes to Natural gas 106 10% adhere more strongly to eco-responsible principles in Electricity 92 8% organizing meetings and events, internally and externally. Residual materials 71 7% Refrigerant 30 3% Fuel oil and propane 9 1% Business transportation and courier 769 71% Total 308 769 1,077 100% Objective Comprehensive, . In the coming fiscal year, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ will continue to prepare information sustainable development articles on all aspects of When it comes to sustainable development, protecting sustainable development. These the environment is not the only concern, but it is a major articles will be published on the one. While everyone, businesses and individuals alike, has employees’ Intranet site and in a role to play, often we, as citizens, are not aware of what L’INTERACTION, our internal we can do to help. This is why, as we saw in the foregoing newspaper, and will address paragraphs, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ accords an sustainable development, important place to raising the awareness of its members the challenges it raises and of management and its employees. its impact on our lives. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 45 Our environmental impact (continued) A “green” lie A small ecological gift In the book Le grand mensonge vert, which he wrote with Kathy Noël, Jean-Sébastien Trudel1 reminds us that it is important to assess the performance of the products we choose in our efforts to reduce our negative environmental impact. Good intentions are not enough, and some decisions can unfortunately have a negative effect! For example, the fact that a company claims to use 100% recycled paper is not necessarily a guarantee of the company’s positive environmental performance. To evaluate the performance, there are other questions that must be answered. Is the paper sourced from a local recycler? Is it produced using renewable energy? Is it produced locally or must it be transported over long distances? This document is made from Cascades Enviro 100 fine paper, which is sourced from a local recycler and is produced using on average five times less water than the production of various kinds of recycled paper elsewhere in Canada. In addition, Cascades uses renewable energy, and Enviro 100 is produced locally! 1. Jean-Sébastien Trudel is the founder of ellipsos, a sustainable development consulting firm. www.ellipsos.ca PAPER RECYCLING PROCESS (ROLLAND CASCADES PAPER MILL, SAINT-JÉRÔME) At the beginning of the year, to highlight MANUFACTURING the year 2011, Gauthier designers, which produced with us this second Annual and Sustainability Report, had the inspired idea RECYCLED PAPER BIOGAS to offer to its clients (in collaboration with Production JG) a glass bottle labelled with messages highlighting its ecological DEINKED PULP features. Last February, this gesture, which has significant meaning to us, was spotlighted by Grafika, the Québec graphic LANDFILL communications portal. The bottle was published on various specialized Websites WASTE PAPER and on Gauthier’s Facebook page, and it was a real hit with designers around the world. Last spring, three international publishing houses showed serious interest in issuing the bottle and its original label. To be continued! PAPER USERS HOUSEHOLD AND www.gauthierdesigners.com COMMERCIAL WASTE Printable electronics: a five-year commitment The Fonds de solidarité FTQ, which has invested significant The possible applications of this are endless. Since the proc­ amounts in companies in the printing industry, has committed esses involved are very respectful of the environment, which is to investing for five years (2011 to 2015) in a project launched a plus, and also have low production costs, this method could by The Quebec Institute of Graphic Communications called be used for single-use products, such as intelligent packaging. “Développement d’imprimés novateurs à haute valeur ajoutée Printable electronics requires a relatively small financial dans une perspective de développement durable.” On top of investment compared to conventional electronic component providing financial support, the Fonds will also sit on various manufacturing. In addition, it provides the possibility of print­ steering or work committees in which its specialists in the ing on large surfaces, customizing the elements printed and printing industry will be involved. using transparent supports. Printable electronics is an innovative sector, to say the This project is clearly reflective of our mission focused least: it allows printing electronic components using conduc­ on jobs, worker training and developing the Québec economy, tive ink and conductive, semi-conductive or electroluminescent as well as our commitment to sustainable development. (which emit light under electric tension) materials. www.icgq.qc.ca 46 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Our employees A stimulating Developing employees Harmonious relationships and managing succession During this last year, the Fonds, its employees workplace, As part of our succession management and their union continued to maintain work program, we have met with all our employees relationships based on collaboration and prob­ mobilized aged 55 and over to understand their specific lem solving. The collective agreement signed retirement plans. We also analyzed critical in June 2010 for a five-year period allows all positions in each sector. parties to work together to meet the challenges employees These steps, which will now be taken on a regular basis, will help us implement specific that will arise over the next few years. The Fonds de solidarité FTQ places a lot action plans for each sector based on their of significance on its employees’ working respective issues; we can thereby facilitate con­ditions, their work-life quality and their a smooth transition of the positions that will commitment to its mission. Openness and Over the last financial year, the Fonds become vacant and reduce our vulnerability transparency are the foundation of commu­ de solidarité FTQ has made sustained risk. Developing our current and future em­ nications between employees, their union efforts to continue providing its ployees will be the foundation of these various and management. employees a stimulating workplace action plans. where they can develop and realize their potential and that values overall health. On your mark, get set, go healthy! The Fonds has positioned itself as an employer In 2008, as part of the Partner Vision project, working to develop a culture of overall health, which is at the core of the Fonds’ strategic and we have moved forward with implementing mobilization activities, employees were trained various actions to further our efforts. on the various dimensions of a successful Therefore, the Fonds consolidated its partnership. They then filled out a question­ overall health program over the last year, by naire, whose objective was to measure the grouping together the initiatives that were Fonds’ “partnership index.” This question­ implemented over the last three years. Our naire targeted five dimensions of partnership, actions focused on the issues in this area, and namely commitment, recognition, teamwork, we carried out several awareness raising, pre­ client focus and professionalism. Using the vention and training activities to address the results obtained, the Fonds’ management overall needs of the organizations, including implemented an initial action plan to improve continuing the Ma santé, je m’en occupe ! pro­ internal partnership. gram, promoting activities such as the 5/30 At the beginning of 2011, the same survey Health and Wellness Challenge, providing mem­ was taken to remeasure the impact of this bership to our gym and revisiting the food we action plan. The results demonstrated that the provide (choice of caterers, food and drinks, efforts undertaken over the last three years which correspond to healthy choices and have borne fruit, as the global partnership better nutrition). index is now higher. In fact, from the 50 or so In addition, in collaboration with the companies that employed this kind of survey Employee Assistance Committee, a joint in 2009-2010, the Fonds ranked among the committee made up of social delegates and three best. We are therefore very proud to management, we continued promoting our be able to distinguish ourselves in this way, employee assistance program and organized but we will continue to improve, because our activities in support of mental health. mobilized and motivated employees are our primary partners in this success. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 47 Our employees (continued) Breakdown of permanent employees A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 Women Men Total % Age Less than 35 years 9 11 20 4.6 35 to 44 years 49 56 105 24.3 45 to 54 years 118 78 196 45.4 55 years and up 57 54 111 25.7 Total 233 199 432 100.0 Average age 49 49 49 Gender 53.9% 46.1% 100.0 Employment categories Manager 22 43 65 15.0 Professional 99 129 228 52.8 Technical and office 112 27 139 32.2 Total 233 199 432 100.0 The Fonds de solidarité FTQ offers quality jobs to 432 permanent employees. In total, 85% of the Fonds’ employees are unionized. The remuneration structure of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ does not provide for bonuses to employees, including management. The vast majority of the Fonds’ employees work in Montréal (98%); the other employees (2%) work in Québec City. The positions are varied and are broken down as follows: 15% management positions, 53% professional positions and 32% technical and office positions. The Fonds has good employee retention and is proud of that fact. The number of work-related accidents is very low; only two cases during the period covered by this report. In addition, the absenteeism rate, for professional or other reasons, is only 4.4%. The difference between the average men salary and the average women salary (ratio of 1.4) is due, in part, to the higher concentration of men in the Professional category than in the Technical and office category. Employee training* Y ear ended M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 Employment Employees Total hours Average hours categories who attended of training of training training per employee Manager 56 1,026 18 Professional 98 2,147 22 Technical and office 84 1,081 13 Temporary or student 49 696 14 Total 287 4,950 17 * In addition to these hours, managers and professionals have attended external training sessions. 48 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 economic and social highlights section key data f o r t h e y e a r s e n d e d m ay 3 1 (in millions of dollars, except Class A shares, in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations Revenues 256 222 239 261 249 Net earnings (net loss) 650 600 (919) (89) 475 Balance Sheet Net assets 8,178 7,294 6,375 7,285 7,239 Class A shares outstanding 315,504 305,951 291,733 290,050 284,628 Ratio1 Total operating expenses 1.5% 1.5% 1.7% 1.4% 1.3% 1. The total operating expense ratio does not include capital tax and is calculated as stipulated in the Regulation Respecting Development Capital Investment Fund Continuous Disclosure. a s at m ay 3 1 FOR THE YEARS ENDED MAY 3 1 9.2 5.9 25.36 25.05 8% 7.1 2 23.84 $2 21.78 8. (12.6) (1.2) 11 10 09 08 07 11 10 09 08 07 Net value per share Rate of return of the Fonds 1 (in dollars) (as a percentage) a s at m ay 3 1 F o r t h e y e a r s e n d e d M ay 3 1 29 2,052 M 660 2,1 2,000 $698 655 1,881 611 1,696 571 11 10 09 08 07 11 10 09 08 07 Number of partner companies Share issues (Fonds and network) (in millions of dollars) 1. Net earnings (net loss) per share divided by the share price at the beginning of the year. This return does not take into account tax credits granted to shareholders. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 51 REDEMPTION BREAKDOWN BY CRITERION f o r t h e Y e a r e n d e d M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 Criteria Number $M % Retirement and early retirement 33,283 384 83 Access to home ownership 3,396 28 6 Death, disability, redemption within 60 days 2,025 26 6 Unforeseen events (job loss or other) 3,954 18 4 Return to studies 403 2 – Other criteria (capital injection into a business, emigration, redemption of pension credits, ineligibility for tax credits) 510 7 1 Total 43,571 465 100 F o r t h e y e a r s e n d e d M ay 3 1 647 476 65 402 M 341 $4 11 10 09 08 07 Share redemptions (in millions of dollars) 52 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 A s at M ay 3 1 5 577,511 583,2 3 575,394 574,794 570,889 11 10 09 08 07 Number of shareholders 23 5 3,t 58 sh ota ar l N eh um 57% Unionized ol be de r rs of 332,602 SHAREHOLDER PROFILE As at May 31, 2011 43% Non-unionized 250,633 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 53 83,071 44,162 Indirect jobs Direct jobs Fonds de solidarité FTQ 51,216 Regional and local funds 22,297 Specialized As at M ay 3 1, funds 20 11 9,558 33,556 Induced jobs 78 9 Taking into account past and current partnerships, from 1990 to 2011, it is estimated that more than 465,000 jobs were created, maintained or protected in Québec by the 0, Fonds and its network. 16 J or obs by pr cr A s at M ay 3 1 th ot ea 16 0, 150,133 e F ec ted 78 142,902 on te , m 9 126,035 ds d i ai 122,460 an n Q nta d ué in its be ed 11 10 09 08 07 ne c Number of jobs created, maintained tw or protected in Québec by the Fonds and its network or k* * By partner companies in the portfolio as at May 31, 2011. 54 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 CHANGE IN DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL INVESTMENTS (AT COST)1 FOR THE YEAR ENDED MAY 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 Balance as at May 31, 20102 Investments Disinvestments Balance as at May 31, 2011 No. $M % No. $M % No. $M % No. $M % Regions3 Western Québec 14 95 2 9 8 1 6 17 3 17 86 2 Montréal Region 121 2,131 47 33 411 56 45 308 64 115 2,234 47 Central Québec 17 154 3 2 7 1 5 18 4 15 143 3 Québec City Region 30 349 8 8 112 16 9 29 6 33 432 9 Eastern Québec 29 156 3 8 9 1 9 2 – 29 163 3 All of Québec 46 1,345 30 8 163 22 19 101 21 49 1,407 29 Outside Québec 36 297 7 5 23 3 13 8 2 36 312 7 Total 293 4,527 100 73 733 100 106 483 100 294 4,777 100 Sectors Real estate 6 323 7 2 136 19 3 73 15 4 386 8 Regional development4 23 456 10 1 6 1 1 1 – 23 461 10 Industries, services, natural resources and consumer 175 2,499 55 55 525 71 70 313 65 184 2,711 57 New economy 89 1,249 28 15 66 9 32 96 20 83 1,219 25 Total 293 4,527 100 73 733 100 106 483 100 294 4,777 100 1. These investments exclude the portfolio of shares held in Entreprises publiques québécoises à faible capitalisation and include funds committed but not disbursed, as well as guarantees and suretyships. 2. The breakdown by region and sector as at May 31, 2010 was changed based on the reorganizations undergone by companies in the portfolio. 3. Regional groupings: Western Québec: Abitibi-Témiscamingue/Outaouais. Montréal Region: Montréal/Laval/Laurentides/Montérégie/Lanaudière. Central Québec: Estrie/Mauricie/Centre-du-Québec. Québec City Region: Capitale-Nationale/Chaudière-Appalaches. Eastern Québec: Bas-Saint-Laurent/Saguenay–Lac-Saint-Jean/Gaspésie–Îles-de-la-Madeleine/Côte-Nord/Nord-du-Québec. All of Québec: Investments impacting more than one region. Outside Québec: Investments in companies headquartered outside Québec. 4. Regional funds, local funds and regional investment companies. A s at M ay 3 1 F o r t h e y e a r s e n d e d M ay 3 1 8482 $5 4,784 730 ,20 4,598 M 7M 3,959 $733 501 668 3,736 11 10 09 08 07 11 10 09 08 07 Fair value of development Development capital investments1 capital investments1 (in millions of dollars) (in millions of dollars) 1. These investments include funds committed but not disbursed as well as guarantees and suretyships. 2. $1,348 million taking into account the programs announced in the budget of the Government of Québec. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 55 training Activities for the year ended may 31, 20 1 1 Participants Courses Local representatives (LRs) 3,109 278 In the workplace 912 60 Network members 1,260 76 Students 443 24 Total 5,724 438 56 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 FINANCial section MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MAY 31, 2011 This Management Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to help the readers to assess, through the eyes of management, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s (the “Fonds”) results and financial condition and the material changes therein during the financial year ended May 31, 2011. The annual MD&A complements and supplements the financial statements and contains financial highlights, but does not contain the complete annual financial statements of the Fonds. To facilitate understanding of events and uncertainties, this MD&A should be read together with the financial statements and the notes thereto. This MD&A contains forward-looking statements about the Fonds’ activities, results, and strategies that should be interpreted with caution. Because, by their nature, forward-looking statements involve assumptions, uncertainties and risks, it is possible that a number of factors may cause forecasts not to materialize. For example, legislative or regulatory changes, economic and business conditions and the level of competition are a non-comprehensive list of major factors that could influence, sometimes significantly, the accuracy of the forward-looking statements in this report. This MD&A is dated June 29, 2011. The Fonds is subject to the Regulation Respecting Development Capital Investment Fund Continuous Disclosure (the “Regulation”) and, as such, applies the requirements of this Regulation, notably to its financial statements and its MD&A. You can get a copy of the annual financial statements at your request, and at no cost, by calling us at 514-383-3663 or toll free at 1-800-567-3663, by writing to us at 8717 rue Berri, Montréal, Québec H2M 2T9 or by visiting our Website at www.fondsftq.com or the SEDAR Website at www.sedar.com. You can also obtain a copy of the interim documents in this same manner. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS The following tables show selected key financial information about the Fonds and are intended to help you understand the Fonds’ financial performance for the past 5 years. This information is derived from the Fonds’ audited financial statements. The Fonds’ results are discussed under “Results of operations” on page 60. RATIOS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA Years ended May 31 (in millions of dollars, except otherwise specified) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Revenues 256 222 239 261 249 Net earnings (net loss) 650 600 (919) (89) 475 Net assets 8,178 7,294 6,375 7,285 7,239 Class A shares outstanding (number, in thousands) 315,504 305,951 291,733 290,050 284,628 Total operating expense ratio* (%) 1.47 1.54 1.70 1.36 1.34 Portfolio turnover rate**: Development capital investments (%) 11.38 7.93 6.71 12.22 18.35 Other investments (%) 172.57 233.20 179.65 118.80 113.45 Trading expense ratio*** (%) 0.02 0.03 0.02 0.03 0.03 Number of shareholders (number) 583,235 577,511 570,889 575,394 574,794 Issues of shares 698 660 655 611 571 Redemptions of shares 465 341 647 476 402 Fair value of development capital investments**** 5,207 4,784 4,598 3,959 3,736 * The total operating expense ratio is obtained as follows: by dividing expenses (excluding tax on capital) for the year, as shown on the Statement of Operations, by the average net assets for that year. ** The portfolio turnover rate reflects the number of changes made to the composition of the portfolio. There is not necessarily a relationship between a high turnover rate and the portfolio’s performance. *** The trading expense ratio represents transaction costs expressed as a percentage of average net assets. **** These investments include funds committed but not disbursed as well as guarantees and suretyships. 58 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 CHANGE IN NET ASSETS PER SHARE Years ended May 31 (in dollars) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net assets per share, beginning of year* 23.84 21.78 25.05 25.36 23.74 Change in accounting policy – – – – (0.04) Increase (decrease) from operations**: 2.10 2.01 (3.16) (0.31) 1.68 Interests and dividends 0.82 0.74 0.82 0.90 0.87 Total operating expenses (0.38) (0.37) (0.37) (0.34) (0.33) Income tax and tax on capital (0.08) (0.09) (0.05) 0.00 (0.07) Realized gains (losses) 0.26 0.22 (1.31) 0.35 0.61 Unrealized gains (losses) 1.48 1.51 (2.25) (1.22) 0.60 Variance from issues and redemptions of shares (0.02) (0.02) (0.11) (0.00) (0.02) Variance from the transfer of Class G shares – 0.07 – – – Net assets per share, end of year* 25.92 23.84 21.78 25.05 25.36 * The amount of net assets per share is based on the actual number of shares outstanding at the relevant time. ** The increase (decrease) from operations is based on the weighted-average number of shares outstanding over the financial year. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS World and United States Beginning in spring 2010, the troubled position of public finances in several countries in the Eurozone has again weakened stock and financial markets around the world and slightly hampered global economic growth. The slowdown was nonetheless short-lived, as the global economy entered a phase of sustained recovery in the fourth quarter of 2010 that continued into the early months of 2011 despite the emergence of a new risk related to the political upheaval in the Middle East and North Africa. Global stock markets have generated positive returns despite the bumps experienced in the last twelve months. Yet over the same twelve months, raw material prices, particular for copper, gold and oil, kept increasing, with gold reaching an all-time high in April 2011. Fears abound that public finance crises in the more fragile Eurozone countries might be reproduced in the rest of the world, or that there will be consequences to the political upheaval seen in the Middle East and North Africa. Despite this, economic growth has been positive in the United States over the last twelve months. After slowing GDP growth in the second quarter of 2010, the U.S. economy picked up speed in the following two quarters only to lose steam in the first quarter of 2011. The savings rate remains high, in comparison to the levels seen before the 2008-2009 financial crisis, at an average of 5.5% since May 2010. The U.S. unemployment rate decreased over the last twelve months, settling at 9.1% in May 2011 compared to 9.6% in May 2010. For inflation, the annual fluctuation in the U.S. CPI has settled at an average of 1.8% since May 2010. The key interest rate has remained unchanged at 0.25% since December 2008. In early November 2010, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced a second quantitative easing campaign to buy $600 billion of U.S. Treasury bonds with maturities ranging from five to thirty years. The goal of the quantitative easing campaign, which ends in June 2011, is to support job growth, keep interest rates low and increase the wealth effect through a rise in the price of assets. Right now it is hard to gauge with any accuracy the effectiveness of this campaign, but we can assume that, as anticipated, it will ultimately stimulate U.S. economic growth. Canada and Québec Following in the footsteps of the United States, Canada’s economy grew in the last twelve months despite sliding GDP growth that started in the second quarter of 2010 and continued through the next quarter. This slide was caused by sagging manufacturing, mining and energy sectors, which are very cyclical and export-driven. Starting in the fourth quarter of 2010, the Canadian economy slowly regained momentum, improving even faster in the first quarter of 2011. This increase in GDP growth largely results from higher foreign demand, which had a positive effect on net exports. On the inflation front, annual fluctuation in the Canadian CPI has settled at an average of 2.3% since May 2010. Unemployment decreased from 8.1% in May 2010 to 7.4% in May 2011. Amid concerns the economy might overheat, the Bank of Canada gradually increased its discount rate between June 2010 and September 2010, which is currently at 1%, up 0.75% since May 2010. In Québec, the annualized GDP growth rate, after dropping into the red in the third quarter of 2010 (-0.2%) returned to black in the fourth quarter of 2010 (1.3%). On an annual basis, the Québec economy, which weathered the crisis better than its North American partners in 2009, generated growth of 2.8% in real terms in 2010, compared to 3.2% in Canada and 2.9% in the United States. Québec unemployment decreased to 7.3% in May 2011 from the 8.0% seen in May 2010. This rate is also lower than the Canadian rate (7.4%) and than Ontario’s (7.9%). As at May 31, 2011, short-term (2 years) and long-term (10 years) interest rates on Canadian government bonds were lower than a year ago. The credit spreads of provinces and investment-grade corporations improved over the last financial year. These favourable but as yet uncertain economic conditions are the background against which our activities for the financial year played out. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 59 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERALL RESULTS For its financial year ended May 31, 2011, the Fonds recorded net earnings of $650 million, compared to net earnings of $600 million for the prior year, setting back-to-back record results. With this result for the year, the Fonds generated a return of 8.8%, slightly down from the return of 9.2% experienced for the previous year, when stock and financial markets rallied following the financial crisis of 2008-2009. The Fonds’ share reached its highest value ever, at $25.92, up $2.08 from the price reported in July 2010 and $0.89 from the January 2011 price. These results pushed the Fonds’ net assets above the $8 billion mark for the first time, to reach $8.2 billion as at May 31, 2011. The number of shareholders of the Fonds also reached a historic high at 583,235 as at May 31, 2011. As a result of its mission, a significant portion of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s portfolio is comprised of private securities and specialized funds, which did not allow it to fully benefit from the rise in the stock markets that occurred in the past 12 months. Consequently, the Fonds’ asset allocation tends to limit its return potential in a bull market such as we are currently experiencing; however, in a bear market, the opposite occurs. For instance, during the same period two years ago, in the midst of the financial crisis, the Fonds was able to achieve a return that was higher than the average return of both the Canadian balanced mutual funds and the main stock indices. FoNDs RETURN Years ended May 31 2011 2010 Assets under Assets under management at management at end of year* Weight Return end of year* Weight Return $M % % $M % % Development capital investments 3,931 47.9 8.9 3,590 48.9 11.0 Other investments** 4,274 52.1 12.3 3,747 51.1 11.2 8,205 100.0 10.6 7,337 100.0 11.1 Total operating expenses (1.5) (1.5) Income tax and tax on capital (0.3) (0.4) Fonds return (annual) 8.8 9.2 Fonds return (1st half of the year) 5.0 8.0 Fonds return (2nd half of the year) 3.6 1.2 * Assets under management at end of year refer to the fair value, at the end of the year, of the assets managed by the Investments and Other Investments sectors and used to generate revenues presented in the Statement of Operations. This amount differs from the amount of assets presented in the financial statements, which includes, unlike assets under management, amounts under management from the liquidity surpluses of regional and local funds and certain specialized funds. ** Other investments represent the remaining assets not invested in partner companies. Managed by the Other Investments sector, this portfolio consists of bonds, money market securities, sector-based shares, funds of hedge funds, high-dividend shares and international infrastructure funds. SECTOR RESULTS Investments sector The assets managed by the Investments sector are essentially mission-driven development capital investments in public and private partner companies in the form of shares, units or loans. To stabilize its return, the Fonds favours a fair balance between investments in the form of loans, usually unsecured, that provide a current return in the form of interest payments, investments in shares, that potentially generate a higher return but involve an increased level of volatility, and investments in specialized fund units that, while bringing private and foreign capital inflows to Québec, contribute to a better diversification of the Fonds’ portfolio. Development capital investments are governed by the Investment Policy, which is an important component of the Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy. The Investments sector earned a gross return of 8.9% for the year, slightly down from the gross return of 11.0% generated for the prior year. Taking into account this return and given the level of mission-driven investments made by the Fonds during the year, the assets in this sector represented $3.9 billion or 48% of assets under management as at May 31, 2011 (49% as at May 31, 2010). 60 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 The performance of the Investments sector is influenced by various factors, particularly the behaviour of the financial markets as well as the economic and business conditions in which our partner companies operate, and by the dynamic management of our investments. The gross return of 8.9% of the Investments sector for the most recently ended year is largely explained by the following: • the return of 6.2% generated by our private securities and specialized funds portfolio during the year; this result follows a return of 8.3% for the previous year. This performance is essentially attributable to the strength of the porfolio, combined with still favourable economic conditions, despite the uncertainties, and the low cost of credit; • the good performance of the stock markets for the last 12 months, which, despite some bumps during the year, contributed to the 23.0% return of the listed securities portfolio of the Investments sector, compared to 21,9% for the prior year. Other Investments sector The Other Investments sector manages the assets not invested in partner companies; these investments consist of bonds, money market securities, sector-based shares, funds of hedge funds, high-dividend shares and international infrastructure funds. As with development capital investments, other investments are managed in accordance with the Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy, which targets sound diversification of the Fonds’ financial assets. Under this policy, a sufficient portion of financial assets must be invested in a way that allows the Fonds to meet its liquidity needs, to produce current revenue sufficient to cover expenses and to contribute to the generation of a reasonable return to the shareholders. For the year, the Other Investments sector earned a gross return of 12.3%, up from the gross return of 11.2% recorded for the prior year. The assets of this sector represented $4.3 billion or 52% of the Fonds’ assets under management as at May 31, 2011 (51% as at May 31, 2010). The evolution of interest rates and the performance of the stock markets are the determining factors in analyzing the performance of the Other Investments sector. Accordingly, the results achieved by this sector are influenced by the behaviour of the financial markets and the conditions affecting the Fonds’ economic environment. The gross return of 12.3% of the Other Investments sector for the year is largely explained by the following: • the good performance of the stock markets for the last 12 months, which helped improve the results achieved through the sector-based strategy implemented a few years ago and contributed to the return of 21.1% of the sector-based shares1 and other securities2 portfolios. This performance followed a return of 13.8% for the prior year; • a return of 6.4% on our fixed-income securities portfolio for the year, compared to 9.0% for the previous year, when corporate credit spreads were subject to significant reductions. The increase in value of bonds, mainly attributable to the decrease in interest rates for Government of Canada securities, combined with interest income generated by the portfolio, enabled us to earn this return. RETURN BY ASSET CLASS Years ended May 31 2011 2010 Assets under Assets under management at management at end of year* Weight Return end of year* Weight Return $M % % $M % % Development capital investments Private securities and specialized funds 3,251 39.6 6.2 2,845 38.8 8.3 Listed securities 680 8.3 23.0 745 10.1 21.9 Other investments Fixed-income securities 2,494 30.4 6.4 2,234 30.5 9.0 Sector-based shares and other securities 1,780 21.7 21.1 1,513 20.6 13.8 8,205 100.0 10.6 7,337 100.0 11.1 TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES Total operating expenses (which exclude tax on capital) consist mainly of expenses related to assets under management, shareholder services, subscription campaigns, continuous improvement of systems and controls, monitoring of partner companies, personnel and all other resources the Fonds de solidarité FTQ requires to achieve its mission and meet its objectives. Although it is essential that the Fonds has available resources to achieve its mission, it is also fundamental that it controls its expenses. Year after year, the Fonds was able to maintain its total operating expenses at a level it considers to be low. For the year ended May 31, 2011, the ratio of total operating expenses to net average assets for the year, calculated using the method prescribed in the Regulation, was 1.5%, which is comparable to the ratio for the previous year. Expressed in dollars, total operating expenses amounted to $116.7 million for the year ended May 31, 2011, compared to $110.0 million for the previous year. This increase of $6.7 million is due, among other factors, to management costs related to the growth in assets under management and the increase in share subscriptions and redemptions as well as normal salary increases. 1. These sectors are materials, energy, consumer staples, utilities and telecommunications. 2. Other securities are funds of hedge funds, high-dividend shares and international infrastructure funds. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 61 ANALYSIS OF CASH FLOWS, BALANCE SHEET AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET ITEMS Cash flows Cash flows from operating activities of the Fonds totalled $75 million for the year, down from $100 million for the previous year. Changes in these cash flows mainly result from our current operations. Cash flows from financing activities of the Fonds totalled $161 million for the year, compared to an aggregate amount of $296 million for the prior year. This decrease resulted mainly from an increase in the number of shares redeemed, which totalled $466 million3 for the year on a cash basis, compared to $342 million for the previous year. On the other hand, shares issued amounted to $698 million for the year on a cash basis, which is higher than the issues of $660 million for the previous year. Cash flows from investing activities of the Fonds represented a net cash outflow of $238 million for the year, compared to $404 million for the previous year. Cash needed to support net investments (acquisitions less proceeds from sales) in partner companies was chiefly provided by the cash flows from financing activities of the Fonds discussed in the previous paragraph. The Fonds also has lines of credit available for its working capital requirements. As at May 31, 2011, these lines of credit were unused. Balance sheet and off-balance sheet items Balance sheet development capital investments increased from $3.9 billion as at May 31, 2010 to $4.3 billion as at May 31, 2011. This $349 million increase essentially resulted from our net disbursed investments of $116 million (disbursed investments of $620 million less disinvestments of $504 million) and the appreciation of our development capital investments during the year. During the year, on a commitment basis, the Fonds made direct investments of $733 million in its partner companies, up from the $501 million recorded for the prior year. In addition, amounts committed but not disbursed increased from $822 million as at May 31, 2010 to $919 million as at May 31, 2011. Balance sheet other investments increased by $520 million during the year to settle at $4.2 billion as at May 31, 2011 ($3.7 billion as at May 31, 2010). This increase is mainly attributable to the increase in value of the securities in the portfolio, which results, amongst other things, from the rise in the stock and financial markets. The bond hedge that has been in place for a few years as part of the hedging strategy varied during the year based on the actual and anticipated interest rate movements, standing at $102 million as at May 31, 2011, compared to $135 million a year earlier. The hedging coverage will once again be adjusted in the next months based on actual and anticipated interest rate movements. Derivatives are also used to hedge the other investments portfolio against, in particular, exchange rate fluctuations when assets are denominated in foreign currencies. In that respect, in response to the significant appreciation of the Canadian dollar, the Fonds decided, in the prior year, to gradually reduce from 100% to 50% the hedge of its sector-based shares portfolio against currency risk. The Fonds continued to work towards this objective, and the sector-based shares hedging ratio was 52.5% as at May 31, 2011, compared to 62.5% as at May 31, 2010. MISSION OF THE FONDS DE SOLIDARITÉ FTQ, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES MISSION AND OBJECTIVES The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is a union-based development capital investment fund that was born out of the Fédération des travailleurs et travailleuses du Québec (FTQ). Created in 1983 under the Act to Establish the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.), the Fonds endeavours to collect the savings of Quebeckers who want to participate in creating and maintaining jobs, in order to improve the situation of workers and to stimulate the Québec economy. The Fonds also helps raise awareness and encourage workers to save for retirement as well as represents an aid for economic training. The Fonds’ mission is strongly supported by both levels of government since shares of the Fonds qualify for RRSPs and give rise to a 15% tax credit at both the Québec and federal tax levels, for a total of 30%.4 The maximum tax credit is $1,500 per year, which corresponds to a purchase of $5,000 of shares. 3. This amount is presented on a cash basis and therefore includes the change in amounts payable between May 31, 2010 and May 31, 2011. 4. Please see the prospectus for more information. 62 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Strategies To implement its mission and to reach its objectives, the Fonds deployed various strategies, both from a global management perspective and by sector. The Fonds therefore implemented an Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy under which it manages its financial assets in an integrated and comprehensive way to produce a reasonable return for its shareholders while mitigating the volatility of the return from half-year to half-year. Accordingly, the assets in the other investments portfolio are distributed in a way that is complementary to the portfolio of mission-driven investments made in partner companies. This strategy allows the Fonds to obtain, overall, the desired return/risk ratio. The Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy was revised in January 2010, in light of actual and expected changes regarding the Fonds’ business, particularly the decrease in net subscriptions (shares issued less shares redeemed) and the increase in the size of the portfolio of mission-driven development capital investments. In fact, the weight of investments disbursed by the Fonds, which as at May 31, 2011 was at a level of 48%, should continue to gradually increase. The policy revision allowed us to maintain the desired balance among the various components of the Fonds’ balance sheet and to review the target weight of each asset class with a view to maintaining the desired return/risk profile and continue to meet shareholders’ expectations. The Fonds may modify its targets depending on the circumstances and events that occur in the next few years. The significant volatility of financial and stock markets during recent financial years resulted in significantly modifying the actual weight of these various asset classes, which led the Fonds to rebalance its portfolio at different points during this period. These rebalancings were made to comply with the limits and guidelines of the Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy regarding the target asset allocation. They were also a way to actively manage the portfolio within the limits set out by the policy to improve the return/risk profile, taking into consideration the movement and erratic behaviour of financial and stock markets. The Shareholder Services sector The Shareholder Services sector is built on three strategic axes: developing systematic savings, mobilizing the LR (local representatives) network and building shareholder loyalty. To do so, the Shareholder Services sector principally relies on its employees and a network of 2,029 LRs from FTQ-affiliated unions (as well as unions the Fonds has agreements with) who work as volunteers to promote the Fonds in their workplace. These LRs explain the Fonds’ objectives and encourage workers to subscribe to Fonds shares and thereby contribute to Québec’s economic development while saving for retirement. Continuing education is provided, in collaboration with the Fondation de la formation économique, to the entire LR network to mobilize them around the Fonds’ mission and the development of systematic savings. There are three ways to subscribe to Fonds shares: payroll deduction, the preferred way to subscribe to shares for workers, automatic bank withdrawal and lump-sum subscriptions. During the 2011 RRSP campaign, there has been a meteoric rise in the number of transactions executed on the Internet through the financial institutions with which the Fonds concluded agreements: 11,529 shareholders took advantage of this new way to subscribe. For the financial year ended May 31, 2011, the Fonds collected subscriptions allowing it to make share issues totalling $698 million, compared to $660 million in the previous year. The total number of new shareholders reached 27,811, which helped the Fonds reach a historic high of 583,235 shareholders. Its financial performance and strength, publicity campaign, targeted marketing mailings, increased presence through its LR network during the RRSP period throughout Québec have all allowed the Fonds to increase the annual volume of lump-sum subscriptions by 15%, reaching $282 million (compared to $245 million for the previous financial year). This financial year was the first time the Fonds offered at each of its 57 points of service the option of receiving Relevé 10 for tax purposes immediately after purchasing shares. To provide this option, a new subscription system was designed, which allowed for greater computerization of the points of service. LRs working in the points of service received adapted training, and they really rose to this new challenge. Subscriptions through payroll deduction continue to represent the major portion of cash inflows. Our efforts over the year to recruit new shareholders who contribute to their RRSP through payroll deduction and additional workplace campaigns (10% more than last year) have paid off, with 11,147 additional shareholders choosing to contribute through payroll deduction this year, compared to 10,102 last year. As expected, there were more redemptions this year, amounting to $465 million as at May 31, 2011, compared to $341 million as at May 31, 2010. With shareholders getting closer and closer to retirement, the Fonds anticipates a heavier volume of annual share redemptions in the next few years. During this financial year, a new financial product called SÉCURIFONDS™, designed especially for the Fonds shareholders entitled to the redemption of their shares for retirement reasons, was launched in partnership with SSQ, Life Insurance Company Inc. This financial product allows shareholders to transfer the amounts they accumulated in their RRSPs to a RRIF. This plan enables access to the SÉCURIFONDS segregated fund, administered by SSQ, Life Insurance Company Inc. Contributions made by the participants in the SÉCURIFONDS fund are guaranteed subject to certain conditions. The Fondation de la formation économique, created in 1989, encourages economic training for workers so they can increase their influence on Québec’s economic development. The education program continues to adapt to the needs of companies, employees, and unions, particularly given today’s economic conditions. The Fondation pursues its efforts to publicize the program to the Fonds’ partner companies and the FTQ unions to benefit the greatest number of workers possible. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 63 The Investments sector The Investments sector’s strategies support the Fonds’ realization of its mission regarding development capital investments in Québec’s economy. The Investments sector is made up of three main areas of intervention: i) aerospace, construction, services and transportation, ii) natural resources, industries and consumer goods and iii) new economy, which includes information technology, telecommunications and life sciences. Each of these areas is under the responsibility of a Senior Vice-President and includes several specialized sub-sectors. This segmentation allows the development of a sector-based expertise valued by our partner companies. The investment process is governed by the Investment Policy, which is a significant component of the Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy. Multidisciplinary teams also support our investment teams with their expertise: legal, tax, business valuation, market study, due diligence, labour relations and public market departments. A due diligence committee reviews all files submitted to governing bodies to identify the associated risks taking into consideration the Fonds’ mission. In addition, to deal with more difficult situations, the Senior Vice-President, Turnaround Management and Special Projects, together with the Vice-President, Legal Affairs, very closely monitors investments that entail greater credit risk. To enable risk diversification, the Fonds allocates its investment portfolio to various economic sectors to avoid too much concentration in a single company or sector. Generally, the Fonds holds a minority interest in the companies it invests in, however it may exceptionally, in very specific situations, hold a majority or all the shares of a company. In addition, for the last few years, the Fonds has increased the weight of its investments through unsecured debentures. This strategy is used to obtain a current return on its investments through the interest payments received, which contributes to stabilizing its return. The Fonds makes significant investments in each category of development capital as defined by Canada’s Venture Capital & Private Equity Association (CVCA). The CVCA proposes classifying private equity investments into three categories: buyout capital, venture capital and mezzanine capital.5 Applying this definition, the following graph presents the breakdown of our $3.5 billion6 development capital investments portfolio, at cost. BREAKDOWN OF DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL INVESTMENTS PORTFOLIO BY CATEGORY (AT COST) As at May 31, 2011 Buyout capital 28.4% Mezzanine capital 39.5% Venture capital 32.1% The Other Investments sector In managing the balance of assets not invested in partner companies (presented under “Other Investments” in the financial statements), the Other Investments sector is governed by the Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy which targets sound diversification of the Fonds’ financial assets. A sufficient portion of financial assets must be invested in a way that allows the Fonds to meet its liquidity needs, to produce current revenue sufficient to cover expenses and to contribute to the generation of a reasonable return to the shareholders. The Other Investments portfolio is a significant contributor to the Fonds’ results. All the portfolios in the Other Investments sector, except for the money market portfolio and part of the bond portfolio, are managed by external specialized managers. The two portfolios that are managed internally at the Fonds by a team of professionals represented approximately $1.7 billion as at May 2011, or 40% of the total amount of other investments. To improve the overall performance of these portfolios, the Fonds’ specialists have a certain latitude in making securities purchases and sales. These transactions must comply with the limits and guidelines of the Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy and are overseen by the Financial Assets Management Committee. 5. Based on the classification proposed by the CVCA, a buyout capital investment consists of the purchase of shares of an established private or public company looking to grow organically or through acquisition. A venture capital investment consists of the purchase of shares of a company that is generally unlisted and in the start-up or early development stage. Mezzanine capital consists of subordinated debt or preferred shares with or without a variable portion in equity warrants. 6. On a fund disbursement basis, excluding investments in real estate funds and in listed securities acquired on the secondary market. 64 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 For portfolios managed externally, the Fonds retains the services of specialized managers which allows optimizing the management of those portfolios. One of the benefits of this kind of management is the implementation of specialized management strategies, such as active management of the duration of the bond portfolio, which targets generating added value for the portfolios in question through the expertise the selected specialists have in the area. Using derivative products provides active management of market risks the Fonds is exposed to. When appropriate a risk management strategy is established by the Other Investments sector and authorized by the appropriate governing bodies to minimize the Fonds’ exposure to volatility in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and stock market prices. Following the revision of the Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy in January 2010, the Fonds was led to aim for a gradual reduction of its bond portfolio as well as liquidate a large part of its portfolio of high-revenue securities. This portfolio is now only comprised of high-dividend shares, while in the past it also included preferred shares and income trust units. The transactions required subsequent to these modifications to the target asset allocation were executed in an orderly fashion so the Fonds would not hurt its return. As part of its absolute return strategies, the Fonds took steps during the year to replace one of its funds of hedge funds by a number of hedge funds. This change will be effective at the beginning of the 2011-2012 financial year. To limit risks related to these new funds, the managers tapped to manage them will all be on the same platform, which will allow close monitoring of their activities on a daily basis. This initiative targets less than 1% of assets under management. During the year, certain guidelines and procedures, in particular for derivative products, were also updated to further formalize our current management processes and ensure we maintain an appropriate level of governance. The activities of the Other Investments sector fall under the responsibilities of two separate Vice-Presidents: the Vice-President, Marketable Securities Portfolio Management and the Vice-President, Marketable Securities Portfolio Strategies and Québec Public Market. This structure helps the Fonds continue prioritizing the optimization of its return/risk ratio despite the increasing complexity of financial markets. 60% RULE The 60% rule set out in the Fonds’ Incorporation Act stipulates that the Fonds’ average unsecured investments in qualified business enterprises must represent at least 60% of its average net assets of the previous financial year. The remaining assets may be invested in other financial vehicles for asset diversification and sound management purposes. The calculation method for this rule is based on the value of the Fonds’ assets, which depends in part on interest rate fluctuations and on the performance of stock markets and the economy in general. As at May 31, 2011, the value of average qualified investments7 amounted to $4.8 billion or 71.0% of the average net assets of the previous financial year (compared to 66.2% as at May 31, 2010). Since the minimum percentage prescribed was reached as at May 31, 2011, the amount of share issues for the 2011-2012 financial year will not be limited by the 60% rule. As at May 31, 2011 the Fonds was also in compliance with all other limits and rules set out in its Incorporating Act. The Fonds expects to comply with all the limits and rules set out in its Incorporating Act over the next several years. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Fonds does not anticipate adopting new accounting policies that would significantly affect its net earnings for the next financial year or the value of its net assets as at May 31, 2012. INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (IFRS) In 2008, the Accounting Standards Board of Canada (AcSB) confirmed that Canadian GAAP will be replaced by IFRS for the years beginning on or after January 1, 2011. In January 2011, the AcSB confirmed that investment companies, as defined in the Accounting Guideline on investment companies of the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants (CICA) Handbook, will have to apply IFRS for the first time to interim and annual financial statements for the years beginning on or after January 1, 2013, at the latest. The Fonds therefore deferred its first-time adoption date and will prepare its first interim financial statements in accordance with IFRS as at November 30, 2013. IFRS conversion plan The Fonds adopted an IFRS conversion plan comprised of three phases: a diagnostic phase; a standards assessment, detailed analysis, issue resolution and model financial statements preparation phase; and a change integration phase. The first phase was completed before the end of the financial year ended May 31, 2009. This phase included identifying the IFRS having a significant impact on the Fonds as well as the main issues and priorities to assess in the context of the Fonds. 7. These investments include amounts committed but not disbursed as well as guarantees and suretyships. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 65 The part of the second phase dealing with standards assessment, detailed analysis and issue resolution, was completed in May 2010. It included a more detailed analysis of the IFRS and the differences with current Canadian standards and their interpretations in order to identify the impact the conversion will have on processes, systems and the financial statements. In the coming months, the Fonds will prepare draft financial statements in accordance with the new standards. During the change integration phase, we will keep accounting records both under Canadian GAAP and IFRS to be able to present comparative information upon transition. In addition, the Fonds deployed its training plans, which are intended to upgrade the knowledge of its accounting staff and other stakeholders of the organization that are affected by the IFRS conversion. The Fonds continuously monitors the development of IFRS to assess its impact. Main expected changes The following table presents only the significant differences between Canadian GAAP currently applied by the Fonds and IFRS. While noteworthy, these differences do not necessarily have a significant impact on the Fonds’ financial statements. This table was prepared based on current standards that would be effective as at the date of transition; however, certain standards could be amended and the Fonds could reassess its position as needed. The impact assessment reflects the results of the analysis based on the current situation. Accounting policy Main differences between GAAP and IFRS Impact on financial statements Consolidation Under Canadian GAAP, investment companies meeting certain criteria recognize The Fonds does not currently prepare consolidated their investments at fair value, in accordance with Accounting Guideline AcG-18, financial statements and recognizes all its Investment Companies. This rule applies to all investments, including those in development capital investments and other entities in which the investment company holds more than 50% of voting shares investments at fair value. and those in entities over which it exercises control. Consolidating those investments would have a Currently, IFRS do not provide for an accounting treatment equivalent to that of major impact on information disclosed in the Fonds’ AcG-18 and, consequently, investment companies that control entreprises will financial statements, which would not be at fair have to consolidate their investments in such enterprises upon adopting IFRS. value for consolidated entities. The international standard-setting organization, the International Accounting In the event that IFRS include a consolidation Standards Board (IASB), has been examining since spring 2010 the option exemption for investment companies, there would of exempting investment companies from the requirement to consolidate be no impact on the Fonds’ financial statements. investments in entities they control; they would therefore account for these Disclosure standards regarding controlled entities investments at fair value. In the coming months, these proposals will be included are still being analyzed. The Fonds will assess the in an exposure draft that could lead to the adoption of a new accounting situation in due time. standard on that topic. Financial Under Canadian GAAP, the Fonds recognizes all its development capital Financial instrument recognition and measurement instruments investments and other investments at fair value, in accordance with accounting under current IFRS could have an impact on principles applicable to investment companies. financial reporting. As mentioned under “Consolidation” above, IFRS do not currently provide for an In the event that IFRS allow investment companies accounting treatment specific to investment companies. In the absence of such to use fair value measurement, there would be no a treatment, the Fonds would have to recognize its financial instruments using impact on the Fonds’ financial statements. the categories prescribed by IFRS, measure them using the methods required for each category and provide the required disclosures in its financial statements. The IASB is evaluating the option of requiring investment companies to mandatorily measure all their investments at fair value. Property and IFRS require that each component of an item of property, plant and equipment The list of the specific components of the Fonds’ equipment be depreciated separately when an item of property, plant and equipment buildings is currently being developed. These (Capital assets) is comprised of components to which different depreciation rates apply. One components will be disclosed in a note to the impact of this requirement is that more components will be recognized under financial statements. IFRS than under Canadian GAAP. The Fonds expects to use the fair value of its Under IFRS, an item of property, plant and equipment can be measured buildings as its deemed cost as at the date using the cost model or the revaluation model. Canadian GAAP preclude the of transition. remeasurement of property, plant and equipment at fair value. After the transition, the Fonds expects to continue IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards allows using the cost model to measure its property an entity to use, upon transition to IFRS, the fair value of an item of property, and equipment. plant and equipment as its deemed cost as at the date of transition. Amounts involved (fair value of buildings and calculation of depreciation by component) are currently being assessed, but they are not expected to have a significant impact on net assets, net earnings and net earnings per share. 66 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Accounting policy Main differences between GAAP and IFRS Impact on financial statements Investment Under IFRS, an investment property is defined as a property held to earn rentals The Fonds will reclassify the portion of its buildings property or for capital appreciation, or both. An investment property can be measured that it leases. using the cost model or the fair value model. The Fonds expects to measure its investment Canadian GAAP do not include a specific definition of investment property. property using the cost model, as it does for the portion of the building it occupies and its other properties and equipment. This measurement method is not expected to have a significant impact on net assets, net earnings and net earnings per share. Employee benefits Under IFRS, past service cost of defined benefit pension plans for which the The vested portion of past service cost will have benefits are already vested are recognized immediately as an expense. Under to be immediately recognized in net assets. This Canadian GAAP, they are usually amortized over the average remaining service adjustment does not have a material impact on period of active employees. the Fonds’ financial statements. Under Canadian GAAP and IFRS, the actuarial gains or losses of defined The Fonds is currently assessing the option of benefit pension plans that exceed the “corridor” are amortized over the average recognizing in retained earnings all actuarial gains remaining service period of active employees. However, in a recently issued and losses at transition and the option of using exposure draft, the IASB proposes to amend this treatment to eliminate or not using the “corridor” method subsequent the “corridor”. to transition. IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards allows Amounts involved are currently being assessed, but an entity to recognize, upon transition to IFRS, all cumulative actuarial gains they are not expected to have a significant impact on and losses directly in retained earnings. net assets, net earnings and net earnings per share. Income taxes Under Canadian GAAP, refundable taxes must be accrued – as assets for mutual As a result of this difference, refundable tax fund corporations – with respect to all related elements of income recognized balances will have to be written off as at the date in the period, whether the taxes with respect to such amounts are payable in of transition and the amount of future income the current year or in future years. taxes will have to be adjusted. Under IFRS, refundable taxes are recognized as amounts receivable only when Amounts involved are currently being assessed, dividends or transfers from retained earnings to capital stock giving right to a but they are not expected to have a significant refund of these taxes are approved by the Board of Directors. impact on net assets, net earnings and net earnings per share. Consequently, these refundable taxes will have to be recognized in the statement of operations only when such a transaction is approved. The Fonds believes that the IFRS conversion will not require major changes to its information systems, its data processing procedures and its various activities. The Fonds also believes that its current internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures will be sufficient and adequate for the adoption of the new IFRS and their disclosure requirements. REGULATION 31-103 The Fonds is currently registering itself as an investment fund manager in accordance with Regulation 31-103 Respecting Registration Requirements and Exemptions. This registration should not have a material impact on the Fonds’ operations. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 67 PAST PERFORMANCE This section presents the past performance of the Fonds. The past performance of the Fonds does not necessarily indicate how it will perform in the future. YEAR-BY-YEAR RETURNS OF THE FoNDs The following chart shows the Fonds’ annual performance and illustrates how the Fonds’ performance has changed from year to year for the last ten financial years. 9.2% 8.8% 6.0% 7.1% 5.2% 5.0% 2002 2003 2004 (11 months) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 -1.2% -6.9% -11.4% -12.6% The annual performance of the Fonds is calculated by dividing net earnings (net loss) per share for the financial year by the price per share at the beginning of the financial year. Such performance differs from the annual compound return to the shareholder because the annual performance of the Fonds is calculated taking into account share issuances and redemptions made during the year, which have a dilutive or accretive effect on net earnings (net loss) per share, as the case may be. ANNUAL COMPOUND RETURNS TO THE SHAREHOLDER At the current price of $25.92 per share, a shareholder who has invested at the beginning of each of the periods indicated below earns the following annual compound returns: 10 years 5 years 3 years 1 year 0.4% 1.8% 1.1% 8.7% The annual compound return to the shareholder is calculated by taking into account the annualized change in the price per share over the periods indicated. This return differs from the annual performance of the Fonds since, as mentioned above, it does not take into account the dilutive or accretive effect of share issuances and redemptions made during the year. This explains why the annual compound return to the shareholder was 8.7% for the year, whereas the performance of the Fonds was 8.8% for the same period. Since the inception of the Fonds, the annual compound return to the shareholder has been 3.6%. ANNUAL COMPOUND RETURNS TO THE SHAREHOLDER (INCLUDING TAX CREDITS) Let’s take, for example, a shareholder who has invested an equal amount each year through payroll deduction. Including the Québec and federal labour-sponsored funds tax credits (each amounting to 15%), at the current price of $25.92 per share, this shareholder earned an annual compound return of 13.1% and 9.5% for a 7-year and 10-year period, respectively. This return does not take into account the RRSP tax deductions. 68 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO As at May 31, 2011, the Fonds’ assets under management were broken down as follows: Asset classes % of net assets Development capital investments Private securities 24.0 Specialized funds 15.8 Listed securities 8.3 48.1 Other investments Cash and money market 3.1 Bonds 27.4 Sector-based shares 16.5 Funds of hedge funds 3.2 High-dividend shares 1.1 International infrastructure funds 0.9 52.2 As at May 31, 2011, the issuers of the top 25 positions held by the Fonds, of which 17 are part of the development capital investments portfolio and 8 are part of the other investments portfolio, were as follows: Issuers % of net assets Development capital investments (17 issuers)* 26.7 Other investments (8 issuers)** 18.5 45.2 * The 17 issuers representing, as a group, 26.7% ** The 8 issuers representing, as a group, 18.5% of the Fonds’ net assets are: of the Fonds’ net assets are: Atrium Innovations inc. Province of Ontario 5.6% BDR Capital, s.e.c.8 Government of Canada 4.6% Cogeco Câble inc. Province of Québec 2.0% Corporation Financière L’Excellence ltée Canada Housing Trust 1.8% Entreprises publiques québécoises à faible capitalisation8 Financement-Québec 1.7% Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ inc.8 Laurentian Bank of Canada 1.0% Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ I, s.e.c. (formerly Solim)8 Hydro-Québec 1.0% Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ II, s.e.c. (formerly Solim II)8 Q-BLK Strategic Partners, Inc. 0.8% Gestion TFI inc. IPL Inc. Metro inc. Société de gestion d’actifs forestiers Solifor, société en commandite8 SSQ, Life Insurance Company Inc. Stella-Jones Inc. Transcontinental Inc. Trencap s.e.c. VC, société en commandite This summary of investment portfolio may change due to ongoing portfolio transactions of the Fonds. 8. Despite their relatively important weight in the overall portfolio of the Fonds, these issuers do not constitute a significant concentration risk given their large number of investees. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 69 CONTRIBUTION TO QUÉBEC’S ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT In keeping with its mission, the Fonds made investments over the financial year that contributed to creating, maintaining or saving quality jobs in different sectors of the Québec economy. In the current, still uncertain economic conditions, the Fonds continues to play an active role in the development and growth of Québec companies. As such, during the financial year, on a commitment basis, the Fonds invested $733 million to support Québec entrepreneurs in their development projects. Some of these investments had a particularly structural effect on the Québec economy. For example, the Fonds invested $80 million in IPL, a leader in the North American moulded plastics manufacturing industry. In the first half of the year, as part of a company transfer deal, the Fonds invested $41.5 million to participate in the acquisition of IPL, a company owned by the Métivier family, who built a diversified company that has been strong since it was founded in 1939. The new owners are taking up the challenge to see that the company continues to grow. In the second half of the year, the Fonds invested another $38.5 million in the company to help its geographic expansion by acquiring Plastic Enterprises, a U.S. company. This transaction will help IPL gain access to new clients and secure the jobs it provides in Québec. As part of the 2011-2012 Québec budget, the Fonds committed to investing $50 million to create two new investment funds: one dedicated to enterprises in the cultural sector and one dedicated to entrepreneurial succession in Québec. The Fonds will contribute up to $40 million to the new Fonds Capital Culture Québec, created in collaboration with the Government of Québec, which will itself invest $60 million. The purpose of this fund is to finance the large projects of Québec cultural enterprises with a strong return potential that target international markets. Along the same lines, the Fonds also confirmed a reinvestment of $6.7 million in the Fonds d’investissement de la culture et des communications. In addition, the Fonds’ $10 million investment in the new Fonds Relève Québec, which will also see $40 million from the Government of Québec and other tax-advantaged funds, aims to support, through loans, acquisition of Québec SMEs as a complement to traditional financial products. In the machinery and equipment sector, an investment of $4.5 million in Groupe Technosub was instrumental in a business succession project; this Rouyn-Noranda SME specializes in manufacturing, distributing and repairing industrial pumps used in the mining industry. In addition, a $2.5 million unsecured loan was granted to Les investissements Nolinor for business succession purposes. This company specializes in passenger and cargo air transport throughout North America. Also noteworthy is the $4 million investment in Serdy Media, the media division of Groupe Serdy, a Québec family business specializing in audiovisual production and owner of, among other things, the Évasion television network. This partnership allowed Serdy Media to expand its television programming in Québec with the launch of Zeste, a specialty channel dedicated to food and cooking. As part of its strategic investment program9, the Fonds made three investments in 2010-2011. The Fonds granted Les Chantiers de Chibougamau ltée a $5 million competitiveness loan to help finance the capital assets of its new cross-laminated timber plant. The Fonds also acquired shares of Miranda Technologies Inc. for an amount of $7.2 million to become a major shareholder of that company. Miranda Technologies, whose growth outlook is promising, is recognized as a leader in its market; it is a world class provider of infrastructure, playout and monitoring systems for the broadcasting industry. Finally, the Fonds made an investment of $10 million as part of the public offering of 5N Plus, a fully integrated producer and closed-loop recycler of highly purified metals and compounds, which will allow it to acquire MCP Group SA (MCP). This acquisition of MCP will help consolidating jobs at its head office, which is located in the Saint-Laurent Borough, in Montréal. POLICY FOR INVESTMENTs OUTSIDE QUÉBEC10 Investments made by the Fonds pursuant to the Policy for Investments Outside Québec have had, over the years, significant economic spin-offs for Québec. This year, a total of $20 million ($47 million for the previous year) was invested in the various eligible categories pursuant to this policy. A total amount of $14.4 million was invested in four companies meeting the company impacting the Québec economy criteria, including $12 million in JV Driver Corporation, an Alberta construction company that will promote the hiring of Québec workers. The Fonds also invested a total of $5.6 million in two companies that will undertake large-scale projects in Québec, which also meet the policy’s criteria. The Fonds did not invest in any private funds outside Québec during this financial year. 9. The 2003-2004 Québec budget granted the Fonds the opportunity to make strategic investments in large Québec companies with assets of less than $500 million or with a maximum net worth of $200 million. 10. Since 1998, the Fonds has been authorized by the Québec Minister of Finance to invest outside Québec provided certain clearly defined conditions are met, notably with regards to economic spin-offs. The main groups of eligible investments are private funds outside Québec, companies impacting the Québec economy and large-scale investment projects (financing for expansion, modernization, productivity improvement). 70 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 THE FONDS DE SOLIDARITÉ FTQ investment NETWORK Since its inception in 1983, the Fonds has built a solid investment network that provides entrepreneurs who follow their ambitions with patient capital based on their needs. A veritable business hub brimming with ideas, talent and knowledge, this network offers the Fonds’ partner companies the opportunity to share common concerns with other SMEs, learn from past experiences and forge new business ties. The Fonds’ investment network revolves around four levels of investment: • The Fonds de solidarité FTQ generally offers $2 million and up for large companies. • Each of the fonds régionaux de solidarité FTQ, which cover all of Québec, generally offers capital ranging from $100,000 to $2 million to meet the needs of businesses in its region. • The local solidarity funds, or SOLIDEs (Sociétés locales d’investissement dans le développement de l’emploi), created by the Fonds and the Fédération québécoise des municipalités, generally offer $5,000 to $100,000 to small businesses. • The fonds immobiliers de solidarité FTQ are specialized in real estate investment and development. Their main objective is to create and save jobs through building or renovating major office buildings and commercial, industrial, institutional and residential properties. • Specialized funds form an investment network in Québec and abroad that invests in assorted industries. The Fonds’ commitment to this network continued in 2010-2011, with the continued goal to facilitate Québec SMEs’ access to capital in all their stages of development. Since January 2011, Québec entrepreneurs have had access to the entire Fonds investment network through its new Website: www.fondsftq.com. In addition to searching for our financing projects and for members of our teams of experts, this first one-stop shop for investment provides details on the Fonds, the regional funds, the local funds and the real estate funds. The following graph shows the breakdown of the Fonds’ investments based on its various network components: DISTRIBUTION OF INVESTMENTS BY NETWORK COMPONENTS (AT COST) As at May 31, 2011 Specialized funds 11.0% Regional and local funds (including the SOLIDEs) 9.8% Real estate funds 7.1% Fonds de solidarité FTQ 72.1% OUTLOOK AND TRENDS ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL OUTLOOK The ongoing fears that the effects of the public finance crisis in the more fragile countries in the Eurozone might propagate to the rest of the world, or that there will be consequences to the recent political upheaval seen in the Middle East and North Africa, will have an impact on the behaviour of the world’s stock and financial markets. Central banks around the world are monitoring the effect of oil price fluctuations on inflation. Most economists have raised their forecasted oil prices, but many are of the opinion that it would take an even sharper price spike to derail global economic recovery. Government authorities in the United States are reining in expenses as sovereign debt reaches an alarming level, while companies are in no hurry to take the relay in driving consumption and investment in the midst of low consumer confidence and uncertainty about new tax regulations. Employment numbers are slowly improving, but are still far from the levels of past economic cycles while robust employment generally is a sine qua non for a lasting economic recovery. Monetary aggregates and credit are slowly improving, and are no guarantee, at least at current levels, of a lasting recovery. The U.S. Federal Reserve is still not giving any clear signal of ending its exceptional stimulus measures. The quantitative easing program implemented in 2010 comes to an end in June 2011, which should be equivalent to a tightening of monetary conditions. As for a potential rise in interest rates in the United States, we will likely have to wait until 2012 to see a decision on such a measure. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 71 The gap between Canada and the United States, particularly in terms of employment and credit, seems to be stabilizing as the U.S. conditions improve and Canada’s remain robust. The Bank of Canada seems to want to send a message to markets that it intends to eventually raise its discount rate, without committing to a large hike. In the event that the Bank of Canada decides to raise its discount rate, the amount and timing will not be easy, especially given the sharp appreciation of the Canadian dollar and inflation. Given current economic conditions, we forecast a Canadian dollar that will fluctuate between $US 0.98 and $US 1.09 over the next few months, while interest rates on tenand thirty-year Canada bonds should vary within a relatively stable range that should not exceed 50 basis points. Experts agree that the economic growth Canada saw at the end of 2010 paved the way for 2011 to be an even better year. This new momentum will partly come from strengthening U.S. demand for our exports and slowing growth in imports. Globally, this means that after penalizing Canada in 2010, external trade should support the country in 2011 and possibly in 2012. The Québec economy should keep its momentum. Credit seems to have returned to normal and should stay there, and consumption, export and employment numbers, which have been on the rise for a while now, should remain at relatively high levels during the next few months. However, the conditions of public finances here and abroad, the repercussions of political upheaval in the Middle East and North Africa, competitiveness and innovation issues and conditions in the United States are all key factors to keep an eye on. TRENDS IN THE VENTURE CAPITAL INDUSTRY11 In 2010, the North American venture capital market saw its first improvement since 2007. Despite a 10% rise in amounts invested in Canada, Québec experienced a drop of 9% in 2010, which is the opposite of the conditions that prevailed in 2009 when investment was up in Québec and down in the rest of North America. Despite the slump in amounts invested, Québec still distinguished itself from the other Canadian provinces in the large number of companies financed by venture capital. In fact, nearly 50% of companies financed by venture capital in 2010 were located in Québec, where the largest venture capital transaction in Canada in 2010 occurred: the $53.8 million financing of Enerkem Technologies, a clean technology company located in Montréal. While Canadian venture capital investments grew in 2010, funds raised plummeted 24% ($819 million in 2010, compared to $1,070 million in 2009), reaching its lowest level in sixteen years. However, thanks in part to the important role played by tax-advantaged funds, Québec only saw an approximate 10% dip, and its share of total funds raised in Canada was 42%, compared to 36% in 2009. Tax-advantaged funds once again dominated investment activities in Québec, representing more than one third of amounts invested; across Canada, these funds only contributed 21% of amounts invested. Foreign funds were also present in 2010, representing 27% of amounts invested in Québec and 29% in Canada. THE SAVINGS MARkET AND RRSP With the current economy riddled with risk and uncertainty, we note a certain upward pressure in consumer expenses in Québec, which largely explains high household debt levels. Despite this, it seems that Quebeckers are slowly becoming aware of the importance of reducing their debt, which is the direct competitor of savings. Accordingly, one of the elements of the Fonds’ mission, to raise awareness of the importance of saving, continues to be meaningful. The 4.6% savings rate in Québec in 2009 fell to 3.7% in 2010. This had no impact on the proportion of RRSP holders: the results of SOM’s annual survey on the RRSP market (of over 1,000 RRSP holders in Québec) showed a holding rate of 48% (stable over the past three years). On the other hand, average contributions decreased ($5,570 in 2010, compared to $5,980 in 2009). Thanks to its numerous temporary points of service throughout Québec during the RRSP season, to its well-targeted marketing activities and the involvement of its LR network, and given its return and the tax credits it gives rise to, the Fonds’ RRSP retained once again is advantageous position among all available retirement savings products in 2010-2011. Incidentally, a survey of our shareholders performed by Léger Marketing in March 2011 showed that 81% are proud of the Fonds. 11. As previously mentioned, Canada’s Venture Capital & Private Equity Association (CVCA) proposes classifying private equity investments into three categories: buyout capital, venture capital and mezzanine capital. As such, the information presented in this section only concerns the venture capital category and is therefore not representative of the Fonds’ overall development capital investments, which are allocated among all three categories. In addition, the information presented in this section covers the 2010 calendar year, which is different than the Fonds’ financial year. 72 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 FoNDs OUTLOOK12 Based on current financial and economic outlooks, and given our mission and investment strategies, we are anticipating an average annual return of 2.5% to 3%. This return does not take into account the tax credits granted to shareholders upon purchasing shares of the Fonds and is subject to significant half-year or annual volatility. While the Fonds is confident it will reach its return objective over a long period, the annual return depends on current economic conditions and the ups and downs of the stock and financial markets. Therefore, the Fonds’ return over the 2011-2012 year will be greatly influenced by stock market returns. The return for private securities is also linked to the general performance of the economy and may be lower than their historic average returns, particularly because of an increase in the cost of credit, adverse impact of economic conditions, the volatility of the Canadian dollar compared to the U.S. dollar and the effects of foreign competition. The Fonds is targeting a ratio of total operating expenses to average net assets comparable to the ratio achieved during the financial year ended May 31, 2011. In the coming years the Fonds expects to continue using derivative products with respect to a portion of its bond portfolio to lessen the negative impact an increase in Canadian interest rates would have on its earnings. Given the protection such a strategy provides, we must therefore sacrifice a part of the earnings resulting from an increase in the value of our bond holdings should the rates of the bonds issued by the Canadian government decline. The level of hedging of the bond portfolio will vary based on the economic outlook. This strategy is necessary to meet shareholder expectations and to avoid, inasmuch as possible, a decline in the Fonds’ share price. We also use other hedging measures. For example, derivative products are used to reduce the Fonds’ exposure to currency risk or to reduce the impact of an anticipated fall in the value of certain specific securities on the stock markets. In such cases, we must also relinquish a part of the increase in the price of our investment if the corresponding currency or stock market price rallies. With projected share issues higher than anticipated redemptions, the Fonds’ net assets should increase over the 2011-2012 year. On the other hand, the volume of investments made by the Fonds should not be significantly different from the average investments made in the last two financial years. RISK MANAGEMENT Sound risk management practices are vital to the success of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ. We manage our risk within a framework taking into account the nature of our activities and the risks we can reasonably assume considering the desired return/risk ratio and shareholder expectations. To that end, we capitalize on a structured process to determine, measure and control the significant risks with which we must contend. Notice to readers: The following three paragraphs and the sections on market risk, credit and counterparty risk and liquidity risk form an integral part of the financial statements on which an unmodified opinion was expressed in an independent auditors’ report issued on June 29, 2011. The Fonds manages all its financial instruments in an integrated, comprehensive manner in accordance with the standards set out in the Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy adopted by the Board of Directors. This policy covers both development capital investments and other investments. It sets goals, guidelines and several limits so that the Fonds’ management can ensure that the target return/risk profile is reached. The Fonds uses derivatives in particular to safeguard the value of its assets, to facilitate portfolio management, to modify the asset allocation without increasing or decreasing the amounts managed by internal and external specialist and to improve returns within allocated risk limits. During the year ended May 31, 2011, the risk management approach continued to evolve, after the Fonds undertook, during the year ended May 31, 2010, a process to implement an integrated risk management framework. The objective of this process was essentially to provide the Fonds’ management with an overall vision of all risks to ensure that they are managed in accordance with their degree of importance. The production of an integrated risk profile allowed prioritizing the key financial and non-financial risks to which the Fonds is exposed, before and after considering the effectiveness of the controls implemented to mitigate the Fonds’ exposure to these risks. A mitigation strategy was developed for some of these risks, and action plans were set up. Other action plans are also intended to validate the existing controls aimed at managing certain of these risks. The implementation of the action plans is not completed and will continue in the next year. In the normal course of business, the Fonds is exposed to various risks; the principal ones are presented below. 12. The outlook presented in this MD&A reflects the Fonds’ expectations with respect to future events, based on information available to the Fonds as at June 29, 2011, and presupposes certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, several of which are beyond our control, may cause the Fonds’ actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from explicit or implicit expected future results, performance, or achievements. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 73 MARKET RISK Market risk, which is inherent to the Fonds’ participation in financial markets, represents the risk of losses in value arising from fluctuations in interest rates, exchange rates and prices of listed financial instruments. More specifically, this risk varies with the financial markets’ conditions and certain parameters of these markets, such as volatility, that may lower the value of the Fonds’ financial assets and thus have a negative impact on its Balance Sheet and Statement of Operations. Difficult economic or financial conditions may thus have a negative impact on the value of the Fonds’ shares. The Fonds manages market risk by allocating its financial assets across several classes. In addition, it invests in various industries (government and government agencies, financial institutions, technology, manufacturing and primary, services and tourism, regional or local funds and real estate) and geographic areas, within the limits allowed by its Incorporation Act. The Fonds’ financial assets are especially sensitive to listed share prices and fluctuations in bond interest rates (Canada bond rates and credit spreads). The Fonds’ financial assets are also sensitive to exchange rate fluctuations, but since most of its transactions are in Canadian dollars, the Fonds’ direct exposure to currency risk is relatively low. Furthermore, common hedging mechanisms such as foreign currency forward contracts are generally used for other investments in a foreign currency. In response to the significant appreciation of the Canadian dollar, the Fonds decided, in the prior year, to gradually reduce from 100% to 50% the hedge of its sector-based shares portfolio against currency risk. The Fonds continued to work towards this objective, and the sector-based shares hedging ratio was 52.5% as at May 31, 2011, compared to 62.5% as at May 31, 2010. In addition, the bond hedge that has been in place for a few years as part of the hedging strategy varied during the year based on the actual and anticipated interest rate movements, standing at $102 million as at May 31, 2011, compared to $135 million a year earlier. The hedging coverage will once again be adjusted in the next months based on actual and anticipated interest rate movements. Sensitivity analyses and simulations are used to inform senior management of material levels of market risk exposure. The Fonds uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its market risk exposure and safeguard the value of its assets. A sensitivity analysis is presented below for each of the three market risk categories to which the Fonds’ financial assets are exposed, namely changes in interest rates, listed share prices and exchange rates. These analyses reflect the changes made to existing hedging levels aimed at reducing the Fonds’ exposure to interest rate risk and currency risk. SENSITIVITY OF THE FoNDs’ RESULTS TO MARKET RISK (in millions of dollars) May 31, 2011 May 31, 2010 Change in bond interest rates* 1% increase in bond interest rates (131) (95) 1% decrease in bond interest rates 131 95 Change in listed share prices** 10% increase in listed share prices 214 186 10% decrease in listed share prices (214) (186) Change in exchange rates*** 10% appreciation of the Canadian dollar (69) (55) 10% depreciation of the Canadian dollar 69 55 * This analysis is performed on bonds held by the Fonds presented under Other investments in the financial statements. In this analysis, the impact on results takes into account the use of derivative financial instruments in certain cases. ** This analysis is performed on listed shares held by the Fonds presented under Development capital investments and Other investments in the financial statements. In this analysis, the impact on results takes into account the use of derivative financial instruments in certain cases. *** This analysis is performed on securities denominated in foreign currencies held by the Fonds presented under Development capital investments and Other investments in the financial statements. In this analysis, the impact on results takes into account the use of derivative financial instruments in certain cases. The value of unlisted financial instruments in the development capital investments portfolio is established using approved and accepted valuation techniques. These techniques are based on a set of assumptions that take into account market conditions such as exchange rates, economic growth, credit spreads, etc. as at the valuation date. Since the assumptions used are highly interrelated, a sensitivity analysis that isolates the impact of only one of these variables on the unlisted securities portfolio is not considered to fairly represent the sensitivity of the results. In addition, the fair value of certain financial instruments, in particular other investments, is determined based on external information and, consequently, no other reasonably possible assumption can be applied to the valuation techniques. Despite this, management assessed the situation for loans, bonds and advances as well as for unlisted securities valued using the discounted cash flow method, and determined that using possible alternative assumptions would not result in significantly different fair values. 74 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY RISK The Fonds’ exposure to credit risk stems mainly from its mission-driven development capital investments, which are generally unsecured. Its other investment activities generally entail less of this risk since the counterparties concerned are typically more financially solid (governments, banks, etc.). Credit risk is the potential for loss due to the failure of a partner company (financial instruments presented under Development capital investments), issuer or counterparty in a transaction (financial instruments presented under Other investments) to honour its contractual obligations or due to a degradation of its financial position. The Fonds manages this risk through several means, including a due diligence process to ensure that the credit risk level is acceptable. The Fonds maintains a sound diversification of its assets through the Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy. Compliance with this policy therefore enables the management of concentration risk associated with the exposure to an issuer or group of issuers with common characteristics (industries, credit ratings, etc.). EXPOSURE TO CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY RISK (fair value as a percentage of net assets) May 31, 2011 May 31, 2010 Weight of the five largest investments (Development capital investments) 14.0 15.1 Weight of the five largest issuers or counterparties (Other investments) 15.7* 14.1* * All these securities are issued or guaranteed by the Governments of Québec, Ontario or Canada. The summary of investment portfolio presented previously also discloses relevant information on the credit and counterparty risk concentration level. Targets by industries, in keeping with the Fonds’ internal structure, are approved each year for the development capital investments portfolio. These targets are set using risk budget management. Based on an optimal risk level defined for this portfolio as a whole, taking into account the Fonds’ mission, risk budget management facilitates a more effective monitoring and control of the portfolio profile and sector allocation by risk level. The return/risk balance of this portfolio is achieved through a sector-based risk budget allocation that takes into account the higher risk of our investments in certain sectors. We regularly re-examine the status of development capital investments to justify their classification in one of the following three categories: compliant with internal criteria, under watch or in turnaround. To deal with the more difficult situations, an internal committee closely monitors investments that entail greater credit risk. CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL INVESTMENTS PORTFOLIO (fair value in millions of dollars) May 31, 2011 May 31, 2010 Compliant with internal criteria 4,076 3,662 Under watch 177 212 In turnaround 17 46 4,270 3,920 In the case of the other investments portfolio, issuer and counterparty ratings and compliance with exposure limits by borrower or counterparty contribute to managing credit and counterparty risk of the portfolio and to diversifying our assets. These criteria are set based on the risks specific to each asset class and reduce the risk that our results will be materially affected in the event of a payment default. As a result of the reduction in the weight of corporate securities held in the bond portfolio, the weighted average credit rating of bonds was AA as at May 31, 2011, compared to A as at May 31, 2010. FAIR VALUE OF BONDS INCLUDED IN THE OTHER INVESTMENTS PORTFOLIO BASED ON STANDARD & POOR’S RATINGS (in millions of dollars) May 31, 2011 May 31, 2010 AAA 622 456 AA 741 588 A 750 804 BBB 184 169 Other 6 5 2,303 2,022 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 75 LIQUIDITY RISK The Fonds must make disbursements on a daily basis. Cash outflows occur when the Fonds redeems Class A shares held by shareholders, disburses amounts it committed to invest in partner companies, reimburses notes payable and pays expenses. It is worth noting that the Fonds is required to redeem shares only in the circumstances set out in its Incorporation Act, or to purchase them by agreement in exceptional situations provided under a policy adopted for such purpose by the Board of Directors and approved by the Minister of Finance of Québec. The Fonds must be able to obtain the liquidity required to meet its commitments. Liquidity risk is therefore related to the potential for loss due to its inability to meet such commitments. In certain cases, securities acquired on the market can be subject to resale restrictions, thus potentially reducing their liquidity. The Fonds’ Incorporation Act provides that part of the financial assets may be invested in marketable securities on organized markets, such as stock and bond markets, so we can easily obtain cash. The Fonds also has access to bank credit facilities for additional sources of liquidity. As at May 31, 2011, the ratio of liquid financial assets13 as a percentage of assets under management was 54.3% (51.0% as at May 31, 2010), demonstrating, in management’s opinion, that the Fonds has the required liquidity to fulfill all its obligations and commitments, even under potential scenarios that would be unfavourable to it. OPERATIONAL RISK Inherent to all the Fonds’ activities, operational risk is the risk of sustaining losses as a result of the inadequacy or failure of certain processes or systems in place or due to human factors or external events. This risk also includes legal risk. Effective policies, standards and procedures are implemented to manage this risk. Control principles and mechanisms are monitored and periodically revised with a view to continuous improvement. The Fonds’ operational risk management and the effectiveness of its management framework are underpinned by the following guiding principles: • Competent, well-trained staff; • A succession management program; • A culture of integrity; • Segregation of incompatible duties; • Adoption of a concept of independence inspired by the securities regulations applicable to public companies; • Delegation of decision-making authority to Special Boards whose majority of members are external to the Fonds and the FTQ; • Monitoring of the development capital investment valuation process; • Implementation of a framework program of financial compliance; • Monitoring of technology development and information security; • A planning process for resumption of activities in the event of business interruption; • Continuous monitoring of changes in applicable legislation, regulations and standards, including the Fonds’ compliance therewith; • Risk identification and assessment when new products or activities are implemented. The Codes of Ethics and Conduct define, among other things, the rules of conduct to be followed by employees, officers and directors to avoid, for instance, conflict of interest situations. All employees or officers must, in the execution of their duties, put the interests of the Fonds ahead of their own or those of third parties. They must also avoid placing themselves in a conflict of interest situation, either real, potential or apparent. The Codes of Ethics and Conduct prohibit, among others, certain personal trading deemed conflictual, including receiving certain gifts and using any advantage, information or interest related to the Fonds that would be incompatible with the professional duties and responsibilities of an employee. In addition, the Codes forbid the disclosure by directors and employees, for purposes other than the execution of their duties, of confidential information obtained through such execution. Each year, all employees must complete a statement of interests held and a statement on the compliance of their conduct with the Code. The Codes of Ethics and Conduct for management and unionized personnel was updated in 2009, and training was provided to all employees. The Codes now provide for a whistleblowing procedure for cases of non-compliance with the Code involving financial or accounting information or illegal acts. To diversify its financial assets management, the Fonds also calls upon the services of specialized external managers and acquires interests in specialized funds. Where appropriate, the Fonds purchases insurance that transfers to insurers certain components of operational risk related to these activities. 13. Liquid financial assets are comprised of fixed-income securities (cash, bonds and money market securities), listed shares of the other investments portfolio and certain listed shares of the development capital investments portfolio. 76 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 OTHER RISKS The Fonds is also exposed to other risks such as strategic and reputation risks, which could result in negative financial consequences. Strategic risk, which includes competitive risk and risk associated with regulatory changes, refers to the possibility of incurring losses as a result of ineffective strategies, lack of integrated business strategies or the inability to adapt the strategies to changes in the business environment. This risk is managed through monitoring and strategic and operational planning processes that seek input from all levels of the organization; the resulting plans are submitted to the Board of Directors for approval. The Management Committee periodically monitors the business plans and strategic objectives of the Fonds and each sector. Any strategic decision or change to the Fonds’ already adopted orientations that could have a material impact is authorized beforehand by the appropriate authorities, based on the powers delegated to them. Reputation risk is the risk that negative publicity, whether founded or unfounded, will cause losses, a decrease in liquidity or a decline in the customer base. The Fonds controls and manages reputation risk through the following, among others: proper training, legal and financial due diligence for all its capital development investments, sound governance practices, the application of policies and procedures, and ownership of the Codes of Ethics and Conduct by all officers and employees. The Fonds is a responsible corporate citizen that takes ethical, social and environmental aspects into consideration when making investment decisions. We have also adopted a voting rights policy with regards to public partner companies and a code of conduct for international business dealings. The Fonds also ensures that any financial information released outside the organization is accurate and validated beforehand. In 2008, the Fonds implemented a Disclosure Policy concerning all financial and non-financial information issued and/or disclosed externally and the information that is communicated internally to a large number of employees. The main objectives of this policy are to provide a disclosure framework and standards, to ensure that information disclosed is rigorously prepared and validated, to make the Fonds’ employees aware of disclosure principles, and to specify the roles and responsibilities of the main participants in the disclosure process. The application of this policy is monitored by a Disclosure Committee composed of members of the Fonds’ management. The main responsibilities of this Committee are to set disclosure guidelines, to implement and keep up to date the Disclosure Policy and ensure it is complied with, and to ensure that relevant and effective disclosure controls and procedures are in place. The Disclosure Committee reports its activities to the Management Committee. GOVERNANCE RISK GOVERNANCE The Management Committee, comprised of the President and CEO and executives, is responsible for the global management of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s operations. Because risk governance is an essential part of integrated financial assets management, the Fonds has put in place a management framework to ensure that risk management and control strategies and resulting operational decisions take the established level of acceptable risk into account. This management framework is as follows: BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ETHICS COMMITTEE VALUATION COMMITTEE FINANCIAL ASSETS MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE SPECIAL BOARDs Shareholders’ expectations in terms Integrated financial assets management Risks inherent to the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s of return and volatility by the Fonds de solidarité FTQ activities resulting from its mission Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy, guidelines and procedures, standards, etc. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 77 Our risk governance structure is built upon a series of policies approved by the Board of Directors. Policies, standards, guidelines, and procedures are regularly reassessed to ensure that we rely on only the best possible practices. It should be noted that the functions of Chairman of the Board and President and CEO are separate. The Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy is a key piece of this management framework. The policy sets out the target financial asset allocation allowing the Fonds to fulfill its mission while meeting the desired return/risk ratio through sound diversification that helps mitigate the volatility of such return from half-year to half-year. This policy also provides objectives, guidelines, and limits within which our managers and professionals perform their duties and carry out their mandates. In fact, the Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy is composed of several policies covering general principles, orientations, and the limits and guidelines applicable to various asset classes, including a separate policy applicable to the Investments sector. The detailed guidelines and procedures covering the management of financial assets on an operational basis are presented separately to facilitate their application. The process that was launched during the previous year to implement an integrated risk management framework also had some effects on the risk governance structure. The roles and responsibilities of the Fonds’ governing bodies, internal committees and main stakeholders involved were further defined. In this way the Fonds’ Board of Directors reconfirmed its responsibility for integrated risk management while delegating to the Executive Committee the monitoring of the work and their results in that respect. The Vice-President responsible for the integrated risk management framework reports directly to the President and CEO in carrying out his duties. He is supported by an Integrated Risk Management Committee, an internal committee created in 2010 whose mandate is set out by the Management Committee. KEY GOVERNING BODIES BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors carries out specific duties, including: • Ensuring the Fonds’ mission, Incorporation Act and any other law it is subject to are followed while adhering to its values of solidarity and responsibility; • Approving the main directions, policies and business strategies of the Fonds, notably in regards to integrated financial asset management and integrated risk management; • Ensuring there are controls over the Fonds’ management, including over risk management, and ensuring a culture of integrity; • Approving investment recommendations for which it is responsible and monitoring them; • Evaluating the Fonds’ performance on a regular basis. Members of the Board of Directors are nominated or elected according to the rules set out in the Fonds’ Incorporation Act. In carrying out its mandate, the Board delegates part of its responsibilities to the following committees: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, SPECIAL BOARDS AND OTHER DELEGATE BOARDS In addition to the Board of Directors, Delegate Boards also oversee development capital investment decisions. Delegate Boards include the Executive Committee and the Special Boards created for the Traditional, New Economy, Mining Portfolio and Turnaround and Majority Interests sectors. Each development capital investment of $5 million or more must be authorized by the Board of Directors, or the Executive Committee if the Board of Directors is unable to meet in a timely fashion; in addition, each of these investments must be recommended by the Special Board overseeing the corresponding activities. All investments of less than $5 million are under the authority of the corresponding Special Board, except for the Mining Portfolio, whose limit is $1 million. The four Special Boards are composed of a majority of members who are external to the Fonds and the FTQ. The Executive Committee examines and approves, at least once every half-year, management’s reports on integrated risk management. Using these reports, the Committee reports to the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, and, if needed, the Financial Assets Management Committee. It also recommends policies for integrated risk management that are proposed by management, as needed. AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of members who are external to the Fonds in accordance with Regulation 52-110 respecting Audit Committees, and its mandate includes: recommending the audited financial statements and MD&A for approval by the Board of Directors; approving the principles for valuing development capital investments and receiving the Valuation Committee’s report; enquiring about the effectiveness of internal controls implemented by management and the fact that they are not overridden; enquiring about the compliance and risk management process for preparing the Fonds’ financial statements and provide feedback; and receiving the Ethics Committee report and overseeing the application of the Code of Ethics for Board members. The Committee also ensures the Fonds complies with the statutes, regulations and agreements that govern its operations and that may have a material financial impact. The Audit Committee reports its activities to the Board of Directors and makes recommendations to it when necessary. In addition, an Ethics Committee composed of members of management support the Audit Committee in monitoring the application of the Fonds’ Codes of Ethics and Conduct. 78 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 FINANCIAL ASSETS MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE This committee is responsible for monitoring the implementation, compliance with and updating of the Integrated Financial Assets Management Policy, including the Investment Policy and the policies applicable to the various asset classes of the Other Investments sector. Its primary mandate is to ensure that asset management is coordinated and linked. In this capacity, it recommends the overall vision and orientation for financial assets management to the Board of Directors. This committee also monitors performance, changes in the return/risk ratio and ensures that the Fonds’ activities are in compliance with all its financial assets management policies, and ensures that the Fonds has adequate and sufficient guidelines and procedures. The Financial Assets Management Committee reports to the Board of Directors twice yearly on its activities and makes recommendations to it when necessary. VALUATION COMMITTEE Composed of a majority of qualified valuators independent from the Fonds, the Valuation Committee is mandated to provide a reasonable assurance that the procedure used for valuing the development capital investments portfolio complies with the procedure set out in the Regulation Respecting Development Capital Investment Fund Continuous Disclosure. The Valuation Committee reports on its review to the Audit Committee twice yearly. VALUATION FRAMEWORK Development capital investments and other investments are recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value.14 However, the majority of the Fonds’ development capital investments are made in private companies or specialized funds for which a fair value must be established because the securities issued by these companies or funds are not traded on organized, public markets. Specialized valuators employed by the Fonds determine the fair value of these investments. These valuators report to the Executive Vice-President, Finance and follow a structured process comprising several verification and validation steps to ensure the quality, uniformity and integrity of the work performed and of the resulting fair value. The management framework that should govern the procedure for valuing development capital investments is set out in the Regulation Respecting Development Investment Fund Continuous Disclosure. In particular, the Regulation specifies the minimum qualifications required for specialized valuators employed by the Fonds as well as the governing body responsible for approving the valuation principles used. The Regulation also requires that all relevant information about the valuations (excluding publicly traded issuers valued using market prices) should be provided to an independent valuation committee. In addition, the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer must sign a certification stating that the valuation procedures set out in the Regulation were complied with and confirming the aggregate fair value of the development capital investments portfolio. This certification has been submitted to the Audit Committee on a half-year basis since May 31, 2009. FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE While not required to apply MI 52-109 issued by the Canadian Securities Administrators, the Fonds has decided to base its work upon the principles stated in this rule, thereby demonstrating its willingness to respect best practices in financial governance. This financial compliance framework program commonly known as Confor applies to controls providing reasonable assurance that the financial information prepared and reported is reliable and that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles. Management is responsible for designing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. It must also periodically evaluate their design and effectiveness. During the year, the Fonds undertook the necessary work to evaluate the design and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. A certification was signed by the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer as at May 31, 2011, confirming their responsibility for this procedure. These certifications are available on SEDAR. A mechanism for sub-certification by several Fonds executives and managers also supports these certifications. Management’s conclusions on the design and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are presented below. 14. Using fair value is a best practice recognized by venture capital firms and private equity funds. Fair value is defined as the amount of the consideration that would be agreed upon in an arm’s-length transaction between knowledgeable, willing partners who are under no compulsion to act. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 79 MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROLS Management is responsible for designing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. It must also periodically evaluate their design and effectiveness. Management evaluated the control design based on the COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) framework, and, for information technology controls, the COBIT (Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology) framework, two recognized financial governance frameworks. CONCLUSIONS ON THE DESIGN AND EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING As at May 31, 2011, management evaluated the design and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Based on the work done, management can conclude that internal control over financial reporting is adequately designed and operates effectively to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles. During the year ended May 31, 2011, there was no change in the Fonds’ internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to affect, the Fonds’ internal control over financial reporting. CONCLUSIONS ON THE DESIGN AND EFFECTIVENESS OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES As at May 31, 2011, management evaluated the design and effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures. Based on the work done, management can conclude that disclosure controls and procedures are adequately designed and operate effectively to provide reasonable assurance that information disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and presented within the time periods specified in the regulations and that it is communicated to management on a timely basis for decision-making purposes. 80 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 financial statementS Management’s report The financial statements of the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) and the other financial information in this annual report are the responsibility of the Board of Directors, which has delegated the responsibility of their preparation to management. The Board of Directors carries out its responsibility for financial statements through the Audit Committee, made up of outside, unrelated directors. The auditors mandated by shareholders have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee, with or without management’s presence. To fulfill its responsibility about the accuracy and reliability of the financial information, management has a system of internal controls to provide assurance the financial information is reliable, form a proper basis for preparing the financial statements, and the Fund’s assets are properly accounted for and safeguarded. These financial statements, audited by Samson Bélair/Deloitte & Touche s.e.n.c.r.l., Chartered accountants, and Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton LLP, Chartered accountants, present the financial information available as at June 29, 2011, and have been prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles. The financial information presented elsewhere in this annual report conforms with the Fonds’ financial statements, which have been approved by the Board of Directors. Executive Vice-President, Finance Michel Pontbriand, CA Montréal, June 29, 2011 Independent auditors’ report To the Shareholders of the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) We have audited the accompanying financial statements of the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.), which comprise the balance sheets as at May 31, 2011 and 2010, and the statements of operations, changes in net assets and cash flows for the years then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained in our audits is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) as at May 31, 2011 and 2010 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles. 1 2 1 Chartered accountant auditor permit No. 10881 2 Chartered accountant auditor permit No. 22092 Montréal, June 29, 2011 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 81 BALANCE SHEETS A s at M ay 3 1 2011 2010 (In thousands, except net assets per share) $ $ Assets Development capital investments (Note 4) 4,269,537 3,920,407 Other investments (Note 5) 4,190,196 3,670,163 Accounts receivable and other assets (Note 8) 264,248 177,201 Cash 6,372 8,536 Capital assets (Note 9) 62,323 62,011 Income taxes – 4,156 Future income taxes (Note 17) – 685 8,792,676 7,843,159 Liabilities Notes (Note 10) 349,503 363,810 Accounts payable and other liabilities (Note 12) 260,894 184,169 Income taxes 1,170 – Future income taxes (Note 17) 3,298 828 614,865 548,807 Net assets (Note 13) 8,177,811 7,294,352 Number of Class A shares, Series 1 and Series 2 outstanding (Note 13) 315,504 305,951 Net assets per Class A share, Series 1 and Series 2 25.92 23.84 Contingencies (Note 14) The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. On behalf of the Board of Directors, Yvon Bolduc, Director Michel Arsenault, Director 82 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS F or the years e n ded M ay 3 1 2011 2010 (In thousands, except earnings per share) $ $ Revenues Interest (Note 15) 188,403 169,051 Dividends 67,116 52,912 255,519 221,963 Expenses (Note 16) Corporate expenses 38,364 37,558 Development capital investment and other investment expenses 32,111 29,428 Shareholder Services and Economic Training development and administration expenses 41,954 38,522 Capital tax 1,064 5,314 Amortization of property and equipment and information systems development 4,307 4,467 117,800 115,289 Net investment income before income taxes 137,719 106,674 Income taxes (Note 17) 26,080 21,806 Net investment income 111,639 84,868 Gains on development capital investments and other investments Realized 79,708 65,717 Change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation 460,234 451,504 Transaction costs (1,298) (1,830) 538,644 515,391 Net earnings 650,283 600,259 Weighted average number of Class A shares, Series 1 and Series 2 310,228 298,740 Earnings per Class A share, Series 1 and Series 2 2.10 2.01 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 83 STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS F or the years e n ded M ay 3 1 Contributed Surplus Retained Earnings Share Capital (Note 13) (Note 13) (Deficit) Net Assets Class A Class G Subscribed Realized Unrealized Series 1 Series 2 (In thousands) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2011 Balance at beginning of year As previously reported 6,276,688 76,876 – 442 1,249,106 32,527 (341,287) 7,294,352 Restatement (Note 13) (134,701) 134,701 – As restated 6,276,688 76,876 – 442 1,114,405 167,228 (341,287) 7,294,352 Net earnings 190,049 460,234 650,283 Share issues 688,157 10,092 698,249 Net change in share subscriptions 285 285 Share redemptions (391,217) (8,540) (62,075) (3,526) (465,358) Transfers (Note 13) 103,000 (103,000) – Balance at end of year 6,676,628 78,428 – 727 1,052,330 250,751 118,947 8,177,811 2010 Balance at beginning of year As previously reported 5,844,350 72,019 20,125 443 1,230,575 – (792,791) 6,374,721 Restatement (Note 13) (104,279) 104,279 – As restated 5,844,350 72,019 20,125 443 1,126,296 104,279 (792,791) 6,374,721 Net earnings 148,755 451,504 600,259 Share issues 649,311 10,774 660,085 Net change in share subscriptions (1) (1) Share redemptions (301,973) (5,917) (32,016) (806) (340,712) Transfers (Note 13) 85,000 (20,125) 20,125 (85,000) – Balance at end of year 6,276,688 76,876 – 442 1,114,405 167,228 (341,287) 7,294,352 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 84 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS F or the years e n ded M ay 3 1 2011 2010 (In thousands) $ $ Operating activities Net investment income 111,639 84,868 Non-cash items and change in non-cash items Interest capitalized on development capital investments (8,113) (4,738) Interest capitalized on notes 16,008 14,418 Amortization of property and equipment and information systems development 4,307 4,467 Future income taxes 3,155 423 Accounts receivable and other assets (61,110) 402,999 Accounts payable and other liabilities 1,553 (409,111) Income taxes 5,326 1,245 Other 3,186 7,009 Transaction costs (1,297) (1,893) 74,654 99,687 Financing activities Issuance of notes 100,828 83,257 Repayment of notes (172,177) (105,065) Shares issued and subscribed 698,534 660,084 Shares redeemed (466,038) (341,940) 161,147 296,336 Investing activities Acquisition of development capital investments (649,431) (642,054) Proceeds of disposal of development capital investments 557,469 356,787 Acquisition of other investments (11,997,154) (15,173,076) Proceeds of disposal of other investments 11,855,568 15,056,648 Property and equipment (3,119) (1,433) Information systems development (1,298) (875) (237,965) (404,003) Decrease in cash (2,164) (7,980) Cash at beginning of year 8,536 16,516 Cash at end of year 6,372 8,536 Cash flows from operating activities include income taxes paid of $20 million (2010: $20.7 million). The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 85 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 a n d 2 0 1 0 1. INCORPORATION ACT STATUTES AND OBJECTIVES OF THE FONDS The Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) (the “Fonds”), incorporated by an Act of the Québec National Assembly, is a joint-stock company with the following objectives: a) to invest in Québec business enterprises and provide them with services in order to create, maintain or protect jobs; b) to promote the training of workers in economic matters to enable them to increase their influence on Québec’s economic development; c) to stimulate the Québec economy by making strategic investments that will be of benefit to Québec workers and business enterprises; d) to promote the development of qualified business enterprises by inviting workers to participate in that development by purchasing the Fonds’ shares. To this end, the Fonds endeavours to concentrate most of its development capital investments in unsecured investments, mainly in small and medium-sized enterprises (“SMEs”), located in Québec. As a general rule, the Fonds will take a minority interest in the projects in which it invests. 60% RULE The Fonds may make development capital investments in any business enterprise with or without security. However, in any given financial year, the proportion of unsecured development capital investments made in qualified business enterprises must represent an average of at least 60% of the Fonds’ average net assets of the previous financial year. If the Fonds fails to reach this percentage, the share issues giving rise to tax credits for the following financial year are limited to a prescribed percentage of the total value of shares issued in the preceding financial year, except for shares acquired through payroll deductions and employer contributions stipulated in agreements concluded at the end of the preceding financial year. The percentage of average qualified development capital investments to the average net assets of the preceding year is 71.0% as at May 31, 2011 (2010: 66.2%). Since the minimum percentage prescribed by the 60% rule has been reached as at May 31, 2011, the amount of share issues will not be limited for the 2011-2012 financial year. 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Fonds is an investment company as defined in the Accounting Guideline on investment companies contained in the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants (“CICA”) Handbook and, as such, applies the accounting principles stated therein. A Statement of Comprehensive Income is not provided as there are no items to include therein. USE OF ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions, in particular when determining allowances and the fair value of development capital investments and other investments, that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. RECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments are recognized at fair value on the transaction date. Accounts receivable and other assets are classified as loans and receivables, and Notes and Accounts payable and other liabilities, excluding derivative financial instruments, are classified as other liabilities. These instruments are recognized at amortized cost, which approximates their fair value. 86 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) MEASUREMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS All development capital investments and other investments are measured at fair value, established as follows: a) Unlisted financial instruments Unlisted financial instruments consist of shares, partnership units, loans and advances and guarantees and suretyships. These instruments are measured at fair value using appropriate valuation techniques and models that may not be principally based on observable market information. Observable market information is used in valuation models if they are available. The fair value is established based on reasonable assumptions that would be considered by parties to an arm’s length transaction. Certain assumptions may have a significant impact on fair value, including those used to determine characteristic cash flows and the level of risk and future growth rate associated with such cash flows considering economic conditions, the outlook for the relevant industry segment and conditions specific to the business entreprise. Units of funds of hedge funds are valued at the value set by their respective manager at the date closest to the Fonds’ year-end. b) Listed financial instruments Listed financial instruments consist of shares, partnership units, bonds and money market instruments. These instruments are valued at bid price at the close of trading at balance sheet date. In exceptional instances, when the market for a financial instrument is not active, such instrument is then valued using appropriate valuation techniques, including the techniques used for unlisted financial instruments. c) Derivative financial instruments These instruments are valued using appropriate valuation techniques, including option pricing models using in particular the bid price for assets and the ask price for liabilities at the close of trading at balance sheet date. SECURITIES LENDING, SECURITIES PURCHASED UNDER REVERSE REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS AND SECURITIES SOLD UNDER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS To generate additional revenues, the Fonds participates in the securities lending program put in place by its trustee for securities of which it is the custodian. Under this program, the Fonds can enter into securities lending transactions and transactions involving the purchase of securities with a simultaneous commitment to resell them in the short-term at a specified price and date. In addition, the program allows the Fonds to enter into transactions involving the sale of securities with a simultaneous commitment to repurchase them in the short-term at a specified price and date. The resulting revenues are recorded under Interest in the Statement of Operations. CAPITAL ASSETS Capital assets are stated at cost and are amortized over their estimated useful life using the following methods and annual rates: Methods Rates Buildings straight-line 2.5% Office furniture and equipment diminishing balance 20.0% Computer hardware straight-line 25.0% Information systems development straight-line 33.3% Property and equipment comprise buildings, office furniture and equipment and computer hardware. Capital assets are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recorded when their carrying amount exceeds the undiscounted cash flows that would result from their use and eventual disposition. The recognized impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 87 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 a n d 2 0 1 0 (CONTINUED) 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) REVENUE RECOGNITION a) Interest Interest is recorded on an accrual basis. b) Dividends Dividends are recorded as income when they are declared, except for cumulative dividends which are recorded on an accrual basis. c) Gains and losses on development capital investments and other investments Realized gains and losses on disposals of development capital investments and other investments, including derivative financial instruments, are recorded at the time of sale and presented under Gains on development capital investments and other investments in the Statement of Operations. The amount is the difference between the proceeds of disposal and the average cost, without considering the unrealized appreciation or depreciation recorded in prior years, which is reversed and taken into account under Change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation. INCOME TAXES The Fonds uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, future income taxes are recognized based on the expected future tax consequences of differences between the carrying amounts of balance sheet items and their tax bases, multiplied by the enacted or substantively enacted income tax rates for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Future income tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be realized. FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION Monetary assets and liabilities and assets and liabilities measured at fair value are translated into Canadian dollars at the year-end exchange rate. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the transaction date. Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognized in the Statement of Operations. EMPLOYEE FUTURE BENEFITS The cost of pensions and other retirement benefits earned by managers and employees is actuarially determined using the projected benefit method prorated on service and management’s best estimate of expected return on plan assets, salary escalation and retirement ages of employees. For the purposes of calculating the expected return on plan assets, those assets are valued at fair value. Net actuarial gains or losses which are greater than 10% of the accrued benefit obligation or the fair value of the plan assets, whichever is higher, are amortized over the average remaining service period of active employees. The average remaining service period of covered active employees is between 8.8 and 12.2 years (2010: between 9.8 and 12.8 years). 3. FUTURE CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (IFRS) In 2008, the Accounting Standards Board of Canada (AcSB) confirmed that Canadian GAAP will be replaced by IFRS for the years beginning on or after January 1, 2011. In January 2011, the AcSB confirmed that investment companies, as defined in the Accounting Guideline on investment companies of the CICA Handbook, will have to apply IFRS for the first time to interim and annual financial statements for the years beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The Fonds therefore deferred its first-time adoption date and will prepare its first interim financial statements in accordance with IFRS as at November 30, 2013. The Fonds complies with its IFRS conversion plan. Additional information is presented in the “Recent development” section of the Management Discussion and Analysis for the year ended May 31, 2011, which is presented on pages 65 to 67 and available at the Fonds’ head office, on its Website at www.fondsftq.com or at www.sedar.com. 88 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 4. DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL INVESTMENTS The Audited Statement of Development Capital Investments, at Cost, is presented on pages 106 to 113 and available at the Fonds’ head office, on its Website at www.fondsftq.com or at www.sedar.com. 2011 2010 Unrealized Unrealized appreciation appreciation Cost (depreciation) Fair value Cost (depreciation) Fair value (In thousands) $ $ $ $ $ $ Unsecured Listed shares and units 564,727 134,799 699,526 592,198 10,728 602,926 Unlisted shares and units 2,051,802 46,032 2,097,834 1,904,449 (25,623) 1,878,826 Loans, bonds and advances 1,488,162 (47,146) 1,441,016 1,485,819 (77,495) 1,408,324 Secured Loans, bonds and advances 65,534 (34,373) 31,161 45,548 (15,217) 30,331 4,170,225 99,312 4,269,537 4,028,014 (107,607) 3,920,407 Development capital investments include securities denominated in foreign currencies, mainly the U.S. dollar, with a fair value of $258.6 million (2010: $251 million). Investment agreements may include clauses providing for conversion and redemption options. BREAKDOWN OF LOANS, BONDS AND ADVANCES BY MATURITY Loans, bonds and advances at fair value Variable rates Fixed rates Total Maturity Less than 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years and more (In thousands) $ $ $ $ $ 2011 Unsecured 51,303 259,882 393,688 736,143 1,441,016 Average effective rate 11.8% 1.11% 9.7% 7.7% Secured 19,188 4,816 4,477 2,680 31,161 Average effective rate 6.9% 12.4% 11.8% 9.3% 2010 Unsecured 37,838 253,315 441,944 675,227 1,408,324 Average effective rate 12.0% 1.61% 9.5% 7.4% Secured 963 18,328 11,040 – 30,331 Average effective rate 4.3% 12.0% 12.4% 7.2% 1. This average rate includes non-interest bearing advances repayable on demand of $235.1 million (2010: $236.1 million) to a wholly-owned company. Excluding these advances, the average effective rate would be 10.0% (2010: 9.1%). Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 89 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 a n d 2 0 1 0 (CONTINUED) 4. DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL INVESTMENTS (continued) BREAKDOWN OF DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL INVESTMENTS BY INDUSTRY SEGMENT Industry Segment Regional or Manufacturing Services local and real Technology and primary and tourism estate funds Total (In thousands) $ $ $ $ $ 2011 Cost 864,934 1,069,118 1,456,434 779,739 4,170,225 Unrealized appreciation (depreciation) (212,465) (82,573) 244,297 150,053 99,312 Fair value 652,469 986,545 1,700,731 929,792 4,269,537 Allocation of investments made by the regional or local funds 23,153 76,346 71,973 (171,472) – Funds committed but not disbursed1 445,769 101,283 290,703 81,023 918,778 Guarantees and suretyships2 11,190 7,324 18,514 Maximum risk 1,121,391 1,175,364 2,070,731 839,343 5,206,829 2010 Cost 859,021 1,117,891 1,368,965 682,137 4,028,014 Unrealized appreciation (depreciation) (279,397) (119,456) 143,699 147,547 (107,607) Fair value 579,624 998,435 1,512,664 829,684 3,920,407 Allocation of investments made by the regional or local funds 18,814 72,673 63,821 (155,308) – Funds committed but not disbursed1 508,889 116,837 113,623 82,519 821,868 Guarantees and suretyships2 11,985 8,431 21,500 41,916 Maximum risk 1,107,327 1,199,930 1,698,539 778,395 4,784,191 1. Funds committed but not disbursed represent development capital investments that have already been agreed to and for which amounts have been committed by the Fonds but have not been disbursed as at year-end. Disbursements are subject to compliance with the agreement’s terms and conditions. Of funds committed but not disbursed, an amount of $251 million (2010: $180.3 million) represents credit facilities and project financing for operating companies, having a weighted average maturity of 6 months (2010: 18 months); and an amount of $667.8 million (2010: $641.6 million) represents commitments that will be disbursed to specialized funds in tranches, having a weighted average maturity of 8.5 years (2010: 9 years). Commitments amounting to $153.8 million (2010: $193.5 million) are denominated in foreign currencies, mainly the U.S. dollar. 2. Under Section 17 of its Incorporation Act, when the Fonds makes a development capital investment in the form of a guarantee or a suretyship, it must establish and maintain a reserve equal to at least 50% of the guarantee or suretyship amount for the term thereof. This reserve is established from Other investments. The Fonds granted guarantees and suretyships that do not generally include a specific maturity and that are irrevocable commitments by the Fonds to make the payments of partner companies that cannot meet their obligations to third parties for an undiscounted total maximum amount and for the following purposes: 2011 2010 (In thousands) $ $ Loans on real estate projects – with recourse 21,500 Operating activities and operating lines of credit – without recourse 1,250 4,028 Operating activities and operating lines of credit – with recourse 17,264 16,388 18,514 41,916 As at May 31, 2011, the unrealized depreciation related to guarantees and suretyships amounts to $3.7 million (2010: $2.6 million) and is presented under Accounts payable and other liabilities. As well, in the normal course of business, the Fonds enters into various indemnification agreements, usually related to sales of development capital investments, for the representations and warrantees made as well as to the liability of the Fonds’ directors, officers or representatives toward partner companies. The latter liability is covered, subject to certain conditions, by liability insurance. Due to the nature of these agreements, it is impossible to reasonably estimate the maximum amount that the Fonds may have to pay to counterparties. In management’s opinion, it is highly unlikely that these commitments will result in material additional expenses, taking into consideration the provisions recorded. 90 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 5. OTHER INVESTMENTS The Unaudited Statement of Other Investments is available at the Fonds’ head office, on its Website at www.fondsftq.com or at www.sedar.com. 2011 2010 Unrealized Unrealized appreciation appreciation Cost (depreciation) Fair value Cost (depreciation) Fair value (In thousands) $ $ $ $ $ $ Shares and units 1,390,782 118,857 1,509,639 1,390,033 (101,870) 1,288,163 Units of funds of hedge funds 230,053 (13,614) 216,439 230,307 (9,813) 220,494 Bonds 2,246,336 56,749 2,303,085 2,011,697 10,605 2,022,302 Money market instruments 153,622 218 153,840 116,487 103 116,590 4,020,793 162,210 4,183,003 3,748,524 (100,975) 3,647,549 Derivative financial instruments – 7,193 7,193 1,692 20,922 22,614 4,020,793 169,403 4,190,196 3,750,216 (80,053) 3,670,163 Other investments include securities denominated in foreign currencies with a fair value of $1,267.7 million (2010: $1,109.9 million), mainly including $710 million (2010: $636.3 million) in U.S. dollars, $201.1 million (2010: $167.7 million) in Euros and $165.6 million (2010: $135.8 million) in pounds sterling. BREAKDOWN BY MATURITY Bonds Maturity Less than 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 to 10 years 10 to 20 years 20 to 30 years 30 years and more Total (In thousands) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2011 Fair value 145,987 811,191 629,487 232,977 330,815 152,628 2,303,085 Cost 148,286 807,981 607,105 222,395 309,499 151,070 2,246,336 Par value 144,576 784,732 593,012 192,101 288,934 146,062 2,149,417 Average effective rate 2.2% 2.9% 4.3% 4.9% 5.0% 3.7% 3.8% Average nominal rate 3.9% 4.0% 4.6% 6.2% 5.5% 3.9% 4.6% 2010 Fair value 74,752 818,245 519,571 160,384 357,869 91,481 2,022,302 Cost 75,684 825,837 507,745 156,387 349,633 96,411 2,011,697 Par value 73,979 801,934 499,854 150,853 331,605 93,669 1,951,894 Average effective rate 4.6% 3.0% 4.6% 5.2% 5.2% 4.1% 4.1% Average nominal rate 5.8% 4.1% 4.7% 5.5% 5.7% 4.3% 4.7% MONEY MARKET INSTRUMENTS Maturity Less than 1 month 1 to 6 months 6 months and more Total (In thousands) $ $ $ $ 2011 Fair value 400 141,548 11,892 153,840 Average effective rate 1.0% 1.2% 1.5% 1.2% 2010 Fair value 36,519 60,183 19,888 116,590 Average effective rate 0.4% 1.0% 0.7% 0.8% Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 91 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 a n d 2 0 1 0 (CONTINUED) 5. OTHER INVESTMENTS (continued) BREAKDOWN BY MATURITY (continued) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS1 Maturity Less than 1 month 1 to 6 months 6 months and more Total (In thousands) $ $ $ $ 2011 Fair value Foreign currency forward contracts Purchases (14) (5) (19) Sales (7,846) 116 (7,730) Interest rate futures – – – – Interest rate forward contracts (2,077) (2,077) Stock index futures – – Commodity futures – – Interest rate swaps (2,475) (2,475) (9,937) 111 (2,475) (12,301) Notional amount Foreign currency forward contracts Purchases 570,838 16,280 587,118 Sales 884,647 541,922 1,426,569 Interest rate futures 26,918 100,057 883,231 1,010,206 Interest rate forward contracts 615,689 615,689 Stock index futures 20,067 20,067 Commodity futures 1,191 1,191 Interest rate swaps 25,000 25,000 1. The net fair value of these derivative financial instruments is $-12.3 million (2010: $-14.9 million). The fair value of instruments with positive values is $7.2 million (2010: $22.6 million) and is presented under Other investments, whereas those with negative values is $19.5 million (2010: $37.5 million) and is presented under Accounts payable and other liabilities. 92 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 5. OTHER INVESTMENTS (continued) BREAKDOWN BY MATURITY (continued) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) Maturity Less than 1 month 1 to 6 months 6 months and more Total (In thousands) $ $ $ $ 2010 Fair value Stock option contracts Written call options (323) (696) (1,019) Purchased put options 20 1,030 1,050 Written put options – (332) (332) Stock index option contracts Written put options (920) (920) Purchase call options 348 348 Written call options (191) (191) Foreign currency forward contracts Purchases (3,548) (118) (3,666) Sales (5,165) 3,267 (1,898) Interest rate futures – – – – Interest rate forward contracts (6,813) 157 (6,656) Stock index futures – – Commodity futures – – Interest rate swaps (1,600) (1,600) (15,526) 2,240 (1,598) (14,884) Notional amount Stock option contracts Written call options 727 11,462 12,189 Purchased put options 691 10,096 10,787 Written put options 380 8,355 8,735 Stock index option contracts Written put options 11,840 11,840 Purchase call options 5,022 5,022 Written call options 8,108 8,108 Foreign currency forward contracts Purchases 589,954 44,691 634,645 Sales 845,027 599,803 1,444,830 Interest rate futures 3,220 388,797 358,296 750,313 Interest rate forward contracts 1,099,752 22,470 1,122,222 Stock index futures 30,082 30,082 Commodity futures 641 641 Interest rate swaps 158,000 158,000 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 93 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 a n d 2 0 1 0 (CONTINUED) 5. OTHER INVESTMENTS (continued) BREAKDOWN OF FAIR VALUE BY INDUSTRY SEGMENT1 Shares Money market and units Bonds instruments Total (In thousands) $ $ $ $ 2011 Government and government agencies 1,583,968 32,370 1,616,338 Financial institutions 86,676 420,593 74,662 581,931 Technology 218,947 81,271 19,863 320,081 Manufacturing and primary 897,869 116,151 26,945 1,040,965 Services and tourism 522,586 101,102 623,688 Fair value 1,726,078 2,303,085 153,840 4,183,003 Funds committed but not disbursed2 22,648 22,648 Maximum risk 1,748,726 2,303,085 153,840 4,205,651 2010 Government and government agencies 1,344,493 9,290 1,353,783 Financial institutions 77,927 423,613 48,159 549,699 Technology 186,999 49,230 9,299 245,528 Manufacturing and primary 768,730 127,109 49,842 945,681 Services and tourism 475,001 77,857 552,858 Fair value 1,508,657 2,022,302 116,590 3,647,549 Funds committed but not disbursed2 36,321 36,321 Maximum risk 1,544,978 2,022,302 116,590 3,683,870 1. This breakdown does not take into account changes in asset allocation resulting from derivative financial instruments. 2. Funds committed but not disbursed to international infrastructure funds represent other investments that have already been agreed to and for which amounts have been committed by the Fonds but have not been disbursed as at year-end. Disbursements are subject to compliance with the agreement’s terms and conditions. These commitments, having a weighted average maturity of 2.2 years (2010: 3 years), are denominated in U.S. dollars. 94 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 6. FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY Financial instruments measured at fair value are classified using a hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements. This hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1: Fair value based on quoted market prices (unadjusted) observed on active markets for identical financial instruments. Level 2: Fair value based on quoted prices for similar financial instruments or based on valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are based on observable market information. Level 3: Fair value based on valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are not based on observable market information. Level 1 2 3 Total (In thousands) $ $ $ $ 2011 Development capital investments Unsecured Listed shares and units 697,562 1,964 699,526 Unlisted shares and units 2,097,834 2,097,834 Loans, bonds and advances 443,257 997,759 1,441,016 Secured Loans, bonds and advances 31,161 31,161 697,562 445,221 3,126,754 4,269,537 Other investments Shares and units 1,432,897 76,742 1,509,639 Units of funds of hedge funds 216,439 216,439 Bonds 2,291,343 11,742 2,303,085 Money market instruments 153,840 153,840 Derivative financial instruments 7,193 7,193 1,432,897 2,452,376 304,923 4,190,196 2,130,459 2,897,597 3,431,677 8,459,733 Cash 6,372 6,372 Derivative financial instruments (19,494) (19,494) 2,136,831 2,878,103 3,431,677 8,446,611 2010 Development capital investments Unsecured Listed shares and units 591,434 8,642 2,850 602,926 Unlisted shares and units 6,587 1,872,239 1,878,826 Loans, bonds and advances 250,892 1,157,432 1,408,324 Secured Loans, bonds and advances 30,331 30,331 591,434 266,121 3,062,852 3,920,407 Other investments Shares and units 1,224,600 63,563 1,288,163 Units of funds of hedge funds 220,494 220,494 Bonds 2,014,021 8,281 2,022,302 Money market instruments 116,590 116,590 Derivative financial instruments 348 22,266 22,614 1,224,948 2,152,877 292,338 3,670,163 1,816,382 2,418,998 3,355,190 7,590,570 Cash 8,536 8,536 Derivative financial instruments (1,112) (36,386) (37,498) 1,823,806 2,382,612 3,355,190 7,561,608 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 95 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 a n d 2 0 1 0 (CONTINUED) 6. FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY (continued) The following table shows the reconciliation of Level 3 fair values from May 31, 2010 to May 31, 2011. Development capital investments Shares and units Loans, bonds and advances Total Listed Unlisted Unsecured Secured (In thousands) $ $ $ $ $ 2011 Fair value as at May 31, 2010 2,850 1,872,239 1,157,432 30,331 3,062,852 Realized gains (losses) (15,853) 30,970 (24,800) (1,182) (10,865) Change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation 13,208 69,241 20,511 (19,156) 83,804 Purchases 1,500 363,647 333,117 46,736 745,000 Sales and settlements (7,987) (238,263) (285,992) (25,568) (557,810) Transfers of financial instruments to (out of) Level 3 6,282 (202,509)1 (196,227) Fair value as at May 31, 2011 – 2,097,834 997,759 31,161 3,126,754 Change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation of development capital investments held as at May 31, 2011 8,553 29,954 (19,176) (23,893) (4,562) 2010 Fair value as at May 31, 2009 20,404 1,645,238 1,019,656 36,461 2,721,759 Realized losses (14,743) (94,199) (13,674) (2,144) (124,760) Change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation 101,606 50,415 57,419 (12,090) 197,350 Purchases 14,022 364,804 185,639 19,070 583,535 Sales and settlements (108,635) (94,019) (91,608) (10,966) (305,228) Transfers of financial instruments out of Level 3 (9,804) (9,804) Fair value as at May 31, 2010 2,850 1,872,239 1,157,432 30,331 3,062,852 Change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation of development capital investments held as at May 31, 2010 (11,677) (7,572) 38,039 (12,444) 6,346 1. Certain unsecured debentures have been transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 since their measurement method is now based on observable market data. 96 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 6. FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY (continued) Other investments Shares Units of funds and units of hedge funds Bonds Total (In thousands) $ $ $ $ 2011 Fair value as at May 31, 2010 63,563 220,494 8,281 292,338 Realized losses (703) (703) Change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation 2,804 (3,802) 3,726 2,728 Purchases 14,309 10,890 25,199 Sales and settlements (3,934) (10,440) (265) (14,639) Fair value as at May 31, 2011 76,742 216,439 11,742 304,923 Change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation of other investments held as at May 31, 2011 2,804 (3,691) 3,720 2,833 2010 Fair value as at May 31, 2009 44,050 221,715 8,077 273,842 Realized losses (1,951) (407) (2,358) Change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation 1,285 18,173 1,634 21,092 Purchases 18,228 1,378 19,606 Sales and settlements (18,821) (1,023) (19,844) Fair value as at May 31, 2010 63,563 220,494 8,281 292,338 Change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation of other investments held as at May 31, 2010 1,285 18,173 1,634 21,092 All Level 3 financial instruments, except for units, are measured at fair value using valuation techniques and models whose outputs depend on significant assumptions that are based on unobservable data. Even though management believes that its fair value measurements are appropriate, using reasonably possible alternative assumptions could result in different fair values. Whenever possible, a sensitivity analysis of changes in significant assumptions is performed. Management assessed the situation and determined that using reasonably possible alternative assumptions would not result in significantly different fair values. Since the Fonds does not have access to information on the underlying investments, the fair value of Level 3 units is based on the value provided by the general partner or the external manager. Therefore no other reasonably possible assumption could be used. 7. SECURITIES LENDING As part of the securities lending program, the trustee receives, in exchange for the securities loaned, guarantees or assets equivalent to the minimum percentage prescribed by law or to a percentage that may vary according to best practices. Depending on the securities loaned, this percentage range from 102% to 104% as at May 31, 2011 (2010: from 102% to 105%), and the fair value of the securities loaned is $98 million (2010: $99 million). 8. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND OTHER ASSETS 2011 2010 (In thousands) $ $ Accounts receivable relating to development capital investments and other investments sold 102,270 76,326 Accrued dividends and interest 81,072 71,513 Other 80,906 29,362 264,248 177,201 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 97 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 a n d 2 0 1 0 (CONTINUED) 9. CAPITAL ASSETS Accumulated Cost amortization Net book value (In thousands) $ $ $ 2011 Buildings 70,368 15,858 54,510 Office furniture and equipment 17,169 15,324 1,845 Computer hardware 11,688 7,413 4,275 Information systems development 15,348 13,655 1,693 114,573 52,250 62,323 2010 Buildings 70,048 13,951 56,097 Office furniture and equipment 16,979 14,919 2,060 Computer hardware 9,575 6,864 2,711 Information systems development 14,081 12,938 1,143 110,683 48,672 62,011 The net book value of the portion of building held for rental amounts to $24.3 million (2010: $24.7 million). 10. NOTES Notes are repayable on demand and bear interest at a rate based on the rate of return of Other investments. Consequently, the fair value of these notes arising from excess liquidities of regional and local funds and of certain specialized funds corresponds to their carrying amount. As at May 31, 2011, the interest rate is 4.25% (2010: 4.00%). 11. CREDIT FACILITIES As at May 31, 2011 and 2010, the Fonds has credit facilities amounting to $80 million, bearing interest at prime rate and renewable annually. As at May 31, 2011 and 2010, these facilities are unused. 12. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER LIABILITIES 2011 2010 (In thousands) $ $ Accounts payable relating to development capital investments and other investments purchased 142,626 49,871 Derivative financial instruments 19,494 37,498 Share redemptions payable 13,274 13,802 Accrued expenses and other 85,500 82,998 260,894 184,169 98 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 13. NET ASSETS SHARE CAPITAL Authorized Class A shares Unlimited number of Class A shares to be issued in Series 1 and 2, without par value, voting, redeemable and inalienable unless approved by a resolution of the Board of Directors. Class A shares, Series 1 and 2 can be exchanged for shares of another series and rank pari passu. However, Class A shares, Series 1 may be issued only to an individual requesting their transfer to a trustee under a registered retirement savings plan. Class G shares Unlimited number of Class G shares, without par value, non-voting, without dividends, non-transferable and non-redeemable. In the event of a dissolution, liquidation or any other distribution of the Fonds’ assets in whole or in part, these shares entitle their holders the right to be reimbursed after all Class A and B shareholders have been reimbursed. During the year, the Fonds’ statutes were amended to cancel the Class G shares. Class B shares Unlimited number of Class B shares, without par value, non-voting, entitled to a preferential dividend at the rate determined by the Board of Directors. In the event of liquidation, the Class B shares rank prior to Class A and G shares. Subscribed Subscribed capital is money cashed but for which no Class A share can be issued in consideration thereof pursuant to the Fonds’ purchase-by-agreement policy. These Class A shares will be issued at the time set out in such policy at the share price in effect at that date. Redemption terms The Fonds is required to redeem shares in the circumstances set out in its Incorporation Act or to redeem them by mutual agreement in exceptional situations provided under a policy for such purpose adopted by the Fonds’ Board of Directors and approved by the Minister of Finance of Québec. The redemption price is determined semi-annually based on the value of the Fonds. Contributed surplus Contributed surplus arises from the reduction in issued and paid-up capital resulting from transfers and the excess of the average value of share capital over the redemption price. This excess is reduced when shares are redeemed at a price exceeding the average value of issued share capital, prorata to the redeemed shares. Restatement A change was made to the calculation of the proportion applicable to contributed surplus when shares are redeemed at a price exceeding the average value of issued share capital. As a result of the retrospective restatement, contributed surplus was reduced and retained earnings were increased by $134.7 million as at June 1, 2010 (June 1, 2009: $104.3 million). Contributed surplus was reduced and retained earnings were increased by $30.4 million with respect to shares redeemed during the year ended May 31, 2010. This restatement had no impact on net assets per Class A share, Series 1 and Series 2. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 99 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 a n d 2 0 1 0 (CONTINUED) 13. NET ASSETS (continued) Transfers During the year, the Board of Directors approved an increase in the issued and paid-up capital on Class A shares, Series 1 of $103 million through transfers from retained earnings (2010: $85 million). As at May 31, 2011, the Fonds had transferred a cumulative amount of $1,620 million from retained earnings to share capital. During the year ended May 31, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Fonds approved a resolution to reduce the issued and paid-up capital on Class A shares, Series 1 by $1 billion through a transfer to contributed surplus. Afterwards, an amount of $126.6 million was transferred from contributed surplus to eliminate the realized deficit as at May 31, 2009. On May 31, 2010, the holders of Class G shares, namely the Minister of Finance of Québec and the Fédération des travailleurs et travailleuses du Québec (FTQ), waived the right to receive any distribution or return of capital attached to their shares. Accordingly, the issued and paid-up capital on Class G shares was reduced by $20.1 million through a transfer to contributed surplus. In consideration, By-Law 69, allowing the cancellation of Class G shares in exchange of equivalent unsecured debentures for an amount of $10 million for the Minister of Finance of Québec and $10.1 million for the Fédération des travailleurs et travailleuses du Québec (FTQ), was adopted during the Fonds’ special shareholders meeting held on October 2, 2010. These issued debentures do not bear interest, are payable only upon the Fonds’ dissolution and are presented under Accounts payable and other liabilities. NET ASSETS BY SHARE CLASS AND SERIES Class A Class G Subscribed Total Series 1 Series 2 Number (In thousands) Number $ Number $ and $ $ $ 2011 Net assets at beginning of year 302,413 7,209,561 3,538 84,349 – 442 7,294,352 Share issues 28,124 688,157 416 10,092 698,249 Net change in share subscriptions 285 285 Share redemptions (18,596) (455,778) (391) (9,580) (465,358) Net earnings 642,780 7,503 650,283 Net assets at end of year 311,941 8,084,720 3,563 92,364 – 727 8,177,811 2010 Net assets at beginning of year 288,407 6,281,708 3,326 72,445 20,125 443 6,374,721 Share issues 28,725 649,311 485 10,774 660,085 Net change in share subscriptions (1) (1) Share redemptions (14,719) (334,512) (273) (6,200) (340,712) Net earnings 593,162 7,097 600,259 Transfer 19,892 233 (20,125) – Net assets at end of year 302,413 7,209,561 3,538 84,349 – 442 7,294,352 100 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 14. CONTINGENCIES In the normal course of business, the Fonds is party to claims and litigations that could result in losses. A contingent loss is recognized when it is likely and can be estimated. Management believes that the aggregate amount of contingent losses, net of losses recognized, would not have a material adverse effect on the Fonds’ financial position. 15. REVENUES Interest totalling $16.0 million (2010: $14.4 million) on the notes is recorded against Interest and is capitalized under Notes. 16. OPERATING EXPENSES 2011 2010 (In thousands) $ $ Salaries and benefits 71,266 65,770 Occupancy expenses and rent 11,115 10,802 Advertising and information 13,613 12,791 Management fees 7,287 7,271 Professional fees 7,545 8,933 Travel and entertainment 3,360 2,988 Stationery and office supplies 3,388 3,188 Shareholder reporting costs 2,597 2,500 Custodial fees and trustee’s fees 931 904 Fees and other income (4,414) (5,786) Rental income (4,259) (3,853) Capital tax 1,064 5,314 Amortization of property and equipment 3,590 3,501 Amortization of information systems development 717 966 117,800 115,289 17. INCOME TAXES For purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada), the Fonds is subject to the rules applicable to mutual fund corporations. As such, the Fonds can receive a refund of the income taxes paid on its capital gains by redeeming its shares or by increasing its issued and paid-up share capital through a transfer from retained earnings. Since these income taxes are refundable and that, in management’s opinion, the issued and paid-up share capital will be increased sufficiently to recover them, these income taxes are not presented in the Statement of Operations, but are included in Accounts receivable and other assets. The balance of these income taxes is $9.0 million as at May 31, 2011 (2010: $6.5 million). The Fonds, as a private company, can receive a refund of a portion of the income taxes paid on its investment income through the refundable dividend tax on hand (RDTOH). The RDTOH is recoverable by increasing the issued and paid-up share capital through transfers from retained earnings. These income taxes of $33.9 million (2010: $26.4 million) were entirely applied against income taxes payable following transfers approved by the Board of Directors during the year in order to recover these taxes. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 101 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 a n d 2 0 1 0 (CONTINUED) 17. INCOME TAXES (continued) Under the Taxation Act (Québec), the Fonds is an open-ended investment company. As such, the Fonds can, in calculating its Québec taxes, deduct taxable capital gains from its taxable income. Consequently, capital gains realized by the Fonds are not subject to taxes in Québec. Income taxes on net investment income before income taxes are detailed as follows: 2011 2010 (In thousands) $ $ Current 22,925 21,383 Future 3,155 423 26,080 21,806 The above income taxes are different from the amounts that would be obtained by applying the combined basic tax rate (federal and provincial) to net investment income before income taxes. The difference is explained as follows: 2011 2010 (In thousands) $ $ Income taxes based on combined income tax rate of 46.6% 64,177 49,710 Non-taxable dividends (13,242) (8,213) Refundable dividend tax on hand (33,903) (26,356) Other items 9,048 6,665 26,080 21,806 Items giving rise to future income taxes are as follows: Development capital investments Capital assets and other Total (In thousands) $ $ $ 2011 Future income tax liabilities 1,548 1,750 3,298 2010 Future income tax assets (334) 1,019 685 Future income tax liabilities 776 52 828 102 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 18. EMPLOYEE FUTURE BENEFITS On January 1, 2001, the Fonds implemented funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans, which guarantee pension benefits to most of its employees. Pension benefits under these plans are based on years of service and average annual salary, which represents the average annual salary over the period of 36 months of consecutive service which results in the highest average. Also, since July 1, 2003, the Fonds has had an optional personal insurance plan for retired employees. The accrued benefit obligation of these plans as determined by independent actuaries and the fair value of plan assets are as at March 31, 2011. The most recent actuarial valuation of the pension plans for funding and solvency purposes was as of December 31, 2010 and the next valuation will take place as of December 31, 2011. Information about the plans is as follows: 2011 2010 Pension plans Insurance plan Pension plans Insurance plan (In thousands) $ $ $ $ Accrued benefit obligation Balance at beginning of year 102,189 1,679 65,000 1,194 Current service cost 13,377 87 9,246 58 Interest cost 5,950 92 5,098 87 Benefits paid (2,097) (25) (1,101) (13) Actuarial loss 1,407 23,946 353 Balance at end of year 120,826 1,833 102,189 1,679 Plan assets Balance at beginning of year 74,118 – 52,978 – Fonds contributions 6,945 25 4,864 13 Employee contributions 5,755 4,445 Benefits paid (2,097) (25) (1,101) (13) Actual return on plan assets 8,525 12,932 Balance at end of year 93,246 – 74,118 – Reconciliation of accrued benefit obligation and plan assets Funded status – deficit (27,580) (1,833) (28,071) (1,679) Unamortized net actuarial loss 13,858 452 16,671 480 Unamortized past service cost (gain) 535 (178) 708 (218) Accrued benefit liabilities (13,187) (1,559) (10,692) (1,417) These accrued benefit liabilities are presented under Accounts payable and other liabilities. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 103 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 a n d 2 0 1 0 (CONTINUED) 18. EMPLOYEE FUTURE BENEFITS (continued) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT PLAN ASSETS Funded plan assets are held in trust and their breakdown is as follows: 2011 2010 % % Equity mutual funds 62.3 62.3 Bond mutual funds 37.4 37.2 Cash and other 0.3 0.5 100.0 100.0 Costs recognized in the year were as follows: 2011 2010 Pension plans Insurance plan Pension plans Insurance plan (In thousands) $ $ $ $ Current service cost, net of employee contributions 7,622 87 3,967 58 Interest cost 5,950 92 5,098 87 Actual return on plan assets (8,525) (12,932) Actuarial loss 1,407 23,946 353 Cost before adjustments to recognize the long-term nature of employee future benefits 6,454 179 20,079 498 Difference between actual and expected return on plan assets 3,562 9,364 Difference between actuarial loss or gain recognized and actual actuarial loss or gain on accrued benefit obligation (749) 28 (23,909) (353) Difference between amortization of past service cost or gain and actual plan amendments 173 (40) 173 (39) Costs recognized in the year 9,440 167 5,707 106 Cash payments for employee future benefits, which comprise contributions made by the Fonds to these funded pension plans and amounts paid directly to members under unfunded plans totalled $7 million (2010: $4.9 million). SIGNIFICANT ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS The significant actuarial assumptions used to determine the accrued benefit obligation and the costs recognized for the plans are as follows: 2011 2010 Pension plans Insurance plan Pension plans Insurance plan % % % % Accrued benefit obligation Rate at end of year Discount rate 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 Rate of compensation increase 3.50 3.50 Accrued benefit costs recognized Rate at end of previous year Discount rate 5.25 5.25 7.00 7.00 Expected rate of return on plan assets 6.25 6.25 Rate of compensation increase 3.50 3.50 The Fonds set the maximum annual insurance premium it will assume per retiree and does not expect any increases in the future. 104 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 19. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the normal course of business, the Fonds conducts transactions with related companies that are either controlled by the Fonds or subject to significant influence by the Fonds. Many of the development capital investments are of such an amount and nature that the investee is considered a related company. These transactions consist predominantly of interest and dividend revenues on investments and certain expenses, in particular premiums paid under insurance plans. The Fonds, of which a majority of directors are elected by the QFL, paid $1.6 million to the QFL for the year ended May 31, 2011 (2010: $1.6 million) under a protocol and agreements that call for compensation to be paid for services rendered in respect of economic training, social audits, shareholder development, and support and guidance of certain activities. These transactions are measured at the exchange amount, which is the amount of consideration established and agreed to by the related parties. The Fonds incorporated the Fondation de la formation économique du Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) (the “Fondation”) under Part III of the Québec Companies Act and appoints the members of the Fondation’s Board of Directors. The Fonds granted a loan of $5 million to the Fondation at a variable, contingent interest rate, with a fair value of $3.3 million (2010: $3.2 million). The Fonds granted non-interest bearing loans of $20 million with a fair value of $13.1 million (2010: $12.7 million) to the Fonds étudiants solidarité travail du Québec (FESTQ), which are considered related to the Fonds because the Fonds appoints some of their directors together with the Government of Québec. These loans are presented in the Balance Sheet under Accounts receivable and other assets. 20. RISK MANAGEMENT Risks arising from financial instruments are an integral part of the audited Financial Statements and are discussed in the “Risk management” section of the Management Discussion and Analysis for the year ended May 31, 2011, which is presented on pages 58 to 80 and available at the Fonds’ head office, on its Website at www.fondsftq.com or at www.sedar.com. 21. COMPARATIVE FIGURES Certain prior year figures have been reclassified to be comparable with those of the current year. 22. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The audited Statement of Development Capital Investments, at Cost, is presented on pages 106 to 113. The unaudited Index of the Share of the Fonds in Investments Made by the Specialized Funds, at Cost, is presented on pages 114 to 128. These documents, as well as the unaudited Relevé des autres investissements, are available at the Fonds’ head office, on its Website at www.fondsftq.com or at www.sedar.com. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 105 statement of development capital investments at cost Independent auditors’ report To the Directors of the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) We have audited the statement of development capital investments at cost of the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) as at May 31, 2011 (“the statement”). The statement has been prepared by management based on the dispositions of article 18 of the Regulation respecting development capital investment fund continuous disclosure. Management’s Responsibility for the Statement Management is responsible for the preparation of the statement in accordance with the dispositions of article 18 of the Regulation respecting development capital investment fund continuous disclosure, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the statement that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the statement based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the statement is free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the statement. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the statement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the statement in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the statement. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the financial information in the statement of development capital investments at cost of the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) as at May 31, 2011 is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the dispositions of article 18 of the Regulation respecting development capital investment fund continuous disclosure 1 1 Chartered accountant auditor permit No. 10881 Montréal, June 29, 2011 106 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 statement of Development Capital Investments at Cost A S AT M AY 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (In thousands $) Investments Unsecured Secured Total Listed Unlisted Loans, Loans, Guarantees Year of Industry Shares Shares Bonds and Bonds and and Initial Investment Segment and Units and Units Advances Advances Suretyships 1988 Fonds de développement emploi-Montréal inc. F 1,338 1,338 TransForce inc. S 18,421 18,421 1989 Entreprises publiques québécoises à faible capitalisation TI/M/P/S 243,336 243,336 1990 Bestar inc. M 1,499 1,042 2,541 Transat A.T. inc. S 39,377 39,377 1991 B.M.B. (Îles-de-la-Madeleine) inc. S 750 750 • Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ I, s.e.c. R 28,975 28,975 • Fonds locaux de solidarité FTQ, s.e.c. F 38,000 38,000 1992 Polycor inc. P 11,725 11,725 1993 European Medical Ventures Fund S.C.A. TI 68 68 • Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ II, s.e.c. R 25,000 25,000 Groupe Robert inc. S 21,940 20,000 41,940 Le Devoir inc. S 1,315 1,315 SSQ, Société d’assurance-vie inc. S 29,413 36,100 65,513 1994 Corporation Financière Brome inc. S 1,591 4,674 6,265 Labopharm inc. TI 4,284 4,284 1995 Château M.T. inc. S 3,000 3,000 • Fonds régional de solidarité AbitibiTémiscamingue, société en commandite F 13,105 13,105 • Fonds régional de solidarité Côte-Nord, société en commandite F 12,985 12,985 • Fonds régional de solidarité Estrie, société en commandite F 20,114 20,114 • Fonds régional de solidarité Île-de-Montréal, société en commandite F 25,090 25,090 • Fonds régional de solidarité Lanaudière, société en commandite F 12,587 12,587 • Fonds régional de solidarité Laurentides, société en commandite F 21,532 21,532 • Fonds régional de solidarité Laval, société en commandite F 21,524 21,524 • Fonds régional de solidarité Mauricie, société en commandite F 12,708 12,708 MethylGene inc. TI 17,033 17,033 Mines Virginia inc. P 1,712 1,712 1996 • Fonds d’investissement de la culture et des communications, société en commandite S 20,000 20,000 • Fonds régional de solidarité Bas-Saint-Laurent, société en commandite F 13,160 13,160 • Fonds régional de solidarité ChaudièreAppalaches, société en commandite F 15,574 15,574 • Fonds régional de solidarité Gaspésie– Îles-de-la-Madeleine, société en commandite F 12,573 12,573 • Fonds régional de solidarité Montérégie, société en commandite F 24,478 24,478 • Fonds régional de solidarité Outaouais, société en commandite F 30,478 30,478 • Fonds régional de solidarité Québec, société en commandite F 24,976 24,976 • Fonds régional de solidarité Saguenay– Lac-Saint-Jean, société en commandite F 24,971 24,971 GBO inc. M 5,652 5,652 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 107 statement of Development Capital Investments at Cost A S AT M AY 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (continued) (In thousands $) Investments Unsecured Secured Total Listed Unlisted Loans, Loans, Guarantees Year of Industry Shares Shares Bonds and Bonds and and Initial Investment Segment and Units and Units Advances Advances Suretyships 1996 Gestion Renaud-Bray inc. S 1 1 Groupe Solmax inc. M 3,800 6,000 9,800 Mines Richmont inc. P 669 669 Stageline Scène Mobile inc. M 207 207 1997 Fonds de capital de risque GeneChem Technologies, s.e.c. TI 6,439 6,439 Fonds d’investissement de Montréal (F.I.M.), société en commandite R 1,686 52 1,738 • Fonds régional de solidarité Nord-du-Québec, société en commandite F 12,000 12,000 GSM Capital Limited Partnership TI 920 920 Les Mines McWatters inc. P 3,444 3,444 Mines Aurizon ltée P 106 106 Oxford Bioscience Partners II L.P. TI 1,336 1,336 1998 3539491 Canada inc. (ADF Industries Lourdes) M 688 688 Cap sur mer inc. M 528 1,177 1,705 Exploration Azimut inc. P 47 300 347 • Fonds régional de solidarité Centre-du-Québec, société en commandite F 9,616 9,616 Niocan inc. P 284 284 Société en commandite Manoir Richelieu S 46,179 1,254 47,433 TSO3 inc. TI 8,561 8,561 1999 Advitech inc. TI 2,316 2,316 Æterna Zentaris inc. TI 35 35 Corporation minière Osisko P 4,523 19,583 24,106 Harmonium International inc. TI 390 390 La Financière des entreprises culturelles (FIDEC), société en commandite S 4,000 4,000 Le Groupe Cambium inc. M 91 91 2000 ARGO II : The Wireless-Internet Fund – Limited Partnership TI 11,653 11,653 Atrium Innovations inc. TI 37,769 13,407 51,176 Genopole 1er Jour S.A. TI 136 136 Groupe Hélicoptères Canadiens inc. S 25,179 25,179 Groupe Riotel Hospitalité inc. S 405 405 GTI V, société en commandite TI 8,059 8,059 Marketing Léger inc. S 1,000 971 1,971 Ressources Majescor inc. P 368 368 Ressources Strateco inc. P 15 15 Société en commandite GeneChem Thérapeutique TI 9,954 9,954 2001 • Fonds Bio-Innovation, société en commandite TI 22,072 22,072 Investissement Premières Nations du Québec, société en commandite F 2,000 2,000 Kruger Wayagamack inc. M 12,137 12,137 Multiple Capital Fonds II, s.e.c. TI 8,534 8,534 Novacap II, société en commandite S 10,583 10,583 Partenaires MidCap S 464 464 SBV Venture Partners L.P. TI 5,133 5,133 SIDEX, société en commandite P 15,000 15,000 T²C²/Bio2000, société en commandite TI 7,766 7,766 108 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Investments Unsecured Secured Total Listed Unlisted Loans, Loans, Guarantees Year of Industry Shares Shares Bonds and Bonds and and Initial Investment Segment and Units and Units Advances Advances Suretyships 2002 BioAxone Thérapeutique inc. TI 3,000 1,229 4,229 FinTaxi, s.e.c. S 9,000 36,000 45,000 • Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ inc. R 1 242,856 242,857 Junex inc. P 304 304 Lumira Capital I Québec société en commandite TI 9,119 9,119 Produits Intégrés Avior inc. M 1,250 622 1,872 Thermetco inc. M 900 792 1,692 Vimac Early Stage Fund L.P. TI 9,659 9,659 2003 Enobia Pharma Corp. TI 19,871 19,871 Le Fonds Entrepia Nord, s.e.c. TI 7,612 7,612 Mines de la Vallée de l’or ltée P 437 437 Ressources Plexmar inc. P 126 126 Stella-Jones inc. M 9,155 35,938 45,093 Tranzyme, inc. TI 9,520 9,520 Vimac Milestone Medica Fund North L.P. TI 5,178 5,178 2004 4262280 Canada inc. (Transat A.T.) S 4,647 4,647 Alexis Minerals Corporation P 184 300 484 Bois BSL inc. M 1,377 1,377 Fonds Brightspark II, s.e.c. TI 1 1 Fonds d’investissement MSBI, société en commandite TI 9,095 9,095 Groupe Plafolift inc. M 167 500 180 847 Manac inc. M 8,523 15,547 24,070 Matamec Explorations inc. P 154 154 Octasic inc. TI 1,741 5,599 7,340 Sciences de la vie Bioniche inc. TI 8,338 8,338 Trencap s.e.c. S 154,430 154,430 Vimac ESF Annex Fund L.P. TI 1,030 1,030 2005 9053-2698 Québec inc. M 1 1 A.M. Pappas Life Science Ventures III, LP TI 9,394 9,394 Addenda Capital inc. S 71,331 71,331 Allianz Madvac inc. M 1,200 7,800 29,499 38,499 Camoplast Solideal inc. M 35,456 35,456 Château Bonne Entente inc. S 3,200 331 3,531 • FIER Partenaires, société en commandite F 20,918 20,918 Fonds d’opportunités canadiennes HRS, s.e.c. S 40,000 40,000 Groupe C.N.P. inc. M 767 767 Groupe Canatal inc. M 2,300 2,300 Média Groupe inc. S 2,000 1,542 3,542 Metro inc. S 74,948 74,948 ProQuest Investments III, L.P. TI 4,620 4,620 RHO Fund Investors 2005, L.P. TI 5,786 5,786 SAIL Plein Air inc. S 1,000 3,529 4,529 2006 2023671 Ontario inc. (Acier Pointe-Claire) M 2,839 2,839 6569293 Canada inc. (Maison des Futailles) M 13,482 10,000 23,482 9178-6590 Québec inc. (Excavation René-St-Pierre) S 25 25 Boutique Linen Chest (Phase II) inc. S 3,217 3,217 Capital Financière Agricole inc. S 2,366 2,366 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 109 statement of Development Capital Investments at Cost A S AT M AY 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (continued) (In thousands $) Investments Unsecured Secured Total Listed Unlisted Loans, Loans, Guarantees Year of Industry Shares Shares Bonds and Bonds and and Initial Investment Segment and Units and Units Advances Advances Suretyships 2006 Capital St-Laurent, s.e.c. TI 10,482 10,482 Corporation développement Knowlton inc. M 9,249 13,873 23,122 Corporation Financière L’Excellence ltée S 100,000 100,000 Coveo Solutions inc. TI 3,500 3,500 Emerald Cleantech Fund II L.P. TI 5,470 5,470 Entreprises SMD ltée S 3,500 780 4,280 Équipements Comact inc. M 500 1,450 1,950 Éthanol Greenfield inc. M 60,000 60,000 Excavation René St-Pierre inc. S 5,000 5,000 Exploration Dios inc. P 184 184 FCPR Aerofund S 10,202 10,202 Fiducie du Chantier de l’économie sociale S 9,600 9,600 Fonds CTI sciences de la vie, s.e.c. TI 10,622 10,622 Fonds ID s.e.c. TI 7,004 7,004 Fonds Propulsion III s.e.c. TI 5,006 5,006 Gestion Rivière du Diable inc. S 2,776 750 3,526 Groupe CVTech inc. S 19,985 9,019 29,004 Groupe environnemental Labrie inc. M 10,550 9,333 19,883 J.L. Albright IV Venture Fund L.P. TI 3,391 3,391 Lab Recherche inc. TI 22,718 22,718 Métal Perreault inc. M 300 338 150 788 Promobois G.D.S. inc. M 1,213 1,213 Ressources Cartier inc. P 768 768 Rho Canada Capital de Risque, s.e.c. TI 15,200 15,200 Soccrent 2006, société en commandite F 8,653 5,400 14,053 Société en commandite AgeChem TI 13,892 13,892 Sonaca S.A. M 4,950 4,950 VantagePoint Venture Partners 2006 (Q), L.P. TI 11,868 11,868 2007 6705341 Canada inc. (North Country Slate) P 90 1,208 1,298 Alliantis Métal inc. M 998 2,900 3,898 2,250 Bois Nobles Ka’N’Enda ltée M 1,400 300 625 2,325 Envivio, inc. TI 6,007 6,007 Exploration Midland inc. P 486 486 Fonds d’acquisition de Montréal, société en commandite S 5,000 5,000 Fonds d’investissement de Montréal (F.I.M.) II, société en commandite R 990 990 Fonds d’investissement iNovia II, société en commandite TI 2,368 2,368 GO Capital s.e.c. TI 1,030 1,030 Groupe Bikini Village inc. S 2,775 2,775 Investissement (12348) s.e.n.c. (Cellfish Media) TI 11,785 11,785 Investissements Astra inc. S 1,500 1,307 500 3,307 Les Industries Spectra Premium inc. M 10,000 9,171 19,171 MMV Financial inc. S 5,685 27,873 33,558 Nexsan Corporation TI 8,687 3,880 12,567 • Novacap Industries III, s.e.c. M 18,190 18,190 Novacap Technologies III, s.e.c. TI 9,590 9,590 Partenaires Médias Remstar, s.e.c. S 2,000 2,000 ProQuest Investments IV, L.P. TI 6,466 6,466 110 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Investments Unsecured Secured Total Listed Unlisted Loans, Loans, Guarantees Year of Industry Shares Shares Bonds and Bonds and and Initial Investment Segment and Units and Units Advances Advances Suretyships 2007 Québec-Alberta Construction, s.e.c. S 7,837 7,837 Salerno pellicule et sacs de plastique (Canada) inc. M 1,060 4,903 5,963 • Société de gestion d’actifs forestiers Solifor, société en commandite P 150,000 150,000 Stedfast inc. M 1,125 1,867 2,992 Thallion pharmaceutiques inc. TI 8,275 8,275 Vertex III (C.I.) Fund, L.P. TI 8,929 8,929 Victhom Bionique Humaine inc. TI 5,005 5,005 2008 147755 Canada inc. (Groupe B.M.R.) S 17,300 17,300 9185-1337 Québec inc. M 1,500 1,250 2,750 Administration LVER inc. S 11,491 11,491 Alimentation Coop Port-Cartier S 223 223 • BDR Capital s.e.c. TI 109,584 109,584 Cogeco Câble inc. TI 100,000 100,000 Dalkotech inc. M 5,400 1,140 6,540 Donner Metals Ltd P 260 260 Exploration NQ inc. P 122 125 247 Fonds soutien Montréal parallèle, s.e.c. TI 2,000 2,000 Gestion TFI inc. S 100,000 100,000 GLV inc. M 32,061 25,000 57,061 Groupe AGF inc. M 12,000 12,000 Groupe GDG Environnement ltée S 2,500 239 2,739 Groupe Gecko Alliance inc. TI 6,000 6,000 Groupe GFI Solutions inc. TI 31,000 31,000 HR Stratégies inc. S 100 100 Mango Industrie du cuivre inc. M 11,000 60 1,500 12,560 8,940 Ontario Venture Capital Fund LP TI 187 187 Placements Montrusco Bolton inc. S 20,198 20,198 Rho Ventures VI L.P. TI 11,618 11,618 Sonaca NMF Canada inc. M 5,000 5,000 Transport C.D.P. inc. S 1,840 2,652 250 4,742 VantagePoint Cleantech Partners II, L.P. TI 11,136 11,136 2009 5N Plus inc. M 14,166 14,166 A.M. Pappas Life Science Ventures IV, LP TI 6,738 6,738 ADS inc. M 3,600 5,175 8,775 Axtel SARL S 1 811 812 Champlain Capital Partners, L.P. S 9,004 9,004 Corporation Nuvolt inc. M 196 196 CT-Paiement inc. TI 3,000 300 200 3,500 FCPR Aerofund II S 6,290 6,290 Fonds Cycle Capital I, s.e.c. S 12,766 12,766 Fonds d’acquisition québécois, société en commandite S 5,000 5,000 Fonds Élan d’entreprises, société en commandite S 1 1 • Fonds Envol, société en commandite S 3,125 3,125 Gestion hôtelière REVPAR inc. S 289 289 Gestion Juste pour rire inc. S 3,750 3,750 Groupe Smardt Refroidisseurs inc. M 10,000 10,000 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 111 statement of Development Capital Investments at Cost A S AT M AY 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (continued) (In thousands $) Investments Unsecured Secured Total Listed Unlisted Loans, Loans, Guarantees Year of Industry Shares Shares Bonds and Bonds and and Initial Investment Segment and Units and Units Advances Advances Suretyships 2009 Intercâble ICH inc. S 1,400 1,400 Les Viandes Laroche inc. M 2,000 2,000 Meca Dev s.a.s. M 16,227 7,435 23,662 Média Cineflix inc. S 11,163 11,163 Medicago inc. TI 4,099 4,099 Premier Tech ltée P 39,375 39,375 Shermag inc. M 4,000 4,000 Société d’exploration minière Vior inc. P 14 100 114 Société en commandite Groupe CH S 40,000 40,000 7,324 Teraxion inc. S 5,917 5,917 Transcontinental inc. M 100,000 100,000 • VC, société en commandite R 96,398 96,398 Yellow Média inc. S 50,000 50,000 2010 4550358 Canada inc. (Saladexpress) M 8,592 8,592 9220-2324 Québec inc. (Groupe C.N.P.) M 2,500 2,500 Cactus Commerce inc. TI 1 500 501 Dalkotech International inc. M 1 1 Exploration Nemaska inc. P 150 150 Foliot Management inc. M 5,500 5,500 Fonds d’investissement Réal, s.e.c. TI 1,089 1,089 Fortress Paper Ltd M 7,000 7,000 Glendyne inc. P 840 840 Groupe Technosub inc. S 4,194 4,194 IPL inc. M 15,000 42,500 22,500 80,000 Janod ltée S 6,000 3,000 9,000 Les Diamants Stornoway (Canada) inc. P 600 600 Les Métaux Focus inc. P 70 70 Logibec Groupe Informatique ltée TI 30,000 30,000 Radialpoint Safecare inc. TI 1 14,387 14,388 Ressources Géoméga inc. P 70 70 Ressources Pershimco inc. P 150 150 Royal Nickel Corp. P 300 300 Scierie Dion & Fils inc. M 5,000 5,000 Serdy Média inc. S 2,500 2,500 SSQ, Société d’assurances générales inc. S 15,000 15,000 Twist, société en commandite S 3,500 3,500 Xmet inc. P 250 250 2011 AmorChem, société en commandite TI 545 545 Aurvista Gold Corporation P 150 150 Fonds Alpha+ Montrusco Bolton S 20,000 20,000 Fonds d’amorçage Cycle-C3E, s.e.c. TI 226 226 Fonds d’investissement pour la relève agricole (FIRA), s.e.c. S 333 333 Fonds stratégique à rendement absolu HRS s.e.c. S 50,000 50,000 Groupe Crête division St-Faustin inc. M 2,000 2,000 JV Driver Corporation inc. S 12,000 12,000 Les Chantiers de Chibougamau ltée M 5,000 5,000 Les Constructions Bricon ltée S 4,000 3,000 7,000 112 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Investments Unsecured Secured Total Listed Unlisted Loans, Loans, Guarantees Year of Industry Shares Shares Bonds and Bonds and and Initial Investment Segment and Units and Units Advances Advances Suretyships 2011 Les Investissements Nolinor inc. S 2,500 2,500 Magnus Poirier inc. S 500 500 Scandinave Spa in Whistler inc. S 1,950 1,950 Technologies Miranda inc. TI 7,190 7,190 13 general partners of limited partnerships S 2 2 Total 564,727 2,051,802 1,488,162 65,534 4,170,225 18,514 • The list of investments made by these specialty funds is shown in the unaudited Index of the share of the Fonds in investments made by the specialized funds, at cost. This statement of development capital investments at a total cost of $4,170,225,000 itemizes by company the amounts invested by the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.). This amount appears in Note 4 to the financial statements as at May 31, 2011. In addition, this statement presents a list of the guarantees and suretyships granted by the Fonds. Industry segment legend F: Regional or local funds R: Real estate M: Manufacturing P: Primary S: Services/tourism TI: Technology investments Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 113 Index of the Share of the Fonds in Investments Made by the Specialized Funds, at Cost A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (unaudited) (In thousands) Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 05-31-10 BDR Capital s.e.c. Accedian Networks Corporation BDR Valorisation inc. Bluestreak Network inc. Coradiant (Canada) inc. Coradiant inc. Corporation DataCom Wireless Énergie Afina inc. Enerkem inc. Irphotonique inc. Les Réseaux Accedian inc. Logiciel Iscopia Holding inc. Logiciel Iscopia inc. LxDonnées inc. Nanogestion inc. Omni-Med.com inc. ProVance Technologies inc. Réseaux Trellia inc. SolaCom Technologies inc. Technologie Bluestreak (Canada) inc. Technologies Microbridge Canada inc. TelcoBridges inc. Wavesat inc. 49,775 20,238 70,013 12-31-10 FIER Partenaires, société en commandite AgeChem Venture Fund, L.P. Capital St-Laurent, s.e.c. Fonds Brightspark II, s.e.c. Fonds CTI sciences de la vie, s.e.c. Fonds d’investissement iNovia II, société en commandite Fonds Propulsion III, s.e.c. GO capital, s.e.c. Novacap Industries III, s.e.c. Novacap Technologies III, s.e.c. Rho Canada Capital de Risque, s.e.c. Securities of two other companies 17,383 17,383 Funds committed but not disbursed 24,516 41,899 03-31-11 Fonds Bio-Innovation, société en commandite Securities of eight companies 4,946 2,123 7,069 Funds committed but not disbursed 427 7,496 114 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 03-31-11 Fonds d’investissement de la culture et des communications, société en commandite 9168-1478 Québec inc. (Laboratoires GSS) Archipel Productions inc. Attraction Média inc. Audio Postproduction SPR inc. Carpediem film & TV inc. De Marque inc. Écho Média inc. Gestion Juste pour Rire inc. Groupe Phaneuf inc. Groupe Star Suites inc. Groupe Télé-Vision inc. Guides de Voyages Ulysse inc. GVGS inc. Janidée inc. Jeux Alary inc. LC Média inc. Media-Max inc. Média Cinéflix inc. Sarbakan inc. Toon Boom Animation inc. Tribal Nova inc. Vivavision inc. Wilson & Lafleur, limitée Securities of four other companies 2,877 8,823 11,700 Funds committed but not disbursed 2,735 14,435 02-28-11 Fonds Envol, société en commandite Gestion Simulateur de vol – Capital inc. 4 4 Simulateur de vol – Capital, s.e.c. 3,097 3,097 3,101 3,101 12-31-10 Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ inc. 1421 Crescent, s.e.c. 1,502 1,502 300 St-Paul, s.e.c. 10,471 10,471 790 Rand, s.e.c. 10 10 81-83 Richelieu s.e.c. 880 655 1,535 875 Charest s.e.c. 2,159 2,159 880 Honoré-Mercier s.e.c. 20,029 20,029 9054-9999 Québec inc. & 9225-8607 Québec inc. 3,037 3,037 Bio Sherbrooke Phase I s.e.c. 1,324 1,324 Brossard-sur-le-Fleuve s.e.c. 2,217 2,217 Carré Chambord s.e.c. 500 1,800 2,300 Centre de développement des Biotechnologies de Laval s.e.c. 5,100 14,095 19,195 Complexe L.L. Phase II, s.e.c. 10,878 10,878 Condominiums Le George V s.e.c. 10 10 Condos Wanklyn-Milot s.e.c. 4,265 4,265 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 115 Index of the Share of the Fonds in Investments Made by the Specialized Funds, at Cost A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (unaudited) (continued) (In thousands) Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 12-31-10 Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ inc. (continued) CPA Fontainebleau, s.e.c. 753 2,471 3,224 Développements Wilfrid-Carrier s.e.c. 7,321 7,321 Édifice Saint-Vallier, s.e.c. 11,728 11,728 Espace MV1 s.e.c. 1,468 1,468 Espace MV2 s.e.c. 3,093 3,093 Espaces Lebourgneuf Phase III s.e.c. 1,800 1,800 Gérer son Quartier 3,321 3,321 Graham-Mont-Royal, s.e.c. 6,720 6,720 La Résidence Le Nobilis inc. 1 1 Montée des Pionniers Phase I s.e.c. 500 3,757 4,257 Montée des Pionniers Phase II s.e.c. 550 1,550 2,100 R.P.A. 1 Lachenaie s.e.c. 590 590 R.P.A. Mont-Joli s.e.c. 900 225 1,125 R.P.A. Rawdon s.e.c. 1,352 1,352 Société en commandite 1307 Sainte-Catherine 17,500 1,500 19,000 Société en commandite Angus s.e.c. Phase I 1 640 641 Société en commandite Angus s.e.c. Phase II 1 12,225 12,226 Société en commandite Bourassa-Pelletier 10 9,803 9,813 Société en commandite Château Hymus 371 371 Société en commandite Clairevue 150 231 381 Société en commandite C.V.L. 809 809 Société en commandite Duke Wellington 1 1 Société en commandite GII, Ilôt 10 (Comm-bur) 2,222 2,222 Société en commandite GII, Ilôt 10 (Résidentiel) 1,591 1,591 Société en commandite Griffintown II 2,990 1,828 4,818 Société en commandite Héritage Pointe-Claire 1 1 Société en commandite Laurin/Saint-Louis Phase I 8,266 14,571 22,837 Société en commandite Le Sanctuaire de la Rive 500 500 Société en commandite Rose de Lima 500 500 Société en commandite Viau Ontario 1,640 1,640 Souvenir-Corbusier s.e.c. 650 1,372 2,022 St-Paul/Du Palais s.e.c. 4,303 702 5,005 Technoparc Bromont Phase I s.e.c. 1,021 13 1,034 Wanklyn-Milot s.e.c. 2,725 2,725 5 general partners of limited partnerships 1 1 119,216 95,954 215,170 12-31-10 Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ I, s.e.c. 1061 St-Alexandre, s.e.c. 1,250 487 1,737 9176-0934 Québec inc. 1,450 1,450 C.C.L. II, société en commandite 559 559 Centre de Ressources du Parc Technologique du Québec Métropolitain inc. 2,709 510 3,219 Condos Miscéo, s.e.c. 862 2,869 3,731 Édifice 255 Saint-Jacques société en commandite 1 1 Édifice 261 Saint-Jacques société en commandite 1,215 1,215 Immobilière St-Hippolyte s.e.c. 500 500 La société en commandite Godefroy de Lintôt 440 440 Promis (promotion – intégration – société nouvelle) 660 660 116 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 12-31-10 Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ I, s.e.c. (continued) PTQM/Lutech s.e.c. 2,622 2,622 Société en commandite 1190 Jeanne-Mance 1 2,164 2,165 Société en commandite 1250 Jeanne-Mance 1 502 503 Société en commandite 3333 Côte Ste-Catherine 10 10 Société en commandite 37-39 Notre-Dame 1 257 258 Société en commandite 544 de l’Inspecteur 1 3,203 3,204 Société en commandite 87 St-Antoine 1 1 Société en commandite Alfred-Nobel 1 1 Société en commandite Beauharnois 1 1 2 Société en commandite Claude Baillif 1,045 1,045 Société en commandite de La Dauversière 3,562 3,562 Société en commandite Émilie-Gamelin 100 133 233 Société en commandite Inspecteur-William 10 10 Société en commandite Les Berges Brossard 11 5 16 Société en commandite Les tours des terrasses du golf 1 14 15 Société en commandite Les tours des terrasses du golf Phase II 149 16 165 Société en commandite Marina St-Sulpice 1 1 Société en commandite Milton 2,338 2,338 Société en commandite Place Dunant 150 150 Société en commandite Square Mont-Royal 1 1 2 Société en commandite Ste-Hélène 27 16 43 Village de la Gare, s.e.c. 360 360 1 general partner of a limited partnership 1 1 17,931 12,288 30,219 12-31-10 Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ II, s.e.c. 1030-1040 de Bleury s.e.c. 3,943 3,943 1061 St-Alexandre, s.e.c. 487 487 1245 St-Grégoire, s.e.c. 1 1 1405 Henri Bourassa ouest s.e.c. 1,836 1,836 1405 PTQM s.e.c. 2,125 2,125 9176-0934 Québec inc. 1,450 1,450 Brousseau Marine Sports inc. 150 150 Capital BLF inc. 3,042 3,042 Centre de Ressources du Parc Technologique du Québec Métropolitain inc. 66 66 Complexe L.L. phase l, s.e.c. 6,258 6,258 Complexe L.L. phase ll, s.e.c. 2,604 2,604 Complexe L.L. phase llI, s.e.c. 10 10 Espaces Lebourgneuf s.e.c. 2,042 2,042 Faubourg la Grande Place s.e.c. 1,143 1,143 Hôtel Particulier : Le Ste-Hélène s.e.c. 4,386 4,386 Immobilière Concorde-Corbusier s.e.c. 6,249 6,249 Neuvième Avenue, s.e.c. 10 10 SEC St-Bruno-sur-le-Lac Phase 2 250 250 SEC St-Bruno-sur-le-Lac Phase 3 1,110 1,110 2,220 Société en commandite 75 boulevard Québec 518 518 Société en commandite African 500 454 954 Société en commandite Benadev 3,917 160 4,077 Société en commandite Cavelier de LaSalle 4,325 1,500 5,825 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 117 Index of the Share of the Fonds in Investments Made by the Specialized Funds, at Cost A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (unaudited) (continued) (In thousands) Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 12-31-10 Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ II, s.e.c. (continued) Société en commandite CDTI de Hull 100 100 Société en commandite d’investissement Germain-Calgary 2,283 2,000 4,283 Société en commandite du 1400 458 440 898 Société en commandite du 259 boulevard St-Joseph-Hull 133 133 Société en commandite JBSL 755 755 Société en commandite Mansfield 2,075 2,075 Société en commandite PVM-Gatineau 1,000 1,000 Société en commandite RMI 239 239 Trois A, Société en commandite 850 850 5 general partners of limited partnerships 1 1 47,777 12,203 59,980 08-31-10 Fonds locaux de solidarité FTQ, s.e.c. Centre local de développement de la MRC de Maskinongé 158 158 Centre local de développement de Brome-Missisquoi 10 10 Centre local de développement de la MRC les Maskoutains 70 70 Centre local de développement des Etchemins 17 10 27 SOLIDE Ahuntsic-Cartierville 250 250 SOLIDE Centre-Sud/Plateau Mont-Royal 195 195 SOLIDE Chibougamau 5 5 SOLIDE Côte-des-Neiges/Notre-Dame-de-Grâce 10 10 SOLIDE de Gatineau 10 10 SOLIDE de la Basse Côte-Nord Kégaska-Blanc-Sablon 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC d’Acton 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC d’Antoine-Labelle 105 105 SOLIDE de la MRC d’Argenteuil 80 80 SOLIDE de la MRC d’Autray 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC d’Avignon 60 145 205 SOLIDE de la MRC de Beauce-Sartigan 225 225 SOLIDE de la MRC de Beauharnois-Salaberry 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC de Bécancour 250 250 SOLIDE de la MRC de Bellechasse 20 20 SOLIDE de la MRC de Bonaventure 90 90 SOLIDE de la MRC de Caniapiscau 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC de Charlevoix 225 225 SOLIDE de la MRC de Charlevoix-Est 98 104 202 SOLIDE de la MRC de Coaticook 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC de Drummond 348 348 SOLIDE de la MRC de Francheville 50 50 SOLIDE de la MRC de Joliette 250 250 SOLIDE de la MRC de la Côte-de-Beaupré 113 113 SOLIDE de la MRC de la Haute-Côte-Nord 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC de la Jacques-Cartier 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC de la Mitis 112 112 SOLIDE de la MRC de la Nouvelle-Beauce 35 35 SOLIDE de la MRC de la Rivière-du-Nord 160 160 SOLIDE de la MRC de la Vallée-du-Richelieu 100 100 SOLIDE de la MRC de Lac-Saint-Jean-Est 72 72 SOLIDE de la MRC de l’Amiante 93 9 102 118 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 08-31-10 Fonds locaux de solidarité FTQ, s.e.c. (continued) SOLIDE de la MRC de l’Île d’Orléans 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC de Lotbinière 26 74 100 SOLIDE de la MRC de Maria-Chapdelaine 250 250 SOLIDE de la MRC de Matane 320 320 SOLIDE de la MRC de Mékinac 370 370 SOLIDE de la MRC de Memphrémagog 410 410 SOLIDE de la MRC de Minganie 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC de Montmagny 60 60 SOLIDE de la MRC de Pontiac 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC de Rimouski-Neigette 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC de Rivière-du-Loup 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC de Roussillon 81 81 SOLIDE de la MRC de Sept-Rivières 211 211 SOLIDE de la MRC de Témiscamingue 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC de Vaudreuil-Soulanges 173 173 SOLIDE de la MRC des Basques 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC des Collines-de-l’Outaouais 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC des Îles-de-la-Madeleine 134 134 SOLIDE de la MRC des Jardins-de-Napierville 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC des Laurentides 290 290 SOLIDE de la MRC des Pays-d’en-haut 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC du Bas-Richelieu 64 64 SOLIDE de la MRC du Domaine-du-Roy 220 220 SOLIDE de la MRC du Fjord-du-Saguenay 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC du Haut-Saint-François 200 200 SOLIDE de la MRC du Rocher-Percé 10 10 SOLIDE de la MRC du Val-Saint-François 250 250 SOLIDE de la MRC Lajemmerais 605 605 SOLIDE de la Ville de Longueuil 350 350 SOLIDE de Lachine 10 10 SOLIDE de Laval 10 10 SOLIDE de Lebel-sur-Quévillon 5 5 SOLIDE de l’Est de la Ville de Québec 10 10 SOLIDE de Lévis 115 115 SOLIDE de l’Ouest de la Ville de Québec 10 10 SOLIDE de Matagami 10 10 SOLIDE de Mercier/Hochelaga-Maisonneuve 10 10 SOLIDE de Montréal-Nord 10 10 SOLIDE de Rosemont/Petite-Patrie 177 177 SOLIDE de Shawinigan 37 37 SOLIDE de Villeray/St-Michel/Parc-Extension 10 10 SOLIDE du Centre de la Ville de Québec 415 415 SOLIDE du Sud-Ouest de Montréal 250 250 SOLIDE Rivière-des-Prairies/Pointe-aux-Trembles 110 110 SOLIDE Ville-Marie 10 10 294 8,672 8,966 Funds committed but not disbursed 22,103 31,069 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 119 Index of the Share of the Fonds in Investments Made by the Specialized Funds, at Cost A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (unaudited) (continued) (In thousands) Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Abitibi-Témiscamingue, société en commandite 2965-5099 Québec inc. (Les Réclamations du Nord-Ouest) 300 300 3088-6469 Québec inc. (Centre Jardin Lac Pelletier) 515 515 7244444 Canada inc. (Précibois) 240 255 495 7800959 Canada inc. 564 564 9026-0357 Québec inc. (Société de gestion Mario Massé) 440 440 9052-5320 Québec inc. 150 150 9187-1186 Québec inc. 175 175 9187-8850 Québec inc. (Forage Boréal) 1,300 923 2,223 A. & L. Pinard inc. 220 220 Adventure Gold inc. 26 26 Agritibi R.H. inc. 750 750 Alexis Minerals Corporation 200 200 Atelier Tangente inc. 298 298 Entrepreneur Minier Promec inc. 447 447 Exploration Azimut inc. 11 11 Exploration Midland inc. 124 124 Forage G4 ltée 264 264 Géliko inc. 199 199 Groupe Sogitex inc. 50 50 Groupe Technosub inc. 1,500 1,500 Les Aciers J.P. inc. 64 64 Les équipements de forage VersaDrill inc. 254 254 LVL Global inc. 350 150 500 Machines Roger lnternational inc. 175 175 MasséNor inc. 721 721 Matamec Explorations inc. 200 200 Mines de la Vallée de l’or ltée 250 250 Palmapor inc. 150 118 268 Ressources Cartier inc. 43 43 Ressources Pershimco inc. 133 133 Ressources Threegold inc. 31 31 Service Sani Tri inc. 798 798 Transport D. Barrette & fils inc. 142 142 4,805 7,725 12,530 Funds committed but not disbursed 400 12,930 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Bas-Saint-Laurent, société en commandite 2959-8505 Québec inc. (Copeaux de la vallée) 300 300 9181-4244 Québec inc. (Carrière Neigette) 125 102 227 9183-9530 Québec inc. (Sélect Auto Parts) 150 350 500 9198-8659 Québec inc. (Multi-Pièces D.L.) 189 189 Adélard Soucy (1975) inc. 250 250 AMH Canada ltée 418 385 803 Distributions Jacques-Cartier inc. 283 283 Érablières des Alléghanys inc. 903 903 Fonderie BSL inc. 150 150 Fonds soutien Bas-Saint-Laurent, société en commandite 1,000 1,000 Gagnon Image inc. 122 122 120 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Bas-Saint-Laurent, société en commandite (continued) Gestion H. Dickner ltée 8 8 Les Constructions H.L. Thériault inc. 384 384 Les Distributions Arnaud inc. 300 300 Menuiserie Roland Perreault inc. 20 20 Mon Joli Motel (1993) inc. 50 50 NutrOcéan inc. 15 15 Productions Québec Multimédia inc. 255 255 Projexco inc. 413 413 Richard Poirier et Frères Électrique ltée 939 939 Topocom Technologie inc. 121 121 1,976 5,256 7,232 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Centre-du-Québec, société en commandite Équipements d’incendie Levasseur inc. 50 50 Huppé Meubles inc. 400 400 Nitek Laser inc. 725 725 Recyclage Granutech inc. 252 1,117 1,369 Rénovation Expo inc. 1,000 1,000 Vibrotech inc. 229 229 252 3,521 3,773 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Chaudière-Appalaches, société en commandite 9050-7641 Québec inc. (Ramp-Art) 500 500 9069-4654 Québec inc. (Supervac 2000) 53 53 9075-5349 Québec inc. (Fenêtres Météo) 300 300 Acier Majeau inc. 947 947 Cométal inc. 375 375 Compositech inc. 140 140 Fenêtres Altek inc. 750 750 Fini. U.V. International inc. 464 464 Forimpex inc. 250 250 Groupe P.H.L. inc. 714 714 Groupe S.S. inc. 415 415 J.L. Leclerc & fils inc. 725 146 871 Les Productions Horticoles Demers inc. 255 255 L’usine Tac Tic inc. 212 236 448 Menuiserox inc. 564 564 Multi-Brosses inc. 219 219 Portes Veilleux 2000 inc. 600 600 Quartz Industrie inc. 167 167 Usine Sartigan inc. 850 850 937 7,945 8,882 Funds committed but not disbursed 1,000 9,882 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Côte-Nord, société en commandite 9011-1501 Québec inc. 500 500 Carrosserie Pro 2010 inc. 255 255 Construction F.H.D. inc. 110 110 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 121 Index of the Share of the Fonds in Investments Made by the Specialized Funds, at Cost A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (unaudited) (continued) (In thousands) Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Côte-Nord, société en commandite (continued) Construction J.G.M. inc. 300 300 Croisière 2001 inc. 100 100 Fonds soutien Côte-Nord, société en commandite 1,000 1,000 Hôtel Mingan inc. 440 440 Lajoie Réfrigération inc. 206 206 Les Distributions G.F.D. inc. 570 570 Les Pétroles Paul Larouche inc. 450 450 Nord Industrie inc. 229 229 Pec-Nord inc. 300 300 Synergica Électrique inc. 625 625 1,400 3,685 5,085 Funds committed but not disbursed 200 5,285 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Estrie, société en commandite 9100-2790 Québec inc. 400 400 Amecci inc. 500 500 Ani-Mat inc. 1,077 1,077 Beaudin Le Prohon inc. 286 286 Boréal – Informations stratégiques inc. 1,000 1,000 Café Faro inc. 174 174 Caoutchouc Pro-Flex inc. 24 24 Domaines Pinnacle inc. 1,025 1,025 Groupe Lachar inc. 1 480 481 Kemestrie inc. 630 630 Laser AMP inc. 225 225 Les fabricants de boyaux industriels Premier ltée 498 498 Les Industries Touch inc. 583 583 Les Viandes Laroche inc. 383 383 Oasis Tropik Nordik inc. 202 202 Oxybec Médical inc. 219 219 Remises Réal Lamontagne inc. 58 58 Scholer Industriel inc. 270 270 Soudure Brault inc. 220 220 Stedfast inc. 500 500 Transformateur Bemag inc. 200 200 631 8,324 8,955 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Gaspésie–Îles-de-la-Madeleine, société en commandite 9011-6641 Québec inc. (Riôtel Percé) 50 50 B.M.B. (Îles-de-la-Madeleine) inc. 524 524 Cap sur mer inc. 159 443 602 Fabrication Delta inc. 613 613 Gaspésie Diésel inc. 394 394 Junex inc. 46 46 Les entreprises Léo Leblanc & fils inc. 282 282 Les Industries Leblanc inc. 43 43 Les Pêcheries Marinard ltée 500 500 Les Pétroles C. Poirier inc. 150 150 122 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Gaspésie–Îles-de-la-Madeleine, société en commandite (continued) Les Reboiseurs de la Péninsule inc. 121 121 Michaud technologies inc. 125 113 238 Pêcheries Vilo inc. 450 450 Philippe Day inc. 33 33 Serres Jardins-Nature inc. 60 351 411 914 3,543 4,457 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Île-de-Montréal, société en commandite No investment 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Lanaudière, société en commandite Agro-100 ltée 1,125 1,125 Laboratoires Bi-Op inc. 525 525 Les Aliments Sibon (1985) ltée 257 257 Les Industries Harnois inc. 12 12 Nita Équipements inc. 200 200 Pneus Lanoraie inc. 458 458 Produits Vince inc. 600 600 Sécurité GMR inc. 210 210 Triotech Amusement inc. 600 600 Verre Select inc. 409 409 12 4,384 4,396 Funds committed but not disbursed 300 4,696 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Laurentides, société en commandite 2959-8828 Québec inc. (Palettes St-Janvier) 17 17 Aéroport International de Mont-Tremblant inc. 86 86 BMI Canada inc. 1,000 1,000 Boulangerie Les Moulins La Fayette inc. 250 6 256 Complexe Hôtelier St-Jovite / Mont-Tremblant inc. 750 750 Distributions Denis Fontaine inc. 450 450 Gestion hôtelière REVPAR inc. 690 690 Groupe Aviation et Puissance inc. 933 933 Groupe Star Suites inc. 48 48 La Petite Bretonne inc. 521 521 Les Matériaux Sima inc. 96 96 Lev-Fab inc. 250 250 Montour ltée 375 375 Palmex International inc. 384 384 Service Alimentaire Desco inc. 100 100 Ventilex inc. 80 80 Vision Villégiature inc. 300 300 1,300 5,036 6,336 Funds committed but not disbursed 700 7,036 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 123 Index of the Share of the Fonds in Investments Made by the Specialized Funds, at Cost A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (unaudited) (continued) (In thousands) Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Laval, société en commandite Aliments Imex inc. 283 283 Auvents Multiples (2002) inc. 100 1,271 1,371 Digico Fabrication Électronique inc. 292 292 Emballages Cré-O-Pack International inc. 278 278 Europe Cosmétiques inc. 103 103 Europharm International Canada inc. 453 453 Globale Géomatique inc. 338 338 Groupe Carreaux Céragrès inc. 1,000 1,000 Groupe Lincora inc. 353 353 Groupe Rojec inc. 375 375 Hydrolico International inc. 448 448 K.F. Construction inc. 750 750 Les Bouteilles Recyclées du Québec (B.R.Q.) inc. 200 321 521 Les Contrôles Novatech G & P inc. 117 117 Les Équipements Power Survey ltée 177 177 Les industries Cendrex inc. 600 600 Les Investissements Sylnic inc. 650 650 Les Productions Diamant ltée 630 630 Perlite Canada inc. 933 933 Robichaud Conseil inc. 500 500 S.R.A.D. Communications inc. 467 467 Stylo Bankers (1991) inc. 1,583 1,583 Les laboratoires de recherche de Lan Wirewerks inc. 642 642 Tornatech inc. 352 352 300 12,916 13,216 Funds committed but not disbursed 1,000 14,216 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Mauricie, société en commandite Climatisation Trois-Rivières inc. 400 400 Concept Éco-Plein-Air Le Baluchon inc. 672 672 Déneigement Maska inc. 750 750 Tuyauterie Borgia ltée 200 200 672 1,350 2,022 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Montérégie, société en commandite Agrocentre Belcan inc. 417 417 Aliments Horizon Nature inc. 408 408 Atelier d’usinage Quenneville inc. 380 380 Bousquet Frères Limitée 700 700 Contacts Électriques Excel inc. 287 287 Dermolab Pharma ltée 500 500 Envitech Énergie inc. 558 558 Esthétique sans frontières inc. 452 452 Grillage Major inc. 161 161 Groupe Damafro inc. 1,067 1,067 Innovation Tootelo inc. 9 9 Investissements Brasco inc. 944 944 LC Média inc. 565 565 124 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Montérégie, société en commandite (continued) Les armoires de cuisines Denis Couture (2002) inc. 69 69 Les Produits de Ventilation Lambro inc. 275 275 Les sols Sportica inc. 300 300 Location Jean Légaré ltée 496 496 Magnus Poirier inc. 1,500 1,500 Multi-Portions inc. 250 19 269 Perfecta Plywood ltée 500 500 Plombco inc. 1,000 1,000 Ray-Mont Logistiques inc. 1,722 1,722 Service sérigraphique professionnel S.S.P. inc. 422 339 761 Soya Excel inc. 195 195 TelcoBridges inc. 375 300 675 1,807 12,403 14,210 Funds committed but not disbursed 350 14,560 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Nord-du-Québec, société en commandite 9129-3852 Québec inc. (Entretien industriel D.L.B.) 219 219 Blais & Langlois inc. 925 925 Cogitore Resources inc. 167 167 Donner Metals Ltd 129 129 Équipement de bureau Ungava inc. 367 367 Exploration Azimut inc. 40 40 Exploration Dios inc. 56 56 Exploration Midland inc. 113 113 Exploration Nemaska inc. 118 118 Exploration NQ inc. 71 71 Fonds Soutien Baie-James, société en commandite 500 500 Gestion du Fonds Soutien Baie-James inc. 1 1 Les Consultants de l’Arctique inc. 635 635 Les Métaux Focus inc. 12 12 Les Pétroles M.J. inc. 647 647 Lucien Senneville (2002) inc. 826 826 Mines Virginia inc. 87 87 Nord Décoration inc. 150 150 Pourvoirie Mirage inc. 389 389 Ressources Cartier inc. 150 150 Ressources MSV inc. 400 400 Ressources Sirios inc. 75 75 Ressources Strateco inc. 1 1 Société d’Exploration Minière Vior inc. 74 150 224 St-Félicien Diesel (1988) inc. 608 608 Stornoway Diamond Corporation 217 217 2,200 4,927 7,127 Funds committed but not disbursed 400 7,527 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 125 Index of the Share of the Fonds in Investments Made by the Specialized Funds, at Cost A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (unaudited) (continued) (In thousands) Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Outaouais, société en commandite 140689 Canada ltée (Taxi Loyal) 187 187 6227945 Canada inc. (Innovation Engineering Group) 123 123 9052-2756 Québec inc. (ProVance Technologies) 250 250 Alary, St-Pierre & Durocher Arpenteurs-géomètres inc. 726 726 Auberge & Spa le Nordik inc. 376 376 Cactus Commerce inc. 1,000 844 1,844 Gestion conseil Immogest-Sweeney inc. 512 512 Les Aliments Chebly inc. 109 109 Mr. Refill International inc. 116 116 Multicorpora R&D inc. 925 925 PCI Géomatiques Entreprises inc. 500 500 ProVance Technologies inc. 750 750 Restaurations Sélect inc. 255 255 Service de Pneus Lavoie Outaouais inc. 2,000 2,000 Terrapro Construction inc. 1,197 1,197 Tomoye Corporation 550 550 Tubes & Jujubes Centre d’amusement familial inc. 157 157 VanillaSoft corp. 227 227 WMD Moulin de Wakefield développements inc. 249 249 Zeligsoft inc. 1 1 2,726 8,328 11,054 Funds committed but not disbursed 725 11,779 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Québec, société en commandite 9099-7768 Québec inc. (E.B.M. Laser) 200 155 355 Agora Communication inc. 653 653 Armeco inc. 87 87 Auvents W. Lecours inc. 405 405 Chemco inc. 490 490 Connexion Technic inc. 130 130 Corporation Eatsleepmusic.com 460 460 Distribution Sports Loisirs G.P. inc. 325 325 DK-SPEC inc. 750 750 Filtrum inc. 1,798 1,798 Fleurigros 1995 inc. 320 320 Groupe Incursion inc. 900 900 Les Aliments 2000 inc. 1,400 1,400 Les Distributions Marc Boivin (2007) inc. 944 944 Les Entreprises P.E.C. inc. 381 381 Les Industries Rouillard inc. 343 343 Les Vêtements Perlimpinpin inc. 184 184 Load Systems International inc. 199 199 Métafab (1996) inc. 345 345 Mode Avalanche inc. 141 141 Panavidéo inc. 395 395 Pelliko inc. 326 326 Savard Ortho confort inc. 42 42 126 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Québec, société en commandite (continued) Simon Giguère Produits Pétroliers inc. 939 939 Tapitec (Québec) inc. 404 404 Transport C.D.P. inc. 1,771 1,771 Usital Canada inc. 1,100 1,100 1,551 14,036 15,587 Funds committed but not disbursed 1,300 16,887 03-31-11 Fonds régional de solidarité Saguenay–Lac-Saint-Jean, société en commandite 2861-0467 Québec inc. (Notre Hôtel) 227 129 356 2956-3475 Québec inc. (Interbus) 314 314 2964-6767 Québec inc. (Les Équipements pétroliers Claude Pedneault) 464 464 4145275 Canada inc. (Chlorophylle H Tech) 339 840 1,179 6482066 Canada inc. (Société P.C.P.) 990 990 9051-2500 Québec inc. (Les Jardins du Saguenay) 33 33 9052-0651 Québec inc. (Logistik 22) 75 46 121 9055-3876 Québec inc. (Les Chocolats Lulu) 275 275 9107-6513 Québec inc. (Menuiserie St-Henri) 200 200 9143-8945 Québec inc. (Maçonnex) 840 840 A.S. Nettoyage inc. 200 200 Atelier Boily ltée 278 278 Centre de Suspension des Routiers inc. 24 24 Cycles Devinci inc. 453 453 Équipements Mauvalin inc. 156 156 Excavation Michel Paradis inc. 64 64 Garage Marcel Simard inc. 500 500 Gestion LJ inc. 114 114 Groupe Giroux Maçonnex inc. 760 760 Industrie Bois Lamontagne inc. 414 414 Isumi Précision ltée 58 58 Les Fenêtres AGM inc. 547 547 Les Lignes du Fjord inc. 257 257 Les Pétroles R.L. inc. 442 442 Les Placements G.M.R. Maltais inc. 345 246 591 Nolicam Location de camions inc. 432 225 657 Novabrik International inc. 1,405 1,405 Oxygène Dolbeau inc. 400 400 Perfecta Forêt ltée 250 250 500 Précicast ltée 559 88 647 Prowatt inc. 150 150 Remac innovateurs industriels inc. 244 244 SCP 89 inc. 297 297 Société de gestion Trois-Trois-Trois inc. 350 350 5,177 9,103 14,280 Funds committed but not disbursed 165 14,445 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 127 Index of the Share of the Fonds in Investments Made by the Specialized Funds, at Cost A s at M ay 3 1 , 2 0 1 1 (unaudited) (continued) (In thousands) Shares Loans and Information from Annual Financial and Units Advances Total Report dated $ $ $ 12-31-10 Novacap Industries III, s.e.c. Camille Fontaine & Fils inc. Corporation de Développement Nautilus inc. IPL inc. Securities of another company 4,107 4,125 8,232 04-30-11 Société de gestion d’actifs forestiers Solifor, société en commandite Solifor Bloc A-RPF, société en commandite Solifor Bloc B-LP, société en commandite Solifor Bloc Monet, société en commandite Solifor Charlevoix-Saguenay, société en commandite Solifor Lac Métis, société en commandite Solifor Lotbinière, société en commandite Solifor Mauricie, société en commandite Solifor Nicolas Riou, société en commandite Solifor Perthuis, société en commandite 133,704 133,704 12-31-10 VC, société en commandite Genizon Biosciences inc. 1 1 Systèmes Médicaux LMS (Canada) ltée 32 32 Theratechnologies inc. 92 92 125 125 This unaudited index details the investments made by the regional funds, by the specialized funds in which the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q) (the “Fonds”) has invested more than 0.2% of its net assets and by the specialized funds in which the Fonds holds an interest of 50% or more and exercises significant influence over the management of these funds. Amounts invested by business enterprise are disclosed only in the cases provided by the Regulation Respecting Development Capital Investment Fund Continuous Disclosure. 128 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 GLOSSARY Absolute return strategy Disbursed funds Strategy aimed to diversify the Fonds’ financial assets and Authorized, committed amounts related to an investment that produce an absolute return regardless of the performance of were paid to a partner company. Disbursed funds therefore financial markets. exclude funds committed but not disbursed as well as guar­ antees and suretyships. Annual compound return When the annual compound return is applied to an asset, it is Fixed-income security assumed that the value of the asset increases by the annual Security that pays a pre-determined fixed income until matu­ return obtained and that the following year the new rate of rity. The main fixed-income securities are bonds and money return will consider this increased value. market securities. Appreciation (depreciation) Forward or futures contract Appreciation (depreciation) is the increase (decrease) of the Contract to buy or sell a financial instrument (e.g., bond, share, value of an asset or a portfolio in relation to its reference value. or currency) on a pre-determined date and price. Assets under management Funds committed but not disbursed Refers to the fair value of the assets managed by the Investments Amounts committed for an investment that were agreed to and Other Investments sectors and used to generate income but not yet disbursed. for the Fonds. This amount differs from the amount of assets presented in the financial statements, which includes, unlike Hedge fund assets under management, amounts under management Investment fund with long and short positions on securities, from the liquidity surpluses of regional and local funds and markets, etc. These positions reflect the manager’s opinion on certain specialized funds. probable securities price or market trends. A fund of hedge funds is a fund mostly made up of investments in hedge funds. Average net assets Total of net assets at the end of the interim period and of the Hedging strategy financial year, divided by two. Strategy used to reduce variations in the Fonds de solidarité FTQ’s return resulting from changes in interest rates, exchange rates Credit spread or stock market prices. Difference in the yield of a benchmark bond (e.g., a Government of Canada bond) and the bond of another issuer. The greater Indirect jobs the risk associated with this bond, as perceived by the market, Jobs associated with economic spin-offs generated by partner the wider the credit spread. companies located in Québec. The number of indirect jobs is calculated by taking the number of direct jobs, and applying a Derivative financial instrument or derivative product factor based on the co-efficient of indirect jobs by productive Financial instrument whose price or return is tied to an under­ sector published by the Institut de la statistique du Québec. lying product. The most common derivative instruments are swaps, forwards, futures and options. Derivative instruments Induced jobs are used to limit market risk and to preserve asset value, to Jobs created, maintained or protected as a result of spending facilitate changes in asset allocation, to manage an indexed by workers holding direct and indirect jobs. strategy for part of the portfolio, to facilitate portfolio manage­ ment, and to improve returns within established risk limits. Development capital investment (or investment) Acquisition of securities or commitment to acquire securities, generally from Québec SMEs, and purchased as part of the Fonds’ mission. Most development capital investments are eligi­ ble under the 60% rule set out in the Fonds’ Incorporation Act. Direct jobs Jobs held by workers in the partner companies of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, the regional and local funds, the Fonds immobilier de solidarité FTQ or the specialized funds, and their subsidiaries. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 129 GLOSSARY (continued) Integrated financial assets management Other investments Financial asset management principle with the objective of Balance of assets not invested in our partner companies. This diversifying the risks borne by the Fonds de solidarité FTQ portfolio consists of bonds, money market securities, sectorwhile allowing it to fully achieve its mission. based shares, funds of hedge funds, high-dividend shares and international infrastructure funds. International infrastructure fund Investment fund composed mainly of shares of companies Private security located outside Canada that are involved in developing, main­ Direct investment in an unlisted company or in a listed com­ taining, repairing and managing infrastructures (e.g., airports, pany whose stock price exceptionally does not reflect its fair highways, bridges, railways, etc.) or that indirectly benefit value at the time of its valuation. from these activities. Specialized fund Limited partnership (or Société en commandite) Investment company in which the Fonds invests as a limited Partnership consisting of two types of partners: limited partner or a shareholder. The partnership’s general partner or partners and a general partner. Only the general partner directors manage the invested funds on behalf of the limited is authorized to manage and represent the partnership. As partners or shareholders. a manager, the general partner’s liability is unlimited with regards to the partnership’s debts and obligations. Limited Swap partners provide the capital required for the partnership’s Agreement used to exchange a security, an income or a operations and are liable for its debts up to the amount com­ currency for another security, income or currency at pre-­ mitted and to be paid to the partnership. The limited partner­ determined conditions and for a given period. The parties ship is a legal structure designed to meet specific needs and sign an agreement that respects international standards for to separate investment from the partnership’s management. this type of transaction. Local representative (LR) The Fonds has created a network of LRs within the unions affiliated with the FTQ (and in unions with which the Fonds has concluded agreements to that end) who promote the Fonds in their workplace without receiving a commission. These LRs’ main task is to explain the Fonds’ objectives and to promote share purchases by their union members. Money market security Security with a pre-determined return that matures in less than one year. Easily marketable, and highly liquid, these securities include T-bills, bankers’ acceptances and commercial paper. Option Contract that gives the holder the right to buy or sell a financial instrument (e.g., bond, share, stock index, currency or future) at a pre-determined price. The seller or writer of the option must buy or sell the security if the option holder exercises his/ her right. 130 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 the GRI index We analyzed 66 GRI indicators (G3 guidelines), of which we selected around 50 that are key or material to the activities of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, including some that are supplementary indicators for financial institutions. This index helps locate where the indicators are discussed in this report and provides relevant information to understand the Fonds’ profile and strategies. We have also linked certain sections of the report with the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. To obtain information about all of these indicators, please visit the GRI Website at www.globalreporting.org. aspect GRI indicators Pages Comments global compact Strategy and profile Strategy and analysis 1.1, 1.2 5, 6, 11-13, 62-65 Organizational profile 2.1-2.10 3, 19-23, 25-29, 30-38, 49-56, 62, 70-71, 77-78, 86 Report parameters 3.1-3.9, 3.12 11-14, 131 Governance 4.1-4.10 8-10, 15-17, 48, 77-79, 132-135 Principle 10 Commitments to external initiatives 4.11-4.13 10-14, 18-19, 21-24 Principles 1-10 Stakeholder engagement 4.14-4.17 12-14, 18-23, 28-29, 33-40, 47-48 Economic Economic performance EC1-EC4 7, 21, 23, 29-32, 49-56 60-62, 82-85, 103-104 Principle 7 Market presence EC6, EC7 12, 31-32, 35-56, 48 Principle 6 indirect economic impacts EC8, EC9 20-23, 29 Environmental Materials EN1, EN2 37, 42, 46 Principles 8-9 Energy EN3, EN4 27, 43, 46 Principle 8 Water EN8 37, 42 Principle 8 Biodiversity EN11, EN12 33 Principles 7-8 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16, EN17, 21, 28, 33, 37, 42-45 Principle 8 EN19-EN23 products and services EN26, EN27 b Compliance EN28 42 G Principles 7-8 Social Labour practices, social relations and decent work Employment LA1, LA2 48 Principle 6 Labour/management relations LA4, LA5 47-48 Principles 1-6 Occupational health and safety LA7, LA8 47-48 c Principles 1-2 Training and education LA10 48 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13, LA14 47-48, 132 Principles 1, 6 Human rights Investment and procurement practices HR1, HR2 15-16 d Principles 1-10 Non-discrimination HR4 g Principles 1-2, 6 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 g Principles 1-3 Child labour HR6 e Principles 1-2, 5 Forced and compulsory labour HR7 e Principles 1-2, 4 Society Community SO1 14-16, 19-23, 27, 29, 38, 40 Corruption SO2-SO4 8-10, 16 Principle 10 Public policy SO5 10 Principles 1-10 Compliance SO8 g Product responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 f Principle 1 Product and service labeling PR3 a Principle 8 Marketing communications PR6 10 Compliance PR9 A, G Sector supplement (FINANCIAL SERVICES) Product and service impact specific disclosure on management approach FS1-FS5 8-10, 15-18, 41-48 Product and service impact indicators Product portfolio FS6-FS8 15-23, 26-29, 41-46, 82-128 Audit FS9 8-10, 15-16, 77 PRINCIPLES 1, 3-8, 10 Active ownership FS10-FS12 8-10, 15-16 PRINCIPLES 1-10 Society Community FS13, FS14 25-29, 33, 35-36, 38 Product performance Product and service labeling FS15, FS16 17-19, 26 Fs15: A A. See the prospectus, the annual information form and the notice of meeting to the annual general meeting of shareholders: www.fondsftq.com The indicators appearing in notes B to F, although material, do not apply to the nature of the Fonds. B. EN26, EN27: The Fonds does not manufacture or sell products and does not offer services that have significant direct environmental impacts. C. LA8: A very organized healthcare system exists in Québec. D. HR2: Substantially all of the Fonds’ suppliers are located in Canada, where respect of human rights is a regulated issue. E. HR6, HR7: Child labour and forced and compulsory labour are regulated issues in Canada. F. PR1: The Fonds’ services have no negative impact on the health or safety of the users of these services. G. No case identified. Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 131 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 1 Michel Arsenault A, D, G 7 nadine girault B 12 Michel Ouimet 15 Louise St-Cyr A, B, G, I President, Fédération des Corporate Director Executive Vice-President – Honorary Professor, travailleurs et travailleuses Québec, Communications, HEC Montréal du Québec (FTQ), and Chairman Energy and Paperworkers of the Board of Directors, 8 LUCIE LEVASSEUR * Union of Canada (CEP), Fonds de solidarité FTQ President, Canadian Union and Vice-President, FTQ 16 Jérôme Turcq D of Public Employees (CUPE), Regional Executive Vice-President, Québec, and Québec Region, Public Service 2 Louis Bolduc D, E, H Vice-President, FTQ 13 Réjean Parent Alliance of Canada (PSAC), Executive Assistant to the President, Centrale and Vice-President, FTQ National President, United des syndicats du Québec (CSQ) Food and Commercial Workers 9 Denise Martin A, D, E, G International Union (UFCW), Corporate Director and Vice-Chair 17 Pierre-Maurice Vachon A, B, D, G and First Vice-President, FTQ of the Board of Directors, 14 Daniel Roy F Corporate Director Fonds de solidarité FTQ Quebec Director, United Steelworkers, 3 Yvon Bolduc A, E, J and Vice-President, FTQ President and Chief Executive 10 JEAN-PIERRE OUELLET * Officer, Fonds de solidarité FTQ President, Québec Service Employees Union (QSEU), Local 298, and 4 DANIEL BOYER a, G, H Vice-President, FTQ General Secretary, Fédération * The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is pleased to welcome Messrs. Jean-Pierre Ouellet and Yves Ouellet and des travailleurs et travailleuses Ms. Lucie Levasseur as members of its Board of Directors. The Fonds is especially proud to have increased the number of women directors, who now account for nearly a quarter (24%) of its directors. du Québec (FTQ), and Secretary 11 YVES OUELLET * of the Board of Directors, General Manager, Fonds de solidarité FTQ FTQ-Construction, and Vice-President, FTQ A Member of the Executive Committee G Member of the Special Board – Traditional Sector 5 Alain DeGrandpré B Member of the Audit Committee President of Joint Council 91, H Member of the Fonds immobilier de C Member of the Special Board – New Economy Teamsters Canada, solidarité FTQ I, s.e.c. and Fonds immobilier D Member of the Special Board – de solidarité FTQ II, s.e.c. Advisory and Vice-President, FTQ Turnaround and Majority Interests Committee, and the Fonds immobilier E Member of the Financial de solidarité FTQ inc. Board of Directors Assets Management Committee 6 Jean-Pierre Fortin C I Member of the Valuation Committee Québec Director, Canadian F Member of the Special Board – J Member of the Ethics Committee Mining Portfolio Auto Workers (CAW), and Vice-President, FTQ 132 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 MEMBERS OF OUR COMMITTEES AND BOARDS WHO ARE external to THE FONDS AND THE FTQ 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 15 16 17 1 PIERRE BOUDREAULT f 8 SYLVIE LALANDE c 13 MICHEL NADEAU i 17 LOUISE ST-CYR A, B, G, i Director and Manager Corporate Director Executive Director, Institute Honorary Professor, of mining companies for Governance of Private HEC Montréal and Public Organizations 9 MICHEL M. LESSARD d, H 2 MICHEL GAUTHIER f President, Sogexfi Inc., 18 YVON TESSIER h Consultant and Professor and Corporate Director 14 CLAUDE NORMANDEAU h Corporate Director at UQAM Real Estate Consultant and Corporate Director 10 DENISE MARTIN A, D, E, G 19 MICHEL THÉRIEN e 3 PIERRE GENEST e Corporate Director Strategic Advisor Chairman of the Board, and Vice-Chair of 15 JEAN PERRON d and Corporate Director SSQ, Mutual Management the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Corporation and SSQ, Fonds de solidarité FTQ Officer, Association des cadres Life Insurance Company Inc. des collèges du Québec 20 PIERRE-MAURICE VACHON a, b, d, g Corporate Director 11 ANDRÉ MONETTE c, H 4 MICHEL GILBERT f Advisor in Management, 16 JACQUES SIMARD c Corporate Director Strategic Planning, Full Professor, Université Laval, Mergers and Acquisitions, and Director, Cancer Genomics and Corporate Finance Laboratory at the CHUQ/CHUL 5 NADINE GIRAULT b Research Centre Corporate Director 12 JOSÉE MORIN c Corporate Director 6 DENIS LABRÈCHE i and Consultant Partner, Valuation & Business Modelling Services, Ernst & Young 7 PIERRE LAFLAMME i Corporate Director and Consultant Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 133 THE management committee Yvon Bolduc A, E, j President and CEO Danny Le Braceur j Vice-President, Human Resources Denis Leclerc Executive Vice-President, Shareholder Services, President of the Fondation de la formation économique Gaétan Morin E Executive Vice-President, Investments Michel Pontbriand E Executive Vice-President, Finance Mario Tremblay j Vice-President, Public and Corporate Affairs, and Corporate Secretary A Member of the Executive Committee E Member of the Financial Assets Management Committee J Member of the Ethics Committee From left to right: Denis Leclerc, Mario Tremblay and Yvon Bolduc From left to right: Michel Pontbriand, Danny Le Braceur and Gaétan Morin From left to right: Gaétan Morin, Denis Leclerc and Mario Tremblay From left to right: Danny Le Braceur, Michel Pontbriand and Gaétan Morin 134 Fonds de solidarité FTQ 2011 THE GOVERNING BODIES OF THE FONDS DE SOLIDARITÉ FTQ THE THE UNION In addition to the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee, the Fonds has the following governing bodies: FONDS IMMOBILIER DE SOLIDARITÉ FTQ I, S.E.C. SPECIAL BOARD – Executive COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE committee and AND FONDS IMMOBILIER DE SOLIDARITÉ FTQ II, S.E.C. TURNAROUND AND MAJORITY INTERESTS 1 Guy Trépanier, Chair ADVISORY COMMITTEE, and AND FONDS IMMOBILIER Michel Arsenault, Chair Marie-Claude Rouleau, DE SOLIDARITÉ FTQ INC. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 Louis Bolduc Executive Vice-Chair René Roy, Chair Michel M. Lessard2 Robert Charpentier, Louis Bolduc Denise Martin2 Second Vice-Chair Daniel Boyer Jean Perron2 David Boucher, Treasurer Michel M. Lessard2 Jérôme Turcq Marie-Noëlle Perrier, Secretary André Monette2 Pierre-Maurice Vachon2 Julie Proulx, Advisor Claude Normandeau2 Yvon Tessier2 VALUATION COMMITTEE Labour AND LABOUR and SOCIAL social DELEGATES, delegates, (REVIEWS THE PRIVATE INVESTMENT workplace WORKPLACE health HEALTH and AND security SECURITY SPECIAL BOARD – TRADITIONAL SECTOR 1 VALUATION PROCESS) OFFICIALS, and LOCAL officials, AND local REPRESENTATIVES representatives Michel Arsenault, Chair Louise St-Cyr, Chair2 Louise Bergeron Daniel Boyer Denis Labrèche2 Conrad Bernadel Denise Martin2 Pierre Laflamme2 Nathalie Bilodeau Louise St-Cyr2 Michel Nadeau2 Ina Corbin Pierre-Maurice Vachon2 Gilles de Montigny FINANCIAL ASSETS MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Michel Desjardins (ENSURES (ENSUREs COMPLIANCE WITH THE INTEGRATED Linda Di Quinzio SPECIAL BOARD – MINING PORTFOLIO 1 FINANCIAL ASSETS MANAGEMENT POLICY) Nathalie Dufresne Daniel Roy, Chair Denise Martin, Chair2 Isabelle Duguay Pierre Boudreault 2 Louis Bolduc Johanne Dupont Michel Gauthier2 Yvon Bolduc Jacques Grégoire Michel Gilbert 2 Pierre Genest 2 Martin Lépine Gaétan Morin Jean Martel SPECIAL BOARD – NEW ECONOMY 1 Michel Pontbriand Robert Monpetit Michel Thérien2 Jean-Claude Nadon René Roy, Chair Robert Paradis Jean-Pierre Fortin Martin Rivest Sylvie Lalande2 ETHICS ethics COMMITTEE committee Sylvain Tellier André Monette2 Yvon Bolduc, Chair Josée Morin2 Danny Le Braceur Jacques Simard2 Laurent Themens Mario Tremblay 1 . All investments must be authorized by a governing body, depending on the appropriate economic sector. When an investment reaches a minimum amount of $5 million, it must also be submitted to the Fonds’ Board of Directors. 2. Indicates directors who are external to the Fonds and the FTQ. EDITORS COLLABORATORS MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION PHOTOGRAPHER Suzanne Hamel Daniel Bourcier AND ANALYSIS Yves Lacombe questions? QUESTIONS? André McDonald Roch Dutil Editor Mario Tremblay François Girard Sylvain Paré Our second Annual and Sustainability Report Alain Houle Designer DESIGNER summarizes our progress since the last Hubert Lavigueur Writer Gauthier designers WRITER Sylvain Masse Ricardo Espera report covering the financial year ended Suzanne Hamel Louise Sauvé May 31, 2010 was issued. It sets out the results of the activities we have undertaken during the financial year ended May 31, 2011. It also translator TRANSLATOR Jean Marois presents the improvements we hope to make in the social, economic and environmental aspects during the coming months. This report is a way to establish or maintain a dialogue with all the WE WOULD LIKE TO THANK EVERYONE WHO CONTRIBUTED TO THE PRODUCTION OF THIS DOCUMENT. groups and individuals that are significantly impacted by our activities or that influence our activities in some way. We invite them to Printed by the unionized workers of Phipps Dickson Integria inc. (PDI inc.) on Rolland Enviro 100 Print send us their comments at the following address: (made in Québec using biogas energy and a chlorine-free process, EcoLogo and FSC® Recycled certified Public and Corporate Affairs Department and containing 100% post-consumer fibre) and Cascades Enviro Kraft Print (made in Québec, unbleached with a low water consumption process, EcoLogo and FSC® certified and containing 100% Fonds de solidarité FTQ post-consumer fibre). 545 Crémazie Blvd. East, Suite 200 Montréal, Québec H2M 2W4 Telephone: 514 383-8383 www.fondsftq.com Fonds DE FONDS de SOLIDARITÉ solidarité FTQ 2011 135 www.fondsftq.com 545 Crémazie Blvd. East, Suite 200 Montréal, Québec H2M 2W4 Telephone: 514 383-8383 Fax: 514 383-2502 Toll free: 1 800 361-5017 Shareholder Services Montréal: 514 383-3663 Toll free: 1 800 567-3663 Legal deposit – 3rd quarter 2011 Bibliothèque nationale du Québec National Library of Canada Ce document est également disponible en français. B-08-00-0249
