October 19, 2012 Mr. Georg Kell Executive Director UN Global Compact United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Kell: Levi Strauss & Co. is proud to share with you our 2012 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. Sustainability is more than an idea or a project at Levi Strauss & Co. It is deeply embedded into our products, our culture, and our business. Since our last Communication on Progress, Levi Strauss & Co. made significant strides to expand sustainability communications and transparency. Levi Strauss & Co.’s corporate public website provides the latest information about our social and environmental sustainability strategies, policies and actions. The information found on our public website is supplemented by the sustainability portion of the Levi Strauss & Co. 2012 Annual Financial Report, which outlines actions taken by the company in the 2011 fiscal year to advance our corporate responsibility objectives and operationalize the principles of the Global Compact. Environment Levi Strauss & Co. also continued to increase our energy and climate transparency and reporting. We registered our global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for 2011 with The Climate Registry. The emissions report has undergone third-party review by SCS Engineers in accordance with The Climate Registry requirements. We also issued our fourth Carbon Disclosure Report, which captured not only a summary of our 2011 emissions, but also our GHG reduction targets and strategies for achieving those reductions. This energy and climate reporting helps us assess progress, identify gaps in our program, and push for action. Additionally, we recently released our 2012 Climate Change Report, which outlines our climate and energy vision; our progress to date to maximize energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions; and our future targets and timelines. Aligned with our commitment to the Global Compact, our third CEO Water Mandate Communication on Progress is available in the water section of our corporate website. Through engagement with the CEO Water Mandate, we have grown our commitment to water sustainability in the areas of direct operations, supply chain, collective action, public policy and community engagement. Labor and Human Rights In 2012, we built on our commitment to human rights and worker rights in the apparel supply chain when we launched Improving Workers Well-being, an initiative that identifies how the company can work with its suppliers, other organizations, and the apparel industry to improve the lives of people making our products. After an extensive external stakeholder consultation, we made public a white paper summarizing the stakeholder input and our vision for this new approach. Next year we’ll share more about the outcomes of our pilots and next steps. Cognizant of growing stakeholder interest in wages in the apparel supply chain and forced labor, slavery and human trafficking globally, we posted information about our company’s policies and programs in those two areas. This increased transparency on these important issues has opened new lines of positive dialogue with important stakeholders within and outside the apparel industry. Page 1 of 2 Anti-Corruption Our success as a company is built upon a foundation of integrity – a longstanding commitment to act with the highest ethical standards and conduct business honestly and legally. We make both our Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and our Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy publicly available for all stakeholders on our corporate website, www.levistrauss.com. Levi Strauss & Co. remains an active and committed Global Compact member. This year, we continued our leadership role on the Global Compact U.S. Network by serving on its steering committee. We look forward to the years ahead as the Global Compact’s activities advance our company’s sustainability commitment. Sincerely, Chip Bergh President and Chief Executive Officer Page 2 of 2
