MOL Group The 13th edition April 2011–March 2012 Bluer Oceans, Cleaner Environment and Sustainable Future Environmental and Social Report 2012 (Editorial Policy) Key Indicators The MOL Group has reported on its Group-wide environmental protection activities since October 2000, when we published the first Environmental Report. In 2003, we renamed the publication the Environmental and Social Report to Worldwide Seaborne Trade Volume encompass the Group’s overall social contribution as well as environmental protecWorldwide seaborne trade volume (Billion tons)/ tion initiatives. World population (Billion people) Per capita trade volume (Tons) 180 1.8 This Environmental and Social Report introduces the company’s approach to CSR and the environment, and our latest initiatives, to all stakeholders con160 1.6 nected with the MOL Group. In producing this report, we used illustrations, 140 1.4 tables and graphs and reflected the voices of our frontline staff where possible. We believe that by reading this report you will gain a greater understanding of 120 1.2 how we view our social responsibility as a company, what measures we are 100 1.0 taking to reduce environmental impact and ensure safe operation in our busi80 0.8 ness activities, how we are contributing to local communities, and what kind of efforts we are making to meet the expectations of shareholders and other 60 0.6 investors and customers, as well as how we are considering land-based staff 40 0.4 and seafarers. 20 0.2 Period FY2011 (April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012) 0 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 0 In addition, some activities prior to FY2011 and activities during FY2012 (April Worldwide trade volume (To 2010) (left scale) Worldwide trade volume forecast (From 2011) (left scale) 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013) are reported with notes. Per capita trade volume (Tons) (right scale) World population Source: MOL internal calculations based on data from Feanleys, Clarkson, the WTO, the United Nations, etc. Scope In principle, all MOL Group companies that do business in Japan and overseas. Activities and data that are limited in scope are reported with notes. * The MOL Group Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd., 335 consolidated subsidiaries, 63 equity-method affiliFleet Composition by Number of Vessels (As of March 31, 2012) ates, and other affiliated companies. * “The company” in this report refers to Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. (MOL). Ferries and Domestic carriers, Cruise ships and others Reference Guidelines 50 —E nvironmental Report Guidelines 2012, Japanese Ministry of the Environment Containerships 115 —Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Japanese Ministry of the Environment Dry bulkers —G RI (Global Reporting Initiative) (GRI Guidelines Version 3.0) 392 Car carriers Please visit our website to view comparison charts with the GRI Guidelines 128 and UN Global Compact. http://www.mol.co.jp/csr-e/report/download/index.html LNG carriers Issue Date 69 Issued September 2012 (Previous issue: September 2011; next issue: September 2013 (scheduled)) Tankers 200 Besides this report, information concerning the MOL Group’s CSR activities can be found in the “CSR/ Environment” section of our website. Consolidated Revenues and Ordinary Income http://www.mol.co.jp/csr-e/index.html (¥ billions) 2,000 400 MOL also produces the following publications as a means of promoting communication with stakeholders: 1,500 300 Annual Report* MOL Investor Guidebook* Corporate Brochure A detailed explanation of Easy-to-understand analEasy-to-understand disinvestor relations inforysis using tables and cussion of the company’s 1,000 200 mation such as managecharts of the MOL Group’s business activities. Mainly ment strategy, business management plans, key for customers, business environment, operating financial indicators, busipartners, local communi500 100 results and financial data. ness activities, market ties, and job-hunting Primarily for shareholders position and operating students and professionand other investors. environment in each als, as well as the general 0 0 business. Primarily for public. shareholders and other investors. –500 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 –100 *The latest versions of all reports can be found on our website. http://www.mol.co.jp/ir-e/index.html Consolidated revenues (left scale) Consolidated ordinary income (right scale) Contents 02 MOL Group Businesses 04 Top Message 06 Forging Feature 1:  Ahead to Special Features World Major Carriers’ Fleets (As of March 2012) Become the World Leader (Million DWT) in Safe Operation Feature 2: Senpaku ISHIN 0 20 40 60 80 10 MOL (Japan) NYK (Japan) 12 Feature 3: Global Social COSCO (China) Contribution Activities AP Moller-Maersk (Denmark) 14 Special Feature: Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake K Line (Japan) China Shipping (China) Management Oldendorff (Germany) 16 MOL’s Approach to CSR Management Zodiac (UK) 18 CSR Program Targets and Results Teekay Shipping (Canada) 22 Corporate Governance, Compliance and Accountability Swiss Marine (Switzerland) 24 Safe Operation 0 250 500 750 1,000 (Number of Vessels) Million DWT Number of Vessels Source: Companies’ published data, etc. Major Carriers: Sales Composition The Environment The Environment MOL 26 Environmental Management Policy NYK K Line 28 Environmental Targets and Results AP Moller-Maersk 32 Environmental Burden of the MOL Group Evergreen 33 Approaches to Tackling Global Warming and NOL Preventing Air Pollution Hanjin 36 Approaches to Protecting Biodiversity and the OOIL Marine Environment MISC Frontline 38 Group Companies’ Initiatives Teekay OSG Pacific Basin Society Golar LNG 0 20 40 60 80 100 40 Caring for Land-based Staff (%) Society Bulkships Containerships, etc. Others 42 Caring for Seafarers Source: Prepared by MOL based on the 2011 financial results disclosures of each company 44 Social Contribution Activities MOL’s “Containerships, etc.” sales include sales of terminals, logistics and other businesses. NYK’s “Containerships, etc.” sales include sales of terminals, air freight and logistics businesses. 45 Third-Party Opinion 46 Q&A with Readers 47 Corporate Profile Fiscal 2011 Consolidated Revenues by Segment Others 1% Associated Businesses 7% On the Cover Hybrid Car Carrier Ferry & Bulkships 51% Emerald Ace Domestic Transport Is Delivered! 4% The world’s first new hybrid car carConsolidated rier, the Emerald Ace, was delivered revenue in June 2012. It represents a major ¥1,435.2 billion step for MOL in realizing its Senpaku ISHIN project, which aims to develop next-generation concept vessels. (Please refer to pages 10 and 11 for details.) Containerships 38% Dry bulkers 23% Tankers 12% LNG carriers 3% Car carriers 13% Environmental and Social Report 2012 01 MOL Group Businesses The MOL Group, with a core business of shipping, engages in the transport of a broad range of cargoes, including natural resources, energy, raw materials, and manufactured products, that contribute to industrial growth and better lives for people around the world. We run and develop our businesses, taking sufficiently into consideration environmental and social issues as a player in an industry that is indispensable to the sustainable development of the world economy. Bulkships Dry Bulkers Tankers Transporting the World’s Natural Resources with One of the Experts in Energy Transport World’s Biggest Fleets Dry bulkers transport massive quantities of dry cargo that is not individually Safe, efficient transport is crucial for ensuring stable supplies of crude oil, packaged. Dry bulkers include very large iron ore carriers (VLOCs); specialone of the world’s main energy sources. The MOL Group has a varied fleet ized coal carriers matched to the size of loading/discharging ports; wood of oil tankers from VLCCs (tankers of more than 200,000 DWT) to small chip carriers, which transport wood chips; and bulkers that transport general and medium-sized vessels called Suezmax and Aframax. With this varied cargo including grain. The cargoes transported by dry bulkers are used as fleet, MOL contributes to the stable supply of oil for the world. various raw materials and fuel as well as food and animal feed. In addition, MOL also has product tankers that carry refined petroleum products, MOL’s fleet includes heavy lifters, which transport heavy, large cargoes that including naphtha and gasoline; chemical tankers for transporting liquefied cannot be carried by conventional cargo ships, such as large machinery chemical products; and LPG tankers for transporting liquefied petroleum and plants vital for industrial growth. gas. MOL supports the world’s lifelines with one of the world’s largest fleets for energy transport, and its extensive transportation expertise. Main cargoes Main cargoes LNG Carriers Car Carriers Aiming to Stably Transport Clean Energy Transporting Cars in a Safe, Reliable and Eco-Friendly Manner Liquefied natural gas (LNG) is attracting considerable attention as an The auto industry is one of the cornerstones of Japan’s growth. MOL was environmentally-friendly clean energy resource and demand for this fuel the first shipping company in Japan to launch a car carrier service in 1965. is rising around the world. Since then, as the pioneer of car transportation, MOL has worked to provide The transportation of LNG, which is used as a feedstock for city gas and safe and reliable transport services to meet the needs of automakers, who gas-fired thermal power plants, supports our daily lives and the growth of are increasingly producing vehicles around the world. businesses. MOL has established a solid position among the world’s car carrier fleets Since participating in its first LNG transportation project in 1983, MOL not only through quality car transport services and fleet size, but also has amassed a wealth of expertise and experience in LNG transportation. environmental consciousness. Our new environmental technologies include As one of the world’s leading LNG ocean transport companies, MOL will vessels with lower wind and water pressure resistance. continue meeting world LNG demand by upgrading and expanding its fleet By transporting cargo that can be driven on and off vessels, from pasand rigorously practicing safe operation based on its advanced technologies senger cars to construction machinery, MOL supports comfortable lives and expertise. for all. Main cargoes Main cargoes 02 Environmental and Social Report 2012 MOL Group Businesses Containerships A Balanced Network That Covers the Entire Globe The containership business provides transportation services for electrical products, auto parts, household furniture, food products and other products in containers. MOL’s containership business provides a balanced network that covers the entire globe, from the key east-west routes linking Asia to North America and Asia to Europe, to the north-south or Intra-Asia routes. Furthermore, with our worldwide network and an integrated state-of-the-art IT system, we provide logistics services matching customers’ needs. Moreover, we have established service indicators common all over the world for on time arrival performance, environmental impact reduction and safe operation, as well as set standards for these indicators. By also periodically disclosing the results, we are working to raise customer satisfaction. Main cargoes Ferry & Domestic Transport Business Associated Businesses One of Japan’s Largest Networks Promoting the Flow of Various Peripheral Businesses Support Comprehensive People and Goods Capabilities Centered on the Shipping Business The MOL Group offers one of Japan’s largest ferry and domestic transport The MOL Group has accumulated management knowhow through its core service lineups. business of shipping over around 130 years. We have worked to enhance Ferries offer various amenities for an enjoyable voyage such as restaushipping-related business services such as the cruise business that operrants, spas and entertainment. They provide a comfortable and relaxing ates the Nippon Maru, one of Japan’s largest tugboat operations, land travel experience that cannot be experienced with other modes of transtransportation, warehousing and marine consulting. In addition, we also portation and also carry cargo. conduct travel, marine/civil engineering, building leasing and real estate Domestic coastal vessels transport food, daily necessities, industrial management, finance, trading, insurance, IT and communications, temporary materials, oil and other cargo, supporting the lives of people and industry staffing and other businesses as well as support a national program to in Japan. build an emergency oil reserve. Through these businesses related directly Furthermore, by actively responding to needs driven by a modal shift for and indirectly to the shipping business, we are contributing to various the use of means of transport with a low environmental impact, these corporate activities and improving people’s lives. transportation services are contributing to the reduction of CO2 emissions in Japan’s distribution sector. Main cargoes Main Businesses Environmental and Social Report 2012 03 Top Message An Excellent and Resilient Organization that Grows Sustainably and Harmoniously with Society A series of natural disasters occurring around the world, including technology for ship management and strengthening anti-piracy the Great East Japan Earthquake and flooding in Thailand. A global and anti-terrorism measures. economic slowdown triggered by the European debt crisis. The MOL employs approximately 7,200 seafarers from over 20 public losing faith in institutions due to dysfunctional corporate countries, including the Philippines and India. An important issue governance, cruise ship accidents and other failures. 2011 was for a shipping company therefore is securing and training excepmarked by a multitude of events that have prompted a reexaminational seafarers to facilitate safe operation in the field. An officer tion of corporate social responsibility. candidate program for students of affiliated maritime colleges in The events have reaffirmed the societal mission of the MOL the Philippines is utilized along with our eight MOL training centers Group as a shipping company, which is to support people’s lives for seafarers, which are located in six countries. MOL’s unique and industry around the world. seafarer education and training program instituted since 2007 In order to achieve this, it is essential that the MOL Group continues was certified by an international body in April 2012. to earn trust and be the company selected by customers, shareholdIn addition, MOL Safety Conferences are held to create a shared ers and other stakeholders. The MOL Group will therefore proactively awareness of safe operation among MOL seafarers. In 2012, the fulfill its social responsibilities as a shipping company by accomconferences were held in February and March in four locations modating global increases in transport demand, conducting safe around the world, the Philippines, India, Croatia and Japan. We operations at world-leading levels, and implementing the Senpaku also regularly honor exceptional seafarers, hold local family gatherISHIN project to contribute to global environmental protection. ings, and maintain safe and pleasant working conditions, as we strive to strengthen bonds with the families of seafarers, who are Ensuring Safe Operation Is MOL’s often away from home. Imperative Through such ongoing initiatives, accident rates and other moniSafe operation is our imperative, as it is for other shipping compatored indicators have improved appreciably. However, regrettably, in nies. It is also the MOL Group’s starting point for earning the trust December 2011, though it involved an outside contractor, an and support of stakeholders. We have made substantial investaccident occurred during elevator maintenance that caused the ments and implemented many measures to achieve safe operations death of a crew member. As a result, we did not achieve the “Four at world-leading levels. Efforts have also been made to make the Zeroes”—an unblemished record in terms of serious marine incidents, process for realizing safe operation visible and objective indicators oil pollution, fatal accidents, and cargo damage. For serious incidents for quantifying safety levels have been instituted. We are now like this, we make every effort to prevent recurrence by thoroughly working to meet the numerical targets we have set. The various investigating and elucidating not only direct causes but also indirect factors that lead up to an accident are connected like a chain, so factors. Monitoring is conducted with clear assessment indicators we also continually make improvements in both seafarer training even after countermeasures are implemented, and relevant informaand ship facilities in order to break this chain of errors and prevent tion is continuously disclosed externally. major incidents. In addition, we are promoting the use of information 04 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Senpaku ISHIN Project Helps Protect the Global Environment Protecting the global environment is a global challenge that must be overcome to create sustainable societies. MOL’s environmental strategy calls for further strengthening and promoting the high environmental efficiency of ocean transport services and providing transport services that meet customer needs while protecting the global environment, with the aim of contributing to the sustainable development of the global economy. We are committed to pursuing optimal solutions to two seemingly conflicting challenges: addressing worsening environmental problems while meeting growing transport demand. The Senpaku ISHIN project, our concept for next-generation vessels, is a major step in this direction. The Emerald Ace hybrid car carrier, which was delivered in June MOL Group’s long-term vision of becoming an excellent and 2012, stands as one of the results of the Senpaku ISHIN project, resilient organization that leads the world shipping industry which seeks to reduce CO2 emissions through application of remains unyielding. feasible technologies. Equipped with lithium-ion batteries that are In the immortal words of Confucius, “One must not quarrel with charged by solar power generation systems while at sea, the ship providence or blame others, but improve through learning.” Seeing then uses this power while at berth, which allows the diesel power in hardship an opportunity for growth, we will continue to earn the generators to be completely shut off. The result is “zero emissions” trust of stakeholders by reinforcing safe operation and environmental of exhaust gases while at berth. protection initiatives, and strive to grow sustainably and harmoniously Environmental impact will also be reduced in actual ship operawith society. tions. For example, travelling at slower speeds lowers CO2 emissions and helps prevent global warming. This is a part of MOL’s ECO SAILING program, which seeks to make ship operations more environmentally-friendly. We are working to increase and deepen opportunities for properly reducing navigation speeds through technical development and other innovations that render previously Koichi Muto impossible low-impact continuous operations possible. President With the strong yen, high fuel prices, and extensive building of new ships, MOL’s operating environment is more challenging than ever. However, even in this environment, our commitment to the Environmental and Social Report 2012 05 Feature 1 Forging Ahead to Become the World As a shipping company, safe operation is our social mission, both in terms of the safety of human life, cargo and ships and from the standpoint of protecting the environment. Safe operation is also of 5 Rotterdam the utmost importance for becoming the company of choice among customers and all other stakeholders. Our previous midterm management plan saw us put priority on refining our safe operation system. Under our current plan, “GEAR Cai Mep 2 UP! MOL,” we are building from this base with the aim of making our (Vietnam) 1 Tokyo safe operation processes more visible, and becoming the world leader in safe operation. Gulf of Aden/ 4 Off the coast In this section, we report on MOL’s distinctive measures for reinof Somalia forcing safe operations, which include both on-board initiatives and 3 Singapore onshore support, by following the voyage of an MOL-operated containership from Tokyo to Rotterdam in the Netherlands by way Containership Route of Singapore. ONBOARD Safety Campaigns MOL executives and employees visit vessels as a part of operational safety campaigns. During these visits in fiscal 2011, the MOL executives and employees explained the company’s measures for preventing collisions, groundings, accidents causing injury or death, and engine trouble that results in the ship being unable to move under its own power. Seafarers also offered their views based on their own practical experience. Safety campaigns are conducted twice a year for around six weeks for all MOL-operated vessels. Face-to-face discussions are held between seafarers and land-based management and staff for the purpose of preventing marine incidents and workplace injuries. In addition to explanations of concrete response measures based on examples of recent incidents, MOL executives and employees listen actively to improvement ideas from the ships. Information is also shared with President Muto talks about safe operation on a visit to an MOL-operated vessel other operating vessels. Insights gained from the campaigns are reincorporated into measures for reinforcing safe operations. 1 Departure from Oi Container Terminal, Tokyo Port 2 Cai Mep (Vietnam) ONSHORE Drills Simulating Serious Marine Incidents Accident response drills are held to further solidify MOL’s emergency response system. The drills are held twice a year at the head office and simulate a large-scale marine incident. The drill conducted in April 2012 involved approximately 60 people, including MOL’s president, other corporate officers, and representatives from relevant departments and ship management companies. It simulated the unlikely event of a grounding on a coast after a fire in the engine room of an MOL-operated LNG carrier in Tsugaru Strait caused the vessel to drift. The drill included a mock press conference to make it as real as possible. Participants responded to various issues and problems in a charged atmosphere. A scene from the April 2012 drill simulating a large-scale marine incident 06 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Leader in Safe Operation Feature 1: Forging Ahead to Become the World Leader in Safe Operation Special Features Voices from the Forefront Alexander Voyloshnikov Captain of the containership MOL Courage MOL has the largest fleet of operating vessels in the world, and I am proud to be able to work as a member of the team. The various safe operation measures are effective, and in particular the information provided by the Safety Operation Supporting Center on weather and sea conditions for oceans and ports is extremely valuable. I refer to the information in making decisions as a captain. I share MOL’s goal of becoming the world leader in safe operation. Management I believe it is my job to work on a daily basis to educate and train younger crew members on the ship to achieve this goal. I think that it is necessary to faithfully conduct what is truly necessary to achieve safe operation and not to become consumed in paperwork or other on-board administrative procedures and lose sight of its essence. ONBOARD On-the-job Training (OJT) Instructor System OJT Instructors Board Vessels From Singapore The system involves experienced captains and chief engineers who understand MOL standards The Environment of safe operations travelling onboard ships to identify unsafe practices and latent risks only discoverable on the ships in service and order immediate improvements. Information on near misses, best practices and the like is also disseminated on each ship to help raise safety awareness and prevent human error. Employees are instructed on handling mooring ropes 3 Singapore Society ONSHORE BRM (Bridge Resource Management) Training Training is conducted using a bridge simulator that can create conditions equivalent to an actual ship’s bridge, including recreations of sample incidents. The captain and officers work together as a team and effectively utilize information provided by each team member. The ultimate purpose is to prevent errors and achieve safe operations. In June 2012, we became Japan’s first private-sector company to install a high-performance bridge simulator capable of 360-degree horizontal views and vertical views. MOL also regularly conducts this training at training centers in six countries around the world for seafarers on leave. This high-performance bridge simulator is capable of 360-degree views. Environmental and Social Report 2012 07 ONBOARD Enhancing Countermeasures Against Piracy and Terrorism The ship is now approaching the Gulf of Aden and surrounding waters (off the coast of Somalia), where there has been a spate of piracy and terrorism incidents. These waters continue to see frequent pirate attacks (in 2011, there were 237 piracy incidents and 28 ships were hijacked). Sometimes crew members are kidnapped or murdered, so tension is mounting for the crew. The following introduces the various measures taken by the ship for safe operation. n The best solution is avoiding navigating in dangerous waters to the n To ward off pirate attacks, the ship we are following is equipped with fullest extent possible. In pirate-infested waters, we increase the water cannons and razor wire and crew members wear bulletproof vests number of watchkeepers for and helmets. There is also an evacuation compartment onboard called 24-hour visual monitoring a citadel where the crew can take refuge if the pirates board the vessel, and strengthen radar-based which prevents a hijacking. monitoring activities. The citadel is built for strength, equipped with several days’ supply of water and food, and wired for communication with the outside. It allows crew n In the internationally recommended transit corridor (IRTC) in the Gulf members to evacuate to of Aden, ships susceptible to pirate attacks travel in convoys escorted safety until a naval ship or Razor wire is installed around the periphery of by the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force or naval ships from other other form of help arrives. the bridge countries. The pirates are extending the range of their activities, so via industry associations and other bodies we are requesting the Japanese government to widen the escort area and institute legal measures that allow armed security guards to travel aboard Japanese-flagged vessels. Photo provided by the Ministry of Defense Gulf of Aden/ 4 Off the coast of Somalia 5 Arrival at Rotterdam Port A monitor used in the Safety Operation Supporting Center ONSHORE Safety Operation Supporting Center The Safety Operation Supporting Center (SOSC) provides instant support for the ship’s safe operation from onshore, including anti-piracy and anti-terrorism measures. Established in February 2007 and committed to ensuring that captains at sea never feel alone, the center supports decision-making by ship captains to ensure safety. It is staffed 24 hours a day, 365 days a year by a team of seven seasoned MOL captains and other MOL-affiliated personnel. Specifically, the center monitors the position and movement of roughly 950 MOL-affiliated vessels, providing assistance from the captain’s perspective by promptly providing information on abnormal weather and tsunamis and on piracy and terrorism incidents to relevant personnel on the ship and on land. 08 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Feature 1: Forging Ahead to Become the World Leader in Safe Operation Other Activities Special Features Safety Conferences Education and Training Family Gatherings MOL has held Safety Conferences for MOL for Seafarers Family gatherings for seafarers and their seafarers at our four main supply locations MOL develops human resources to support families are held on a regular basis around (the Philippines, India, Croatia and Japan) safe operation through various education and the world. Executives from the head office since 2007 for the purpose of discussing training programs. They include an officer attend and hold briefings on the state of the how to strengthen safety measures. Executive candidate program for aspiring students; the company and question-and-answer sessions. officers and staff members from the head “MOL Rank Skill Training and Evaluation Social meetings are also held. MOL works in office also attend, making the conferences an Program,” which focuses on skills needed for this way to strengthen bonds with the families opportunity to directly hear the views of seafareach rank; and practical training provided by of seafarers who are away from home for long ers from various countries. MOL Training Centers. periods of time. Management (Please refer to page 42 for further details.) (Please refer to page 43 for further details.) The Environment A Safety Conference in Croatia Training onboard the training ship Spirit of MOL A family gathering in the Philippines Comment from the Officer in Charge Enhancing MOL Seamanship In 2006, we experienced a series of serious marine incidents. We used these bitter experiences to revisit our existing safe management system and rebuilt it. For this, we implemented various measures, some concerning ship facilities and others concerning seafarers, ship management and the safety culture. Society As a result of these actions, we have seen a steady decline in vessel incidents and seafarer injuries. The most important point for the realization of safe operation is the development and retention of highly skilled seafarers. Captain Masaaki Nemoto That’s why we provide adequate education and training before Executive Officer our seafarers, who come from more than 20 countries and different backgrounds, even step foot onto a vessel. Even experienced seafarers need to be reminded about safety, so dedicated, experienced captains and chief engineers will travel aboard vessels for a certain period of time to provide onsite instruction and advice. We are also deepening bonds with the families of seafarers, who are often away from home, through family gatherings. And via Safety Conferences held every year around the world we facilitate candid exchanges of opinion between the company’s top management team and seafarers, which promotes mutual understanding. Various measures such as strengthening the safe operation management structure are essential for maintaining safe operation. That said, ships operate in an unpredictable natural environment that calls for self-reliance. No manual or technology can perfectly predict sudden changes in marine weather conditions or unlikely events. “Seamanship” comes into its own in these sorts of dangerous situations. Seafarers have long drawn on the five senses of human beings, wisdom, and instinct to navigate at sea without placing excessive trust in technology. Seafarers must have the ability to sense danger and surmount it. Judgment, inner strength, stamina and teamwork are the fundamentals of seamanship. We are therefore also revisiting these fundamentals as we step up measures to cultivate seamanship at MOL among our multinational team of seafarers with different backgrounds. Environmental and Social Report 2012 09 Feature 2 Senpaku ISHIN With business activities spread across the globe, protecting the global environment is included as one of MOL’s top priorities, alongside safe operation, in the MOL Group Corporate Principles. The Senpaku ISHIN project, our concept for next-generation vessels, is a ground breaking initiative that helps protect the environment in a substantive way by reducing CO2 emissions using feasible technologies. This report profiles one of the results of the ISHIN-Ⅰ project, a hybrid car carrier that was delivered in June 2012, as well as progress on core component technologies for the Senpaku ISHIN series. Hybrid Car Carrier Emerald Ace Is Delivered ISHIN-Ⅱ Ferry that Uses LNG as Fuel To make practical use of LNG fuel a reality at an early date, MOL has Features decided to conduct a gas injection demonstration using an electronically • Use of LNG as fuel: By using controlled slow-speed diesel engine for new ships in partnership with liquefied natural gas (LNG) as fuel, the vessel has cleaner Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding Co., Ltd. This demonstration will help exhaust gases and greatly us assess the maritime application of LNG fuel-related technologies. reduces CO2 emissions. • Use of shore power supply Gas-injection Electronically Controlled Slow-Speed Diesel Engine system: While in port and at This engine combines the latest electronic control technology with berth, the ship uses electricity gas-injection slow-speed diesel engine technology that can burn heavy supplied from shore and rechargeable batteries to fuel oil, which has been used in ocean-going vessels, and environmenachieve zero emissions tally-friendly natural gas. • Emphasis on comfort • CO2 reduction: 50% 10 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Feature 2: Senpaku ISHIN Details of the component technologies can be found on the Senpaku ISHIN section of MOL’s website Special Features http://www.mol.co.jp/ishin/en/index.html Hybrid Power Supply System for Realizing Zero Emissions While at Berth The Emerald Ace hybrid car carrier is equipped with a hybrid power supply system that combines a solar power generation system with lithium-ion batteries. Conventional power generation systems use diesel power generators to supply power to the ship while at berth, but the Emerald Ace is equipped with lithium-ion batteries that are charged by solar power generation systems while at sea. The ship then uses this power while at berth, which allows the diesel power generators to be completely shut off. The result is “zero emissions while at berth.” Unit Management Power is generated Power is used while at sea while berthed Module Solar Panels Lithium-ion Batteries The solar panels installed on the deck of the vessel are doubleThe system employs lithium-ion batteries with outstanding energy density for storing electricity generated by the solar panels sided glass panels that boast outstanding durability in terms of in a restricted space aboard the vessel. The vessel uses 320,000 batteries, which are also used in PCs and other applications, resistance to salt damage and wind pressure, for example. The to store some 2.2 MWh of electricity (which is the equivalent of the electricity consumed by 200 ordinary homes). solar panels generate 160 kW of electricity (there are 768 panels What’s more, the high-performance power management system efficiently controls the power with top priority afforded (210 W) covering an area of 1,079 m2), the most of any vessel in to safety. The Environment the world. Voices from the Forefront Takahiro Hayakawa Ship Design Group, Technical Division The fact that we actually built the world’s first hybrid car carrier is a testament to the MOL Group’s environmental consciousness and technical capabilities. Applying technologies at sea (on ships) that were originally developed onshore was challenging given the differences in operating conditions. The project faced a number of hurdles like this, but the manufacturer, the shipbuilder and MOL worked together to successfully deliver Society the vessel right on schedule. With everyone’s support, we will continue to report on the tangible applications of ISHIN component technologies moving forward. Mr. Hayakawa is second from the right ISHIN-Ⅲ Very Large Ore Carrier The main feature is use of waste heat energy to assist propulsion via with High-efficiency auxiliary motors. The waste heat energy is recovered from the main Waste Heat Energy engine and used to generate electricity at high rates of efficiency and Recovery System power auxiliary motors. Features These technologies are • Waste heat energy recovery scheduled to be inteto assist propulsion grated into actual vessels, • Employs technologies to a very large iron ore carreduce CO2 emissions even at low speeds, as well as rier scheduled for delivery during normal operation in 2013 and a Cape-size • CO2 reduction: 30% bulker slated for delivery in 2014. Environmental and Social Report 2012 11 Feature 3 Global Social Contribution Activities MOL aims to be a company that grows sustainably and harmoniously with society. We therefore carefully consider social issues to tackle, and work to help solve them based on the three principles below. Guided by these principles, we proactively undertake social contribution activities that only a shipping company with a global network can. In this section, we introduce several examples of the various social contribution activities that the MOL Group is engaged in around the world. Principles of MOL’s Social Contribution Activities MOL engages in social contribution activities on the basis of the following principles. Ⅰ Contribute to the United Nations Millennium Development Goals* as a company growing in step with the global economy and social development. Ⅱ Contribute to protecting biodiversity and preserving nature as a company that impacts the environment to an extent, and as a company that does business on the ocean, a rich repository of living organisms. Ⅲ Contribute to local communities as a good corporate citizen. * One of the common frameworks that integrates the Millennium Declaration adopted at the United Nations Millennium Summit held in September 2000, and the International Development Goals that were adopted at major international conferences and summits in the 1990s. The Millennium Development Goals consist of specific numerical targets to be achieved by 2015 in eight fields, including “achieve universal primary education” and “reduce child mortality.” India U.K We visited children’s homes We participated in a charity and donated gifts on the event organized by Juvenile UN International Youth Day. Diabetes Research Founda(August 2011) Principle tion (September 2011) Ⅰ Burkina Faso Transportation of Desks and Chairs by Sea We provided marine transport for school desks and chairs used with care for many years before they were donated by elementary schools in Nagoya City, Aichi Prefecture, to children in Burkina Faso. In June 2011, the desks and chairs filled with the aspirations of children were donated to elementary schools in Burkina Faso, Thailand where they are now Support for Flooded Regions proving useful in a new We made monetary contributions, donated containers for waterlocation. containment walls, and transported aid supplies. (October 2011) Singapore South Africa We donated the proceeds We donated daily necessities from a rummage sale at a and toys to a children’s home. children’s charity event. Principle (November 2011) (November 2011) Ⅰ Zambia Transporting Shoes for Children Principle Ⅰ In 2010, MOL began helping in the transport of shoes donated to Cambodia children in Zambia as the cosponsor of a project with the Japanese Organization for International Cooperation in Family Planning Transporting Medical Vehicles (JOICFP), an international NGO. Along with providing containers for Since 2010, MOL has been helping transport medical vehicles and shipment from Japan free of charge, other cargo to Phnom Penh in support of the certified NPO Side By MOL cooperates in ocean transport to Side International (SBSI). To date, we have shipped a total of 42 the South African port of Durban, which vehicles, including ambulances. These vehicles, which were handed also serves as the gateway port to over to medical institutions, Zambia. Besides motivating residents including national hospitals to come in for health checks, this in Cambodia, are serving at program serves as a useful health the frontline of emergency education measure that helps to premedical treatment. vent parasitic diseases, tetanus and other ailments. 12 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Feature 3: Global Social Contribution Activities Special Features Principle Ⅱ Malaysia, Hong Kong, India and the U.S. Biodiversity and Natural Principle Environment Protection Ⅲ Japan Malaysia: Planted 100 mangrove seedlings. Hong Kong: Cleaned up the sea shore. Support for Disaster-hit Regions of India: Participated in a “Say NO to Plastic Bags” campaign on the Great East Japan Earthquake World Environment Day* and (Please refer to pages 14 and 15 for details.) tree-planting activities. U.S. (Chicago): Took part in forest protection activities. Management * Established by the UN General Assembly in 1972, this annual event (June 5 every year) is designated as a day for conducting activities that promote awareness of environmental protection. Principle Ⅰ Paraguay Brazil Transporting Fire Trucks We donated shoes and In August 2011, we transported five second-hand fire trucks from clothing to a civil defense group. (July 2011) Yokohama to Paraguay. After arriving at the port of Puerto Fenix, the The Environment vehicles were delivered to the Volunteer Fire Department of Vietnam We visited various schools Paraguay. and donated supplies to them. (December 2011) Philippines Support for Typhoon-affected Areas We made monetary contributions, used Spirit of MOL to transport relief supplies, which were distributed by seafarers, and cleaned schools. (December 2011) Voices from the Forefront Society Kongera A. Ponnappa Captain, Spirit of MOL training ship Thanks to fast decision-making by MOL’s Tokyo Head Office and meticuPrinciple lous arrangements, many organizations lent their support to relief efforts Ⅲ Philippines in typhoon-affected areas, including relief organizations, port authorities, the coastguard, the government of the Philippines, MOL Training Center Construction of Daycare Center Phillippines (MOLTCP) and MOL Career Support, Ltd. (MOLCS). We donated some of the funds for constructing a daycare center At disaster-hit sites, cadets and seafarers from the Spirit of MOL (a multipurpose facility that will provide education for pre-school threw themselves into various support activities. children, health checkups and meals for underprivileged people, and I’m glad if we were able to be of help to the people affected by the typhoon in Cagayan de Oro. so on) to the Philippines international NGO Habitat for Humanity Philippines. Furthermore, MOL Filipino seafarers, their families and land-based staff of the MOL Group seafarer manning company Magsaysay MOL Marine, Inc. (MMM) are volunteering their time to help with construction work. Other activities are introduced on page 44, “Social Contribution Activities.” Environmental and Social Report 2012 13 Special Feature Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake We would like to express our heartfelt sympathies to those who lost loved ones in the Great East Japan Earthquake, and extend our best wishes to other affected people. In this section, we introduce how we have responded since the disaster to ensure business continuity, how we have supported the disaster-hit regions, and what we are doing to strengthen our risk management system for future disasters. MOL’s Response After the Earthquake Free Emergency Support for Relief Supplies Business Continuity Immediately after the earthquake, there were severe shortages of food Earthquake Task Force and Support Headquarters and daily necessities in the disaster-hit regions. Drawing on our MOL The day after the earthquake occurred, we established the TohokuGroup network and transport capabilities, MOL procured (19 10-ton Pacific Ocean Earthquake (Great East Japan Earthquake) Task Force truck loads of) relief supplies and delivered them free of charge to and Support Headquarters, chaired by the president. We ensured customers and municipalities in the disaster-hit regions. business continuity by minimizing the damage to the MOL Group, while simultaneously establishing a system for providing rapid support for the disaster-hit region. Confirming Safety of Operated Vessels Immediately following the earthquake, all relevant personnel were assembled at MOL’s Safety Operation Supporting Center (SOSC). The center, which is engaged in year-round, 24-hour monitoring of the position and movement of operated vessels, quickly went about confirming the safety of operated vessels and providing tsunami information. All vessels operated by MOL were not involved in any serious marine Free Transport of Relief Supplies from Abroad incidents resulting from the Responding to requests for transport of relief supplies from overseas, earthquake or the subseMOL provided free transport services for supplies sent from other quent tsunami. countries. We transported the equivalent of 36 20-foot containers filled with drinking water, bedding, masks and other supplies to the disasterhit regions free of charge, as well as large quantities of building materials March 11, 2011 The SOSC confirmed the damage for temporary housing at special rates. status of each vessel immediately after the earthquake. Donations for Disaster Relief Verifying the Safety of Employees 1. MOL donated a total of ¥50 million for immediate disaster relief to We immediately verified the safety and well-being of all employees of Iwate Prefecture, Miyagi Prefecture, Fukushima Prefecture and the MOL and their families, as well as all employees of Group companies. Japanese Red Cross Society. 2. Donations were solicited from executives, employees and seafarers Support for Disaster-hit Regions in the MOL Group, and a total of approximately ¥63 million was Transporting JSDF Vehicles and Troops by Ferry raised and donated for relief and recovery efforts to the Japanese Group company MOL Ferry Co., Ltd. transported some 3,700 Red Cross Society, the Central Community Chest of Japan and Japanese Self-Defense Forces (JSDF) troops and about 1,260 other organizations. emergency vehicles for providing relief to the disaster-hit regions. Four ferries made a total of 10 trips from the port of Tomakomai to the port Cruise Ship Fuji Maru Supports Relief Efforts of Aomori from March 13 to March 22, 2011. From April 11 to April 17, 2011, MOL arranged for the ocean-going cruise ship Fuji Maru to call in at several ports in Iwate Prefecture that were severely damaged by the tsunami: Ofunato, Kamaishi and Miyako. The Fuji Maru provided nutritionally-balanced meals for afflicted people, a large public bath and cabins as private space free of charge. A total of 4,451 people used these amenities. Messages of support from MOL March 17, 2011 executives and employees and 13 overseas bases were displayed Sunflower Sapporo loading JSDF vehicles at the port of Tomakomai inside the vessel. 14 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Special Feature: Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake We received many mesWe introduce below some of our key measures for ensuring business sages of appreciation from continuity. people who used the Fuji Special Features * Business Continuity Plan: A plan that establishes response measures necessary for ensuring Maru during the port visits. the continuity of core operations when a disaster occurs. Satellite Offices We designated MOL Nakamurabashi employee housing (Nerima Ward, Tokyo), Tsurumi employee housing (Yokohama City), Minami-Kashiwa Donation of Refrigerated Containers company housing (Kashiwa City) and Kakio Institute (Kawasaki City) The tsunami triggered by the masas satellite offices to back up Head Office functions. These offices are sive earthquake destroyed many equipped with IT systems to continue pre-determined priority tasks. cold-storage facilities in fishing They also have satellite phones for maintaining communications. ports, so we received requests from Management affected ports to supply refrigerated Drills at Satellite Offices containers as substitute facilities. To We checked the operation of e-mail and the company’s main systems help support the fishing industry’s Refrigerated containers donated to at the satellite offices, and confirmed operations were functioning the fishing cooperative in Soma City, recovery, we donated a total of 27 normally. Furthermore, we established a backup system outside the Fukushima Prefecture. refrigerated containers (as of May Kanto region in the company’s Kansai branch in Osaka for safe opera31, 2012) to the disaster-hit areas. tion of company-operated vessels, which is our core task. MOL’s Risk Management System Employee Awareness-Raising The company has formulated a business continuity plan (BCP*) docuWe have prepared the MOL BCP Summary, an abridged version of menting specific procedures to enable it to continue providing its core the “Disaster and Earthquake Response Manual.” This summary conThe Environment ocean transport services without interruption, or quickly restore operations tains information on the initial steps MOL executives and employees to pre-disaster levels in preparation for an unexpected event. In the event should take in a disaster. Furthermore, to ensure that correct knowlof an earthquake or other natural disaster, or outbreak of an infectious edge and information is shared among executives and employees in disease, MOL’s highest priority is ensuring the safety of MOL-operated a disaster, we publish an e-mail magazine containing information vessels and company executives and employees. The company has related to disaster prevention in general, including the need to make prepared a “Disaster and Earthquake Response Manual” outlining proregular preparations during ordinary times. This magazine is available cedures for implementing this BCP in readiness for an emergency. on our internal portal site. As a result of these daily efforts, the company’s risk management functioned well when the earthquake struck, enabling us to continue Drills Simulating Serious Marine Incidents business and quickly provide support to the disaster-hit areas. (Please refer to page 6 for details.) Society Ongoing Initiatives Through Our Main Business The Great East Japan Earthquake had a major impact on business activities and daily living in the form of energy shortages, causing increased demand for petroleum products and alternative energy sources like liquefied natural gas (LNG) and coal. Moreover, drinking water, housing materials and other supplies were imported in large quantities. As one of the largest shipping companies in the world with a diverse fleet of LNG carriers, crude oil and petrochemical product tankers, dry bulkers, containerships and more, MOL has worked since the earthquake to meet this transport demand. We will continue contributing to the recovery and reconstruction of the disasterhit regions and to the stability and growth of the world economy through our main business, transporting resources, energy sources and products for Japan and other countries around the world. Environmental and Social Report 2012 15 Management MOL’s Approach to CSR MOL’s basic approach to corporate social responsibility is expressed in the MOL Group Corporate Principles.To put these principles into practice, the MOL Group meets global transport demand through daily business activities and has also created a framework for CSR initiatives and strengthened those initiatives by setting annual targets. MOL is stepping up its activities in order to pursue CSR for growth with society. MOL Group Corporate Principles 1. As a multi-modal transport group, we will actively seize opportunities that contribute to global economic growth and development by meeting and responding to our customers’ needs and to this new era. 2. We will strive to maximize corporate value by always being creative, continually pursuing higher operating efficiency, and promoting an open and visible management style that is guided by the highest ethical and social standards. 3. We will promote and protect our environment by maintaining strict, safe operation and navigation standards CSR Initiatives The CSR and Environment Committee is chaired by the executive vice In our view, CSR means conducting business management that adepresident and works to promote CSR throughout the MOL Group by quately takes into account laws and regulations, social norms, safety setting and reviewing annual targets for initiatives related to compliance, and environmental issues, human rights and other considerations, and corporate governance, accountability, risk management, safe operation, developing together with society sustainably and harmoniously while human rights, care for employees and seafarers, social contributions and earning the support and trust of stakeholders, including shareholders, the environment. The CSR and Environment Office in the Corporate customers, business partners, employees and local communities. Planning Division administers the committee and promotes CSR. In fiscal 2011, the committee was convened twice and deliberated Relationships with MOL Group Stakeholders on progress with CSR targets and environmental targets set in the Increase corporate value by strengthenIncrease satisfaction by providing “GEAR UP! MOL” midterm management plan, as well as the status of ing profitability, timely and appropriate high-quality, reliable services and disclosure through proactive IR activities products and so on. environmental management, initiatives to reduce environmental impact, and so on. Shareholders Customers accommodation of environmental laws and regulations, the policy for social contribution activities, and other matters. Participating in the UN Global Compact Business MOL MOL has participated in the United Nations Global Compact since Communities Partners Group March 2005. The Global Compact was first proposed by then UN Enhance understanding of the Build good relationships and MOL Group, build good relashare business opportunities tionships, ensure safe operation Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 1999 and formally initiated the folthrough fair trade and so on. and environment protection, lowing year. Member companies are required to support and practice contribute to society, and so on. Public 10 principles in four areas: human rights, labor, the environment and Organizations Employees anti-corruption. The compact shares the same Pay tax, comply with laws and regulations, Increase employee satisfaction and recruit values as our Rules of Conduct, which was help promote industry and so on. excellent personnel by providing and maintaining employment opportunities, respecting human established as a set of guidelines for execurights, and offering occupational safety and health, education and training, and a workplace tives and employees, and MOL’s participation where employees can feel satisfaction and pride. in it signals internally and publicly our commitment to these principles. In order to fulfill these responsibilities, MOL deliberates on CSRIn the past, many companies, particularly related policies and measures, primarily through the three committees in Japan, have adopted an approach towards The Global Compact under the Executive Committee. CSR that has focused on measures to protect emblem Organizational Framework for CSR Initiatives The MOL Group Basic Procurement Policy As a company that handles part of the supply chain of customers CSR and Environment Committee and in order to fulfill the social responsibility of the MOL Group Executive itself, we formulated a basic policy for MOL Group procurement Chief Executive Officer Operational Safety Committee (President) Committee activities in March 2012. We are striving to embed this policy in the MOL Group as we aim to contribute towards the realization of Compliance Committee sustainable societies together. 16 Environmental and Social Report 2012 MOL’s Approach to CSR CSR Activities Policy During the Midterm Management Plan, “GEAR UP! MOL” 1. Stepping up “CSR that protects MOL” and “CSR that fulfills MOL’s responsibility Special Features 2. Pursuing “CSR activities that benefit both the company and society 3. Expanding CSR activities worldwide and throughout the MOL Group them from accidents, impropriety, and other risks. Based on this, they The midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” incorporates safe have proceeded to practice CSR that fulfills their responsibilities. Namely, operation and environmental protection policies in a strategy for to advance CSR, companies, as members of society, have tried to strike becoming the company selected by customers and achieving sustainan effective balance in allocating the profits and utilizing the assets they able growth. In that sense, CSR policies are closely related to the generate, by protecting the environment, contributing to the local comcompany’s business strategies. By establishing a CSR policy that is munity, and paying a reasonable return to stakeholders. These two clearly understood and embraced by customers, land-based employees, Management categories represent the foundation level of CSR. In MOL’s case, CSR seafarers, and society as a whole, and also is recognized and evaluated activities are founded first and foremost on the establishment of good favorably by shareholders and investors, MOL will be the company of corporate governance and compliance, the creation of Rules of Conduct choice. This in turn will allow the company to make even greater and measures to eliminate serious maritime accidents, development of contributions to society, generating a positive cycle for CSR initiatives environmental management systems and so on. The company also that builds synergy, supports sustainable growth and benefits both the strives to use its resources effectively to make a contribution to society. company and society. In this way, MOL has addressed the immediate tasks of effective CSR. Furthermore, MOL will work to ensure that CSR activities and policies In the years ahead, MOL has decided to take the next step forward are disseminated throughout the MOL Group both in Japan and overseas in CSR by instilling an even stronger awareness of and pursuing “CSR through dissemination and enforcement of the Global Compact, the activities that benefit both the company and society,” while identifying MOL Group Environmental Target System, and in other ways. The Environment and supplementing any areas where the fundamental level of CSR has been inadequate. Current CSR Activities in the MOL Group Activities in Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2011 was the second year of our current three-year midterm We achieved most of our targets in the area of environmental protecmanagement plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” which adopts “enhance safe tion. For example, we practiced ECO SAILING wherever possible, reduced operation” and “environmental strategy” as strategy goals. During the CO2 emissions per ton-mile, implemented initiatives for preventing year, we worked to achieve the single-year targets based on the mediumatmospheric pollution, offered low environmental impact solutions as a term environmental targets and vision in this plan. whole group, and contributed to the conservation of biodiversity. As a result of these efforts, we achieved almost all of our targets, apart In the Senpaku ISHIN project, which aims to develop next-generation from the “Four Zeroes” (an unblemished record in terms of serious marine concept vessels and is a pillar of our “Environmental Strategy,” we sucSociety incidents, oil pollution, fatal accidents, and cargo damage), employees cessfully developed and introduced various component technologies. using all their special summer vacation days, and certain other targets. And in June 2012, in one of the major achievements thus far under this In particular, I think we did well in terms of risk management by achieving project, we took delivery of a hybrid car carrier. This vessel aims to achieve our goals for corporate governance and compliance at a time when the “zero emissions” by emitting no exhaust gases while in port by using solar failure of corporate governance has become a problem in society. energy. Moving forward, we will continue to develop and introduce In terms of safe operation, we are aiming to “become component technologies in line with our roadmap. the world leader.” Here, we worked to increase the visibility of safe operation processes and generally Activities Planned for Fiscal 2012 achieved our objective numerical indicator targets Based on the achievement status of goals in fiscal 2011, we have set for measuring safety levels. However, it is extremely new goals for fiscal 2012, the final year of our midterm management regrettable that despite these safety enhancement plan. In addition to refining environmental activities, we are determined measures we were unable to achieve our “Four to achieve the “Four Zeroes” in terms of safe operation. Through this Zeroes” because of a fatal accident inside an ongoing target management, we will fulfill our corporate social responsibilelevator on a vessel not operated by MOL. ity by achieving our medium-term targets. By earning recognition from We have implemented measures to our various stakeholders as a result, we are convinced that this will enable ensure that this sort of accident doesn’t us to grow sustainably with society. happen again, as we aim to achieve the “Four Zeroes” in fiscal 2012. Toshitaka Shishido, Chairman of the CSR and Environment Committee, Representative Director, Executive Vice President Environmental and Social Report 2012 17 Management CSR Program Targets and Results In order to put our CSR Activities Policy during the midterm management plan,“GEAR UP! MOL” into practice, we have established midterm CSR program targets (FY2010–12) as well as targets for each fiscal year, and are currently working to achieve them. New targets were established for fiscal 2012 based on relative achievement of fiscal 2011 targets. The MOL Group is striving to grow sustainably and harmoniously with society through achievement of these midterm CSR program targets. Objectives of Midterm Management Plan (FY2010–12) FY2011 Targets 1. Stepping up “CSR that protects MOL” and “CSR that fulfills MOL’s responsibility” Overall Strategy 2. Pursuing “CSR activities that benefit both the company and society” 3. Expanding CSR activities worldwide and throughout the MOL Group 1) Run E-Learning programs in high compliance risk fields (antitrust law and insider trading) 2) Hold legal insurance courses at the head office at least once a year 3) Administer legal courses for MOL Group companies in Japan (2 times) and overseas Ensure strict compliance world-wide/ Group-wide and strengthen systems that support this Compliance 4) Raise awareness of best practices, with a focus on MOL Group companies 5) Revise Compliance Rules and strengthen recurrence prevention system 6) Communicate Rules of Conduct at new employee training Strengthen systems for early detection and rectification of non-compliance 7) Establish external compliance report desk and raise awareness of it 1) Hold discussions on strategies and long-term vision at board meetings with attendance of outside directors 9 times a year, in principle Effectively administer MOL’s distinctive system of 2) Enhance advance briefings on board meeting agenda items for outside officers to corporate governance further enhance deliberations by the board 3) Enhance and rigorously implement fleet data management and foreign currency flow management Corporate Governance, Strengthen systems for risk management and business intelligence (BI) that 4) Foster a corporate culture that works to acquire beneficial information (hold BI training Risk Management support sustainable growth sessions twice, hold theme-based seminars 3 times, extend the MIP*1 platform to mobile devices, and establish new BI page on the MIP) 5) Implement backup measures for BCP (develop information systems, etc.) Establish and enhance business continuity planning (BCP) 6) Conduct drills using satellite offices Develop balanced relations with stakeholders 7) Begin considerations for supplier CSR guidelines Continually practice accurate, timely disclosure for shareholders and 1) Strive to eliminate corrections to disclosures investors 2) Hold president roundtables and seminars. Plan and hold tours of the SOSC*2 and other MOL facilities 3) Increase the number of IR events for Asian investors to appeal to investors in the Promote stakeholder understanding of the midterm emerging markets in Asia that are experiencing rapid growth management plan, which is focused on growth, safe operation and the 4) Make revisions to fleet expansion plans, etc., during midterm plan period depending environment on changes in business environment and progress levels, and disclose revisions to the public 5) Include features on growing markets and safe operation—pillars of the midterm plan— in Annual Report based on progress levels Accountability 6) Qualitatively improve disclosure of information promoting the growth potential of ocean transport and MOL’s distinctive ocean transport portfolio management Develop the trust of shareholders and investors regarding the sustainability 7) Dispel concerns of investors through disclosures in line with changes in business trends and the business climate (including information related to International Financial Reporting of our business performance Standards (IFRS) and other accounting standards) 8) Conduct IR activities in Japan and overseas based on the above and increase the number of events Strengthen world-wide/Group-wide responsiveness regarding disclosure in 9) Hold drills at least twice a year on handling the media in emergencies emergencies (run by Public Relations Office) Establish a reputation as the leading company in the shipping industry 10) Increase exposure in mass media as well as business journals by 5% from the among business professionals in Japan and overseas previous fiscal year 1) Of the “Four Zeroes,” achieve zero serious marine incidents, zero oil pollution, and zero serious cargo damage 2) Achieve target operational down time per vessel of 24 hours/year or less while aiming for further reduction 3) Achieve targets for Phase IV (started October 2010) of Safe Operation Management Structure through the following measures: Realize world’s best level of safe operation and transport quality —Hold Safety Conferences 4 times worldwide. Hold operational safety workshops for Safe Operation, office staff 4 times Service Quality —Visit at least 300 vessels for operational safety campaigns (280 in FY2010), and have corporate officers visit at least 50 vessels (37 in FY2010) —Conduct BRM drills*3 and SHS drills*4 based on established drill scenarios and new simulator —Prevent accident recurrence through timely reporting and dissemination of information on near-misses and accidents —Formulate policies for improving vessel equipment based on the fail-safe concept —Accelerate and promote increased efficiency of vessel-land operations through introduction of an advanced IT system and share information effectively —Implement FMS*5 at the SOSC*2 for domestic carrier and ferry movements 18 Environmental and Social Report 2012 CSR Program Targets and Results Special Features Legend: ◎Achieved ○Generally achieved △Partially achieved ●Did not achieve (target period/content changes) FY2011 Results FY2012 Targets Conducted E-Learning programs on insider trading (February to April 2011), and antitrust law 1) Run E-Learning programs in high compliance risk fields (antitrust law and insider trading) ◎ (January to March 2012) ◎ Conducted legal insurance course in January 2012 2) Hold legal insurance courses at the Head Office at least once a year Management Created a DVD of courses conducted by attorney Kyoichi Sato in 2010 and distributed to MOL Group 3) Administer legal courses or tests for MOL Group companies ◎ companies in Japan. Conducted antitrust law test for overseas Group companies between March and May 2011 using MIP*1 (taken by approx. 3,400 people) Selected best practices at a Group Executive Committee meeting in October 2011 4) Raise awareness of best practices in the MOL Group through Group Executive ◎ Committee meetings Revised Compliance Rules in June 2011 and notified revisions internally and to MOL Group 5) Consider revising the CSR Handbook ◎ companies in Japan and overseas ◎ Communicated at new employee training in April 6) Communicate Rules of Conduct at new employee training Established external compliance advisory service desk in August 2011 and communicated this 7) Ensure the internal and external compliance advisory service desks are operating properly ◎ internally Held discussions at 6 of the 10 board meetings in FY2011 (May, July, September, November, 1) Hold discussions on strategies and long-term vision at board meetings with attendance of outside ○ December and February). directors 9 times a year, in principle Continued to conduct advance briefings on board meeting agenda items to aid the understanding 2) Enhance advance briefings on board meeting agenda items for outside officers to further enhance of outside directors and corporate auditors. Received audit certification for the company’s Managedeliberations by the board ◎ ment’s Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting from the external auditors confirming the details to be appropriate Continued to widen and enhance data in fleet data management based on management using Excel 3) Analyze and manage the risk to company management of the compositional ratio of free vessels, ◎ spreadsheets. Raised the accuracy of foreign currency flow management by implementing improved which do not have long-term contracts with shippers, in the MOL Group’s fleet with respect to The Environment measures market conditions Held BI training sessions in March, April and July 2011 and invited outside people as guest speakers 4) Foster a corporate culture that works to acquire beneficial information (aim to raise awareness Held theme-based seminars twice, in June and September 2011: China Energy Information and internally through the BI platform now that the initial work to build the platform for supporting BI has ◎ Understanding Economic Indicators, respectively been finished) Established a new BI page on the MIP*1 platform. Established a platform for mobile devices in February 2012 Secured and upgraded communications means with preferential mobile phones and satellite phones. 5) Introduce satellite office facilities at dormitories for new employees and examine a backup system ◎ Created an MOL BCP Summary, which is an abridged version of the Earthquake Response Manual, for the company’s core systems and distributed it to all employees ◎ Conducted practical drills at two satellite offices 6) Provide information for ensuring employee safety using the in-house e-mail magazine and MIP*1 ◎ Formulated the MOL Group Basic Procurement Policy in March 2012 7) Disseminate and enforce the MOL Group Basic Procurement Policy There was 1 correction in a total of 46 disclosure documents; part of the financial results disclosure 1) Strive to eliminate corrections to disclosures ● (segment information in the notes to the consolidated financial statements) was corrected and disclosed by the Accounting Division on May 17, 2011 Held multiple president roundtables during the fiscal year. Planned tours (which will be held in 2) Communicate information in an easy-to-understand manner about the company’s overall perfor○ FY2012 and thereafter) mance in FY2011 and outlook for business performance in FY2012, the final year of the midterm management plan, through the company’s Annual Report and website Continued to conduct IR activities in Asia ○ Revised profit plan. Now revising fleet expansion plans △ Society Included features on “For Acceleration of Business Development in Growing Markets” and ◎ ­“Enhancing Safe Operation” in the 2011 Annual Report Continued to promote the characteristics of MOL’s fleet portfolio through meetings with investors 3) Disseminate information about the direction of the company’s business development from FY2013, ○ when MOL’s next midterm management plan will commence Explained changes in business trends and the business climate and the company’s response through 4) Maintain and expand direct and ongoing communication between investors and MOL management ○ meetings with investors Enhanced the detail explained qualitatively 5) Revamp the company’s website for investors with the aim of raising the quality of information ○ disclosure to promote the sustainable growth potential of marine transport Held in May and October 2011 6) Hold drills at least twice a year on handling the media in emergencies (run by Public Relations ◎ Office) Achieved a 10% increase in postings year on year 7) Increase postings in mass media as well as business journals from the previous fiscal year ◎ Serious marine incidents: 0; oil pollution: 0; serious cargo damage: 1 (hold explosion and fire on a 1) Of the “Four Zeros,” achieve zero serious marine incidents, zero oil pollution, and zero serious cargo ○ chartered containership) damage Operational down time per vessel of 20.72 hours/year; achieved target 2) Achieve target operational down time per vessel of 24 hours/year or less while aiming for further ◎ reduction Set targets in containership operations for worldwide common service indicators—“On Time Arrival 3) Achieve target operational stoppage accident rate of 1 incident per vessel/year or less while aiming Performance” and “Safe Operation”—and regularly disclosed achievement status on a new dedicated for further reduction website 4) As the final year for Phase IV of Safe Operation Management Structure, FY2012 will be a year for deepening ongoing measures, as well as undertaking the following measures focused on the “Human Factor” with the aim of “eradicating collisions, groundings, and accidents causing injury or death” as well as “eradicating equipment incidents that lead to a dead ship condition”: —Held the MOL Safety Conference in Manila, Mumbai and Dubrovnik (Croatia) in February 2012 and —Hold Safety Conferences 4 times worldwide. Hold operational safety workshops for office staff ◎ Tokyo in March 2012. Held operational safety workshops in July 2011 (twice) and October 2011 (twice) 4 times —Visited 170 vessels in April and May 2011, and another 172 vessels in September and October —Conduct ship visits twice a year under the safety campaign ○ 2011, for a total of 342 vessel visits. Corporate officers visited 40 vessels —Conducted drills 38 times at 6 training centers between August 2011 and March 2012. Installed —Obtain external certification for seafarer training program management system, and continue to ◎ an advanced bridge simulator at a drill facility for Filipino seafarers run the system effectively —Conducting continuously —Prevent accident recurrence through timely reporting and dissemination of information on near◎ misses and accidents —Took part on every occasion in the Ship Standard Specification Committee Task Force Meetings. —Formulate policies for improving vessel equipment based on the fail-safe concept ◎ Released Ver. 4.0 of the MOL safety standard specifications in November 2011 ○ —Continuing to introduce and use an integrated system (SHIPNET) —Accelerate and promote increased efficiency of vessel-land operations through introduction of an advanced IT system and share information better —Introduced on 8 Ferry Sunflower Limited vessels, 15 MOL domestic carriers, 9 MOL ferries, and 4 ◎ Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd. vessels (Continued on next page) Environmental and Social Report 2012 19 CSR Program Targets and Results Objectives of Midterm Management Plan (FY2010–12) FY2011 Targets 1) Continue and strengthen activities for fostering human rights awareness (conduct training for all levels in the company and promote seminar opportunities for personnel Raise human rights awareness in Japan and overseas, and ensure human who are not human rights specialists) rights are protected 2) Identify issues based on the results of the questionnaire for overseas sites on the Global Compact and implement measures Enhance the personnel system to further motivate employees and enable 3) Review the personnel system to further motivate employees and enable them to them to demonstrate their abilities demonstrate their abilities 4) Introduce new measures to reduce overtime work by 10% from the previous fiscal year (42.3 hours) 5) Use of at least 10 days of annual leave (7.1 days used on average in FY2010) 6) Use of all 7 special summer vacation days (5.3 days used on average in FY2010) 7) Revise and execute program for complying with Act on Advancement of Measures to Reduce overtime work and develop workplace conditions that instill peace of Support Raising Next-Generation Children mind in employees in line with an individual’s stage of life 8) Further strengthen response to globalization (conduct training to develop core personnel at overseas Group companies and other measures) 9) Strengthen career development program to support job performance by women managers 10) Provide support for job performance by people with disabilities 11) Provide support for job performance by seniors 12) Strengthen and enhance health management systems for prevention and early response 13) Enhance interview-based instruction, consultation and health education to promote health Care for Human Enhance the employees’ health management system and risk management 14) Support health management for overseas workers Rights, Employees system and Seafarers 15) Establish and distribute communicable diseases manual 16) Strengthen safety management systems and conduct drills 17) Continue calculating LTIF*7, including for Group companies 18) Achieve zero fatal worker accidents, one of the “Four Zeroes” 19) Maintain LTIF*7 of 0.25 or less Improve occupational safety and health and welfare programs for seafarers 20) Continue preparing for adoption of the Maritime Labour Convention, which stipulates shorter on-board working hours 21) Continue installing fleet broadband, and consider a next-generation communication system that includes health and welfare and test on actual ships 22) Partner with universities in the Philippines with maritime science departments and train select third-year students at MOL’s training centers Foster our own multinational seafarers and employ them as core seafarers 23) Fully establish and utilize program for recognizing outstanding seafarers 24) Make effective use of the company intranet, Japanese/English company newsletters and DVDs Provide employees and seafarers with a sense of pride and joy from working at the company Environmental Evolve into a corporate group that meets today’s demands by offering (See pages 28 to 31 for “Environmental Targets and Results”) Measures transport solutions with a lower environmental burden 1) Continue and deepen existing activities in line with Millennium Development Goals*9, including transport of relief provisions, and consider and implement new activity proposals selected in FY2010 Implement principled social contribution activities (tackle social issues 2) Expand activities worldwide to contribute to conservation of biodiversity and protection around the world) of the natural environment 3) Consider and implement new activity proposals for contributing to regional communities in which MOL conducts business that were selected in FY2010 Social Contribution 4) Continue and deepen existing activities, and consider and implement new activities, Enhance social contribution activities drawing on the company’s resources Activities including a field trip program that utilizes marine shipping facilities Conduct social contribution activities integrated with business activities 5) Consider and implement new activity proposals in emerging countries selected in FY2010 6) Provide feedback on social contribution activity proposals of Group companies Expand social contribution activities participated in by employees and 7) Increase participation in existing activities, including beach cleanups seafarers in Japan and overseas 8) Consider beach cleanup around the port of Kashima Fulfill social responsibilities related to restoration and recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake —Contribute through business activities, including early resumption of port calls to disasterhit ports and transport of recovery supplies Response to the —Conduct social contribution activities that help people affected by the disaster and help Great East Japan in the restoration and recovery of the disaster-stricken region Earthquake —Ensure safety of seafarers, etc., in connection with nuclear damage, conduct initiatives to dispel rumors, eliminate anxieties among seafarers, etc., and help maintain distribution —Actively participate in electricity conservation efforts *1 MOL Group Information Portal (MIP). A portal site accessible by MOL Group employees worldwide. *2 Safety Operation Supporting Center. *3 Bridge Resource Management (BRM) drills. These drills involve recreating past incidents with a simulator and learning how to respond. *4 Ship Handling Simulator (SHS) drills. These drills are conducted with a life-like simulator that recreates an actual ship using a large screen. *5 Fleet Management System (FMS). The system supports safe vessel operations by continually displaying the movement of all operated ships on monitors along with information on weather conditions, ocean conditions and various types of safety information. 20 Environmental and Social Report 2012 CSR Program Targets and Results Legend: ◎Achieved ○Generally achieved △Partially achieved ●Did not achieve (target period/content changes) FY2011 Results FY2012 Targets Conducted level-specific training. People other than human rights specialists (6 people) attended the 1) Continue and strengthen activities to instill and improve human rights awareness (conduct training Human Rights Forum (organized by Buraku Liberation League Tokyo), and a seminar for developing at all levels, use the intranet to convey information about human rights, and promote outside seminar ◎ Special Features people in charge of recruitment to promote human rights (organized by the Industrial Federation for opportunities for personnel who are not human rights specialists) Human Rights, Tokyo) Provided feedback on results (and issues) to each region ○ Revised the system for shorter hours for employees with young children 2) Review the personnel system to further motivate employees and enable them to demonstrate their ◎ abilities FY2011 result: 44.2 hours. Plan to formulate and implement more effective measures to achieve a 3) Introduce new measures to reduce overtime work by 10% from the previous fiscal year (when ● reduction overtime hours were 44.2) ● FY2011 result: 7.0 days used. Continuing to promote use of leave 4) Use of at least 10 days of annual leave (7.0 days used on average in FY2011) ● FY2011 result: 5.1 days used. Continuing to promote use of special summer vacation days 5) Use of all 7 special summer vacation days (5.1 days used on average in FY2011) Finished revising program for complying with Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising 6) Implement various measures toward achieving action plan targets for general companies ◎ Next-Generation Children. Internal notice in the third quarter Finished comparing and analyzing platforms at overseas Group companies. Enhanced overseas 7) Strengthen development and utilization of personnel for global development ◎ training program for head office employees 6 Supported Women’s Initiatives* 8) Support the performance of female managers and career development ○ ○ Added one position for people with disabilities 9) Provide support for job performance by people with disabilities ○ Increased by one the number of people eligible for the continuous employment system (AEP) 10) Provide support for job performance by seniors Management Changed industrial physician. Introduced web-based system to allow all employees, whether seafar11) Strengthen health management systems for prevention and early detection, and implement various ◎ ers or land-based, to check the results of health examinations measures Conducted training and interviews for seafarers and land-based personnel 12) Enhance health education and increase consultation opportunities to promote health ◎ Introduced a web-based questionnaire (which is conducted monthly). 13) Strengthen the health management support system for expatriate staff ◎ Expanded health support system ◎ Created a manual and distributed it internally ◎ Updated the emergency contact network 14) Strengthen safety management systems and conduct drills ◎ Calculated LTIF*7 for MOL’s land-based employees and domestic Group companies 15) Continue calculating LTIF*7 of Head Office and domestic Group companies Fatal worker accidents: MOL vessels: 1; chartered vessels: 1. Currently preparing guidelines for 16) Achieve zero fatal worker accidents, one of the “Four Zeroes” ● handling elevators, revising equipment standards and reviewing the fail-safe system to prevent a recurrence. Reminded all vessels regarding outboard work LTIF*7=0.31. 2012 goals are to eradicate accidents causing injury or death and to continue imple17) Maintain LTIF*7 of 0.25 or less menting various prevention measures. At the same time, we will bring in methods for analyzing human ● factors in particular from other types of businesses and industries in an effort to prevent similar accidents from happening again A seafarer staffing firm in the Philippines obtained Nippon Kaiji Kyokai certification as an institution 18) Continue preparing for adoption of the Maritime Labour Convention, which stipulates shorter The Environment ◎ compliant with the Maritime Labour Convention. The MLC task force filed its final report in February on-board working hours 2012. Plans now call for coordination with relevant departments in the company as necessary Progressively introducing fleet broadband (FBB) on MOLSHIP. Already introduced FBB on MTANK. 19) Continue installing FBB, consider a next-generation communication system that includes health and ○ In 2011, MOLLNG introduced OceanBB, a high-speed, flat-rate Internet connection service for welfare, and test on actual ships vessels using VSAT, to 5 LNG carriers. Also, lent mobile routers at Japanese ports Introduced the Officer Candidate Program for 3rd Year Students selected from affiliated maritime 20) Enhance training program on training ship ◎ colleges in the Philippines. These students received education and training at an MIS*8 training facility from June 2011. The first group of 84 students completed the course at MIS ◎ In operation. 5 people were honored in 2008, followed by 6 in 2009, 8 in 2010 and 7 in 2011 21) Fully establish and utilize program for recognizing outstanding seafarers • Worked with the Marine Safety Division to create a DVD showing measures being implemented by 22) Make effective use of the company intranet, Japanese/English company magazines and DVDs Group executives and employees to ensure world-leading safe operations ◎ • Began issuing press releases and notices from the Public Relations Office through MIP*1 • Planned and produced feature articles on distinctive Group company activities in Japan and overseas in the Unabara and OPEN SEA magazines. (15 articles were carried in Unabara) 23) Revamp the company’s website Continued existing activities and strengthened relations with frontlines through site inspections and 1) Continue to conduct activities in line with the MDGs*9, including transport of relief provisions ○ other means Expanded activities in Japan and overseas, including forest protection activities and beach cleanup 2) Expand activities to contribute to biodiversity and protection of the natural environment ◎ Society drives Supported the construction of a daycare center in the Philippines through a Group company 3) Conduct activities that contribute to local communities, including supporting disaster-hit regions ◎ Expanded private-sector company training for teachers. MOL captains gave lectures at junior high 4) Provide training programs for students and teachers ○ schools in Tokyo Considering implementing in FY2012 5) Consider conducting activities that simultaneously contribute to society and develop business △ ◎ Provided in July 2011 6) Expand activities participated in by employees and seafarers in Japan and overseas ◎ Large year-on-year increase (by 60 people) in participation in environmental protection activities in Thailand ◎ Considered and made preparations for implementing in FY2012. (Conducted beach cleanup in April 2012) Fulfill social responsibilities related to restoration and recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake ◎ —Provided and transported relief supplies for free —Continue to offer stable transportation services that support lifelines such as resources, energy and daily supplies through business activities —Donated refrigerated containers, used the cruise ship Fuji Maru to support relief efforts —Continue supporting recovery and reconstruction process after the Great East Japan Earthquake, ◎ including by donating containers —Lobbied the Japanese Shipowners’ Association and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport —Actively participate in electricity conservation efforts ◎ and Tourism, resulting in the public announcement of radiation levels at each port and government certification system to ensure safety —Reduced power consumption by 24% year on year by removing some lighting, adjusting room air ◎ temperatures, etc. *6 Women’s Initiatives are voluntary initiatives by women managers. They involve activities related to career development for women, with the aim of fostering a culture for anyone to work with more vitality. *7 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF). Number of work-related accidents per hour per one million people. *8 Magsaysay Institute of Shipping (MIS). A seafarer training facility that was jointly established with Magsaysay Maritime Corporation in the Philippines in 1993. It trains more than 4,000 people a year. *9 Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). One of the common frameworks that integrates the Millennium Declaration adopted at the United Nations Millennium Summit held in September 2000 and the International Development Goals that were adopted at major international conferences and summits in the 1990s. The MDGs consist of specific numerical targets to be achieved by 2015 in eight fields. Environmental and Social Report 2012 21 Management Corporate Governance, Compliance and Accountability MOL has implemented a series of management reforms, established its Rules of Conduct and taken other steps to put in place a corporate governance structure and compliance system that is optimal for realizing the ideas set forth in the MOL Group Corporate Principles. Moreover, by vigorously fulfilling our accountability obligations, we are working to cultivate a sense of trust in MOL’s sustainable growth. Corporate Governance of these internal control reports were confirmed to be appropriate in the Basic Concept of Corporate Governance internal control audit report by the external auditors. MOL puts emphasis on frameworks for improving the transparency of corporate management from the shareholders’ viewpoint and maximizing Business Continuity Plan stakeholders’ benefits through optimum allocation of management In the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster, or outbreak of resources. In the MOL Group Corporate Principles, this concept is stated an infectious disease, MOL’s highest priority is ensuring the safety of as “We will strive to maximize corporate value by always being creative, MOL-operated vessels and company executives and employees. The continually pursuing higher operating efficiency, and promoting an open company has formulated a business continuity plan documenting and transparent management style that is guided by the highest ethical procedures to enable it to continue providing its core ocean transport and social standards.” We have put in place various systems accordingly. services and quickly restore operations in the unlikely event that they are suspended. This business continuity plan establishes organizations Clarifying Each Governance Function and delegates authority for duties relating to maintaining the safe The Board of Directors comprises six internal and three outside (indeoperation of vessels, performance of transportation contracts and pendent) directors (as of July 2012). Outside directors receive reports charter agreements, financial preparation, securing required personnel on important issues every time, providing a framework that allows the and other matters. Furthermore, MOL conducts regular drills, and supervisory functions of outside directors to work effectively. changes work procedures bases on issues arising from these drills. The company has adopted the corporate auditor system, and two of the four auditors are appointed from the outside (independent corporate Future Measures auditors). In May 2006, to increase the independence of the auditors, we A feature of the Board of Directors is deliberation on corporate strategy established the Corporate Auditor Office as an organization directly and vision. In principle, at each meeting, the board focuses on a parcontrolled by the corporate auditors and Board of Auditors, thus enhancing ticular topic such as management strategies and MOL’s long-term a system that allows for more practical and efficient corporate auditing. vision. These discussions provide an opportunity for lively and meaningThe Financial Instruments and Exchange Act came into force in fiscal ful debates at board meetings that include the outside directors and 2008 and requires an assessment and report of the internal control corporate auditors. Moving forward, we will work so that our governance system for ensuring the effectiveness of financial reporting. MOL conducts systems, which include these deliberations, function even more such assessments led by the Internal Audit Office. As a result, MOL has effectively. We are also strengthening our risk management and busisubmitted an internal control report containing management’s assessment ness intelligence systems that support sustainable growth. And we are that internal controls over financial reporting at MOL are effective to the bolstering survey activities for use in making management decisions, Kanto Local Finance Bureau in Japan every year since June 2009. Details and maintaining an internal portal site for sharing information. Corporate Governance Structure (As of July 2012) Statement of Principles Shareholders’ Meeting for Compliance Elect and appoint/dismiss Elect and (Compliance Rules Article 3) Elect and appoint/dismiss appoint/dismiss Business audit Accounting Board of Directors audit Corporate Auditors Independent Public 1. Strive to follow the MOL Corporate Outside Directors (3), Internal Directors (6) Corporate Auditors (4) (2 from outside) Accountant Principles and make them a reality. Total number of Directors: 9 Elect and Submit basic management Accounting Corporate Auditor Office 2. Always recognize the public mission appoint/ policies and other issues for audit supervise discussion and social responsibilities of the Executive Committee company’s business, and maintain the Internal Directors and Executive Officers (10) trust of the company’s stakeholders. Submit to Executive Committee after preliminary deliberations Audit plan 3. Strictly comply with laws, regulaProvide direction Committees under the Executive Committee Audit report tions, and the like, and conduct fair on important Provide Communicate and GEAR UP Committee, Budget Committee, Investment and direction coordinate with corporate business issues Finance Committee, Operational Safety Committee, CSR and Environment Committee, Compliance Committee auditors and independent public accountant and transparent corporate activities Submit for discussion and/or report on in the context of social norms and Internal Audit Office important business and other issues corporate ethics. Executive Officers Directors and Executive Officers (6) Executive Officers (22) Total number of Executive Officers: 28 Business audit 4. Never yield to antisocial influence, Accounting audit and never be a party to antisocial acts. Divisions/Offices/Branches/Vessels/Group companies 22 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Corporate Governance, Compliance and Accountability Compliance opinion and discussions with investors. Furthermore, we are mindful of Approach to Compliance creating even more opportunities to explain the company. We hold MOL believes compliance means more than just strictly complying with various other meetings, including the Annual General Meeting of Special Features legislation and internal rules (including voluntary Rules of Conduct). It Shareholders, avoiding the dates most Japanese companies hold their also covers observing the Rules of Conduct in corporate activities and annual meetings, and quarterly results presentations, as well as briefing daily operations, including respecting human rights and refusing to sessions for individual investors. permit discrimination and harassment, in accordance with social norms On our website, we use various IR tools such as our Annual Report and corporate ethics. In order to instill a compliance mind-set and and Investor Guidebook to actively convey details of our management strengthen the systems supporting this, MOL is conducting various strategy, investment plans, environmental data for each business, and activities worldwide. These include an E-Learning program as well as other information. IR tools and information related to financial results legal affairs seminars for the MOL Head Office and Group companies, are prepared in both Japanese and English and posted on our website including those overseas. MOL will continue to strengthen its complias part of our commitment to global fair disclosure. In fiscal 2012, we ance systems with a view to Global Group management. intend to raise the convenience of our IR tools, providing easy access to information needed by investors by changing the structure of the Management Organizations Responsible for Compliance Investor Relations section of our website to make it easier to browse Compliance Committee from the standpoint of investors. Amid tumultuous changes in our The Company formed the Compliance Committee as a subordinate operating environment, we are determined to step up our IR activities organization of the Executive Committee, with a member specified by as well as strengthen our internal IR structures to promote greater the Executive Committee serving as chairman. The membership disclosure, as we work to foster confidence in MOL’s sustainable growth. comprises Executive Officers responsible for the Internal Audit Office, the Corporate Planning Division, the Human Resources Division, and External Recognition the General Affairs Division. • MOL’s IR activities were recognized with Compliance Officers the IR Prime Business Award Grand Prix General managers of divisions and offices are appointed as compliance in 2005 by the Japan Investor Relations The Environment officers. They take a thorough approach to compliance as the person Association. We were once again recognized with the IR Prime Business Award responsible, and are also required to report to the Compliance ComIR Prime Business Award in 2008 after being ineligible for the mittee Secretariat Office in the event of a compliance issue and take award for two years as a past winner, under the award regulations. necessary corrective actions. • MOL’s Annual Report won the fiscal 2004 best award in the Nikkei Compliance Advisory Service Desks Award sponsored by Nikkei Inc. This was followed by excellence In fiscal 2011, MOL established a new advisory service desk through awards in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006. We have also won prizes in an outside attorney, adding to the existing desk that is independent this annual competition on five other occasions. from divisions, offices, and branches and for which the General Manager • MOL was selected as one of the recipients of the Tokyo Stock of the Internal Audit Office is responsible. These advisory service desks Exchange (TSE)’s FY2009 Disclosure Award. The TSE recognized the fullness of MOL’s disclosure. receive reports and requests for consultation from executives and • MOL continues to be selected as a component of socially responsible employees of MOL and MOL Group companies in Japan and overseas, investment indexes such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, as well as temporary employees, domestic business partners and other and the FTSE4Good Index. Society outside parties. In addition to giving feedback on how the issue was resolved to the person reporting an issue, the advisory service desks The responsibility to provide information is not limited to management ensure that those reporting an issue and those who cooperate in the and financial issues. When four major marine accidents involving MOLinvestigation are protected from any retribution or unfair treatment. operated vessels occurred in fiscal 2006, MOL disclosed the situation directly after each incident. MOL believes that it has a responsibility to Accountability society to disclose such situations to everyone who might be directly MOL aims to build sound relationships with shareholders and other or indirectly affected. Since these accidents, while working to prevent investors. In this regard, MOL fulfills its accountability for information a recurrence, we have maintained a policy of disclosing information disclosure based on three key principles of being “timely,” “accurate,” quickly, even if it is negative. We hold regular drills for responding to and “fair.” At the same time, MOL works hard to execute highly transparthe media in emergencies and are working to strengthen our ability to ent management with the president himself taking the initiative and be able to quickly and properly disclose information. responsibility for investor relations (IR). MOL holds small meetings with the president and other management executives in attendance, providMOL’s Communication Tools ing an opportunity to explain details of its business environment and management strategy from a mediumto long-term perspective in a straightforward manner. MOL also engages in dialogue with market participants Annual Report MOL Investor Guidebook Corporate Profile through direct exchanges of Results presentation for investors Environmental and Social Report 2012 23 Management Safe Operation Marine incidents can have a serious effect on the environment and local communities as well as the trust placed in transportation services. Safe operation is thus of the utmost importance for management of a shipping company from the standpoints of risk management and service quality. In Feature 1, we introduced several measures for reinforcing safe operation following a voyage of an MOL vessel. Here, we explain various other initiatives as well as MOL’s framework for supporting safe operation. Safe Operation Management Structure and establishes deadlines for the achievement of measures. The At present, safe operation is managed under the structure shown in company continues to make improvements by regularly confirming the diagram below. progress and periodically revising measures. The Operational Safety Committee is chaired by the president of The slogan for the safe operation reinforcement measures is “Never MOL and reports directly to the Executive Committee. This committee Forget 2006.” We are now in Phase 4 of this improvement program. discusses and determines basic policies and measures for ensuring Phase 1: January 2007 to September 2008 safe operation of vessels through rigorous attention to every detail. The Phase 2: October 2008 to September 2009 Safety Operations Headquarters, meanwhile, is responsible for implePhase 3: October 2009 to September 2010 menting specific measures, with progress overseen by the Safety Phase 4: October 2010 to March 2013 Assurance Committee. The Ship Standard Specification Committee discusses and determines MOL Safety Standards and owned ship In Phase 4, we are concentrating on the following measures, maintenance standards from a fail-safe* perspective. with a focus on the “Human Factor.” • Improving communication to seafarers on ships and land-based * Equipment and systems are designed to operate safely at all times, even when trouble occurs due to operator error or malfunction. employees. • Preventing new incidents and reoccurrences of previous incidents. • Ensuring our crew and staff understand and are convinced of the Organizational Structure Supporting Safe Operation aim and background of regulations and procedures, listening to crew aboard vessels and reflecting their opinions in various measures. Executive Committee • Implementing education to ensure that crew have the appropriate knowledge, technical skills and other skills for their positions. Operational Safety Committee • Ensuring safe operation of chartered vessels. Safety Assurance Ship Standard Specification Making Processes for Realizing Committee Committee Safe Operation Visible Safety Operations Headquarters MOL is currently working to make its processes to achieve safe operation more visible so that customers can choose MOL’s services with • Marine Safety Division confidence. Specifically, we have introduced objective numerical indica• MOL Ship Management Co., Ltd. tors for measuring safety levels and have set numerical targets based • Tanker Safety Management Office • MOL LNG Transport Co., Ltd. on them. Efforts are currently underway to achieve the targets. • Dry Bulk Carrier Supervising Office 1. Four Zeroes (an unblemished record in • Car Carrier Division, Marine Technical Group terms of serious marine incidents, oil pol• MOL Liner Ltd., lution, fatal accidents and cargo damage) Liner Fleet Supervising and Marine Operation 2. LTIF*1 (Lost Time Injury Frequency): under 0.25 3. Operational stoppage time*2: 24 hours/ship Measures for Reinforcing Safe or below Operation and their Implementation 4. Operational stoppage accident rate*3: 1.0/ In order to utilize lessons learned from past accidents for safe operation, ship or below the company looks closely at the causes and events that led up to the *1. Number of work-related accidents per one million hours worked that resulted in time accidents and implements action plans for eradicating these as a lost from work of one day or more. Average for all industries (2011) was 1.62; for shipping industry, 0.66; for shipbuilding and repair, 1.06. (Source: 2011 Survey on Industrial measure for reinforcing safe operation. Accidents issued by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) The measures for reinforcing safe operation are broadly split into *2. Expresses the amount of ship operational stoppage time due to an accident per ship per year. two groups: measures concerning seafarers, ship management and *3. Expresses the number of accidents that result in ship operational stoppage per ship per year. the safety culture, and measures concerning ship facilities. The company appoints divisions responsible for individual areas, creates action plans 24 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Safe Operation Our performance in these areas in fiscal 2011 was as follows. and incorporate analysis techniques. We use this information as the 1. Did not achieve: (One serious marine incident by a chartered vessel. basis for developing and implementing highly effective countermeaTwo fatal worker accidents by an MOL vessel and a chartered vessel) sures. Furthermore, by strengthening seafarer education and training Special Features 2–4: Achieved as follows: systems we are working to prevent incidents from recurring or even happening in the first place. Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) Development of IT for 1.8 Ship Management 2010 average for all industries: 1.61 We will continue to promote greater use of information technology at 1.2 MOL target: 0.25 ship management companies and on board ships and work to integrate 0.393 0.415 0.6 0.306 ship management systems within the MOL Group. These efforts are 0.241 geared to raising the efficiency of safe operation management pro0 2008 2009 2010 2011 cesses between ships and ship management companies and to effectively sharing information on safe operation within the group. Management Operational Stoppage Accidents Average Time and Frequency Other Measures (Time/ship) (Number of accidents/ship) We are implementing the following measures: 40 35.35 2.0 1. We created a training video based on investigations of the causes 30 22.59 22.96 1.5 and distributed it to the relevant departments in order to ensure the 19.82 20 1.04 1.0 experience gained from accidents never fades with time. Operational stoppage accident 0.83 2. We hold Safety Conferences to provide opportunities for seafarers 10 0.64 0.5 rate target: 1.00 or less 0.40 to meet face to face and share views on measures for preventing 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 the recurrence of accidents, and raising greater awareness. 3. We have held operational workshops for office staff once a quarter The Environment Average operational stoppage time (time/ship) (left scale) Operational stoppage accident rate (accidents/ship) (right scale) since November 2010 to widely disseminate information within the company on measures for reinforcing safe operations, case studies of incidents and measures based on them. Breaking the Chain of Errors* 4. In June 2011, we produced a video entitled “Forging Ahead to We continue to make improvements related to both seafarer training Become The World Leader in Safe Operation” that introduces MOL and ship facilities to break the chain of errors in which minor factors measures to reinforce safe operation. The video is being distributed combine and ultimately lead to major maritime accidents. not only to company departments and MOL-operated ships but also In terms of seafarer training, we are reinforcing our OJT Instructor to customers and other relevant outside parties in an effort to raise System (Please refer to page 7 for details) and enhancing land-based awareness within the company and promote greater visibility for safe education and training curriculums and programs. Further, we are operation measures. working to raise safety awareness among seafarers by collecting information on close calls (risky incidents that came very close to Society causing a more serious accident) from each ship in operation and distributing that information to ships along with easy-to-understand photos and illustrations. In terms of ship facilities, we are working to equip ships with errorresistant equipment. This involves promoting the fail-safe design concept by providing feedback to shipyards and equipment manufacturers on areas of non-conformance and areas in need of improvement from vessels in operation. DVD “Forging Ahead to Become The World Leader in Safe Operation” * Various factors lead to accidents like links in a chain. Preventing Work-related Accidents It is our perennial goal to completely eliminate work-related accidents on the approximately 950 vessels MOL operates. We are working step by step to achieve this goal. In addition to gathering information about accidents that occurred on MOL-operated vessels or at other companies and sharing this information with relevant parties, we study accidents in other industries Environmental and Social Report 2012 25 The Environment Environmental Management Policy The MOL Group seeks to offer more environmentally-friendly services through various environmental protection measures as it meets world demand for shipping. These measures include developing and adopting environmental technologies, operating vessels with minimum environmental impact, and implementing approaches to preserve the atmosphere and the marine environment. MOL Group Environmental Policy Statement Philosophy As one of the world’s leading multi-modal transport groups, the MOL Group is committed to protecting the health of our marine/ global environment and therefore promotes and supports the following policies. Policies 1. Protect all aspects of the marine/global environment and 5. Purchase and use environmentally safe goods and materials; foster safe operation; 6. Promote the development and use of environmentally safe 2. Comply with all environmental legislation and regulations technology; that we are required to by law, and all relevant standards and 7. Educate and encourage group employees to increase their other requirements that we subscribe to. And, whenever focus on protection of the environment through enhanced possible, further reduce the burden on the environment by publicity efforts, and communicate our Environmental Policy setting and achieving even tougher voluntary standards; to group employees; 3. Periodically review and revise our environmental protection 8. Publish our Environmental Policy Statement and disclose measures on the basis of our framework for setting and our environmental information on a regular basis; reviewing environmental objectives and targets; 9. Always strive to ensure that our business activities contribute 4. Conserve energy and materials through recycling and waste to and adequately support worthy environmental protection reduction programs; activities. Group Environmental Audits ISO 14001 Certification MOL Group Companies with Green Management Certification (Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation) Acquired Company name Certifying institution Company name Acquired date Company name Acquired date date January Det Norske Veritas AS International Container Transport Utoc Logistics Corporation February 2007 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. October 2005 2003 (DNV) Co., Ltd. Kobe Towing Co., Ltd. March 2007 Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd. December 2005 Kusakabe Maritime Engineering May CI Japan Limited Co., Ltd. 2004 Utoc Corporation June 2007 Diamond Line K.K. February 2006 April Nippon Kaiji Kentei Green Shipping, Ltd. July 2007 MOL Logistics (Japan) Co., Ltd. 2006 Quality Assurance Ltd. Green Kaiji Kaisha, Ltd. March 2006 Shosen Koun Co., Ltd. October 2007 July The British Standards Mitsui O.S.K. Kosan Co., Ltd. Ferry Sunflower, Ltd. May 2006 2006 Institution Ube Port Service Co., Ltd. November 2007 December Nihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd. August 2006 MOL LNG Transport Co., Ltd. Nippon Kaiji Kyokai Kitanihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd. June 2008 2006 Japan Express Packing & November 2006 MOL Ferry Co., Ltd. March 2010 MOL TANKSHIP MANAGEMENT May Transport Co., Ltd. DNV (EUROPE) LTD. 2008 MOL TANKSHIP MANAGEMENT March EcoAction 21 (Institute for Global Environmental Strategies) DNV (ASIA) PTE. LTD. 2010 Company name Acquired date NEW ASIAN SHIPPING November Nippon Kaiji Kyokai COMPANY, LIMITED 2011 MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd. July 2007 26 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Environmental Management Policy System to Promote Environmental Management System Environmental Management MOL EMS21 At MOL, under the president, who has the ultimate decision-making We introduced our environmental management system—MOL EMS21— Special Features authority, the CSR and Environment Committee, a subcommittee of the in April 2001. In January 2003, we expanded its scope to all of our Executive Committee, discusses basic policies on the environment, and operated vessels (except charter vessels on contracts of one year or works to promote business activities in line with the MOL Group less), and acquired internationally recognized ISO 14001 certification. Environmental Policy Statement. The committee’s deliberations helped In the MOL EMS21 system, the director responsible for environmental MOL to formulate its environmental strategy for the midterm managemanagement (chairman of the CSR and Environment Committee) ment plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” which was launched in fiscal 2010. This confirms and assesses how effectively the system functions, based on strategy forms part of the MOL Group’s overall strategies. The cominternal audits held at least once a year. The internal audits are conmittee operates two unique environmental management systems—MOL ducted by the CSR and Environment Office, Corporate Planning DiviEMS21 and the MOL Group Environmental Target System—as it prosion, targeting all divisions in the Tokyo Head Office, and the Marine motes the MOL Group’s environmental activities. Safety Division implements environmental inspections on our vessels. Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV), an ISO 14001 external certification body, Management Midterm Management Plan, holds an annual audit and a renewal assessment every three years. “GEAR UP! MOL” Environmental Strategy ISO14001 Certification Scope Evolve into a corporate group that meets today’s Ship operation activities at sites and Head Office associated demands by offering transport solutions with a with multi-modal logistics/ocean services (except charter vessels on contracts of one year or less) lower environmental burden Certifying institution MOL is reinforcing and emphasizing the advantages that ocean Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) ISO 14001 Certification transport offers, as an environmentally efficient mode of transportation, Accreditation in various ways, including development of the Senpaku ISHIN project. Read Voor Accrediate (RVA) in the Netherlands The MOL Group thus contributes to sustained global economic growth by offering transportation services that can respond to customers’ The MOL Group Environmental Target System The Environment needs while protecting the global environment. The MOL Group implements the MOL Group Environmental Target • Place safe operation as the top priority System covering main Group companies in Japan and overseas. • Improve efficiency and reduce the environmental impact of ships Regarding the environmental burden due to each company’s business –Progress of the Senpaku ISHIN Project –A commitment to ECO SAILING activities, every fiscal year, based on general guidelines, each company –Reduced CO2 emissions per ton-mile sets its own environmental targets in line with the midterm environ• Offer low environmental impact solutions as a whole group mental targets, and sets out an action plan to achieve those targets. • Invest ¥28.0 billion over three years to develop and implement Data from each company regarding its environmental burden (consumpenvironmental technologies tion of fuel, electricity, paper, and generated waste), are collected and • Advocate policies and measures aimed at contributing to actual the Group-wide environmental burden is tabulated. Currently, the reductions in environmental impact • Contribute to conservation of biodiversity and protection of the program covers 70 companies, including 54 Group companies in Japan natural environment and 16 overseas affiliates and subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2012). FY2011 Environmental Accounting Society Environmental Protection Costs (¥ million) Aggregation Method Reference Guidelines Category Items Investment Cost Japan’s Ministry of the Environment “Environmental Measures to reduce exhaust gas Accounting Guideline (FY2005)” 2,951 1,176 from vessels Cost does not include depreciation and amortization (1) Costs in business areas (Global environmental Measures on vessels to preserve the expenses. 150 0 protection) marine environment Tabulation Period Office related 15 0 FY2011 (April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012) (2) Costs for management activity Environmental management activities 0 94 Scope of Tabulation (3) Costs for R&D R&D 0 1,346 Head Office and operated vessels of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, (4) Social activity costs Social contribution activities 0 0 Ltd. (non-consolidated) and ocean-going vessels and ferries operated by MOL Group companies in Japan. Total 3,116 2,616 Changes in the aggregation method The method for calculating the ton-mile in indicators of Environmental Protection Effects environmental protection effects has changed in some divisions. Indicators under the previous standard and Category Details of effects Index (g/ton•mile) FY2010 FY2011 Effects effects are shown below. (1) Effects related to resources Total energy FY2010 FY2011 Effects Fuel 4.128 4.060 –0.068 invested in business activities volume input Fuel (g/ton•mile) 2.105 2.000 –0.105 CO2 12.860 12.649 –0.2 12 Greenhouse Gas, CO2 (g/ton•mile) 6.558 6.232 –0.326 (2) Environmental burden of etc. NOx 0.347 0.341 –0.006 business activities NOx (g/ton•mile) 0.177 0.168 –0.009 emissions SOx 0.221 0.196 –0.025 SOx (g/ton•mile) 0.113 0.097 –0.016 Environmental and Social Report 2012 27 The Environment Environmental Targets and Results The MOL Group’s midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” sets midterm environmental targets for the period from fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2012, as well as targets for each fiscal year, in accordance with the environmental strategy in the plan. The company has been working to achieve these targets. In fiscal 2012, the final year of the plan, the company will continue to work actively to bring its environmental strategy to a successful conclusion, with the aim of evolving into a corporate group that can meet today’s demands by offering transport solutions with a lower environmental burden. FY2010–12 Midterm Environmental Targets FY2011 Environmental Targets 1 Ensure Safe Operation Eliminate Pollution of the Marine Environment Caused by Shipping Accidents Eliminate shipping accidents that lead to ocean pollution from oil outflows Prevent oil spills Actively adopt vessel specifications that minimize environmental damage Prevent oil spills by changing the stern tube sealing arrangement for new vessels—the method for preventing seawater ingress through the gap between the propeller shaft and the vessel hull—from an oil bath type to an air seal type 2 Improve Efficiency Promote Senpaku ISHIN Project and Reduce the Constantly refine next-generation vessel concepts Environmental Impact Design ISHIN ships Consider applying design of ISHIN-I (next-generation car carrier) to a larger vessel of Ships and Actively with wide beam for to-be-expanded Panama Canal Invest to Develop and Begin designing an LNG-fueled vessel as core component technologies of ISHIN-II Implement Environmental (next-generation ferry) Technologies Begin refining main engine waste heat energy recovery system and designing it for a large vessel, as core component technologies of ISHIN-III Run experiments on existing vessels for major component ISHIN ship Begin building hybrid car carrier. Determine hybrid system specifications and technologies complete development Push ahead with applied research of main engine waste heat energy recovery system, as core component technologies of ISHIN-III (next-generation iron ore carrier), on actual vessels Continue evaluating the performance of low-friction paint from each manufacturer. Apply newly developed next-generation low-friction paint to two car carriers and evaluate its performance Propose new concept vessel to follow ISHIN ships Improve design method to create more optimal PBCFs for each propeller type Continue developing large-scale solid sail in the “Wind Challenger Project” for windpropelled ships, come up with conceptual design for a wind-propelled vessel with a sail, and develop navigation method for wind-propelled vessels Launch meetings that connect business needs with new developments, and identify issues Prepare and implement a roadmap for introducing the component ISHIN ship technologies Utilize roadmap for instituting component ISHIN ship technologies to create actual vessels fitted with ISHIN component technologies Reinforce functions/activities of the MOL Technology Research Center Develop technologies for reducing emissions of CO2, NOx, SOx and PM Continue to apply heat-shielding paint to vessels, and scrutinize performance of (particulate matter) thermal glass barrier technologies Develop NOxand PM-reducing technologies using fuel additives and prototype fuel nozzles in a test engine Develop technology for raising the combustibility of ship fuel Verify improvement in combustion efficiency from using prototype fuel nozzle in a test engine Verify technology for raising the combustibility of ship fuel applying micro-nano bubble technology in a test engine Fully Practice ECO SAILING and Pursue Efficient Operations Promote optimal utilization of reduced navigating speeds Help vessel types other than containerships to establish optimal operating methods at reduced navigating speeds and prevent accidents at reduced speeds Promote utilization of WNI Ocean Routing (an information service on weather, Continue utilizing WNI Ocean Routing ocean conditions, optimal routes, etc., provided by Weathernews Inc.) Utilize FMS Safety-Bridge System (on-board system that plans optimal Promote utilization of FMS Safety-Bridge System—Increase access by 10% over routes based on the latest data on weather and ocean conditions) FY2010 Substantially expand use of fuel additives Promote use of fuel additive Promote installation of PBCFs and other devices to improve propeller Install PBCFs and other devices to improve propeller efficiency on all newly built efficiency on MOL vessels MOL vessels Promote installation of energy-saving LO lubricators on MOL vessels Install energy-saving LO lubricators on all newly built MOL vessels Promote installation of electronically-controlled engines (approx. 20 vessels) Promote installation of electronically-controlled engines (approx. 3 vessels) Install onshore power supply systems (approx. 14 vessels) Install onshore power supply system (1 vessel) Reduce CO2 Emissions per Ton-mile (oceangoing vessels operated by MOL and domestic consolidated subsidiaries) Reduce by 10% by FY2015 compared to FY2009 Reduce by 1% compared to FY2010 Initiatives for Preventing Atmospheric Pollution Reduce NOx and SOx emissions per ton-mile (oceangoing vessels operated by MOL and domestic consolidated subsidiaries) Reduce by 10% by FY2015 compared to FY2009 Reduce by 1% compared to FY2010. Calculate SOx at domestic consolidated subsidiaries Make MOL’s unique technologies for reducing PM (particulate matter) Install DPF system on actual vessels, conduct durability experiments (continuously feasible for practical application through FY2012) 28 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Environmental Targets and Results Special Features Legend: ◎Achieved ○Generally achieved △Partially achieved ●Did not achieve (target period/content changes) Achievement Against FY2011 Environmental Targets FY2012 Environmental Targets There were no major oil spills. Filed Safety Alert regarding oil spill incident prevention every quarter, Prevent oil spills and conducted two response drills simulating a serious marine incident to be prepared in the event ◎ of an incident Commercialized the world’s first portable liquid-level gauge for fuel tanks with a manufacturer, reducing the work load during refueling and helping prevent fuel spills from overfilling Management Added the air seal type to the MOL Safety Standard Specifications for equipment and facilities and Continue applying MOL Safety Standard Specifications for equipment and facilities to new vessels ◎ progressively installed on new ships Completed basic design. Expect to reduce CO2 emissions by approx. 35% per standard vehicle with Complete ISHIN-I and ISHIN-II prototype designs ahead of plan. Consider progressively adopting feasible ◎ a twin engine, twin propeller configuration (compared with existing vessels) ISHIN-I, ISHIN-II and ISHIN-III core component technologies, centered on main engine waste heat recovery system and propulsion system Completed prototype design of LNG-fueled vessel. Considered technical issues, operational ◎ problems, and economy Decided to install a high-efficiency waste heat energy recovery system on a new large-scale iron ◎ ore carrier scheduled for delivery in 2013. Expect to reduce fuel consumption by approx. 6% compared with existing large-scale iron ore carriers Completed development of hybrid system. Installed on the car carrier Emerald Ace Take delivery of hybrid car carrier. Evaluate environmental burden reductions in actual operation ◎ Decided to install a high-efficiency waste heat energy recovery system on a new large-scale iron Take delivery of a large-scale iron ore carrier equipped with a high-efficiency waste heat energy recovery ◎ The Environment ore carrier scheduled for delivery in 2013 system Evaluated the performance of low-friction paint (coating) on 18 vessels. Evaluated the benefits of Continue evaluating the performance of low-friction paint (coatings) from each manufacturer. Apply ◎ next-generation low-friction paint on two car carriers next-generation low-friction paint to two new car carriers (Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism project) Evaluated optimal design values using computer analysis and tank testing. Installed a prototype on Promote R&D for improving PBCF efficiency and determine new PBCF shape ◎ an actual vessel Developed large-scale solid sail, came up with conceptual design for a wind-propelled vessel with a Consider detailed specifications for large-scale solid sail and begin design for producing an on-land ◎ sail assisted by an engine, and developed navigation method for wind-propelled vessels prototype. Develop conceptual design for a wind-propelled vessel with a sail with a fuel engine and navigation method for wind-propelled vessels Conducted in all sales and marketing divisions. Selected candidates for connecting identified needs Conduct R&D from internal needs obtained from meetings that connect business needs with new ◎ with R&D developments Promoted component technologies (T/C variable nozzles, “TAICRUSH HD,” hybrid car carriers, and Continue utilizing roadmap for instituting component ISHIN ship technologies to create actual vessels ◎ optimum trim system) that were scheduled for installation on actual ships in FY2011 in line with fitted with these technologies the road map Promoted the application of heat-shielding paint. Scrutinized the heat-shielding benefits of thermal Promote the application of heat-shielding paint ◎ glass barrier technologies Evaluated the performance of the fuel additive “TAICRUSH HD” in a test engine. Confirmed clear Evaluate the benefits of “TAICRUSH HD” and various other fuel additives, and consider improving ◎ benefits in low load range in main engine output. Completed improved gas agitator, filed patent combustion efficiency and fuel efficiency Society application and made preparations for confirmation by a classification society Tested the benefits of four prototype heavy fuel oil rotary nozzles, but couldn’t confirm fuel efficiency Collect data on special nozzles and standard nozzles while in operation, and evaluate improvement in ○ benefits. Conducted evaluations for improving performance combustion efficiency and fuel economy, as well as purification of exhaust gas Conducted testing to confirm operation of an improved micro-nano bubble generator. Evaluating Verify technology for raising the combustibility of ship fuel applying micro-nano bubble technology ○ performance in a test engine Inspected data from reduced navigation speed operations and provided technical support based on Contribute to safe operation with technology for supporting the ultra-slow-steaming operation of main the inspection results. Made more progress with reduced navigating speeds diesel engines Set targets for the environmental impact of containerships (CO2, NOx and SOx emissions) as Build a framework for sharing information internally about reduced navigating speeds and fuel reduction ◎ service indicators, and regularly announced achievement status on “Count On MOL” website measures. Test the benefits of technologies for improving the fuel efficiency of main engines at low loads and conduct reviews for applying new technologies (such as EGB). Include effective technologies in MOL vessel standard specifications (MOL standards) Continued using in all vessel operating divisions Effectively utilize WNI Ocean Routing ◎ Access increased by 7%. Installed access system on 13% more vessels than in FY2010 Promote utilization of FMS Safety-Bridge System ◎ Maintain the ratio of MOL vessels and chartered vessels using the system at 95% and 70% or more, respectively, throughout the year Promoted development and adoption of new agitators for the fuel additive “TAICRUSH HD.” Promote use of fuel additives ◎ Adopted this fuel additive on more vessels (24 in FY2011 compared with 16 in FY2010) Installed propeller efficiency-improving devices on all 23 delivered vessels (PBCFs on 16 vessels, Install PBCFs and other devices to improve propeller efficiency on all newly built MOL vessels ◎ and other devices to improve propeller efficiency on 7 vessels) ◎ Installed energy-saving LO lubricators on all 23 delivered vessels Install energy-saving LO lubricators on all newly built MOL vessels ◎ Installed electronically-controlled engines on 2 containerships and 1 dry cargo ship Promote installation of electronically-controlled engines (approx. 3 vessels) ◎ Completed on 1 vessel in FY2010. Completed introduction on 13 vessels as planned Conduct trial for beginning onshore power supply operations for vessels that have introduced the system (4 vessels) ◎ Reduced by 1.8% and by 5.3% year on year at MOL and domestic consolidated subsidiaries, respectively Reduce by 1% compared to FY2011 ◎ SOx: reduced by 12.8% and 14.3% year on year at MOL and domestic consolidated subsidiaries, respectively Reduce by 1% compared to FY2011 ◎ NOx: reduced by 1.8% and 5.3% year on year at MOL and domestic consolidated subsidiaries, respectively Reduce by 1% compared to FY2011 Installed on ordinary cargo ships and conducted durability experiments Conduct durability experiments on actual vessels equipped with the DPF system, identify problems and ◎ make improvements (Continued on next page) Environmental and Social Report 2012 29 Environmental Targets and Results FY2010–12 Midterm Environmental Targets FY2011 Environmental Targets Comply with Environmental Regulations Comply with current regulations and prepare to comply in the future when regulations are tightened and their scope is expanded geographically Successively implement responses in accordance with Tier-II NOx regulations Prepare to comply with stricter regulations in North America and other regions, and prepare to accommodate their geographic expansion Survey situation in each country for determining timing of treaty enforcement Introduce SEEMP on dry bulkers and LNG carriers (Continue using on tankers) 3 Offer Low Environmental Further Accommodate Modal Shift Impact Solutions as a Reduce customer CO2 emissions using Japan’s largest ferry network Reduce customer CO2 emissions by approx. 600,000 tons annually using Japan’s Whole Group largest ferry network Promote the environmental advantages of domestic carriers and ferries Continue PR via Group company and industry group websites and other channels Conduct research and develop technologies toward practical viability of Conduct research on domestic regulations for ISHIN-II, offer suggestions for ISHIN-II (ferry that uses LNG as fuel) establishment of international regulations Actively Develop Existing Low-Environmental-Impact Solutions Provide tugboat services with reduced environmental impact due to Continue operating tugboats at reduced navigation speeds reduced navigation speeds Promote PBCFs sales through MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd. Achieve cumulative PBCF installations of 2,000 units Conduct energy-saving operations in controlled-temperature warehouses at the Ohi Logistics Center Actively Consider New Low-Environmental-Impact Solutions Participate in experiments to demonstrate the “eco tug” concept Determine method of introducing “eco tugs” and other aspects; secure partners for (tugboats with reduced environmental impact) promoting these tugs Consider full-scale energy-saving measures, including the use of natural energy at the Ohi Logistics Center Contribute to recycling through environment-related businesses of Continue environment-related businesses of Kusakabe Maritime Engineering Co., Ltd. Kusakabe Maritime Engineering Co., Ltd. Introduce environmental materials for ships Continue introducing eco-friendly amenities on cruise ships Promote reduced environmental impact at existing buildings managed Install low-environmental-impact air conditioning systems and lighting in refurbished by Daibiru Corporation buildings Promote adoption of rainwater reuse, rooftop gardens, natural ventilation, high thermal barrier/heat-shielding glass Popularize use of improved PBCFs through MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd. Take part in R&D on improved PBCFs Maintain and Enhance MOL Group Environmental Award Program Increase number of entries for MOL Group Environmental Award, and improve the entries’ content 4 Advocate Policies Take Part in Policymaking and Actively Make Recommendations so that Environmental Policy Promotes Utilization and Reinforcement of the and Measures Aimed Reduction and Sustainable Economic Growth at Contributing to Measures for greenhouse gases emitted by oceangoing vessels: Work to shape policy in line with IMO’s nine basic principles Actual Reductions in Lobby through industry groups on discussions in the IMO toward introducing regulaEnvironmental Impact tions in the international ocean shipping sector that will contribute to the equitable and actual reduction of Greenhouse Gases, without hampering international trade or growth Measures for greenhouse gases emitted by domestic carriers and ferries: Work to shape policy to promote modal shift Lobby through industry groups for promoting modal shift (and preventing backward steps) 5 Contribute to Raise Awareness of Employees Regarding Biodiversity Protection and Nature Conservation and Promote Activities, Technological Development Conservation of Continue existing activities and conduct new activities that contribute to conservation of biodiversity and protection of the natural environment Biodiversity and Eliminate pollution of the marine environment caused by shipping accidents Prevent ocean pollution caused by shipping accidents Protection of the Natural Environment Develop and install ballast water treatment systems Make preparations for installing ballast water treatment system Expand social contribution activities that help in biodiversity protection and nature Expand existing activities and consider new activities based on system for proposals conservation on the MOL Group’s social contribution activities Raise employee awareness of biodiversity protection and nature conservation Use the company newsletter to disseminate articles that raise awareness about biodiversity Continue utilizing renewable energy at domestic sites and consider new installations Continue utilizing solar power generation at the Tokyo International Container Terminal and the MOL Technology Research Center Advance studies of business sites to install solar power and its facilities Reduce environmental impact associated with domestic business activities (MOL and domestic Group companies) Reduce unit energy consumption at domestic business sites by 3% compared to Reduce unit energy consumption at domestic business sites by 2% compared to FY2009 FY2009 Reduce unit energy consumption by domestic transport modes by 3% compared Reduce unit energy consumption by domestic transport modes by 2% compared to to FY2009 FY2009 Reduce office paper usage (per employee) by 3% compared to FY2009 Reduce office paper usage (per employee) by 2% compared to FY2009 Recycle as much as possible and reduce non-recyclable waste Recycle as much as possible and reduce non-recyclable waste Comply with domestic environmental regulations Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance: Develop and implement specific environmental burden reduction measures Amended Energy Conservation Law: Develop and implement specific reduction measures 30 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Environmental Targets and Results Legend: ◎Achieved ○Generally achieved △Partially achieved ●Did not achieve (target period/content changes) Achievement Against FY2011 Environmental Targets FY2012 Environmental Targets Special Features Responding at present. Confirmed response to Tier-II NOx regulations when negotiating specificaClosely watch the review of the Tier-III NOx regulations, which will take effect in specified sea areas from ◎ tions for new vessels 2016, and respond Collected information about low sulfur fuel oil regulations in the U.S., EU and elsewhere. Made this Prepare to comply with stricter regulations on low sulfur fuel oil in North America and other regions, and ◎ information known and held workshops prepare to accommodate their introduction across a wider area Continued to survey the situation in each country Survey situation in each country for determining timing of ship recycling treaty enforcement, promote ◎ creation of inventory lists Began operating SEEMP on LNG carriers in April 2011 and on dry bulkers in January 2012. Monitor the SEEMP creation status of all operated vessels, and promote introduction of the company’s ◎ SEEMP on tankers obtained the world’s first certification in December 2011 from a certifying EEOI calculation method and monitor figures institution, attesting to its compliance with regulations Reduced customer CO2 emissions by approx. 550,000 tons annually Reduce customer CO2 emissions by approx. 600,000 tons annually using Japan’s largest ferry network ○ ◎ Continued PR on websites Continue PR via Group company and industry group websites and other channels Continued to carry out surveys and research in “GHG-reduction Infrastructure Study Committee” and Conduct research on domestic regulations for ISHIN-II, continue offering suggestions for establishment ◎ “Ferry That Uses LNG as Fuel Study Committee” of Japan Ship Technology Research Association of international regulations Management Continued operating tugboats at reduced navigation speeds at each tugboat company Continue operating tugboats at reduced navigation speeds ◎ ◎ Cumulative PBCF installations reached 2,000 units Achieve cumulative PBCF installations of 2,150 units Rigorously enforced energy-saving operations, including changing air conditioner settings, and Conduct energy-saving operations in controlled-temperature warehouses at the Ohi Logistics Center ◎ conducted awareness activities. As a result, achieved power savings far in excess of government requirements Continued to consider Determine method of introducing “eco tugs” and other aspects; secure partners for promoting these tugs ○ Considered energy-saving measures, including obtaining opinions from outside experts by utilizing Consider full-scale energy-saving measures, including the use of natural energy at the Ohi Logistics ◎ the Ministry of the Environment’s “Energy-saving Potential Diagnosis Program” Center Continued to operate a metal recycling plant on a trial basis. As before, used natural gas, which Continue environment-related businesses of Kusakabe Maritime Engineering Co., Ltd. ◎ emits low levels of CO2, as fuel Continued introducing low-environmental-impact amenities (toilet paper and lunch boxes). Continue introducing low-environmental-impact amenities on cruise ships ◎ Exchanged towels in passenger quarters only on request, reduced paper bags and packaging, etc. The Environment Promoted design with an emphasis on energy efficiency in a new building under construction Install low-environmental-impact air conditioning systems and lighting in refurbished buildings (Daibiru-Honkan building). This included installing an automated light adjustment system (which will Promote adoption of rainwater reuse, rooftop gardens, natural ventilation, high thermal barrier/heat◎ reduce lighting electricity consumption by 30% compared with before by automatically adjusting shielding glass lighting to control brightness at workers’ desks to 700 LX). Continued developing with Akishima LaboratorIES (Mitsui Zosen) Inc. toward early Take part in R&D on improved PBCFs ◎ commercialization Received entries from 10 divisions in FY2011 (compared with 6 divisions in FY2010) Entrench the MOL Group Environmental Award ◎ CO2 reduction benefits were higher than in FY2010 High Environmental Efficiency of Shipping and Contributes to Environmental Impact Contributed to the adoption of GHG emissions regulations that are applied uniformly to all vessels Actively make representations for economic methods ◎ through industry groups Lobbied through industry groups on the the expressway toll issue, Traffic Safety Policy Basic Act Lobby through industry groups for promoting modal shift (and preventing backward steps) ◎ and other issues and Social Contributions to this End There were no serious marine incidents Prevent ocean pollution caused by shipping accidents Society ◎ Obtained a certificate of compliance from the Japanese government for an ozone-based ballast Install ballast water treatment system first on car carriers and containerships ◎ water treatment system that MOL helped to develop Decided to install the ballast treatment system first on three vessels from FY2012 Expanded activities, including forest protection activities and beach cleanups in Japan and overseas. Expand activities that contribute to conservation of biodiversity and protection of the natural environment ◎ Also considered new activities Published articles to raise awareness of biodiversity with a sea theme in the company newsletter Regularly produce environment-related articles in the company newsletter ◎ Continued implementing Continue utilizing solar power generation at the Tokyo International Container Terminal, the MOL ◎ Technology Research Center and company housing for employees ◎ Installation at company housing for employees completed in FY2011 Decreased 3.8% in the group as a whole (Decreased 6.9% at MOL) Reduce unit energy consumption at domestic business sites by 3% compared to FY2009 ◎ Decreased 0.7% in the group as a whole Reduce unit energy consumption by domestic transport modes by 3% compared to FY2009 ● ◎ Decreased 8.9% in the group as a whole (Decreased 8.2% at MOL) Reduce office paper usage (per employee) by 3% compared to FY2009 ◎ Set targets for each company and began working toward achievement Recycle as much as possible and set targets for non-recyclable waste reduction Introduced two hybrid transfer cranes at the Tokyo International Container Terminal Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance: Develop and implement specific reduction ◎ measures Conducted a full-scale power-saving drive, particularly in office buildings and warehouses. SubmitAmended Energy Conservation Law: Develop and implement specific reduction measures ◎ ted documents required by law Environmental and Social Report 2012 31 The Environment Environmental Burden of the MOL Group The MOL Group conducts a range of business activities at sea, including international shipping, and on land.The following is a summary of MOL’s and the MOL Group’s consumed resources and environmental impacts during fiscal 2011 in the course of those activities.The MOL Group is working to reduce these environmental impacts. Environmental Burden of the MOL Group (FY2011) Activities at Sea (Vessels) Activities on Land INPUT OUTPUT INPUT OUTPUT MOL Fuel oil (C oil*1)5,270 CO216,638 MOL Fuel 104 kl CO2 7,499 tons (non-consolidated) (non-consolidated)  thousand tons  thousand tons Electricity19,772 NOx 6 tons Diesel oil (A oil*2)70 NOx449  thousand kWh Waste 119 tons  thousand tons  thousand tons Municipal gas 139 thousand m3 SOx258 LPG 4 tons  thousand tons Heat 1,382 GJ INPUT OUTPUT Water 7,812 m3 Group Fuel oil (C oil*1)250 CO2826 companies Office paper 7,025 (domestic  thousand tons  thousand tons  thousand sheets*7 shipping)*3 Diesel oil (A oil*2)17 NOx22 INPUT OUTPUT  thousand tons  thousand tons SOx—*5 Group Fuel 6,714 kl CO2 61,263 tons companies*6 INPUT OUTPUT Electricity72,622 NOx 21 tons  thousand kWh Waste 2,233 tons Group Fuel oil (C oil*1)512 CO21,670 Municipal gas1,452 thousand m3 companies  thousand tons  thousand tons (international LPG 81 tons shipping)*4 Diesel oil (A oil*2)24 NOx45  thousand tons  thousand tons Heat 38,149 GJ SOx25 Water 675,429 m3  thousand tons Office paper 39,388 *1 Heavy fuel oil C: Mainly for vessel main engines  thousand sheets*7 *2 Heavy diesel oil A: Mainly for onboard generators *3 MOL Ferry Co., Ltd., Ferry Sunflower Limited., Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd., MOL Naikou, Ltd., Ube Port Service Co., Ltd., Kitanihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd., Green Kaiji Kaisha, Ltd., Green Shipping, Ltd., Kobe Towing Co., Ltd., Nihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd., and MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd. (11 companies in total) *4 Mitsui O.S.K. Kinkai, Ltd., Tokyo Marine Co., Ltd., Nissan Motor Car Carrier Co., Ltd. and Mitsui O.S.K. Passenger Line, Ltd. (four companies in total) *5 Data on SOx emissions of Group companies (coastal transport) is not available. *6 All consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd. and Nippon Charter Cruise, Ltd. which are both affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method. However, results exclude some companies whose environmental burden is negligible. *7 Converted to A4 size. Measures at Offices The MOL Group strives to reduce the environmental impact Electricity Use in Office Paper Use in generated by office operations (office paper, electricity, and Head Office Building Head Office Building waste) as well as in sea and land transportation activities. The (1,000 kWh) (%) (1,000 sheets) (%) 2,500 125 15,000 150 MOL Head Office Building in particu108 106 100 100 118 lar has taken rigorous steps to save 2,000 100 12,000 106 120 81 100 electricity in response to electricity 95 91 1,500 75 9,000 90 supply shortages in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake. These 1,000 50 6,000 60 measures include suspending the use of one elevator, turning off hand dryers 500 25 3,000 30 in toilets, raising the air conditioner 0 07 08 09 10 11 (FY) 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 (FY) 0 thermostat setting from 26℃ to 28℃ Lights Office equipment (Left scale) Office paper use (Left scale) during summer, precooling rooms as Electricity use per unit area (vs. FY2009*) (Right scale) Office paper use per person (vs. FY2009*) (Right scale) * Benchmark year for reduction target * Benchmark year for reduction target appropriate, shutting blinds, turning Excluding the 15th floor which is mainly used as a MOL (non-consolidated) only staff cafeteria lights out at lunchtime, and removing MOL Head Office Building some lighting. 32 Environmental and Social Report 2012 The Environment Approaches to Tackling Global Warming and Special Features Preventing Air Pollution Shipping is a more energy efficient mode of transport than other modes of transport.That said, because vessels burn fossil fuels they inevitably emit carbon dioxide (CO2), which is a cause of global warming, as well as nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur oxide (SOx), soot and other emissions, which are linked to acid rain and atmospheric pollution.The MOL Group is fully aware of the effects on air quality associated with its business activities and thus proactively works to reduce the impact on an ongoing basis. Approaches to Tackling Global Warming Environmental Technologies Approaches of the Ocean Shipping Industry The MOL Group is engaged in developing various environmental The shipping business operates all over the world. Furthermore, because technologies for ships. In Feature 2 (on pages 10 and 11 of this report), Management this is a single international market, it makes sense that, in principle, all we look at core component technologies of the Senpaku ISHIN project. environment-related measures must apply the same standard to all sea In this section, we showcase other main initiatives. areas and vessels. For this reason, under the Kyoto Protocol, the approach Use of Renewable Energy: Besides solar power generation showto reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from vessels engaged cased in Feature 2, the company is taking part in the “Wind Challenger in international shipping is delegated to the International Maritime Project” led by The University of Tokyo. This project is researching Organization (IMO), a specialist agency of the United Nations. From wind-propelled ships, which involves using sails as the main driving January 2013, all ocean-going vessels worldwide, including existing power, with a propulsion system in an auxiliary role. In addition to MOL, vessels, will be obliged to have a “Ship Energy Efficiency Management two other ocean shipping companies, Nippon Kaiji Kyokai, shipbuilders Plan,” and new energy efficiency regulations will govern new vessels. and other parties are participating in the project. Launched in MOL will continue to contribute to initiatives of industry groups and September 2009, the project is now developing large-scale solid sail The Environment governments to create a framework, through the IMO, that leads to structures using composite materials, as well as examining particulars substantial reductions in GHGs from international shipping. Based on for vessel designs to develop, and developing fluid analysis techniques the nine fundamental principles of the IMO, the framework should be and weather routing methods. “binding and equally applicable to all flag states in order to avoid evasion” and “based on sustainable environmental development without penalizing global trade and growth,” among other conditions. MOL Approaches One of the environmental strategies in our midterm management plan, “GEAR UP! MOL,” is to reduce CO2 emissions per unit load (ton-mile) by 10% in fiscal 2015 compared with fiscal 2009. This target applies to ocean-going vessels operated by MOL and domestic consolidated An artist’s impression of the “Wind Challenger Project” subsidiaries. In order to achieve the targeted reduction, we are developing Society and adopting new environmental technologies, thoroughly practicing ECO PBCF Boost Vessels’ Propulsion Power: Propeller Boss Cap Fins SAILING, and introducing larger vessels. In fiscal 2011, the company and (PBCF), jointly developed by MOL and other parties, improve propeller consolidated subsidiaries achieved a reduction of 2.1% year on year (and efficiency. PBCF produce a 4% to 5% improvement in fuel efficiency a reduction of 7.5% compared with fiscal 2009). These reductions were at the same speed, along with commensurate reductions in CO2 emisachieved through further adoption of reduced navigation speeds, and also sions. These fins have been widely installed on MOL operated vessels, reflected the benefits of investments in environmental facilities. as well as other vessels around the world. As of March 31, 2012, PBCF had been introduced to more than 2,100 vessels worldwide, including MOL CO2 Emissions vessels scheduled to be built. MOL is currently developing new PBCF (Unit=1,000 tons) (%) with Akishima Laboratories (Mitsui Zosen) Inc., which target 20,000 120 a further improvement in fuel efficiency of another 1 point. An additional 100 101 100 patent was filed for them in March 2009. We aim to make these new 15,000 94 100 fins commercially available as early as possible. 92 10,000 80 5,000 60 0 07 08 09 10 11 (FY) 40 Total emissions (Left scale) Emissions per unit load (ton-mile) (compared to FY2009*) (Right scale) * Benchmark year for reduction target PBCF Environmental and Social Report 2012 33 Prevention of Global Warming and Air Pollution R&D on high-performance antifouling ship bottom paints that Slow steaming: MOL has proven on MOL-operated vessels that it is improve vessels’ fuel efficiency: Ships consume most of their fuel in possible to achieve continuous operation in a load range that couldn’t overcoming the resistance when navigating. Reducing this resistance be used in the past by increasing the output of the main engine’s contributes directly to lower fuel consumption and reduced CO2 emisauxiliary blower motor. This accomplishment has increased the opporsions. The drag of seawater over a vessel’s wetted surface accounts for tunities for practicing slow steaming. 50% to 80% of all resistance, including wind and wave resistance. Optimum trim system: MOL has developed an optimum trim system MOL has teamed up with Nippon Paint Co., Ltd. and Nippon Paint for vessels along with Akishima Laboratories (Mitsui Zosen) Marine Coatings Co., Ltd. to develop a super-slick antifouling ship Inc. The optimum trim system quantitatively assesses MOL captains’ bottom paint with high performance friction-reducing properties. The extensive practical knowledge of vessel running attitudes through tank paint will dramatically reduce fuel consumption by reducing seawater testing and actual ship testing. This data is translated into graphs that drag. This research and development is part of our commitment to make it easy for seafarers to use. A pilot test of the system on a car realizing Senpaku ISHIN, and is expected to lower CO2 emissions by carrier using optimum trim showed an increase of up to 4% in fuel 8% to 12% compared to conventional antifouling paints. efficiency compared to the conventional condition. MOL expects that Wind resistance-reducing design: The unique shape of car carriers it won’t be long before all vessels will navigate with optimum trim. means that there is a large surface area exposed to wind pressure, and the impact of this resistance is considerable. In 2003, MOL took delivery Conventional Optimum trim of the Courageous Ace, which was the first vessel to adopt a beveled, rounded superstructure at the bow. Since then, MOL has deepened research on vessel shapes to lower wind resistance. Under the Senpaku ISHIN project, the company is aiming to make further improvements Trim by stern Trim by bow to the shape of ships’ sterns. The benefits of these improvements are being validated with Akishima Laboratories (Mitsui Zosen) Inc. In December 2010, the MOL Group’s reduced wind resistance car Increasing Transportation Efficiency with Larger Ships carrier fleet was joined by the City of St. Petersburg, which is owned by MOL believes that the introduction of larger vessels and improvement Nissan Motor Car Carrier Co., Ltd. Built by Kyokuyo Shipyard Corporation, of propulsion are effective measures to fulfill the social responsibility this vessel can carry up to 2,000 cars. A sleek, semispherical bow design of the shipping industry to meet burgeoning international demand for reduces wind resistance by up ocean shipping and, at the same time, to prevent global warming. In to 50% compared to Nissan December 2007, MOL took delivery of the Brasil Maru (approximately Motor Car Carrier’s existing 320,000 DWT), one of the world’s largest iron ore carriers. The Brasil vessels. This unique bow Maru combines her very large size with excellent propulsion and an design has received high energy-saving design such as propellers specially designed to improve marks, with the vessel selected propulsion efficiency. These qualities earned the Brasil Maru selection as the “Ship of the Year 2010” as the “Ship of the Year 2007” by the Japan Society of Naval Architects by the Japan Society of Naval and Ocean Engineers. Architects and Ocean EngiThe car carrier City of St. Petersburg neers in May 2011. A Commitment to ECO SAILING To save fuel and reduce environmental impact, we monitor energy flow in our vessels and do our utmost to eliminate energy losses in our operations. We call this approach ECO SAILING. We rigorously apply the principles of ECO SAILING whenever we operate vessels. Specifically, we 1) properly reduce navigation speeds, 2) take advantage of The iron ore carrier Brasil Maru weather and sea condition forecasts and the optimum trim, 3) select optimum routes, 4) reduce vessels’ wetted surfaces, 5) optimize operation and maintenance of main engines, auxiliary equipment and other machinery, 6) develop energy-efficient ship designs, and 7) equip vessels with Propeller Boss Cap Fins (PBCF). ECO SAILING Pamphlet 34 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Prevention of Global Warming and Air Pollution Approaches to Preventing Air Pollution Reducing Soot/Smoke and Dust NOx (Nitrogen Oxide) First Installation of a Maintenance-free DPF on an Ocean-going NOx is generated when nitrogen contained in fuel oil and air binds with Vessel in the World Special Features oxygen in the air at high temperatures when fuel burns in the engine. MOL has been developing a diesel particulate filter (DPF) for diesel NOx emissions can be reduced to some degree by controlling combusengines on vessels that that use marine heavy fuel oil together with tion temperature in the engine. MOL is promoting the adoption of Nippon Kaiji Kyokai (ClassNK) and Akasaka Diesels Limited, with electronically controlled engines that reduce NOx, soot, and smoke by research support from ClassNK under a scheme supporting joint more effectively controlling the intake and exhaust valves. We are research and development with industry and academia. In 2010, we operating 27 vessels featuring electronically controlled engines beginconducted a test installation on the main engine of a coastal ferry. ning with the containership MOL Creation, which was delivered in June Recently, we began trial operation of this system on the diesel engine 2007. By the end of March 2012, 29 vessels equipped with electroniused for power generation on an MOL Group-operated ocean-going cally controlled engines had been delivered. vessel. This was the world’s first installation of a self-cleaning DPF on an ocean-going vessel. SOx (Sulfur Oxide) <Features> Management SOx is generated by burning fuel oil containing sulfur. In order to reduce This system incorporates a filter that relies on silicon carbide ceramic the volume of SOx emissions, MOL has set a standard for the sulfur fibers. The filter collects particulate matter (PM) when exhaust gas content in the fuel it procures that is stricter than the international treaty goes through it. It can collect over 80% of PM produced by the engine, governing sulfur content in fuel oil. significantly reducing black smoke emissions. It is also a self-cleaning system that automatically combusts and eliminates PM buildup in the Average Sulfur Content (%) in Marine Heavy Fuel Oil Used by MOL filter. This allows for continual operation without clogging of the filter, FY2005 2.82% and requires no maintenance by seafarers. FY2006 2.75% Exhaust Gas Purification System FY2007 2.62% Smoke duct The Environment FY2008 2.59% Filter unit FY2009 2.59% FY2010 2.58% FY2011 2.33% MARPOL Treaty (general sea areas) 3.50% Exhaust gas Smoke duct Exhaust gas control valve Regenerating filter unit MOL NOx and SOx Emissions (Thousand tons)  (%) 600 120 Using Onshore Power Supplies Emissions of NOx, SOx, soot and smoke and other pollutants can be 101 101 100 450 100 101 100 94 100 significantly reduced while at berth by reducing the use of conventional 92 Society 94 83 diesel power generators and receiving electric power supply from 300 80 onshore instead. 150 60 0 07 08 09 10 11 (FY) 40 (NOx) Total emissions (Left scale) Emissions per unit load (ton-mile) (Compared to FY2009*) (Right scale) (SOx) Total emissions (Left scale) Emissions per unit load (ton-mile) (Compared to FY2009*) (Right scale) * Benchmark year for reduction target The containership MOL Matrix using an onshore power supply system Tugboat companies in the MOL Group have been installing electric power supply systems connected to the local electricity grid to power tugboats at berth. This not only reduces the workload for crew members due to reduced use of generators, but also reduces emissions of NOx, SOx, soot and others. In some ports, the shore power supply system is even used to power domestic carriers while at berth. Environmental and Social Report 2012 35 The Environment Approaches to Protecting Biodiversity and the Marine Environment The MOL Group is working to prevent marine pollution caused by marine accidents by rigorously ensuring safe operation. At the same time, MOL is actively pushing ahead with measures to protect the seas and oceans, which are not only our place of business but also the shared heritage of everyone on Earth, in order to protect biodiversity. Approaches to Marine Environmental members. Food waste and other biodegradable trash are ground into Protection small particles and disposed of in specified areas of the open sea, and Double-Hull Tankers plastic waste is disposed of appropriately on land. We have adopted double-hull vessels in our tanker fleet in order to prevent spills of crude oil, petroleum products, and chemicals caused Proper Processing of Waste Oil by a grounding or collision of vessels. Our fleet of tankers is 100% Fuel oil for vessels contains many impurities. Water and other contamidouble-hulled. nants are extracted by pre-treatment before the fuel is used in engines and other equipment. Waste oil containing water and impurities from Single hull Double hull pre-treatment is heated in a special tank to remove water, and then incinerated in conformity with environmental regulations. Crude oil Crude oil Processing Bilge Water In a vessel’s engine room, bilge water (waste water containing oil) is Outer plate Inner plate generated by leakage from seawater pipes and equipment and during maintenance work. We have introduced a bilge source separation Double-Hull Fuel Tanks system that categorizes bilge water in three stages according to the All vessels carry fuel for their voyages. Therefore, in the same way as presence of oil, and collects and disposes of it properly. with tankers, we have pushed the adoption of double-hull fuel tanks in order to reduce the risk of oil leaking into the ocean in the event of an Discharge water accident. All vessels delivered since August 2010 have double-hull Oil-free water from vessel fuel tanks (or equivalent measures). Water Car carrier Separate water and oil Bilge using a bilge Water that separator may contain oil Oil Incinerate on-board Conventional fuel tank New fuel tank Oil-water mixture as waste oil Containership Caring for the Environment When Scrapping Vessels Bulkhead fuel tank Containers Aging vessels must be scrapped in the interest of safe operation and Isolating fuel tank with ballast protection of the marine environment. However, measures for workers’ space, etc. safety and hygiene and the environment have been insufficient when Container hold scrapping ships in some countries in Asia. When selling a ship on the assumption that it will be scrapped, we check that the scrapping yard ■ Ballast tanks ■ Fuel tanks takes environmental measures in conformity with ISO 14001 (or the environmental management equivalent), and uses scrapping methods Onboard Waste Disposal and procedures that are sufficiently safe for the environment and On a vessel, which is also a home for seafarers, the same type of personnel. In the international community, in May 2009, the IMO garbage as in a household is generated. On our operated vessels, based adopted the Hong Kong International Convention for the Safe and on the MARPOL Treaty, we draw up on-board waste management Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships, 2009, and is proceeding plans requiring separation, collection, storage and disposal of on-board with ratification toward its enforcement. This treaty prohibits and waste. Waste management officers supervise this process, and work restricts the fitting and use of treaty-specified hazardous materials. At to build thorough awareness of the plan among officers and crew the same time, it requires vessels to prepare and update inventory lists 36 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Approaches to Protecting Biodiversity and the Marine Environment showing the quantity and location of hazardous materials on ships over Organisms in Ballast Water and on Vessels a ship’s lifetime. These lists must be handed over to recycling facilities Ballast water is discharged when cargo is loaded. It may have an impact when the ship is finally scrapped. MOL was quick to initiate measures on local ecosystems by introducing foreign marine organisms from Special Features to prepare such lists. Furthermore, in 2010, the company established another location as well as the preservation and sustainable use of a task force made up of related divisions in the company, which is biodiversity. This potential cross-border transportation of foreign marine working to ensure that the treaty is understood throughout the group, organisms in ballast water has been highlighted as an international and to share information, including the results of site surveys of scrapissue since the late 1980s. As a result, a treaty on ballast water ping facilities. management was adopted by the IMO in February 2004, and work is proceeding on ratification ahead of enforcement. After 2017, all vessels Measures to Protect Biodiversity will be required to treat ballast water to reduce the content of marine The MOL Group’s activities could have an impact on biodiversity in the organisms to a specified level rendering it harmless. We have developed following ways: a ballast water purification system and conducted on-board demonstra1. Cross-border transportation of alien species via ship ballast water, tions in cooperation with manufacturers and other concerned parties. and organisms attached to vessels and containers We obtained the necessary approval for putting the system into use at Management 2. Impact on eco-system of antifouling ship bottom paints the Marine Environment Protection Committee 61 (MEPC 61) meeting 3. Impact on eco-system of buildings and structures on coasts held in October 2010. In addition, ballast water purification systems 4. Impact on eco-system of paper, stationery, etc., used in offices have already been installed on nine MOL and MOL Group company MOL works to develop and adopt technologies to minimize the impact Mitsui O.S.K. Kinkai, Ltd. vessels, well before the enforcement of the of vessels on biodiversity. Furthermore, when constructing buildings on IMO treaty. This is just one example of efforts to render ballast water shores or the coast, MOL conducts impact assessments with project harmless as quickly as possible. partners. Moreover, MOL rigorously conducts green procurement and Marine organisms attaching to the bottom of vessels due to the fouling recycling in offices. To raise the awareness of employees regarding of ship bottom paint and crossing borders is also an issue in the industry. protection of biodiversity and the natural environment, MOL makes use The IMO is discussing guidelines to prevent this. MOL is expressing its of in-house communications tools and participates in activities that views on practicality and other aspects through industry groups to The Environment protect the natural environment. (See page 44 for details.) contribute to the process of creating international guidelines. Participation in “Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity” as a Promotion Partner MOL supports and adheres to the Declaration of Biodiversity by the Japan Business Federation (Nippon Keidanren), and participates as a “Promotion Partner” to clarify this commitment internally and publicly. Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity (Summary) Ballast water purification experimental system 1. Appreciate nature’s gifts and aim for corporate activities in harmony with the natural environment Antifouling Ship Bottom Paints Society 2. Act from a global perspective on the biodiversity crisis In the past, paint containing tributyltin (TBT), which has a high antifouling 3. Act voluntarily and steadily to contribute to biodiversity property, was used for coating ship bottoms. However, after the harmful 4. Promote corporate management for sustainable resource use effect of TBT on ecosystems was widely confirmed, the IMO adopted 5. Create an industry, lifestyle and culture that will learn from biodiversity an international convention that imposed regulations on the use of ship 6. Collaborate with relevant international and national organizations bottom paints, including TBT and other organic tin paints. The interna7. Spearhead activities to build a society that will nurture biodiversity tional convention came into force in 2008. MOL began switching to tin-free (TF) paint earlier than this, and as a result, we completed the switch on all of our managed vessels in fiscal 2005. Environmental Education MOL is working to raise employee awareness of protecting biodiversity and preserving nature as well as combating global warming through the following initiatives. Our aim is to synergistically raise both awareness and knowledge concerning the environment and ensure this is applied in day-to-day activities. From this perspective, we intend to continuously enhance and increase environmental education in the company. In-house Newsletter “Monthly Environment” We distribute a newsletter containing the latest news concerning global environmental protection via the MOL Group’s intranet site. Environmental E-Learning In 2011, we launched an environmental E-Learning program using our intranet for MOL employees. The program is designed to test employees’ general knowledge about environmental protection and their understanding of MOL’s environmental strategy and specific environmental protection initiatives. Environmental and Social Report 2012 37 The Environment Group Companies’ Initiatives As part of the midterm management plan,“GEAR UP! MOL,” the MOL Group has adopted an environmental strategy aimed at offering business services and solutions that reduce the environmental impact of operations, including promoting a modal shift with ferry transport. Below are examples of achievements by individual MOL Group companies putting the strategy into practice. The 6th MOL Group Environmental Award Outstanding Performance Award: Introduction of We introduced the MOL Group Environmental Award in fiscal 2005 Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP) in order to promote environmental management in Group compaMOL Tankship Management (Europe) Ltd. nies. Every year, this award recognizes meritorious activities aimed MOL Tankship Management (Asia) Pte Ltd. at developing and introducing environmental technologies and other Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. MOL SEEMP environmental activities in the Group. Awards are presented at the We have begun energy-efficient vessel operations Group Executive Committee meeting of Group company presidents. in our tanker fleet ahead of the IMO’s enforcement of stricter requirements in 2013 by introducing SEEMP for reducing enviMost Outstanding Performance Award: Installation of Solar Power ronmental impact. MOL’s SEEMP obtained the world’s first certificaGeneration Systems and Onshore Power Supply Systems tion in December 2011 from a certifying institution, attesting to its Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd. compliance with regulations. In fiscal 2009, this company fitted the Ferry Fukuoka 2 with one of the world’s largest solar power generation systems and an Outstanding Performance Award: onshore power supply system with the goal of reducing CO2 and Energy-efficient Operation other exhaust gases. The solar power generation system generates Japan Express Co., Ltd. (Yokohama) 50 kW of electricity, equivalent to the amount of power consumed This company achieved power savings at the Ohi Logistics Center by 16 ordinary households, from 280 solar panels placed on the far greater than those required by the government, by implementing vessel’s upper-most deck. The onshore power supply system brings energy-saving measures with the cooperation of all staff before in 6,600 volts of high-voltage electricity from the shore when the the enforcement of a decree to restrict power usage. vessel is docked, thereby achieving the equivalent of engine idlingstop for vessels. Ohi Logistics Center In addition to the above, the company was recognized for various Solar power generation system Onshore power supply system other measures. These included validating the continuous operaOutstanding Performance Award: tion of a main engine by installing a larger auxiliary blower, introducDevelopment of an Optimum Trim System for Car Carriers ing low-environmental-impact reefer containers, participating in a Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd., MOL Ship Management Co., Ltd. low sulfur fuel incentive program, and adopting a ballast water (Please refer to page 34 for details.) treatment system. Modal Shift Promotion Per-Unit-Load CO2 Emissions by Mode of Transport Modal shift involves a switch from transporting freight by plane or Comparison of CO 2 emissions carrying 1-ton cargo for 1 km vehicle to ships or other means that can transport large volumes of Planes 500〜950 (Air freight) freight all at once. It is a very effective way of reducing CO2 emissions. The MOL Group offers transportation services by ship around the world Trucks 60〜150 and provides environmentally-friendly transportation services as one Trains of the largest ferry and domestic shipping service firms in Japan. 30〜100 Ships 10〜40 0 500 1,000 (g-CO2 per ton-kilometer) Source: “SMART GOODS TRANSPORT,” The Low Carbon Leaders Project 38 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Group Companies’ Initiatives Efforts to Reduce the Environmental Impact on Cruise Ships MOL Group Domestic Ferry Service Network Mitsui O.S.K. Passenger Line, Ltd. (MOPAS) The cruise ship the Nippon Maru makes an effort to reduce environSpecial Features Kobe Osaka mental impact not only in navigation, but also in the aspects unique to Tomakomai Kokura passenger ships. For example, the company uses eco-friendly products, Shin-moji exchanges towels in passenger quarters only when requested, and Matsuyama Beppu takes steps to reduce paper bags and packaging for all items in the Oita gift shop. It also seeks to enlist the cooperation of passengers to reduce environmental impact. Oarai Tokyo Oppama Uno Osaka Tokuyama Iwakuni Omaezaki Hakata Management Kanda Oita Shibushi MOL Ferry Co., Ltd. (Kagoshima) Ferry Sunflower Limited Meimon Taiyo Ferry Co., Ltd. The cruise ship Nippon Maru (renovated in March 2010) Developing a Beverage Can Recycling Business to Promote a Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load at Container Terminals “Recycling-oriented Society” Utoc Corporation, Shosen Koun Co., Ltd. Kusakabe Maritime Engineering Co., Ltd. MOL and MOL Group company Utoc Corporation installed a 200 kW This company’s recycling plant “Tri-R-Kobe” turns collected empty solar power generation system at the Tokyo International Container aluminum beverage cans into pellets, and sells them as excellent Terminal in 2007. deoxidizing agents for use in steelmaking. By using natural gas, which In fiscal 2011, the system generated approximately 218,000 kWh The Environment has relatively low CO2 emissions, as fuel for the plant, and recycling of power, which covered about 34% of the power needs for the control combustible gas from inside its furnaces, the plant is designed building. In addition, Utoc Corporation and Shosen Koun Co., Ltd. have eco-friendly. also progressively introduced hybrid transfer cranes at their container terminals in Tokyo and Kobe, respectively. These cranes consume approximately 40% less fuel than conventional Tokyo International Container Terminal ones. (four cranes were introduced in fiscal 2011.) Environmentally-Friendly Buildings Commercially-recycled aluminum pellets Daibiru Corporation Society Sales of PBCF and Other Products with Environmental Benefits The Daibiru-Honkan building, which is scheduled for completion at the MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd. end of February 2013, will use river water for cooling water in the This company sells products that offer environmental benefits*. In fiscal summer and heating in the winter. Because no waste heat from air 2011, cumulative sales units of Propeller Boss Cap Fins (PBCF) conditioning is released into the atmosphere, the building will contribute reached 2,100 vessels. to lower CO2 levels and less of an urban heat island effect. Furthermore, the exterior bricks of the former Daibiru-Honkan building will be reused * Products with environmental benefits to restore the lower levels. This will help to maintain the historical Examples of products used by the MOL Group which benefit the environment include: PBCFs, which control fuel consumption and exhaust gas; IZ energy-saving lighting; character of the Nakanoshima area, limit waste and save resources. Adgreencoat and ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective coating that control temperature rises in cabins; “SANWA Aerators,” which efficiently dispose of waste water; “BY • FAR Z,” a relatively environmentally-friendly detergent to disperse oil; and “TAICRUSH HD,” a fuel additive for improving fuel efficiency and reducing CO2 emissions. Air-conditioning equipment Cooling water and hot water Dojimagawa Tosabori Heat pump River Rivers “TAICRUSH HD” fuel additive Water taken from Water discharged Dojimagawa River to Tosabori River Artist’s impression of the Daibiru-Honkan The building’s district heating and cooling system building (Nakanoshima, Osaka) will use river water. Environmental and Social Report 2012 39 Society Caring for Land-based Staff The MOL Group is enhancing recruitment activities, training programs and various other systems with the aim of ensuring the growth of both the MOL Group and individual employees. The Group also endeavors to enhance employee health and develop workplaces that instill peace of mind in employees in line with an individual’s stage in life. Under the midterm management plan (fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2012), we have set a number of numerical targets, and are working to achieve those during the term of the plan. Recruitment and Subsidize breast cancer and cervical cancer screening fees for female Human Resources Development employees In recruiting employees, MOL conducts fair recruitment activities to recruit Implement regular mental health consultations at key worksites people who have the qualities the company is looking for such as a fighting in Japan spirit, toughness, leadership ability and communication ability. Regarding Implement online mental health self-evaluation human resource development, MOL regards an employee’s first 10 years Conduct yearly organizational mental health review in the company as a cultivation period for becoming a marine transport Conduct mental health seminars for managers, including those at professional. Training falls into two broad categories: on-the-job training MOL Group companies (OJT) and off-the-job training (OFF-JT). The OJT system develops Implement measures to reduce overtime work (implement no-overtime employees by exposing them to jobs in various workplaces. Meanwhile, days, have days when everyone in the company leaves at a certain OFF-JT includes position-specific training, overseas training and on-board time, and strengthen processes for approval of overtime work) training to gain experience on the frontlines of our business. In addition, Implement medical check-ups and recovery leave for employees for mid-level and higher-level employees, we run management skillspending an extended period of time at worksites enhancement training and “MOL Group Management Schools” to develop Open massage room (inside the head office building) future leaders of the MOL Group. Care for Working Environments Accept various consultations in the Counseling and Aid Center in the Human Resources Division, in the head office (The Counseling and Aid Center receives various requests for consultation from seaand land-based staff, past employees and family members, and MOL Group employees, and maintains strict confidentially. Matters consulted on include workplace human relations, workrelated worries and harassment, as well as personal problems.) Employees on language training in China Implement Casual Days (every Friday, and every day between June A new cadet in training and September) Introduce safety confirmation system to confirm safety in a disaster HR System and Evaluation System We have adopted a system for personnel management and remuneraInstill an Awareness of Human Rights tion that encourages employees to take the initiative more in their work Human Rights Training and more appropriately reflects responsibility and results. Aiming to The Counseling and Aid Center in the Human Resources Division is ensure a fair and highly transparent evaluation, managers conduct also responsible for human rights education. We conduct human rights interviews with their subordinates every quarter. training every year at all levels to foster a work environment where all corporate officers and employees share an understanding of the need Consideration for Health Care and Work for mutual respect and can carry out their work with a positive frame Environments of mind. There are various issues surrounding the subject of human In addition to complying with laws and regulations, we have introduced rights, but we try to devise training programs based on the goals of the the following systems and structures for managing employee health UN Global Compact, in which we participate, as well as important and enhancing working environments so that employees can work international regulations such as the International Covenants on Human energetically, and in good health, both physically and mentally. Rights. Our training is designed to eliminate human rights breaches or discrimination caused by mistaken beliefs founded on baseless biases Health Management or delusions. Appointed a person responsible for promoting health management Implement yearly medical check-ups and follow-up Activities as a Member of the Human Rights Hold monthly Health Management Meetings Awareness Group Provide daily medical services at the company clinic in the head office Corporate counterparts draw on their respective experiences and knowlImplement medical exams before, during and after overseas postings edge for brainstorming and training people about human rights in various for employees working overseas fields. The insight gained is reflected in internal training programs. 40 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Caring for Land-based Staff Human Rights Enlightenment Slogan Solicitation Nursing care leave: Employees may take up to two years’ nursing care leave. and Awards Re-employment system for mandatory retirees: MOL has introduced Before “Human Rights Week,” which is held in the first week of D ­ ecember an active senior program in response to a law in Japan enacted to Special Features every year, we solicit “Human Rights Slogans” from MOL and MOL Group encourage stable employment of workers who have reached the employees and their families and give internal awards to the best entries. mandatory retirement age. Dissemination of Human Rights Information Meeting the Needs of Expatriate Staff We distribute internally a journal issued by a human rights awareness and Locally-hired Employees group of which the company is a member. The company appoints a person to support various aspects of the lives Furthermore, in order to stimulate awareness regarding human rights of expatriate employees and their families, including medical care, issues in daily life, we use our intranet to introduce events and seminars children’s education, and safety, in the nations where they work. And about human rights in Japan, as well as human rights-related facilities we have hired about 3,600 national staff at local subsidiaries all over (such as museums). the world, contributing to the growth of local economies. Management Systems that Support Diverse Human Resources and Work Styles MOL operates various systems with the aim of utilizing diverse human resources and offering employees a variety of work formats, so that employees are much more motivated and can concentrate on work. Child-care leave: In addition to morning sickness and maternity leave, MOL（Brasil）Ltda. Sao Paulo Headquarter Mitsui O.S.K. Lines（India）Pvt. Ltd. Mumbai Office MOL also has a child-care leave system for the period before children are accepted at day care. A total of approximately 90 employees Relationships with Labor Unions have taken child-care leave since the system was introduced in 1992. Land-based employees belong to the Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Labor Shorter hours and exclusion from overtime for employees with young Union, and seafarers are members of the All Japan Seamen’s Union. The Environment children: This system was introduced in fiscal 2010. Both unions enjoy good and sound relations with MOL management. “Refresh” leave: Employees are allocated extra holidays after 15 years and 25 years of continuous service. Average Number of Annual Leave Days Taken (Including Summer Vacation) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Land-based Employees by Gender and Position 12.8 12.4 12.1 March 31, 2010 March 31, 2011 March 31, 2012 Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of Working Mothers (Mothers with Children Under the Age of 15) Group leaders and above 235 4 215 6 206 6 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Managers 165 10 187 8 183 8 33 33 38 Below manager level 290 196 282 195 282 199 Number of Employees Using Child-care Leave System 690 210 684 209 671 213 (Excluding Land-based Contract Employees) Total 900 893 884 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Society 8 7 7 Number of Industrial Accidents (Land-based; Excludes Commuting Accidents) Ratio of Female Employees Taking Child-care Leave FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 1 0 0 100% 100% 100% Number of Employees Taking Maternity Leave (Preand Post-Childbirth) Number of Leave Days Due to Industrial Accidents (Excluding Land-based Contract Employees) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 0 0 0 2 4 5 (MOL non-consolidated data) Voices from the Forefront their children, gets better every year. I am sure that many employees will take advantage of this system in the future. Personally, I am thankful to the various people around me that supported me every day when I had to work Hanako Hirose at home because I’d strained my back or had to take turns with my partner Coal and Iron Ore Carrier Group, Coal and Iron Ore Carrier Division to drop the kids off at day care or pick them up. It is because of the support (Joined MOL in 2006, Senior Assistant) of these people that I was able to take a second term of Working Hard Every Day with the Understanding of the child-care leave. Company and the Support of My Family I want younger employees I am responsible for customers in Japan in the Coal and Iron Ore Carrier to know that if they use the Division, having returned from my second term on child-care leave. My company’s systems, they can second term was longer than the first, and the company introduced a produce results at work and system offering shorter working hours following my return to work. This lead a fulfilling work life by support system, which allows employees to continue working while raising working in various ways. Environmental and Social Report 2012 41 Society Caring for Seafarers Seafarers ensure safe operation and manage vessel operations, the very basis of our business. In this section, we look at our basic policy, and what MOL is doing to care for seafarers and their families. MOL’s Basic Policy young seafarers from various countries who have received such support A key policy in MOL’s current midterm management plan, which covers will be employed as personnel who have the potential to be key MOL the period from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2012, is to “secure skilled seafarers members for safe operation in the future. and keep them well trained.” Meanwhile, in Japan people other than graduates from maritime MOL’s seafarers crew approximately 300 vessels. The large majority schools and universities can still acquire specialist maritime qualificaof our seafarers are from more than 20 countries other than Japan; tions after joining the company. Japanese seafarers account for only around 3% of our seagoing employees. MOL therefore employs and promotes skilled individuals Education and Training for Seafarers from around the world, irrespective of nationality. MOL pays due conDeveloping and securing a stable workforce of excellent seafarers who sideration to this diverse, multinational workforce in terms of the working meet MOL’s skill standards is a crucial point in maintaining safe operaenvironment on-board and on shore as well as remuneration and tions. MOL has established the “MOL Rank Skill Training and Evaluation benefits. At the same time, we run high-level development and training Program,” a training and education program that sets skill and knowledge programs to produce outstanding seafarers who are highly motivated requirements for every seafarer at the front-line according to his/her and possess the excellent skills and knowledge we require. position. Every seafarer of the MOL Group must work through this program as a requirement for promotion. MOL also has crew training MOL Seafarers by Nationality centers in eight locations in six countries. These MOL training centers provide a variety of training, ranging from classroom lectures on theory n Philippines 65% to practice using real engines and various simulators. This training n India 14% n Europe 6% enables seafarers to operate the latest on-board equipment and n Russia/Ukraine 4% machinery and to comply with new laws and regulations. In the Philippines, n Indonesia 4% 7,200 n Japan 3% which supplies more than half of MOL’s seafarers, we have introduced seafarers n Others 4% an officer candidate program for students selected from seven partner maritime colleges, who are trained for two years at company training facilities for the second half of their college education, subject to approval from the Commission on Higher Education. (As of March 31, 2012) Employing Diverse Human Resources We have established bases for recruiting, training and developing seafarers around the world. We have also set up a scholarship system at overseas maritime academies to support aspiring seafarers. For people from countries who cannot acquire specialist maritime certifications, we have also introduced a cadet system so that students can gain the necessary experience for earning qualifications. Promising A graduation ceremony for the officer candidate program in the Philippines Cadets from various countries undertake training 42 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Caring for Seafarers Training Ship Utilization A Good Working Environment for MOL One initiative unique to MOL is the ownership and operation of the Seafarers and Care for Their Families training ship Spirit of MOL as a training facility for educating new As part of measures to create a good working environment for seafarers, Special Features seafarers on the basics of safe operation. Graduates of maritime MOL is running safety training programs and ceaselessly improving academies selected by the company learn specialist maritime knowlworking environments with the aim of eradicating work-related acciedge and skills through safety and practical training, and by living dents (lost time injuries). Furthermore, with a maritime labor convention together with other cadets of various nationalities, they develop pride imposing strict requirements to manage on-vessel work scheduled to and a sense of belonging as members of the MOL Group. come into force, MOL is making preparations to implement changes before this convention becomes effective. In terms of welfare, MOL conducts regular health checks and mental health consultations for seafarers. At the same time, MOL cares for seafarers and their families, who must spend considerable time apart. MOL has established consulting offices for seafarers and their families in each location overseas, and offers services that are closely tailored Management Training aboard the trainto particular countries and regions. Moreover, MOL is introducing ing ship Spirit of MOL high-speed Internet connections aboard vessels to make it more convenient for seafarers to exchange e-mail with family and friends during voyages. In addition to the above, seafarers who have demonstrated leadership and made notable achievements in terms of safety or efficiency of vessel The Role Expected of MOL Seafarers operation are invited every year along with their families to the head After employment, MOL seafarers engage not only in ship operation office in Tokyo to receive commendations from the president of MOL. but also duties that support operations such as land-based vessel and seafarer management, and providing the required technical support for The Environment cargo handling. Such land-based positions are open broadly to all the seafarers, and many seafarers support the company’s safe operations from the land using their experience at sea in various locations that are not their homelands, such as Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong and the U.K. In the case of Japanese seafarers, for the first 10 or so years of their careers, they concentrate on serving aboard ships and accuA gathering of seafarers and their families in Croatia mulate competence as future captains and chief engineers. These employees may then either take up land-based positions where they utilize their experience, or follow their career paths by serving aboard various types of vessels. Thus, MOL seafarers are required to serve as all-around players to lead the whole MOL Group. Society A gathering of seafarers and their families in the Philippines Voices from the Forefront Ajit Chadha Captain of the containership MOL Maestro (Recipient of MOL Presidential Award in 2011) I have been working for MOL for more than 15 years. The reason for that is because of the rigorous enforcement and transparency of the company’s safe operation support system and manual. The company naturally tries to save costs where it can, but it never begrudges investment in safety equipment. I feel that the support we receive from land enables all seafarers to work with peace of mind. Personally, it enables me to captain the vessel with the aim of achieving the “Four Zeroes.” I believe that our mission is to disseminate the company’s safety message and ensure the company’s safety culture is passed on to the next Mr. Chadha and his wife (fourth and third from the right) at the 2011 awards ceremony generation of MOL seafarers. for outstanding seafarers Environmental and Social Report 2012 43 Society Social Contribution Activities MOL is engaged in various social contribution activities other than those discussed in Feature 3 of this report “Global Social Contribution Activities.” Here we look at just some of them. Contribution to UN Millennium activities to advances in meteorological precision has been recognized Development Goals* externally. The car carrier Solar Wing was awarded a commendation in Supporting UN World Food Programme and fiscal 2011 by the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Participating in Related Events Tourism, while the LNG carrier LNG Vesta and the steaming coal carrier MOL participates in the Japan Association for the UN World Food Soma Maru received the fiscal 2011 JMA Director-General prize. Programme, an organization that coordinates private-sector support for the program, and provides support for it in the form of donations and the like. Employees also volunteer and participate continuously in a charity event, “WFP Walk the World,” which is held to prevent children around the world from going hungry. The LNG carrier LNG Vesta Contributing to Local Communities Private-sector Company Training for Teachers Since 1994, MOL has accepted participants in an internship program to instruct school teachers about private-sector companies sponsored by the Keizai Koho Center-Japan Institute for Social and Economic * One of the common frameworks that integrates the Millennium Declaration adopted at the United Nations Millennium Summit held in September 2000, and the International Affairs. In fiscal 2011, MOL hosted 13 teachers from Tokyo for internDevelopment Goals that were adopted at major international conferences and summits ship sessions and onsite observation that took place over three days in the 1990s. The Millennium Development Goals consist of specific numerical targets to be achieved by 2015 in eight fields, including “achieve universal primary education” and during summer vacation in August. In addition to topics such as shipping “reduce child mortality.” and an overview of MOL businesses, the internship sessions highlighted MOL’s approach to CSR activities and safe operation measures, and Contributing to Protection of participants toured the MOL Safety Operation Supporting Center Biodiversity and Preserving Nature (SOSC). As an opportunity to see and experience MOL’s operations Beach Cleanup up-close, they also visited MOL’s container terminal and distribution We have conducted beach cleanups at Odaiba Seaside Park in Tokyo center in Ohi, Tokyo, and the cruise ship Nippon Maru, and experienced and Yuigahama Beach in Kamakura, Kanagawa Prefecture, since 2000. firsthand the bridge simulator. In 2012, in addition to these locations, we also cleaned the beach at Hirai, Kashima City in Ibaraki Prefecture. Participants tour the SOSC The latest information and details of other activities can be found on Assisting in Marine and Hydrographic Research our website. For many years, MOL has observed marine weather and reported its http://www.mol.co.jp/csr-e/society/index.html observations to the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) and other weather organizations around the world. The contribution of these 44 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Third-Party Opinion In addition, the fact that MOL’s approach to addressing the environment through technological innovation in the form of the Senpaku ISHIN project has reached the stage of practical application with the delivery of a hybrid car carrier stands out as one of the highlights of Keisuke Takegahara this year’s report. Technological innovation achieved through partnerGeneral Manager, Environmental Initiative & ing with stakeholders, specifically, electric machinery manufacturers Corporate Social Responsibility-Support Department Development Bank of Japan Inc. and shipbuilders, sends a strong message as an initiative that greatly contributes to bolstering the competitiveness of Japan’s shipbuilding technologies and shipping industry, especially in light of the coming What impressed me upon reading this year’s report was the fact restrictions on CO2 emissions in international waters. that it tells a unified story while also taking up numerous topics that In this way, the report has a three-dimensional thematic organizareflect the diversity of MOL’s stakeholders. I think this was possible tion, with safety underlying all the themes, and the environment, because safety was an important theme that ran through everything. with focus on technological innovation, providing an overlay. This In line with the company’s goal of being the world leader in safe structure successfully illuminates the form of the company’s midoperation, as stated in its midterm management plan, MOL can be term plan, and this year’s report deserves praise on this point. There seen as fulfilling its responsibilities to society through sophisticated, are also areas in which I would like to see further progress, and multifaceted risk management that is aimed at meeting the supply extensions of them. Specifically, regarding the fact that MOL did responsibilities inherent in ocean transport services, MOL’s core not achieve its “Four Zeroes” due to a contractor accident, the Top business. To be sure, rigorously ensuring safety involves manageMessage relays that measures to prevent recurrence are being ment systems, such as support via the Safety Operation Supporting rigorously implemented and that monitoring and disclosure will be Center and safety campaigns, but it is also indivisible from people— conducted using clear evaluation metrics. I think the specifics of advanced education and training, motivating employees with various these measures, however, should not have been buried in a list and opportunities, etc.—so safety is closely connected to human rights should have been described in greater detail. With regard to and other social issues. At the same time, the extent to which safe Senpaku ISHIN as well, the component technology roadmap and efficient transportation contributes to the environment also introduced last year clearly and straightforwardly conveyed MOL’s cannot be ignored. I think one characteristic of this year’s report is stance toward prioritizing practical feasibility, so by the same that it again delves into the importance of safety as constituting the measure I was disappointed that it wasn’t included this year. I hope basis of the company’s CSR, as demonstrated by the response to that it will be added back in next year’s report. the Great East Japan Earthquake. In particular, the feature that The report (page 15) understates this, but what is conveyed by presents the diverse initiatives surrounding safe operation by folMOL’s series of initiatives is a company that literally contributes a lowing a journey of one ship and introduces onboard and onshore great deal to society through its main business operations. I would support initiatives side by side is highly readable and easy to follow. like to see this raised to an even higher level, starting with strengthI think this feature speaks to MOL’s awareness of the diversity of ening supply chain-related initiatives, such as the MOL Group Basic the report’s readers. Procurement Policy. Addressing the Challenge Mr. Takegahara points out that safety is the underlying theme of this in greater detail and that the Senpaku ISHIN year’s report, and that the Senpaku ISHIN project has finally reached roadmap should continue to be included in the stage of practical application thanks to collaboration with various the report. As the General Manager of the stakeholders. Environmental Initiative & Corporate Social We fully intend to further strengthen initiatives for fulfilling our Responsibility-Support Department at the corporate social responsibilities to continue contributing to society Development Bank of Japan, Mr. Takegahara with a series of initiatives through our main business operations, as is involved with a whole host of companies, was highlighted by Mr. Takegahara. and we intend to utilize his invaluable It was also pointed out that Feature 1 presented our safety initiatives feedback to further improve next in an easy-to-understand manner, but also that accident recurrence year’s report. prevention measures and related information needed to be provided Kiyotaka Yoshida Managing Executive Officer, Vice Chairman of the CSR and Environment Committee Environmental and Social Report 2012 45 Q&A with Readers MOL administers a questionnaire that broadly solicits feedback from people outside the company in order to help improve CSR activities and future Environmental and Social Reports. We received 579 responses (561 valid responses) to the questionnaire we conducted on Environmental and Social Report 2011 issued last year. Here we introduce several typical questions and our responses. Q1: In a general sense, MOL has nothing to do with our day-to-day lives, increased the feature on safety by two pages and included more but there is actually a very close connection. MOL is essential to reports from the field than in the past. We intend to continue to find our daily lives. I would like to see your business activities presented creative ways to convey MOL’s initiatives to everyone. based on this perspective. (Female, 40s, consumer) Q3: It was a revelation that there were hybrids in the shipping industry, A1: Thank you for your request. As you point out, shipping companies not just in the car world. That impressed me. It’s a wonderful initiative. mainly do business with other corporations, so there are few opporI came away with a sense of the value of approaching zero emissions tunities to interact directly with the public, and some people are not in everything through further technological improvement. (Female, very familiar with what we do as a result. In our Environmental and 40s, company employee) Social Report, therefore, we introduce MOL’s business activities from A3: Shipping is a highly energy-efficient mode of transport compared to the standpoint of how we support people’s lives and industry so that other forms of transportation, but we will continue being sufficiently readers may better understand the ocean transport industry. In this aware of the environmental impact of our business activities and year’s report, the introduction of MOL’s business was expanded and continue to proactively develop environmentally sensitive ships the report was designed with more visuals to appeal to people’s powered by next-generation fuels. sense of sight, and not just text. We worked in particular to make the report even more interesting for readers. Q4: I would like to see MOL take advantage of the fact that its business involves traversing the world’s oceans and become more involved Q2: It was a real eye-opener to read in Feature 2, “Enhancing Safe in delivering donated items from Japan and other goods to impovOperation,” that there are pirates even today. The ocean has many erished regions. I would also like to see MOL contribute to local risks and they can all end up being fatal. I really learned the truth of educational activities. (Male, 50s, customer) that. In terms of safety as well, the explanations were very easy to follow and I read the section with a great deal of interest. I imagine A4: Thank you for your comments. Utilizing the MOL Group’s resources for captains, having the “call center” must be very reassuring. I also and worldwide network, we help transport relief supplies such as think it is great that MOL has a training vessel for new seafarers. shoes for children in Zambia and medical vehicles for Cambodia. In The report would be even better if it contained comments from new addition, in Tokyo and Kobe, we hold tours of shipping terminals for employees. (Male, 30s, customer) junior and senior high school students. You can find more information on the MOL Group’s social contribution activities in the CSR/ A2: Thank you for your valuable feedback. Rigorously ensuring safe Environment section of MOL’s website. operation is an absolute imperative for MOL. We carry out various initiatives to be a world leader in this area. In this year’s report, we http://www.mol.co.jp/csr-e/index.html Of the Report’s Main Sections: “Impressionable Sections” and “Sections Needing Improvement” (Multiple responses), and “Particularly Important Sections for a Shipping Company” (Up to five responses) (%) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 MOL Group Businesses For Acceleration of Business Development in Growing Markets Enhancing Safe Operation Environmental Strategy Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake CSR Program Targets and Results Corporate Governance, etc. Safe Operation Environmental Targets and Results Approaches to Tackling Global Warming and Preventing Air Pollution Caring for Land-based Staff Caring for Seafarers n Impressionable Sections n Sections Needing Improvement n Particularly Important Sections for a Shipping Company 46 Environmental and Social Report 2012 Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2012) Name: Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. President: Koichi Muto Number of Group companies: 399 (The parent company Shareholders’ equity: ¥637.4 billion and consolidated subsidiaries) Number of shares issued: 1,206,286,115 Group fleet: 954 vessels, 67,420 thousand DWT Number of shareholders: 116,681 Head Office: 1-1 Toranomon 2-chome, Share listings: Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8688, Fukuoka stock exchanges Japan Business: Multi-modal transport mainly by Branches and offices in Japan: Nagoya, Kansai (Osaka), ocean-going vessels Kyushu (Fukuoka), Hiroshima Number of MOL Group employees: 9,431 (The parent company and URL: http://www.mol.co.jp consolidated subsidiaries) Consolidated Subsidiaries in Japan (59 companies)* 1. Bulkships (5) 4. Associated Businesses (23) MOL LNG Transport Co., Ltd., Mitsui O.S.K. Kinkai, Ltd., Chugoku Shipping Ube Port Service Co., Ltd., MOL Career Support, Ltd., M.O. Tourist Co., Ltd., Agencies Ltd., Tokyo Marine Co., Ltd., Nissan Motor Car Carrier Co., Ltd. Daibiru Facility Management Ltd., Kosan Kanri Service West Corporation, Kitanihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd., Kusakabe Maritime Engineering Co., Ltd., 2. Containerships (8) Green Kaiji Kaisha, Ltd., Green Shipping, Ltd., Kobe Towing Co., Ltd., Japan Utoc Corporation, Utoc Logistics Corporation, Utoc Stevedoring CorporaExpress Co., Ltd. (Yokohama), Japan Express Co., Ltd. (Kobe), Japan Express tion, Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (Japan), Ltd., MOL Logistics (Japan) Co., Ltd., Packing & Transport Co., Ltd., MOL Kaiji Co., Ltd., Mitsui O.S.K. Passenger International Container Transport Co., Ltd., Shosen Koun Co., Ltd., Chiba Line, Ltd., Mitsui O.S.K. Kosan Co., Ltd., MOL Techno-Trade, Ltd., Daibiru Utoc Corporation Corporation, Ikuta & Marine Co., Ltd., Nihon Tug-Boat Co., Ltd., Japan Hydrographic Charts & Publications Co., Ltd., Kosan Kanri Service Co., Ltd., 3. Ferry and Domestic Transport (13): Hokuso Kohatsu K.K. MOL Ferry Co., Ltd., Ferry Sunflower Limited., Diamond Line K.K., MOL Naikou, Ltd., Blue Sea Network Co., Ltd., Blue Highway Express Kyushu 5. Others (10) Co., Ltd., Blue Highway Service K.K., Kanki Unyu Co., Ltd., Kanki Express MOL Adjustment, Ltd., MOL Cableship Ltd., MOL Ship Tech Inc., MOL Co., Ltd., Sunflower Marine Service, Bantan Renraku Kisen Co., Ltd., Beppu Ship Management Co., Ltd., MOL Marine Consulting, Ltd., MOL AccountPort Service Co., Ltd., Meigan Kaikyou Ferry Co., Ltd. ing Co., Ltd., MOL Engineering Co., Ltd., MOL Ocean Expert Co., Ltd., MOL Information Systems, Ltd., Mitsui Kinkai Kisen Co., Ltd. * As of June 30, 2012 Overseas Network (39 nations and regions) Europe Asia U.K., Germany, Italy, Austria, China, South Korea, Taiwan, The Philippines, Vietnam, The Netherlands, Belgium, France, Cambodia, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Poland India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka North America Middle East ARHUS U.S.A Lebanon, U.A.E., Qatar, Oman ASHDOD LAHORE GURGAON AHMEDABAD VERAVAL YANGON PUNE TUTICORIN HAI YAI CAI MEP Central and LIMA South America Mexico, Panama, Brazil, Chile CURITIBA Africa Ghana, Nigeria, South Africa, Cote d’Ivoire CHRIST CHURCH Oceania Australia, New Zealand Environmental and Social Report 2012 47 http://www.mol.co.jp [For inquiries] Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. CSR and Environment Office, Corporate Planning Division 1-1, Toranomon 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8688 Japan Tel: +81-3-3587-7063 Fax: +81-3-3587-7702 E-mail: plemo@molgroup.com This Environmental and Social Report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC)-certified paper made of wood from responsibly managed forests. It was also printed using waterless printing and vegetable oil inks. Printed in Japan
