Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Overview Kimberly-Clark Values Kimberly-Clark was founded on the principles of selling quality products, Our values are the fabric of our company, and define how we work with and are providing good customer service, judged by consumers, our business partand dealing fairly with our employees ners, investors and one another. and all with whom we work. Authentic—We continue our heritage of These principles have served as the honesty, integrity and courageously doing foundation upon which our company has the right thing grown, and today they continue to guide us in our commitment to sustainability. Accountable—We take ownership of our business and our future Innovative—We are committed to new ideas that add value Caring—We respect each other and care for the communities where we live and work Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 1 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report A Letter from Successes in 2011 As we look back on 2011, we are proud Our CEO of our achievements: • W e conducted social initiatives in At Kimberly-Clark, our business 23 countries, including cash and success entails providing people product donations totaling more than with the essentials for a better life $32 million while conserving the natural • M ore than 11,000 employees commitresources on which we all depend. ted to making positive environmental changes in their lives through our Practicing sustainability is part of the Small Steps for Sustainability prowork we do every day. A key component gram. We also recognized significant of our Global Business Plan calls for sustainability accomplishments by our increasing the positive impact of our susemployees with the presentation of tainability efforts. That’s why in 2011, we our inaugural Crystal Tree Awards. launched Sustainability 2015, the most Tom Falk comprehensive sustainability strategy Chairman & CEO • K imberly-Clark and the World Wildlife in our company’s history. Sustainability Fund (WWF) announced a global essential needs of people through our 2015 reflects the full circle of our social agreement with WWF’s Global Forest products and our social and environmenresponsibilities—to contribute more to & Trade Network (GFTN) tal actions. the environmental, social and economic • W e initiated water-replenishment success in the communities we operate During 2011, we built a solid foundation projects in India, Israel, Colombia and in around the world. that has set the stage for ongoing susSpain, with a total anticipated return to tainability success with our Sustainability communities of 205 million gallons SUSTAINABILITY 2015 2015 strategy. We’re making strides in our talent strategy to become a more • W e became the first U.S. branded REFLECTS THE FULL consumer tissue maker to offer tisperformance-driven culture by empowersue products certified by the Forest ing our people. We’re working on a new CIRCLE OF OUR SOCIAL Stewardship Council (FSC) to North social responsibility strategy that will help American consumers, while Kimberlyus to continue to support communities RESPONSIBILITIES Clark Professional expanded its FSC in which we do business, while using our certification to more than 95 percent brands to improve lives and communities of its tissue and towel lines in North around the globe. A major growth area of our Global America. We also expanded FSC cerBusiness Plan is in emerging markets, tification on tissue products in China, Our focused approach to innovation will with a focus on Latin America, Russia Taiwan and Australia. help reduce the environmental impact of and China. In 2011, Kimberly-Clark our products throughout their lifecycles • K imberly-Clark’s Huggies brand team International achieved net sales growth and provide social benefits to our expanded its diaper composting of 13 percent, and for the first time, our customers. We finalized a new Social initiatives through our partnership with Personal Care business in KimberlyCompliance Policy and audit program Envirocomp. Plans are in place to open Clark International is larger than in for rollout in 2012. This program will a second Kimberly-Clark-sponsored North America. As a global company, provide greater confidence that our suprecycling plant in New Zealand in we must widen our circle of influence in ply chain operates with values similar to 2012, and we’re exploring locations for these emerging markets and strengthen Kimberly-Clark’s and seeks to ensure additional international plants. our engagement with stakeholders to that we honor the principles of the United understand how we can best serve the Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 2 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report While we are proud of our 2011 achievements, we fell short in reaching our water-reduction targets, and we continue to be challenged in finding alternatives to landfill for the residue from deinked wastepaper at some of our tissue mills. Our Sustainability 2015 strategy gives us confidence to look to the future with optimism. And as we stretch to be increasingly sustainable in environmental matters, with employee relations and in our supply chain, we know there are formidable challenges ahead. However, the passion and dedication of our business teams will carry us forward, because we believe sustainability creates value for all—our business, our investors and our communities—today and for generations to come. Tom Falk Chairman & CEO Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 3 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report An Overview of More information on our products and businesses can be found on our website, Our Business www.kimberly-clark.com. At the end of 2011, the company had Kimberly-Clark is a global approximately 57,000 full-time employcompany focused on leading the ees and manufacturing facilities in 36 world in providing essentials for countries. Our global headquarters are in a better life. Dallas, Texas. Kimberly-Clark is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Our products—marketed under such Stock Exchange (symbol: KMB). Sales in brands as Kleenex, Scott, Andrex, 2011 were $20.8 billion. Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex, Poise and Depend—are used by approximately a quarter of the world’s population every OUR PRODUCTS ARE USED IN day in more than 175 countries. MORE THAN 175 COUNTRIES Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 4 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark has four Consumer Tissue Facial tissue, bathroom tissue, Kimberly-Clark Health Care Surgical drapes and gowns, infectionglobal businesses: paper towels: 2011 sales: $6.8 billion control products, face masks, exam gloves, respiratory products, pain manKimberly-Clark Professional agement and other disposable medical Disposable health & hygiene products products: 2011 sales: $1.6 billion Personal Care for away-from-home use, including facial Diapers, training/youth/swim pants, tissue, bathroom tissue, paper towels, feminine care, incontinence care, infant wipers, protective/absorbent products for and child wipes: 2011 sales: $9.1 billion do-it-yourself use, safety products and nonwovens: 2011 sales: $3.3 billion KIMBERLY-CLARK 8% HEALTH CARE KIMBERLY-CLARK 16% PROFESSIONAL 44% PERSONAL CARE CONSUMER TISSUE 32% Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 5 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Our Company by the Numbers materials used in 2011 (MMT) 0.07 ADHESIVES 0.02 0.50 PACKAGING POLYMER-BASED COMPONENTS 0.72 POLYMERS 2.48 VIRGIN FIBER 1.05 RECYCLED FIBER Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 6 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Packaging per Metric Ton of Production 0.103 0.104 Employees by region in 2011 10 11 14% EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA 8,222 36% LATIN AMERICA 20,351 24% ASIA-PACIFIC 13,789 26% NORTH AMERICA 14,889 Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 7 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report net sales for 2011 ($b) 7.5 ASIA, LATIN AMERICA & OTHER 10.5 UNITED STATES 3.4 EUROPE 0.7 CANADA Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 8 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Our Presence in As we grow in emerging markets, the broader distribution of our products Emerging Markets helps enable more people around the world to live better lives. Our goal is to provide products that make people’s One of the core business strategies lives healthier, safer and more secure. of our Global Business Plan is to For example, in India and Brazil, Huggies drive growth throughout Kimberlybrand diapers help prevent infant rashes Clark International with a particular and infections that can result from a lack focus on Latin America, Russia of clean diapers. With the introduction and China. of the Kotex brand in the marketplace in Malaysia, young women can feel more Growth for Kimberly-Clark International secure every day, including in the middle refers to growth of the business, growth of their menstrual cycles, and women at of our brands, and growth of Kimberlysocial occasions in Korea can feel more Clark’s positive contribution to local and relaxed and confident because of the global communities. availability of our Poise brand. In 2011, Kimberly-Clark International accounted for 36 percent of net sales for OUR PRODUCTS MAKE the company and worked to improve its management of global brands and innoPEOPLE’S LIVES HEALTHIER, vation initiatives to leverage the benefits of the company’s global scale. It also SAFER AND MORE SECURE helped us move toward our Sustainability 2015 vision to meet needs in our emergOur focus moving forward is to increase ing markets. our understanding of social and sustainability needs in emerging markets and provide our innovative products to meet those needs. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 9 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Our Approach to In addition to our Sustainability 2015 goals, we have identified four focus Sustainability areas in which we believe we can take an industry-leading role. These areas include forest conservation, access to water and In 2011, Kimberly-Clark announced sanitation in communities, responsible its Sustainability 2015 strategy and solutions for postconsumer waste, and five-year goals under three pillars: providing access to essentials for a betPeople, Planet, Products. ter life through our global social giving programs developed in partnership with This strategy is advancing the progress our brands’ health and hygiene products. we’ve already made in areas such as These are areas where tremendous need waste and energy reductions, third-partyexists today, and we can make a positive certified fiber sourcing and workplace impact. safety. It is providing greater focus in other areas, notably our Kimberly-Clark The scope of these challenges is vast, Foundation and social initiatives, and with such as addressing postconsumer this strategy, we are setting new sustainSuhas Apte disposal of our products, which is why Vice President, ability priorities as we embrace a lifecycle we will build and expand on our engageGlobal Sustainability approach to our products. ments with our employees, customers, Our strategy sets challenging goals that suppliers, environmental and social nonIn short, Sustainability 2015 represents a we embrace with enthusiasm, while governmental organizations (NGOs), and shift in our thinking—from a focus on our acknowledging that they will require us to industry. Through cooperative efforts, we own operational footprint to a broader become more innovative to achieve them. believe we can make a difference. view of our responsibilities throughout Key elements of the strategy include: our value chain. This holistic approach The focus of our Sustainability 2015 stratreflects the ever-increasing number and • E mbedding our sustainability initiaegy has set a path to ensure long-term complexity of environmental and societal tives into our 2015 Global Business success for our company and access to issues facing our global communities, and Plan essentials for communities around the recognizes that sustainability in its multiple world. At the same time, we understand aspects is an integral part of our business. • F ocusing on innovation in our prodthat addressing the global issues in the A sustainability vision is no longer a “nice ucts throughout their lifecycle 21st century cannot be done without to have,” it is now a strategic imperative. • E nhancing corporate and brand equity looking further into the future. through focused social programs We invite you to join us on our journey to • Measuring our progress. a more sustainable future. A SUSTAINABILITY VISION IS NO LONGER A “NICE Suhas Apte TO HAVE,” IT’S A Vice President, Global Sustainability STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 10 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Our Sustainability Sustainability 2015 is built around a framework of three pillars: People, Planet, 2015 Strategy Products. It integrates elements that seek to: Sustainability 2015 reflects • Sustain and build healthy working the changing landscape for environments Kimberly-Clark and the • Develop programs to address communities we serve. the United Nations Millennium Development Goals It builds on the success of our previous enterprise-wide sustainability • Innovate products and business models programs, which began in 1994 and to reach emerging consumers and helped drive our environmental perforcustomers mance. Sustainability 2015 comprises • Focus our social programs on global broad-reaching social platforms, such as issues and Kimberly-Clark communities addressing the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, as well as more • Implement programs to reduce our Kimberly-Clark, with milestones to judge specific objectives, such as reducing energy and water use, greenhouse gas our movement forward. For each, we our energy and water use. By integratemissions, water discharges and waste have defined roadmaps to guide and ing these elements into our company’s generation measure our progress. We report on our agenda and Global Business Plan, we 2011 progress against our Sustainability are working to sustain healthy working environments and communities. SUSTAINABILITY 2015 IS AN 2015 goals in this report, and we will continue to do so in future years. Sustainability 2015 is an integral component of our Global Business Plan. It INTEGRAL COMPONENT OF weaves a sustainable business mindset and practice into everything we do, and it OUR GLOBAL BUSINESS PLAN allows opportunities for employees, busiOur Sustainability 2015 goals are clear nesses and brands on a global basis to and measurable. Some are a continuatake an active role in achieving Kimberlytion of our Vision 2010 program, which Clark’s vision of leading the world in addressed critical global environmental essentials for a better life. issues. Others—under our new People and Product pillars—are new objectives that reflect the evolution of our sustainability strategy. Many of these goals reflect an ongoing agenda for Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 11 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report 2011 Progress Against Sustainability 2015 Goals PEOPLE Zero workplace fatalities O Socially focused programs in all K-C communities 62% standards 100% participation by key suppliers in K-C's communicated program to implement social compliance standards to key suppliers PLANET 25% reduction in water use and maintain quality of discharge O.9% 100% fiber from certified suppliers 99.9% 5% absolute reduction in GHG 1.2% 21.4% waste sent Zero manufacturing waste to landfill to landfills PRODUCTS 250 million new consumers touched tracking has begun 25% of 2015 net sales from environmentally innovative products 13% 20% reduction in packaging environmental impact 4% Specifics regarding our progress against each of these goals are discussed in detail within each section of this report and in the performance data summary where applicable. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 12 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Our Sustainability CHAIRMAN & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Advisory Board Kimberly-Clark’s Sustainability Advisory Board (SAB), formed in GLOBAL STRATEGIC LEADERSHIP TEAM SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY BOARD 2007, is made up of seven external thought leaders who possess a diversity of expertise and cultural CONSUMER BUSINESS experience. SUSTAINABILITY The SAB advises Kimberly-Clark’s Global PERSONAL CONSUMER K-C K-C IMPLEMENTATION Strategic Leadership Team and Global CARE TISSUE PROFESSIONAL HEALTH CARE & COORDINATION Sustainability staff on sustainability TEAM issues and best practices. It provides an independent view of our sustainability programs, as well as of their potential risks and opportunities for our business. BUSINESS UNIT LEADERSHIP / BUSINESS UNIT & REGIONAL KCI REGIONAL In addition, the SAB provides an external assessment of our sustainability report. For this report, Timothy Smith, senior vice REGIONAL / COUNTRY MANAGEMENT TEAMS president of Walden Asset Management, provides an overview of our progress, and input from all members of the SAB terms; Malini Mehra, Andrew Winston • K  en Strassner (USA), former vice can be found on each of our pillar overview and Ricardo Young Silva their first. president, Global Environment, Safety, pages for People, Planet and Products. Regulatory and Scientific Affairs at • G eorge Carpenter (USA), president Kimberly-Clark THE SAB ADVISES ON of Fraser River Strategies and the for• A  ndrew Winston (USA), coauthor of mer director of Corporate Sustainable the best seller Green to Gold, author SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES AND Development at Procter & Gamble of Green Recovery and founder of • C laude Fussler (France), former vice Winston Eco-Strategies, an organizaBEST PRACTICES president of Dow Chemical and former director of Stakeholder Relations tion that helps leading companies use environmental strategy to grow at the World Business Council for and prosper SAB members serve for no more than Sustainable Development three consecutive two-year terms unless • R  icardo Young Silva (Brazil), former a particular member possesses highly • M alini Mehra (India), founder and executive president of Ethos Institute, unusual expertise that benefits the corpoCEO of the Centre for Social Markets, a leading corporate social responration and the Advisory Board, and each a nonprofit organization that has sibility organization dedicated to member receives an annual stipend and pioneered work on sustainability and mobilizing, encouraging and helping travel expenses to attend meetings. corporate responsibility in India and its companies manage their businesses Diaspora since 2000 in a socially responsible way As of June 30, 2012, George Carpenter, • T imothy Smith (USA), senior vice Claude Fussler, Tim Smith and Ken president, Environment, Social Strassner will complete their second and Governance Group at Walden Asset Management Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 13 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report How We Engage Our and social issues in emerging markets. It also helped us to identify local NGOs in Customers: Innovation showcases, product innovation educational sessions, Stakeholders certain emerging markets that could aid product pilot programs, and senior shopin the development and implementation per training of our signature programs for waterStakeholder engagement plays resource development and increasing Shareholder and Investment a vital role in achieving the access to our essential health and Community: Annual report (10-K), invessustainability goals under hygiene products for people in need. tor website, public SEC filings, ratings, Kimberly-Clark’s Global Business indices and questionnaires, investor and Plan 2015. Our engagement takes many forms— shareholder meetings, analyst-sponsored from one-way information channels, conferences and distribution of our susOur stakeholders give us valuable to consumer and customer research, tainability report insights into our products and operatto solution-sharing dialogues with ing processes and provide guidance on environmental organizations, to funding We highlight a selection of our stakeour progress and ambitions. While the and implementation partnerships with holder engagements and initiatives in the majority of our engagements are positive, humanitarian organizations. following pages, as well as elsewhere some conversations are challenging. We in this report. In the Quality & Safety welcome both forms of feedback to help Key stakeholder groups and methods of section of this site, we discuss our 2011 us understand the concerns of NGOs, engagement include: product recalls and related protocol. consumers and customers, communities as a whole, investors and employees. Consumers: Marketing and promotions, cause-related campaigns, product STAKEHOLDERS GIVE US labeling, consumer satisfaction surveys, consumer focus groups, websites, social VALUABLE INSIGHTS media, social media communities, and telephone and direct mail feedback INTO OUR PRODUCTS AND Employees: Employee engagement PROCESSES survey, employee recognition programs, diversity and inclusion affinity groups, and Listening to Consumers sustainability communities of practice We invite consumers, those shoppers who buy our products in stores and Communities: Local media, community online, to share their opinions and sugand volunteer programs, philanthropy, gestions in a number of ways: on Web community partners and matching gifts chat and email, through online communiprograms, and community and/or govties on social media channels, by toll-free ernment meetings phone and by mail. Kimberly-Clark’s Consumer Services Team engaged with Suppliers: Sustainability guide for supplinearly 700,000 consumers in 2011. In 2010, we began an internal process ers, risk assessments, social compliance Kimberly-Clark employees respond to of mapping our stakeholders and standards and fiber supplier audits consumer complaints and provide infordetermining engagement priorities and mation on the nature of complaints to methodologies, as well as implementaNGOs and other interest groups: internal compliance officers and business tion and monitoring strategies. This Sustainability report, direct engagement management. In 2011, Kimberly-Clark effort has led us to identify and engage and joint initiatives conducted 14,000 consumer satisfaction NGOs that are thought leaders on fiber surveys in North America and Australia. More than 96 percent of consumers Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 14 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report responded favorably regarding their In September 2011, Kimberly-Clark In Europe, we regularly integrate sustainexperience with our Consumer Services joined two dozen leading U.S. vendors ability into customer top-to-top sessions Teams, while 92 percent of consumat a Sustainability Summit sponsored by and innovation days. For example, after ers indicated their intent to purchase the U.S. operations of Ahold. The Summit Sainsbury’s launched its new “20 by 20” Kimberly-Clark products in the future. served as the first step in exploring colsustainability vision, Kimberly-Clark used laborative corporate responsibility efforts. an innovation session to demonstrate Listening to Customers Breakout sessions focused on such how our sustainability strategy could be We value our business customers and issues as packaging and transportation, mutually beneficial for this key retailer. strive to play an indispensable role in as well as health and wellness, hunger We also collaborated with Tesco, sharing helping them achieve their sustainability relief and food waste. information about the carbon footprint of goals. Throughout our global operations, our product ranges and operations, as we provide opportunities to work directly We periodically conduct educational part of understanding their commitment with our customers through forums and sessions with major customers to disto reduce the product impacts by 30 perinnovation summits that help us in our cuss emerging sustainability trends and cent. Our work in Europe was recognized product and service innovation. consumer insights in the paper products by a key private-label customer, Coop category, as well as Kimberly-Clark’s goals Italia, in its Coop for Kyoto project. Out of Kimberly-Clark played a major role in and commitment to increasing the sus101 companies, Kimberly-Clark won first formalizing a partnership between two tainability of our products. For example, place by delivering 10,000 tons of CO2 customer-driven sustainability efforts. in 2011, we met with representatives savings in three years through our Alanno As a member of the Consumer Goods from Walgreens to engage in product mill in Italy. Forum (CGF), a global industry network innovation pilots and education initiatives of more than 400 retailers and manurelated to aging trends and their impact on Kimberly-Clark Taiwan launched a facturers, and a founding member of retailers. We also integrated our products “green” campaign in collaboration with The Sustainability Consortium (TSC), into a national Walgreens’ initiative to drive Unilever and Carrefour Taiwan. All three an organization developing science and awareness and education for caregivers of companies produced joint promotional integrated tools to support informed an aging population. In another collaboramaterials featuring global environmental decision-making for product sustainabiltion, we worked with Sam’s Club in the issues and sustainable activities. The ity across the consumer goods industry, U.S. to improve supply chain efficiencies. results of the campaign included a we helped establish a joint program on We were able to replace corrugate with positive perception of the companies’ a global approach to measuring and poly packaging for our Depend brand environmental responsibility, a strengthcommunicating product lifecycles. We adult care product lines and optimize the ening of the business partnership among are also actively involved in the Paper shipping footprints of Scott brand tissue, the three companies and increased sales Working Group at CGF, collaborating Huggies brand diapers and Pull-Ups from the previous year. with environmental groups to harmonize brand training pants. These initiatives forest-certification schemes and to supresulted in fewer trucks on the road, port the goal of zero net deforestation reduced shipping costs for Kimberly-Clark by 2020. and our customer and decreases in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 15 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Stakeholder implementation, as well as funding for scholarships to attract youth who are Engagement— most in need. People United Way Kimberly-Clark is one of about 120 U.S. companies that are members of United We have a number of partnerships Way’s Global Corporate Leadership with international organizations Program. Through our partnership with that support communities. the United Way, we bring education, financial stability and health to communiAmerican Red Cross ties where we live and work. The United In 2011, Kimberly-Clark renewed its Way is the only organization for which we commitment to the American Red Cross conduct a workplace fundraising camAnnual Disaster Giving Program (ADGP), paign, and we match employee pledges a group of 36 member companies providdollar-for-dollar. ing the Red Cross with advance funding that allows the humanitarian organizaprovided medical supplies and equipKimberly-Clark also contributes to United tion to be on the scene of a disaster as ment to 13 countries in Central and South Way efforts in Argentina through its memquickly as possible. America. In addition, 126 Kimberly-Clark bership in Fundación Caminando Juntos, volunteers contributed more than 700 a first-of-its-kind consortium of comThrough our ADGP donation, Kimberlyhours of time to MedShare activities. panies committed to the development Clark provided relief to the people of of a better future for Argentine society. WE HAVE PARTNERED WITH Japan, Haiti, Central America, Thailand Kimberly-Clark, Fundación Caminando and the United States. In its fiscal year Juntos and United Way-Argentina THE BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS 2011 (July 1, 2010 to June 30, 2011), the expanded their partnership in 2011 to American Red Cross worked with partstart a new Kimberly-Clark volunteer OF AMERICA FOR MORE THAN ners in the Red Cross and Red Crescent program that provides financial education network to assist 229 million vulnerable to teenagers. 25 YEARS people in 76 countries. In our People section, we provide In our People section, we provide additional examples of our employee additional examples of our support of Boys & Girls Clubs of America volunteer efforts for the United Way in disaster relief through the American Kimberly-Clark has partnered with Boys the U.S. and Argentina. Red Cross. & Girls Clubs of America for more than 25 years. Since 2005, we have supported • In the U.S., Kimberly-Clark’s 2011 MedShare Family PLUS (Parents Leading, Uniting, national United Way campaign raised For more than a decade, Kimberly-Clark Serving), a 2,000-strong network of more than $6 million, including: and MedShare International have partBoys & Girls Clubs that offers services • $  2.7 million in pledges and gifts from nered to bring critically needed medical to strengthen family stability, develop Kimberly-Clark employees supplies to health facilities around the caregiver competencies and promote world. Kimberly-Clark serves the distinthe healthy development of children. In • $  2.7 million from the Kimberly-Clark guished role as MedShare’s first partner. 2011, Kimberly-Clark provided financial Foundation We entered into our most recent four-year support to allow Family PLUS to expand • $  680,000 from employee-led fundraisagreement in 2008. In 2011, MedShare to new local Clubs. New members will ing events receive training on issues critical to strong families and support in program Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 16 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Stakeholder We also engage with other organizations that support sustainable forests, access to Engagement— water and emissions reductions, including: Planet The Forest Dialogue This independent NGO, originally created by the World Business Council for We engage with a number of Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and industry associations, NGOs and now based at Yale University, brings multilateral organizations to help together environmental groups, indigus understand our environmental enous peoples and the forest industry to footprint, how we can reduce our explore sustainable forest management. impact, and how to help maintain Kimberly-Clark provided $25,000 in national resources for future funding in 2011 and serves on the organigenerations. zation’s steering committee. In the Planet section of this report, World Business Council for we describe our engagements with Sustainable Development The Nature Conservancy the Global Forest & Trade Network of Kimberly-Clark is a member company TNC applies science, reach, expertise the World Wildlife Fund, Greenpeace, and actively participates in WBCSD’s in conservation planning, and on-theConservation International, the Boreal Sustainable Forest Products Industry ground experience to help businesses Business Forum for implementation of Working Group and Water Leadermake better decisions, understand the the Canadian Boreal Forest Agreement, ship Group. value of nature, and ultimately protect and fiber-certification organizations. the environment. In 2011, Kimberly-Clark World Resources Institute Corporate Brazil partnered with TNC to measure Consultative Group WE ENGAGE WITH its water footprint and implement a treeKimberly-Clark is a member company planting program that, when complete, of this collection of forward-thinking ORGANIZATIONS THAT will support water conservation efforts. companies interested in understanding This project builds on the environmental sustainability issues that affect and are SUPPORT SUSTAINABLE redesign of our Neve Compacto brand in affected by the corporate community. The Brazil. Information on this award-winning Group serves as a vehicle for exchanging FORESTS initiative is available in the Planet section valuable thinking about responses to of this report. shared challenges. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 17 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Stakeholder Sustainable Packaging Coalition (SPC) The SPC is a U.S.-based industry workEngagement— ing group dedicated to a more robust environmental vision for packaging. SPC Products encourages members to initiate projects of interest on packaging sustainability within a framework of science-based At Kimberly-Clark, we continually research, supply chain collaborations look for ways to engage with and continuous outreach. Kimberly-Clark and listen to our customers (e.g., participates in SPC strategy projects, retailers, healthcare facilities, champions the selection of new fields of distributors) and consumers to research, and utilizes the tools, database help us better understand their and guidelines developed by SPC to supneeds and drive innovation for port its knowledge of industry practices. their benefit. The Sustainability Consortium Kimberly-Clark is a founding member We are also involved in organizations of The Sustainability Consortium, a coland consortiums with other companies, and environmentally sustainable. The laborative effort of universities, NGOs universities and think tanks to learn best Rigid Packaging Recycling Committee, and businesses. The Consortium works practices and share knowledge that can of which Kimberly-Clark is a member, to build a scientific foundation to drive help us to continually improve our prodfocuses on initiatives to increase recovery innovation that improves consumer products and business. of polypropylene. Recent accomplishuct sustainability through all stages of a product’s lifecycle. In 2011, Kimberlyments include the establishment of new In 2011, we continued our engagement plastic bale specifications, a quantitative Clark was active in the development of an and partnerships with: mixed-plastic bale study, documentation initial draft Category Sustainability Profile for the toilet tissue category. Such proof volume demand and quality requireSustainable Products & Solutions ments for postconsumer polypropylene in files provide accessible and actionable (SPS) Program different applications, and a recycling pilot information to a wide range of companies Kimberly-Clark is a supporting member to recover plastics from grocery stores. on supply chain impacts, allowing orgaof the SPS Program, housed within the nizations to reduce production costs, use multidisciplinary Center for Responsible Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council fewer resources and, potentially, comBusiness at UC Berkeley-Haas School (HPRC) municate benefits to consumers. of Business. Together with Waste HPRC is an industry coalition aimed at Management, we joined the program in OUR COLLABORATIONS LEAD increasing the recycling of health care 2009 to establish the Consumer Products plastics. As a member of the HPRC Sustainable End-of-Life-Management TO LANDFILL AVOIDANCE Board of Directors, Kimberly-Clark Health Track, initiating a new research area within Care is committed to industry collaborathe program. More than 12 faculty and tion leading to landfill avoidance for used student projects have received support medical wastes. Our contributions to The Association of Postconsumer on research topics ranging from Flexible HPRC include co-authoring the publicaPlastic Recyclers (APR) Packaging, Lifecycle Analysis Tools, tion “Design Guidelines for Hospital As a member of APR, Kimberly-Clark Extended Producer Responsibility and Plastics Recycling” and supporting a pilot supports its mission to enhance the Alternative Waste Disposal Technologies. program for hospital recycling of blue development and sustainability of the postconsumer plastics recycling sterilization wrap. industry, seeking new ways to make the recycling of plastics more economically Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 18 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Endorsing Global to a panel discussion on Next Steps in Consumer Engagement on Sustainability. programs, develop a legislative agenda, and coordinate as appropriate on interPrinciples and In addition, Kimberly-Clark participates national regulatory efforts. Kimberly-Clark in member-only meetings on subjects of participates in several of its working Standards common interest. groups. For example, we organized and provided feedback on the FDA’s draft Lacey Act nanotechnology guidance and on its draft Millennium Development Goals The Lacey Act was introduced in 1900 to guidance for infusion pumps. In 2011, we Kimberly-Clark is guided by the United prohibit the transport of illegally captured joined the post-market Policy Working Nations’ MDGs, a set of goals and wildlife. It has been amended several Group to establish AdvaMed’s policy in targets meant to eradicate extreme times, most recently in June 2008 when this area. poverty, hunger, illiteracy and a number the U.S. Congress extended its protecof devastating diseases. We use the MDGs as a guide for the programs and tion to plants, including timber, paper and other forest products. THIS REPORT SERVES AS OUR initiatives we are planning in support of our Sustainability 2015 goals. As specific Kimberly-Clark is a member of the COMMUNICATION ON programs emerge, we will discuss how they align with the MDGs. Lacey Act Defense National Consensus Committee, a newly formed group made PROGRESS TO THE UNGC up of companies, associations and orgaUnited Nations Global Compact nizations affected by the Act, as well as United States Council for International As a signatory to the UNGC, we are leading environmental groups. The comBusiness (USCIB) committed to upholding the Compact’s mittee’s purpose is to create a standard Kimberly-Clark recently joined the USCIB, 10 principles on human rights, labor that will provide clarity in the Act’s regulawhich promotes open markets, comstandards, the environment and antitory guidelines and enforcement rules, petitiveness and innovation, sustainable corruption, working within our sphere of including the notion of “due care.” The development and corporate responsibility influence to encourage their support. This goal is to provide a common understandsupported by international engagement report serves as our Communication on ing of the regulatory framework within and prudent regulation. USCIB presents Progress to the UNGC. which Kimberly-Clark and other organizaAmerican business views on a wide range tions operate, and to develop an effective of issues—from environmental regulation Corporate Eco Forum means to protect against inadvertently to trade policy to labor relations—directly Kimberly-Clark became a member of obtaining illegal wood fiber. to U.S. policy makers, U.N. and EU the Corporate Eco Forum in 2010. The officials and a host of other governments Forum is a community of global leaders, AdvaMed Technology and Regulation and groups. representing 18 industries and $3 trillion (T&R) Group in assets, dedicated to advancing susAdvaMed T&R Group is an umbrella tainable business. At the Forum’s annual regulatory group under AdvaMed (a trade meeting in June 2011, Kimberly-Clark’s association representing makers of medisustainability leadership team contributed cal devices, equipment, software and supplies). Its role is to coordinate efforts to accelerate market access, pursue reasonable post-market and inspection Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 19 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Corporate Governance and Ethics Kimberly-Clark has four core values—authentic, accountable, innovative, and caring. These values guide our everyday behaviors and are buttressed by a strong and long-standing governance structure, Our Board of Directors and its various They also receive feedback from an which comprises: committees provide oversight and guidindependent sustainability advisory board ance on all aspects of our businesses that was established to ensure that outside • A Board of Directors that is over and our relationships with our stakeperspectives on these topics were being 92 percent independent and includes holders. Our annual proxy statement solicited and evaluated. The Board also independent board committees contains detailed information on our receives benchmarking reports on how Board and committee structure, the the corporation’s programs compare with • A clear reporting structure and lines of independence of the members, and the those of other companies and on developaccountability responsibilities and meeting frequency of ing best practices. Finally, each year the • A global Code of Conduct each committee. The Board has estabBoard conducts an evaluation of itself, as lished and approved the framework for does each of its committees, to assess • A comprehensive policy platform, our fundamental and operating policies whether it is meeting its oversight responincluding policies on human rights, sibilities; the Board then develops action labor, diversity and inclusion, and environmental issues 12 OUT OF OUR 13 plans for any opportunities identified. • S trong oversight and communications mechanisms, including oversight by BOARD MEMBERS ARE Kimberly-Clark Corporation also has a robust compliance and ethics program. the Kimberly-Clark Board of Directors on key environmental, social and govINDEPENDENT A key component of that program is our anti-corruption policies and procedures ernance issues which are designed to ensure compliance and procedures. Among those are our with global anti-corruption standards, We provide greater detail on some of policies relating to citizenship, environincluding the United States Foreign these in this report and on our corporate mental stewardship, sustainability and Corrupt Practices Act and the United website, www.kimberly-clark.com. corporate social responsibility. As part Kingdom Bribery Act. On this site, visit our pages on human of their oversight role, the Board and rights, labor relations, and diversity and its committees receive regular reports inclusion. from management on these topics, the corporation’s goals and progress against these goals. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 20 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Key aspects of our anti-corruption • C ontracts with third-party agents conpotential unreported fraud or other program include: tain anti-corruption / bribery covenants violations of Code of Conduct • M ultiple channels for seeking guid• A  nnual survey of enterprise workforce • P rohibit both government and comance or reporting potential violations to confirm understanding of Code of mercial bribery and corruption of Code of Conduct, anti-corruption or Conduct and that all potential violations • P rohibit “facilitating payments” even other corporate policies. Reports may have been timely and properly reported where permitted under local laws be made anonymously We regularly assess the quality and effec• G lobal standard applied throughout • S trict anti-retaliation policy in support tiveness of our compliance and ethics our enterprise of anyone who reports a violation of program and continue to believe that our Code of Conduct • R egular training of employees on anti-corruption program is effective and Code of Conduct, anti-corruption and • E xperienced investigative team that that we are in compliance with applicable related ethics topics investigates all reports of alleged fraud anti-corruption laws in all material respects. or other violations of Code of Conduct • E xperienced internal audit team that actively audits for and evaluates Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 21 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report About This Report • F  ocus our social programs on global issues and Kimberly-Clark communities Reporting Standards This report was prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 The Kimberly-Clark Corporation Reporting Guidelines, which provide a 2011 Sustainability Report, • Implement programs to reduce energy standard framework for organizations Full Circle, is written for our and water use, greenhouse gas to report on their social, environmental, employees, governmental and emissions, water discharges and governance and economic performance. waste generation nongovernmental organiza-­ We are reporting at a GRI Application tions, consumers, customers, Level A+. For more information, please This Report demonstrates our sustainshareholders, business partners, see our GRI Index. ability efforts during Kimberly-Clark’s community members and others fiscal year (January 1–December 31, with an interest in our approach More information on the G3.1 Reporting 2011) and is aligned with disclosures in to corporate citizenship. Guidelines and application levels is availour 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. able at the GRI website. Reported data compare performance It details our progress since our 2010 over a five-year period (2007–2011), report, published in June 2011, and outWe draw on guidance from the which is considered best practice. As lines our future commitments and progress Greenhouse Gas Protocol for our carbon we have set some new goals under our against our Sustainability 2015 goals. reporting. Environmental measurement and People, Planet and Products pillars, calculations are based on data from the readers will see some new metrics, Kimberly-Clark Sustainability Database, THIS REPORT WAS starting with a 2010 baseline. We are also striving for an A+ GRI rating, which which houses environmental and production data for all of our global manufacturing PREPARED USING THE GRI requires some new data points that we have not published in past reports. facilities and offices. Data are collected quarterly from each of these locations. G3.1 GUIDELINES This is Kimberly-Clark’s ninth corporate Share Your Thoughts Sustainability Report. This report and past As we consider the most important We welcome your comments and sugreports can be downloaded here. Our sustainability issues for Kimberly-Clark, gestions for future reporting. Please operations in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, we look no further than our Sustainability contact us at: China and South Korea also produce 2015 strategy and its three pillars of country-specific sustainability reports. People, Planet and Products. This stratSustainability@kcc.com egy integrates elements that will enable 800-331-3422 Report Boundary Kimberly-Clark to seek to: (within the United States and Canada) Data in this report are from the period 920-721-8355 January 1, 2011, through December 31, • S  ustain and build healthy working (outside of the United States and Canada) 2011. Unless otherwise noted, data environments cover our worldwide consolidated (wholly Or by mail: • D  evelop programs to address and majority-owned) operations at the United Nations Millennium December 31, 2011. Locations that were Kimberly-Clark Corporation Development Goals sold or operations that were restrucDept. KCSR tured as a result of the pulp and tissue • Innovate products and business P.O. Box 2020 restructuring actions are excluded when models to reach emerging consumers Neenah, WI 54957 appropriate. Financial information is given and customers in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 22 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Forward-looking Information This publication contains forward-looking Verifying Our Efforts information within the meaning of U.S. federal securities laws and is based on expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us. There can be The content in this report has been no assurance that these events will occur reviewed by the Kimberly-Clark or that our results will be as estimated. Sustainability Reporting team, Forward-looking statements speak only internal subject-matter experts, as of the date they were made, and we and our Legal and Internal Audit undertake no obligation to publicly update teams to ascertain that reported them. In light of the risks and uncertaindata are accurate. ties involved, you should read the risk factors and forward-looking information Our greenhouse gas (GHG), waste sections of Kimberly-Clark’s Annual and water data were verified by WSP Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Environment & Energy. December 31, 2011. These factors and items described in our other SEC filings, Our Sustainability Advisory Board (SAB) among others, could cause our future reviewed a draft of this report and proresults to differ from those expressed in vided a number of recommendations any forward-looking statements. here. We have incorporated many of them in this report and will consider others for our 2012 report. We also include statements by members of the SAB in their entirety. You can find these statements here, here and here. THIS REPORT HAS BEEN ASSURED BY A 3RD PARTY, TWO TOMORROWS Two Tomorrows (North America) Inc., an international corporate sustainability agency, conducted a comprehensive assurance process using AA1000AS (2008) to evaluate the materiality, responsiveness and inclusivity of our reporting. Two Tomorrows provides a letter of assurance, which can be found here. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 23 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Letter from Our satisfied with their progress. The interaction with the SAB builds a creative Sustainability tension helping to identify new corporate responsibility and long-term strategy Advisory Board issues that need addressing, as well as pressing for further progress on the current agenda and goals. The Kimberly-Clark Sustainability Advisory Board (SAB) is composed This report is produced following the of individuals from varied skills Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the gold and backgrounds. standard for sustainability reporting, resulting in a vigorous and comprehensive Our experience is diverse, covering checklist of issues covered in the report. private sector and NGO experience, govThe report also strives to include specific ernment and multilateral bodies blended metrics, issue by issue, so progress or with expert perspectives on environmenchallenges are buttressed by specific data tal strategy, industry, socially responsible over time rather than generalizations. Timothy Smith investing, and international development. Senior Vice President, We bring together a deep common At the same time, the SAB believes that Walden Asset Management knowledge of sustainability issues and it is important to specifically note chalover the last two years. Diaper recycling challenges. Kimberly-Clark has asked us lenges and areas where Kimberly-Clark experiments are also impressive. for an unvarnished view on this report falls short of goals and objectives and and the company’s progress toward its why. Rigorous self-criticism is vital for Kimberly-Clark’s sustainability goals sustainability goals. a credible report. We believe Kimberlyare placed in three logical categories— Clark has increased coverage of its People, Planet and Products. In this report Kimberly-Clark describes challenges and failures, but should conits “journey to sustainability.” We have tinue to expand those elements into the People had the privilege of watching that journey next report. Board Diversity—Kimberly-Clark’s commove forward with significant speed on mitment to diversity rises right to the WE PARTICULARLY WANT TO some sustainability issues and on others Board level where both women and minormore cautiously. ity Board members are well represented. But our years of experience with the HIGHLIGHT AND COMMEND Statistics on employee diversity in the THE PROGRESS MADE ON top management team, as well as with United States are also provided, although the dozens of managers striving for additional detail would be welcome. SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY leadership on sustainability, has clearly demonstrated to us that Kimberly-Clark In an interesting chart, Kimberly-Clark’s is committed to this “journey,” sees it as factory employee’s entry wage is a business imperative, and is working to We particularly want to highlight and comcompared to the minimum wage, a embed it in the company’s culture and mend the progress made on sustainable useful comparison. business planning. It is becoming part of forestry (with clear commitment and audits how Kimberly-Clark makes its business centrally important for a paper products Planet decisions now and for the future as the company), evaluation of water use and Under the Planet section of the report, company works to be part of the solution. conservation (noting Kimberly-Clark fell Kimberly-Clark describes in thoughtful short of its reduction targets), progress detail the company’s work on fiber certifiAt the same time, neither the SAB nor on labor issues and global supply chain, cation and new initiatives to use recycled Kimberly-Clark management is wholly which has moved forward aggressively material and buy sustainable fiber from Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 24 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report suppliers. Kimberly-Clark is marching a potential high risk to business conKimberly-Clark’s work in this area is forward on its goal of purchasing 100 pertinuity and cost structure, and climate impressive, since four years ago the cent of wood fiber from certified suppliers. change could easily threaten forest sperequirements for and oversight of supSourcing challenges are also explained. cies and natural resources the company plier sustainability records were in the depends on. The new Kimberly-Clark beginning stage. Now Kimberly-Clark’s Another area we suggest more focus internal team has important work to do Code of Conduct standards are clear and on over time is an expanded view of in identifying “risks and adaptations” and baked into the evaluation and selection what the challenges are. The standard in moving forward on this crucial issue. process for suppliers. There is also a sustainability is no longer just competitive phase-in plan starting with 300 finished comparison and hitting all the issues GRI Products product suppliers where Kimberly-Clark suggests, but now includes an underThe Products section also highlights how and suppliers work together to take corstanding of the global pressures facing Kimberly-Clark is working to ensure that rective action as necessary. humanity and how the company contribits products have a reduced environmental utes to both the problems and solutions. impact. This is a challenge for any comThe obvious huge challenge moving Kimberly-Clark is gaining a deeper pany like Kimberly-Clark, since so many of forward for Kimberly-Clark and any other understanding of these macro issues and its products are disposable by definition. company with 700 major suppliers and a is demonstrating more responsibility and total of 30,000 worldwide suppliers is to strategic response to them (such as an Thus through its environmental lifecycle move the process deeper into the supply increasing focus on the full lifecycle of evaluations, Kimberly-Clark evaluates chain and build a vigorous process of product impacts). But more remains to reductions in packaging, what the prodauditing and compliance. be done. uct is made from, how it is made and whether it can be recycled after use. If a This is unending but important work to While the report does not fully address product then becomes “eco-certified”, it support the health and safety and rights of the climate change crisis as yet, we is more appealing to the environmentally workers in the Kimberly-Clark supply chain. anticipate a more clearly stated stance in concerned consumer, a growing constitu2012 when Kimberly-Clark plans to issue ency. And while an internally designed This is also smart business since cona position paper on the subject of climate ‘certification’ program is possibly less sumer investors increasingly care about change. Once published, such a position robust than external verification, we feel human rights and the Kimberly-Clark paper would hopefully put K-C ahead of the program is well designed (see our reputation and brand is strengthened by many companies that have declined to related comments from our other SAB a robust program. address this issue. Kimberly-Clark’s goal members as well). of reducing absolute GHG emissions Conclusion by 5 percent in 2010–2015 is a minimal This sensitivity already transfers to This report is an extensive and substanresponse to the dramatic changes Kimberly-Clark’s business-to-business tial overview of Kimberly-Clark’s goals, needed by business if we are to moderoperations. And since an increasing numobjectives and record on sustainability ate global climate change. Kimberly-Clark ber of companies Kimberly-Clark sells issues. It mirrors progress and describes and other companies that are leaders in to are calling for steady improvements risks and challenges. sustainability need to step up and make on sustainability issues, Kimberly-Clark’s imaginative and dramatic changes in responsiveness is definitely good busiIt is a work in progress with an operative energy uses and greenhouse gas output ness, too. goal of continuous improvement to play their role. moving forward. But a commitment to sustainability is not At present, we believe Kimberly-Clark’s just sensitivity to the environment, but to —Kimberly-Clark Sustainability response is inadequate, both for the labor rights as well. And Kimberly-Clark has Advisory Board company’s global responsibilities and to set an ambitious goal of 100 percent comthe risks to the company itself—carbon pliance by key suppliers to implement their dependency in the value chain represents social compliance and labor standards. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 25 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Independent Claims in the Report, with the exception of financial information related to • Interviews with senior executives and managers in Roswell, GA, Neenah, WI, Assurance Kimberly-Clark’s Annual Report, were and Irving, TX, who are responsible for included in the scope of our assurmanagement of sustainability issues Statement ance engagement. We used the Global • R eview of Kimberly-Clark’s approach Reporting Initiative (GRI) Quality of to stakeholder engagement, risk Information Principles as Criteria for Two Tomorrows (North America) management, strategic development evaluating performance information. Inc. was retained by Kimberlyand materiality determination. This included interviews with senior manClark Corporation to conduct Responsibilities of Kimberly-Clark agers responsible for engagement an independent assurance of its Corporation’s Management and of the with key stakeholder groups, and 2011 Sustainability Report Assurance Providers specific investigation of stakeholder (“the Report”), as published on the Kimberly-Clark’s senior management engagement activity during the meetcompany’s website. have sole responsibility for preparation of ing of the Sustainability Advisory the Report. Two Tomorrows, in performBoard as well as engagement pracing our assurance work, is responsible tices at two mill locations. to Kimberly-Clark’s management. Our statement, however, represents our • R eview of information Kimberly-Clark independent opinion and is intended provided to Two Tomorrows on its to inform all stakeholders including reporting and management processes Kimberly-Clark’s management. relating to the Principles • T wo site investigations with the Two Tomorrows was not involved in the company’s Fullerton, CA, and Mobile, preparation of any part of the Report. We AL, mills to assess the controls have no other contract with Kimberlyand processes present at the site Clark and this is the third year we have in comparison to the claims made provided assurance. We adopt a balat Enterprise level and to conduct anced approach towards all stakeholders. sample verification of data that is collated into the Report Our team comprised: Todd Cort, Shyla Girvetz and Doug Bannerman. Further • R eview of supporting evidence for key information, including individual compeclaims and data in the Report tencies relating to the team can be found The assurance process was conducted Findings at www.twotomorrows.com. in accordance with AA1000AS (2008). We On the basis of the work conducted, were engaged to provide Type 2 assurBasis of our opinion and with the exceptions outlined below, ance, which covers: nothing came to our attention to sugOur work was designed to gather evidence with the objective of providgest that the Report does not properly • E  valuation of adherence to the describe Kimberly-Clark’s adherence to ing moderate assurance as defined in AA1000APS (2008) principles of incluthe Principles or its performance. AA1000AS (2008). We undertook the sivity, materiality and responsiveness following activities: (“the Principles”) • T  he reliability of specified sustainabil• R  eview of the current sustainability ity performance information issues that could affect Kimberly-Clark and are of interest to stakeholders Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 26 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Observations Materiality: identification of those issues to manage water that includes and Without affecting our assurance opinion that are necessary for stakeholders to explicitly accounts for the impacts of we also provide the following observamake informed judgments concerning growing population, economic develtions on Kimberly-Clark’s adherence to Kimberly-Clark and its impacts. opment and climate change. the three Principles and on the published • R esponsible supplier development: performance information: The Report includes information on Kimberly-Clark has shifted to a global Kimberly-Clark’s material sustainprocurement strategy that is yielding Inclusivity: the participation of stakeability performance issues and should benefits in terms of quality and cost. holders in developing and achieving an enable stakeholders to make informed Performance of suppliers in terms of accountable and strategic response judgments and decisions. While environmental and social impacts, and to sustainability. Kimberly-Clark has identified material efforts to recruit small and medium issues, the process by which the comenterprises are managed separate The Kimberly-Clark Sustainability pany identifies its priorities is not clear. from the global procurement strategy. Advisory Board (SAB) is a strong example For example, the Sustainability 2015 We believe that these efforts could of inclusive management. The SAB Goals reflect stakeholder priorities for the be aligned in the future to provide a has access to the sustainability team, company, but the engagement methods single supplier strategy that balances key managers within the company and decision-making processes used to the priorities of cost, quality, local and to Kimberly-Clark executives (the assess and prioritize stakeholder feedeconomic development, environmental Global Strategic Leadership Team). back is not discussed. performance, safety and human rights. The SAB process is particularly notable for the mechanisms in place to ensure On specific material issues: • F iber: Kimberly-Clark is a leader in the responsiveness of Kimberly-Clark’s mancertification of fiber to more sustainagement team to issues raised by the • P roduct use and waste: Waste able models such as FSC-certified SAB. During the SAB session, we noted generated from the one-time use of forests. We believe that there is room several examples where SAB feedback many products is a material issue to clarify the impacts achieved through has been used to drive management for Kimberly-Clark. The company FSC certification. For example, the decisions on sustainability issues. is pursuing several projects to test FSC provides certification on mixed innovative and market-based solutions sources if greater than 70 percent of The need for greater innovation was for composting or recycling postmaterials come from certified sources, raised during several of our interviews consumer wastes. However, there and this percentage can be grandfawith senior management, both as a is an opportunity to further consider thered down to 50 percent. The result business priority and to meet the 2015 one-time use products, especially is that achieving its goal of 100 persustainability goals. In this context, we in relation to emerging markets and cent virgin fiber sourced from certified note a growing effort to engage and consumers near the “bottom of the suppliers does not necessarily mean include suppliers with the specific goal of pyramid” that may not be able to susthat 100 percent of virgin fiber comes innovating on more sustainable solutions tainably afford one-time use products. from certified forests. in operations and product offerings. While • W ater: Kimberly-Clark has a strong these efforts are yielding more inclusive Responsiveness: the extent to which an record of water management including solutions, Kimberly-Clark has yet to organization responds to stakeholder issues. significant effort to assess water risks engage with suppliers on radical innovaat each mill in 2011. Nevertheless, lack tion efforts to address important planet of water access led to the temporary resources like fiber, energy and water. shut-down of a mill in 2011 and so we would expect to see a broader strategy Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 27 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark engages and responds to Two Tomorrows (North America) Inc. stakeholders at all levels of the company. The Two Tomorrows group of companies One of the next challenges will be to was formed in January 2009 following assess the various engagement efforts the merger of leading sustainability from around the company to identify and corporate responsibility consultanand disseminate best practices between cies, Csrnetwork Ltd and Sd3 Ltd. regions and operating companies. Two Tomorrows (North America) is a subsidiary of Two Tomorrows Group Ltd. We note the recent efforts by KimberlyTwo Tomorrows is an international conClark to consolidate and improve social sultancy that helps companies to perform compliance assessments of suppliers. better and create value by doing business This is an important effort to respond to in a sustainable way. supplier performance needs and we look www.twotomorrows.com forward to discovering how the social compliance assessments drive improved standards for suppliers as well as refining management priorities in the future. Two Tomorrows (North America) Inc. San Francisco April 2012 Todd Cort Project Director Doug Bannerman Project Manager Shyla Girvetz Project Associate Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 28 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report GRI/UNGC Index As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), KimberlyClark is required to annually communicate its progress in promoting the UNGC’s ten principles. The Response column below contains links to the areas of our corporate website and sustainability report that relate to each UNGC principle, and serves as Kimberly-Clark’s Communication on Progress (COP). Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 29 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 30 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 31 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 32 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 33 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 34 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 35 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 36 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 37 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 38 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 39 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 40 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | overview 41 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report People In this section, we discuss our People Philosophy; employee health and safety, labor and engagement initiatives; chariAt Kimberly-Clark, our employees table and volunteer community programs; are essential for our success. and our approach to supplier compliance. We provide policies and programs that promote a safe, healthy and engaged workforce. Our commitment to attain our collective goals extends to our suppliers, partners and the communities where we operate. employees by region EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA LATIN AMERICA ASIA-PACIFIC 14% 36% 24% 26% NORTH AMERICA Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 1 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Valuing People compensation packages and support for our employees who were affected by these closures. Jobs at the facilities Our goal is to provide employees in Spain were transferred to the purwith rewarding opportunities for chaser as a result of the sale process. training and advancement, fair wages and fair treatment in labor • W  e relaunched our Small Steps program to engage our employees in negotiations, comprehensive sustainability initiatives they can underbenefits, a broad range of health take at work and at home with their and wellness programs, a safe families, and presented our inaugural workplace, a productive and Crystal Tree Awards, which recognizes inclusive environment, and leadership and outstanding contribuencouragement and support for tions by Kimberly-Clark employees their community volunteerism.  e also launched an initiative to • W refresh our long-established program 2011 Highlights of corporate and community giving. • Kimberly-Clark aspires to create a perThe goal of this program is to straformance-driven culture that is based on accountability and recognizes and rewards results, while staying true IN 2011, WE INTRODUCED A tegically focus the company’s resources, the power of our global to the values that form the essence of who we are. To support this, we NEW PEOPLE PHILOSOPHY brands, and the generous volunteer efforts of our people on initiatives that broaden our reach and enable introduced our People Philosophy, a • In January, we initiated a pulp and us to deepen the impact of our dynamic career experience to help tissue restructuring plan in order to social programs. shape employees’ careers and experiexit our remaining integrated pulp ences at Kimberly-Clark. In 2011, we • O  ur Huggies brand Every Little Bottom manufacturing operations and improve introduced several initiatives and pro(ELB) campaign in the U.S. broadened the underlying profitability and return grams, including Diversity & Inclusion, its reach to further assist mothers who on invested capital of our consumer K-C Behaviors, and the developstruggle to provide their babies with tissue and Kimberly-Clark Professional ment of a revamped Performance clean, dry, disposable diapers businesses. The restructuring involves Management program. the streamlining, sale or closure of six • W  e released an updated Guide for of our manufacturing facilities around Suppliers and introduced a new the world. We were successful in sellSupplier Social Compliance Standards ing two facilities in Spain, but closed and Checklist facilities in Everett, Washington, and in Australia. We provided reasonable Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 2 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Helping People In 2011, we helped develop and became the founding sponsor of the National event attracted 350 hospital practitioners from 111 hospitals in 30 cities. through Our Brands Diaper Bank Network (NDBN), a nonprofit foundation that raises awareness of diaKleenex Brand Funds Field Trip per need and builds diaper bank capacity Education Huggies Brand Covers Every throughout the U.S. The network will Field trips provide students with imporLittle Bottom serve as a clearinghouse for other organitant hands-on learning in real-world Every Little Bottom (ELB) is a keystone zations to distribute donated diapers. settings, engaging them in subjects that program of the Huggies brand. It was they might not otherwise be interested launched in 2010 following our study that After a successful launch in 2010, ELB in. Research shows one in four schools found that one in three moms in America almost doubled its diaper contribution in the U.S. was forced to cut field trips struggles to provide her babies with clean, in 2011 with 37 million diapers donated. in 2011 in the wake of state and federal dry, disposable diapers. ELB partners with The ELB program helped diaper more budget restraints. The Kleenex brand local and national organizations, such as than 6 million babies for one day. (This team helped fill that gap. In 2011, a Feeding America’s network of food banks is based on an average diaper usage of Back to School Sweepstakes awarded and long-standing Kimberly-Clark partner, 6 per day.) Boys & Girls Clubs of America, to spread awareness and to distribute diapers to mothers who need them. Kimberly-Clark Benefits Infant Health EVERY LITTLE BOTTOM Kimberly-Clark Dominican Republic donated approximately $18,000 DONATED NEARLY 37M ($700,000 RD) to the maternity hospital Nuestra Señora de la Altagracia in DIAPERS IN 2011 2011 to benefit children born there. The campaign Dona tu Click (Donate Your 100 schools with $5,000 each to help Click) engaged visitors to the website, fund field trips for U.S. school children for www.ganaconhuggies.com. With each the 2011–2012 school year. In 2011, ELB expanded opportunities click, they contributed $1 RD ($0.03) for consumers to support this initiative. to the health and well-being of newborn Kimberly-Clark Health Care Sponsors For every package of our design diapers babies by supporting maternity Child Chemo Care purchased in the U.S., Kimberly-Clark education and the remodelling of the Kimberly-Clark Health Care in Japan added a diaper to its annual contribumaternity hospital. introduced an initiative to support the tion. We also partnered with Walmart building of a specialized hospital for and Operation Homefront, a U.S. On the other side of the world, Kimberlyyoung patients being treated for cancer. nonprofit organization that provides Clark China and our Huggies brand The project is being undertaken by Child emergency assistance to the families of are focused on improving the welfare Chemo House, a nonprofit organization service members. During a three-month of Chinese infants and children. In with the goal of providing a home while promotional period, we contributed an 2011, our Huggies brand diaper team away from home, where families can stay additional diaper to Operation Homefront sponsored the China-U.S. Pediatrics with their children and help them maintain for every pack of our Little Movers brand Development Forum with the help of the as normal a life as possible while underCamo diapers purchased. As part of ELB, China Pediatrician Association and the going therapy. Kimberly-Clark Japan we also donated $25,000 to support American Academy of Pediatrics. The began donating 25 yen ($0.34)) for every Operation Homefront activities. goal of the event was to recognize the case of Lavender brand Nitrile gloves importance of infant and child developsold. By the end of September 2011, ment, attract more attention to the work that amounted to 3.3 million yen (about of pediatrics and offer education oppor$40,000), and the program will continue tunities to Chinese practitioners. The through 2012. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 3 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Comments From Our detailed in this year’s report in developing a global platform for the charitable Sustainability activities of Kimberly-Clark’s U.S.-based Foundation is also encouraging, but it Advisory Board needs further definition if Kimberly-Clark is to effectively utilize these activities to build equity in its brands. “Kimberly-Clark’s increased emphasis on THE NEW PEOPLE people is a welcome addition to the corporation’s sustainability objectives. “Kimberly-Clark’s new People Philosophy, PHILOSOPHY IS A REAFFIRMATION OF THE with its emphasis on skills development and career planning, is an important VALUE OF HELPING reaffirmation of the value of helping its employees succeed. The corporation’s EMPLOYEES SUCCEED continued progress in reducing occupational injuries and eliminating workplace fatalities also demonstrates commitment to the new Philosophy. Significant safety “George and I both appreciate this progress has been made, but there is opportunity to provide feedback on more work to be done. Kimberly-Clark’s People efforts.” “This year’s sustainability report details Ken Strassner a wide variety of community service Former Vice President–Global activities by Kimberly-Clark businesses Environment, Safety, Regulatory and and operating facilities around the world. Scientific Affairs Virtually all these activities have merit, Kimberly-Clark but the broad diversity of efforts denies the corporation the leverage that a more George Carpenter focused program, keyed to one or two key President, Fraser River Strategies areas, such as safe drinking water and & Former Director–Corporate infant health, might provide. The progress Sustainable Development Procter & Gamble Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 4 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Our Valued Workforce Our employees’ passion, ideas and experience are the reason we are a leader around the world. Our People Philosophy describes how we unleash the power of our people, how we support our employees and what we expect of one another. We have a clear vision of the performance-driven company we are creating and are excited about the roadmap of initiatives that is helping us get there. Our People Philosophy provides the programs, tools and resources to promote a dynamic career experience for all of our global employees. OUR PEOPLE PHILOSOPHY PROMOTES A DYNAMIC CAREER EXPERIENCE FOR ALL EMPLOYEES Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 5 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Investing in Measuring and Managing Performance Kimberly-Clark aims to recognize, Our People celebrate and reward employee contributions and performance. Our “One K-C Behaviors” (Build Trust; Make Decisions; Learning and Development Win Consistently; Think Customer; Employees are ultimately accountable Continuously Improve; and Build Talent) for their own careers and are empowunderpin our goal of a focused, perforered through meaningful work and mance-driven culture. challenging experiences. Our People Philosophy helps our people make the Kimberly-Clark’s performance managemost of their employment experience at ment system helps align employees’ Kimberly-Clark. individual objectives with business unit goals through SMART (specific, measurEmployees are encouraged to apply the able, attainable, relevant and timely) innovative thinking they bring to their launched in 2011. With the ability to scale objectives. In 2011, a global crossday-to-day decisions to envision their globally, this series will enable continuity functional team developed an updated career aspirations at Kimberly-Clark. With in how we develop our leaders across Performance and Development system, coaching from managers and leaders the enterprise. We also offer a variety of which focuses not only on individual and within the company, employees create skill-specific educational opportunities. team objectives within business units, but individual development plans to shape For example, One Finance University was also on complementary behaviors and their personal and professional goals. launched in 2011. This global learning development plans for employees. It will portal is the one-stop shop for finding be rolled out in 2012. Employees are encouraged to nurture finance learning opportunities quickly and and develop their careers through educaeasily, is organized by finance skill and Employee Assistance Program tion, exposure and experience. allows for user-generated contributions. Kimberly-Clark’s Employee Assistance Global visibility of all learning resources Program (EAP) provides counselling serKimberly-Clark provides extensive leadersaves time and rework, supports stanvices to employees and family members ship and professional skills opportunities dardized finance practices and enables in 21 countries. Approximately 8.5 percent for our employees through a variety of learning networks. on-site and online classes, seminars and workshops designed to develop new skills and hone existing abilities. In 2011, Kimberly-Clark employees are encouraged to develop their networks through WE PROVIDE EXTENSIVE we launched an online professional and leadership skills development resource informal experiences and by participating in opportunities such as Kimberly-Clark DEVELOPMENT available to all employees, in eight languages, that provides expert advice from mentoring programs and communityrelated projects. OPPORTUNITIES FOR world-renowned business leaders. Using audio downloads, video clips, interactive In addition to making the most of onOUR EMPLOYEES activities and other tools, our employees the-job training, employees and their of our U.S employees used these services worldwide can access practical informasupervisors develop Individual Development in 2011, compared with an industry tion to address everyday needs. Plans (IDP) to help employees expand standard of 3.5 percent, which is credited on their talents. IDP exercises might to Kimberly-Clark’s strong management To help managers transition to new include special assignments, job rotasupport, local EAP committees and conleadership roles and strengthen tions and even extracurricular projects tinuous promotion of the program. the leadership capability at Kimberly-Clark, such as learning a new language or serva leadership development series was ing in volunteer leadership opportunities. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 6 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Our Compensation Philosophy We design our compensation programs to align pay components, such as base salary adjustments and annual and longterm incentive awards, with individual and/or business performance. Consistent with our pay-for-performance philosophy, incentive plans are extended globally beyond the executive officer, officer, and leader levels based on country practices. OUR EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION FACTORS IN MEASURES OF DIVERSITY For directors and above, our annual incentive plan contains financial targets, as well as other quantitative and qualitative factors. For our executive leadership (Chairman and CEO Tom Falk and his direct reports), diversity is one of a number of qualitative factors for 2011. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 7 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Caring for and other health improvement programs. In some regions, the services provided by Employees Kimberly-Clark are not available through other community agencies. At Kimberly-Clark, the health and Health Services also responds to imporsafety of our employees, tant health issues and potential crises. In contractors and visitors are vital 2011, information on nutrition, physical components of our success. activity, flu, TB and HIV/AIDS was provided to various Kimberly-Clark locations Our goal is straightforward: to have around the world. The Health Services every employee, contractor and visitor website provides information on a varireturn home safely at the end of each ety of additional health topics such as day. We manage occupational safety and cardiovascular health, nursing mothers’ hygiene globally for the protection of our employees, contractors and visitors, and aggressively drive toward the elimination of OUR HEALTH SERVICES fatalities, injuries, illnesses and disabilities. PERFORMED OVER 2011 Outcomes—Latin America • 3,346 pre-employment medical The Kimberly-Clark Health Services team provides an array of preventive and occu5,000 IMMUNIZATIONS IN evaluations LATIN AMERICA IN 2011 pational health programs for employees • 7 ,746 annual medical checkups and worldwide, with three main focus areas: referrals as necessary • 1 ,040 checkups for children and vari• Improving the health and well-being of support, and organ donations, as well as ous other tests for employees employees globally links to external health websites. • 2 ,200 nutritional and weight • P  roviding assistance to the global consultations 2011 Outcomes—North America businesses on employee health issues • 931 immunizations • 4,763 flu and other immunizations • H  elping ensure compliance with all • 4,007 influenza vaccines legal and regulatory employee health 2011 Outcomes—Europe requirements • 1,504 educational health screenings • 702 Health and Well-Being Coaching • 5  03 Energy for Performance Workshop participants For the awards Kimberly-Clark has won Workshops participants • 2 ,014 preventative and educational for our health and wellness programs, as well as other categories, click here. • 3  27 travel health consultations as well health screenings as medical information and support • 165 travel health assessments Our programs are tailored to the needs to over 40 U.S. employees and family of employees in each country where we members who have relocated overseas • 2 43 stress-management and work-life operate. These include: preventive health balance workshop participants • 881 pre-placement evaluations screenings, health risk assessments, • 307 weight-management consultations health information, medical advice for • 6  ,835 acute care consultations/ business travelers, immunizations, flu-shot encounters clinics, stress-management workshops • 1  2,461 medical surveillance tests (hearing and spirometry) Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 8 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report LiveWell employees to know their HIV status, Kimberly-Clark’s LiveWell health promoeducate employees and their families tion programs are designed to inform about HIV and TB, get HIV-positive and motivate employees to live healthier employees on to antiretroviral therapy lives by eating well, exercising and (ART), and report outcomes to civil socireducing health risk factors. In 2011, two ety and government agencies through new facilities—in the Netherlands and the South African Business Coalition on Bahrain—launched LiveWell programs. HIV and AIDS. As part of the education program, KCSA and its service provider In 2011, our employees took up the have offered counseling services at the LiveWell challenge, engaging in a variety production facilities and arranged for of activities to improve their health: HIV-positive employees to speak out and assist in educating the workforce. The Lose BIG Kimberly-Clark, a 12-week company program is integrated as far wellness platform, was launched in as possible into the government’s ART 2011 for Kimberly-Clark North American program. employees and their partners. More than 300 employees took part in the program A new HIV/AIDS policy, launched in supervised by a certified health and fit2011 in our Central American region, has ness professional. Those reporting lost a received special recognition from the U.S. total of 1,328 pounds. Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Program for an Adequate HIV/AIDS education programs offered Response on HIV. The policy supports by Kimberly-Clark South Africa (KCSA) education and access to treatment at have achieved significant success over the workplace. the past five years. They encourage Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 9 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Ensuring a Safe Our vision is to be recognized by stakeholders as a global sustainability leader Total Reportable Incident Rate (TRIR) Work Environment in OS&H. To achieve this recognition, our Sustainability 2015 safety goal is 0.68 zero workplace fatalities. We achieved Our “Who’s Counting on You?” safety this goal in 2010 and again in 2011 for brand is part of an overall safety Kimberly-Clark’s wholly and majority0.45 0.40 0.44 0.40 strategy that is driving a cultural owned companies which we report in our change at Kimberly-Clark and financial statements. However, our equity underscores our vision to have affiliate, Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, expeevery Kimberly-Clark colleague, rienced a fatality from a transportation contractor and visitor return home accident in February 2012. safely at the end of each day. Safety efforts, training and materials are 07 08 09 10 11 Achieving a fatality-free and incident-free provided to Kimberly-Clark’s wholly owned workplace is a two-way commitment. companies, which are obliged to imple• D  eveloped a Machine Safety Standard Our company is committed to providing ment and abide by the programs. The that allows a risk-based approach a workplace that is in compliance with same information is also provided to equity to safeguarding selection, provides all applicable occupational safety and affiliates. Nevertheless, a lost life at any of flexibility in safeguarding method(s) hygiene (OS&H) laws and regulations, our affiliates is tragic and not acceptable. selected and complies with internaand in conformance with Kimberlytional consensus standards Clark’s OS&H performance standards. Our Zero-Fatality Strategy In return, Kimberly-Clark expects We are driven to eliminate workplace Environment, Health and Safety individuals to refuse to take any action fatalities forever at Kimberly-Clark. To Management System considered unsafe, confront others actachieve this, we launched a Fatality Kimberly-Clark’s Environment, Health ing in an unsafe manner and immediately Elimination strategy in 2009 and, in and Safety Management System (EHS stop any unsafe actions. 2010, began focusing attention on MS) was designed to standardize eight Sentinel Event hazard categories environmental and safety management that could lead to a fatality. These systems and compliance programs, Sentinel Events form a key part of our while enhancing overall performance. It Performance Standards under our EHS establishes minimum requirements and Management System. standards for the management of EHS activities. Our ongoing goal is to surpass In 2011, we: these minimum requirements. • C  onducted Sentinel Event training The EHS MS guides our facilities to: workshops for all employees at each of our global manufacturing facilities, • S  ystematically identify, control and reaching approximately 45,000 people minimize the risk of loss to employees, equipment, materials and the • D  eveloped a Facility OS&H Leader environment Qualification and Competency Standard, which establishes minimum • C  ontinually improve EHS capabilities qualification and competency requireand performance ments for our senior facility OS&H leaders and guides the hiring process The EHS MS is based on and is confor safety professionals sistent with international consensus standards, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 10 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report It utilizes the Plan-Do-Check-Adjust • A  ddressing EHS concerns raised by and behavior-based safety principles, methodology and is organized into five employees or others each quarter, a newsletter, hazard elements: Policy and Organization, bulletin, mini-poster and presentation • C  onvening teams to provide focused Planning, Implementation and Operation, materials on specific safety hazards, support for key EHS initiatives Checking and Corrective Action, and including falling objects, lift-truck acciManagement Review. • T  racking and assessing the facility’s dents and falls, are distributed globally. overall EHS progress, incidents Our fourth-quarter programming focused Our Global Occupational Safety and and trends on the Safety Week theme: Give Safety a Hygiene Policy states that we will manVoice. Awareness and education materiSafety Communication Plan als were distributed to more than 100 WE EXPECT INDIVIDUALS TO In 2010, Kimberly-Clark developed the safety brand “Who’s Counting On You?” facilities in 20 languages. To view a video featuring senior leaders from across the REFUSE TO TAKE ANY ACTION to further embed a sustainable safety culture, which was formally rolled out in globe that underscored the importance of safety as a Kimberly-Clark core value, THEY CONSIDER UNSAFE 2011. Based on social marketing theory click here. age occupational safety and hygiene (OS&H) globally for the protection of our employees, contractors and visitors and to aggressively drive towards the elimination of occupational injuries, illnesses, disabilities and fatalities. We are committed to continually improving and regularly assessing the EHS MS in order to achieve continuous improvement of OSH performance. Joint Management-Worker Health and Safety Committees As part of our EHS MS, each KimberlyClark facility must establish an EHS Steering Committee to review EHS issues and concerns, identify and prioritize the facility’s improvement activities, and review progress of those activities. More than 95 percent of our facilities have formal EHS committees. While the structure of these committees varies, a common element is the participation of both employees and management. The EHS Steering Committee is responsible for the following: • O  verseeing development, implementation and prioritization of the facility EHS Improvement Plan Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 11 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 12 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Fostering Engaged inaugural Crystal Tree Awards, which recognize leadership and outstanding Employees contributions by Kimberly-Clark employees in sustainability. Our employees are vital to our At Kimberly-Clark, we foster a culture of success—in reaching our business continuous improvement in our business, goals, supporting our environmental including ways to be more innovative, initiatives and contributing to efficient and cost-effective. To identify our communities. and create action plans, teams around the globe participate in Kaizen events, based We work hard to understand the ways on a Japanese philosophy of change and in which we can support their sucimprovement. In 2012, we will hold an cess and, through that, the success of annual Global Continuous Improvement Kimberly-Clark. Symposium, where the best work from the 2011 Kaizen teams will be recognized. We measure employee engagement through a biannual employee survey. We also encourage and support WE ENCOURAGE AND employee volunteerism and community service, sustainability communities of SUPPORT EMPLOYEE practice and the global expansion of our Small Steps for Sustainability proVOLUNTEERISM gram. New in 2011, we presented our Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 13 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Giving Back to Our Earth Day events in 2011 included: Employee Giving ($M) Communities • E  mployees at Kimberly-Clark Australia and New Zealand participated in a 0.68 Clean Up Australia Day, and the World Caring for the communities in Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour. The region which we live and work has been a also promoted its improved office 0.45 0.40 0.44 0.40 core value at Kimberly-Clark since waste recycling program and held a the early days of the company. contest to encourage employees to sign up for Kimberly-Clark’s Small Our employees give generously to the Steps for Sustainability program. causes they believe in and to initiatives • U  nder its Roots & Shoots banner, sponsored by Kimberly-Clark. We encourKimberly-Clark China launched a 07 08 09 10 11 age and support their contributions. large-scale art project titled Green Body and Mind at Beijing’s Capital The Kimberly-Clark Foundation’s Library, where participants presented Community Partners program recognizes topics on municipal solid waste disthe volunteer efforts of U.S. employees publically agreed to support and posal and recycling activities and their spouses by making $500 grants promote Forest Stewardship Councilto the charitable organizations at which • K  imberly-Clark Peru collaborated with certified products in Taiwan they volunteer for 30 or more hours the World Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour per year. Through our Kimberly-Clark on March 26. All employees and their Employees Pitch In for United Way Foundation’s Matching Gifts program, U.S. families were invited to participate and In 2011, our U.S. employees contributed employees are able to double their donaturn off their lights for one hour to symapproximately $2.7 million in gifts and tions to qualified charitable organizations. bolize their commitment to conserving pledges to their local United Way chapresources. The Kimberly-Clark Peru ters. These contributions were matched EMPLOYEES CONTRIBUTED team also launched a campaign to increase recycling in its operations from dollar-for-dollar by Kimberly-Clark. In addition, many of our sites conducted $2.7M TO THEIR LOCAL an average of five to 15 tons per month.  imberly-Clark Taiwan held a co• K special events and fundraisers, which generated an additional $678,000 UNITED WAY CHAPTERS marketing green event with NUCA, the largest retailer in Taiwan, where across various local campaigns. In total, Kimberly-Clark supported local IN 2011 Kimberly-Clark Taiwan and NUCA United Way chapters with approximately $6.1 million in 2011. Highlights of our employees’ volunteer activities include: Earth Day 2011 On April 22, millions of people celebrate Earth Day to demonstrate their commitment to sustainability. Our regions around the world celebrate Earth Day to remind employees and the communities in which they live and work of Kimberly-Clark’s commitment to sustainable business practices. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 14 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report 2011 highlights: early snow and caused a power outage for two weeks during their campaign, The Kimberly-Clark United Way camwould be a financial drain and a distracpaign in Neenah, Wisconsin, raised a tion from the campaign. But they turned it record-setting $2.1 million, a 7 percent into an opportunity to educate employees increase over last year’s results. The about the valuable work of the American campaign focused on events that built Red Cross, a United Way affiliate, and the awareness for United Way and aimed to United Way’s 211 system, through which increase giving in targeted populations. community residents can get information This result was achieved, in part, by and referrals for United Way agencies organizing agency tours so that groups that provide help in a time of need. They of employees could increase their shared also put in extra effort to keep people understanding of needs and services focused on the campaign and to provide in the community. The campaign also incentives for participation. The result focused on the importance of Emerging was an increase in employee campaign Leaders (those under age 40 who give at participation from 57 percent to 62 perleast $500) and increasing the number of cent and a 9 percent increase in dollars Guideline Givers (those who contribute at raised. are allocated to them. The campaign least one hour’s pay per month), resultteam provided a little extra motivation ing in increases in both groups this year. Argentina Volunteer Day for employees to give at the Guideline As a result, Kimberly-Clark in Neenah Kimberly-Clark is one of 10 founding level by providing incentive gifts to all received the Outstanding Leadership companies involved in Fundación Guideline Givers. A drawing was also and Emerging Leaders Campaign Team Caminando Juntos, a first-of-its-kind held for prizes donated from local busiAward this year from the Fox Valley consortium of companies committed to nesses. The result: the 2011 Belmont United Way. the development of a better future for campaign saw an increase of 450 percent the Argentine society. In 2011, 24 chief compared with 2010 results. The number United Way campaigns are a relatively executives and senior managers of of contributors increased tenfold, with new concept at our site in Belmont, the member companies celebrated a 10 times as many Guideline Givers. As a Michigan, so the campaign team there volunteer day by contributing to the result of its impressive campaign growth, spent the bulk of its energy educating Madre Teresa play center in Las Tunas. the Belmont site has been nominated for employees about what the United Way Company and community volunteers many awards by its local United Way. is, how it works and whom it helps. helped with repairs, grounds maintenance, Employees had ample opportunities and development games and activities Kimberly-Clark United Way campaign to ask questions about the area’s to support the 130 children and teens that strategists in New Milford, Connecticut, United Way agencies and how funds use the center. feared that a Nor’easter, which brought Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 15 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Listening to Our In Hong Kong, to improve awareness of opportunities, employees were invited Employees to take part in a “Wear Your Shoes” program, where employees try out a colleague’s function. Our MEA (Middle East Our biennial global employee and Asian) region introduced a coaching engagement survey provides us program to help managers improve their with feedback from our employees leadership skills. to help us understand what we are doing well and where we can Pulse Check surveys were conducted improve the workplace experience. by the teams of Finance/ITS, North American Consumer Products, In 2010, engagement was 75 percent, up Procurement, and the Association of 2 percent from 2008 (73%). The results Southeast Asian Nations and China in indicate that Kimberly-Clark is a high2011. The organizations used the results performing company as compared to of the Pulse Check surveys to refine the benchmarks measured by the survey action plans. provider HAY Group. Our next global employment survey will be conducted in Results from the last two surveys are late 2012. provided in the charts below. In 2011, Action Plans were developed for all business units and regions to address OUR NEXT EMPLOYEE areas identified for improvement in the 2010 survey. Approximately 700 action ENGAGEMENT SURVEY WILL plan items were developed, with the most frequent focus areas being development TAKE PLACE IN LATE 2012 opportunities, performance management, and respect and recognition. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 16 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 17 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Employees Taking For example, employees can reduce their use of: Employees Participating Small Steps Toward • P  ower, by switching to compact in Small Steps Sustainability fluorescent lights in their homes (cutting lighting energy use by 50 to 2015 GOAL 15,000 75 percent) Kimberly-Clark’s Small Steps program was created in 2010 to • W  ater, by taking five-minute showers instead of baths (saving as much encourage employees to adopt as 80 gallons of water per person, small behavioral changes that, per week) together, can have a significant, positive effect on the environment. • F  ossil fuels, by carpooling (effectively 2011 11,600 reducing greenhouse gas emissions, not to mention out-of-pocket commuting costs, by half or more) THE SMALL STEPS PROGRAM HEIGHTENED MY AWARENESS Participants receive a Kimberly-Clark Small Steps e-signature for their company emails declaring their commitment. “I started with turning out my office lights when attending meetings or leaving for lunch. Then I purchased cloth bags at the grocery store to avoid the use of plastic bags. The next small step was to bring In 2011, we refreshed and relaunched the dishware and silverware to work to avoid program to reach out to our global workusing paper plates and plastic silverware. force in multiple languages. Employees I also was more cognizant in sorting recywho visit the Small Steps intranet site clables from trash on a daily basis. All can commit to taking action in a variety in all, the Small Steps program heightof ways. ened my awareness of just how much each individual can contribute to helping the environment.” – Sally Dunlop, Kimberly-Clark Professional team planner, San Antonio Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 18 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Supporting In 2011, our Neenah, Wisconsin, facility sponsored Munch N Learn and Green Sustainability Friday events, where information on sustainability topics was provided; led Communities of a Food Drive that gathered 2,500 food items for needy families; and planted Practice trees in a national forest and Gardens of the Fox Cities. Kimberly-Clark’s Sustainability Members of the Roswell, Georgia, facilCommunities of Practice aim to ity Communities of Practice staged a champion awareness and Corporate Green Day Challenge that sent knowledge of sustainable practices volunteers to landscape and renovate a at home and at work to deliver community park and organized a monthly sustainability leadership. Farmers Market on the campus for Kimberly-Clark employees and their famiTheir goal is to: lies. The group also collected outdated computers and other personal technology • P rovide a forum for sharing and to donate to Serious Good, an organizaexploration of sustaining and renewing tion that collects and refurbishes e-waste technologies to benefit Habitat for Humanity. In one day, employees collected 235 computers, 16 of • C reate a culture that includes sustainwhich could be refurbished. This collection ing and renewing principles in all we do represented 2,575 pounds (1.17 metric • E ncourage education, networking and tons) of solid waste being diverted from action to drive sustainable practices landfill. They also organized a sustainability showcase highlighting Kimberly-Clark’s • O pen to all levels in a nonthreatening latest environmental innovations. manner, with the belief that knowledge OUR GOAL IS TO ENCOURAGE changes behavior ACTIONS THAT DRIVE SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 19 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Recognizing “This recognition is seen as justification of the commitment that the Barton Mill Sustainability team has shown to achieving these great results. As the leader of the mill team, Innovations I already know we are working on the improvements we need to make to be considered for our second Crystal Tree!” Over the years, Kimberly-Clark employees, facilities and – Graham Tongue businesses have championed sustainability at work, at home and in our communities. OUR CRYSTAL TREE AWARD The Crystal Tree Award for leadership in sustainability, introduced in 2010, honors HONORS OUTSTANDING outstanding contributions in three categories: employees, mills and business SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP units. Each category has its own focus that corresponds to our three pillars of “We were very honored to receive the • In the employee category, Rob Gusky, sustainability: People, Planet and Products. Crystal Tree Award, which is proudly disan engineering technical leader in Winners receive a Crystal Tree Award played at the entrance of the Romagnano Consumer Tissue at our Neenah, made out of recycled glass, a donation Mill. This recognition gives our team Wisconsin, facility, for developing the to the nonprofit of their choice and an the reassurance that we are on the Scott brand’s Get Up & Ride biking opportunity to participate with one right sustainability path, and motivates campaign. Gusky began to bike to of Kimberly-Clark’s NGO partners on everyone to provide their own contribuwork to avoid $4-per-gallon gasoline a project such as tree planting or tion to continuously improve. We do three years ago. By 2011, the initiative water replenishment. this with “Passion for Excellence”—our had expanded across Kimberly-Clark’s Romagnano Mill motto.” global operations and throughout the In 2011, the awards honored: state of Wisconsin. Get Up & Ride – Raffaella De Medici is going national in the U.S. in 2012, • T  he Barton Mill in the UK, which proin partnership with the League of duces Baby and Child Care products American Bicyclists and Bikes Belong. and nonwovens, for operating below its energy efficiency target since 2010. “It was one of my proudest work achieveThe mill also earned landfill-free status ments to be recognized for my leadership and reduced its manufacturing waste of the Get Up & Ride biking program. by nearly 25 percent in 2010. I believe this award both demonstrates • T  he Romagnano Mill in Italy, which Kimberly-Clark’s commitment to sustainproduces Consumer Tissue products, ability and will help inspire others to help for operating below its energy target, move us forward in this important area. reducing the total amount of water I look forward to learning who will step up used by more than 9 percent, increasin the future and be recognized as Crystal ing water-use efficiency by 8 percent, Tree Award winners.” and cutting manufacturing waste by 10 percent. – Rob Gusky Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 20 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Valuing Diversity & Rights in Employment Policy underscores our commitment. It prohibits discrimina1,200 leaders and business partners in daylong sessions. Diversity is part of Inclusion tion and/or harassment based on race, our global leaders’ performance objeccolor, sex, pregnancy, sexual orientation, tives and designed to foster diverse and gender identity, age, religion, creed, inclusive teams and talent. We provide Workplace diversity and inclusion national origin, disability, genetic informanumerous other diversity and inclusion are business imperatives at tion, veteran status, legally protected development opportunities. Kimberly-Clark, integral to our leave and other categories protected by growth strategy, supported by WE ARE STRENGTHENING A applicable law. We also extend our benesenior leadership and directed by a fits to our employees’ eligible dependents CULTURE WHERE Global Diversity Officer who including children, spouses, common law reports to both the Chairman and spouses and domestic partners. CEO and the head of global human resources. In 2011, we conducted global diversity and inclusion training for more than DIFFERENCES ARE VALUED We endeavor to be a diverse and inclusive organization that looks, thinks and behaves like the people who use our products. When our workforce reflects the consumers we serve in our global markets, we better understand their needs and can achieve our vision to lead the world in essentials for a better life. With our Welcome initiative, an element of our People Philosophy, we are further strengthening a culture where differences are valued and where, together, we make better business decisions essential for our success. Kimberly-Clark’s Human Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 21 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Diversity in Our U.S. African-American executives of Fortune 500 companies Operations • T  he Network of Executive Women (NEW). Many Kimberly-Clark women Reaching Out to Diverse Groups are members of NEW, a North We are members of a number of diversity American organization whose misorganizations in the U.S., including: sion is to attract, retain and advance women in leadership in the consumer • N ational Society of Black Engineers. packaged goods and retail industries. Kimberly-Clark joined the Board Sue Sears, Vice President, Global of Corporate Affiliates in 2000 and Market Development, of Kimberlyholds the highest level of corporate Clark Professional, serves on its board membership of directors. WE OFFER OPPORTUNITIES Also, Kimberly-Clark’s Chairman and CEO Tom Falk is a board member of TO ESTABLISH RELATIONSHIPS Catalyst Inc., an advisory organization We offer the following Employee dedicated to building inclusive environResource Groups to our U.S. employees: WITH EMPLOYEES FROM ments and expanding opportunities for women at work. All Kimberly-Clark • Women’s Interactive Network (WIN) DIFFERENT BACKGROUNDS employees have access to its database • A frican-American Employee Network of research and leadership resources. (AAEN) Each year, Falk and a group of KimberlyClark women leaders attend its annual • Focus Asia • S ociety of Hispanic Professional conference in New York City. Engineers (SHPE). Kimberly-Clark is • Latin American Network for Diversity a member of the Industrial Partner In March 2011, to celebrate International • P eople Respecting Individual Council, and our employees have conWomen’s Day, Falk and Kimberly-Clark Differences Everywhere Network ducted workshops at SHPE conventions Dallas’ Women’s Interactive Network (PRIDE@K-C) • S ociety of Women Engineers. (WIN) invited Catalyst President & CEO • N ew Employee Opportunity Network Kimberly-Clark is a member of its Ilene Lang to speak at its world head(NEON) Corporate Partnership Council, and quarters. Lang addressed WIN and other several Kimberly-Clark women serve Dallas-area women’s resource groups on • Family Caregivers Network in leadership roles at both the national the topics of breaking through the glass • Parents Interactive Network (PIN) level and the Atlanta, Georgia, chapter ceiling and the importance of executive sponsorship of women in the workplace. • N ational Black MBA Association. Kimberly-Clark partners with this orgaCollaborating Internally nization for recruiting Kimberly-Clark’s Employee Resource • N ational Society of Hispanic MBAs. Groups provide a valuable tool for Kimberly-Clark partners with this orgarecruitment, development, and retention nization for recruiting of business ideas. Because the groups are open to all employees, they offer • T he Executive Leadership Council. an opportunity to establish relationships Kimberly-Clark is a member of this with Kimberly-Clark employees from independent, nonprofit corporadifferent backgrounds. tion that provides a network for Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 22 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Diversity Internationally In our international businesses, we take care in ensuring that our diversity and inclusion plans are specific to the country and cultures in which they are enacted. As such, we ensure that our talent attraction and selection processes are seeking the appropriate balance of genders and nationalities for each market. Any agreements we have with third-party recruiters reflect this commitment to diversity. We conduct annual reviews of hiring strategies and track progress in this area. Within Kimberly-Clark International, we have historically focused on hiring local country management and teams, WE HAVE HISTORICALLY because we believe that they best know the marketplace and how to conduct FOCUSED ON HIRING LOCAL business in their respective countries. For this reason, Kimberly-Clark International COUNTRY MANAGEMENT is made up of few expatriates. With that said, however, we do support internaAND TEAMS tional assignments, as this helps expand leadership capabilities and knowledge of emerging markets. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 23 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Supporting each of our global regions was represented at this two-day event. Participants Employees with Union Membership 30% 30% Constructive Labor reviewed progress made over the past year and affirmed their commitment to 27% 25% Relations maintaining a respectful and cooperative 19% relationship based on proactive sharing of information and finding opportuniTo maintain open communication ties and solutions to issues associated channels with the approximately with corporate social responsibility and 25 percent of our global workforce workplace rights. Goals for 2012 were that is unionized, Kimberly-Clark developed in the areas of supplier social supports active union/ compliance, regional representation, management labor councils and freedom of association and access, and communication forums. stakeholder communications. 07 08 09 10 11 In addition, we monitor compliance in both our direct and indirect supply chain WE SUPPORT ACTIVE UNION/ “Kimberly-Clark has taken a leadership MANAGEMENT LABOR role among its peer companies in to ensure employees’ rights to freedom working proactively with global unions of association and collective bargaining COUNCILS in recognizing the importance of respectare respected. In 2011, Kimberly-Clark ful union/management relationships was again recognized at the country level in advancing areas of mutual interest for cooperative and productive laborIn November 2011, Kimberly-Clark particregarding Corporate Social Responsibility management relationships in Thailand ipated, at the request of UNI, in a meeting and global workplace rights.” and Venezuela. held by the vice president of Colombia to promote social dialogue between unions –S  teve Walsh, Head of Union Network In 2011, the second annual global union/ and companies. The agreement between International (UNI – Graphical) management conference was held in Atlanta, Georgia, sponsored by KimberlyKimberly-Clark and UNI was recognized at the conference as an example of the Supporting Employees at Plant Clark, Union Network International (UNI) type of relationship needed between Closure Sites and Workers Uniting. Kimberly-Clark global companies and unions. In January, we initiated a pulp and tissue union and management leadership from restructuring plan in order to exit our remaining integrated pulp manufacturing operations and improve the underlying profitability of our consumer tissue and Kimberly-Clark Professional businesses. The restructuring involves the streamlining, sale or closure of six of our manufacturing facilities around the world. We were successful in selling two facilities in Spain, but closed facilities in Everett, Washington, and in Australia. The closures affected 235 and 750 permanent employees at these locations, respectively. We provided reasonable compensation packages and support for our employees who were affected in Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 24 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Everett, Washington, and in Australia. Jobs at the facilities in Spain were transferred to the purchaser as part of the sale process. Kimberly-Clark is sensitive to the impact of these decisions on employees and communities, and has made every reasonable effort to ease the transition. Employees received severance and benefits packages under the Agreements and the Terms & Conditions of their employment in Australia and as negotiated with the union representing employees in Washington. In addition, a severance package was provided for salaried and hourly employees at Everett. Kimberly-Clark has provided outplacement assistance and counseling for the employees and support staff who have been affected by this difficult transition. Kimberly-Clark has also supported its former employees by offering financial planning services and retraining to assist them in organizing their personal finances. In addition, the Kimberly-Clark Foundation made a special donation of $25,000 to the United Way of Snohomish County, Washington, where Everett is located. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 25 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Caring for Our In the sections that follow, we describe our Foundation work in more detail and Communities provide a snapshot of our 2011 social and economic community initiatives. We also describe our response to the many Kimberly-Clark is committed to global communities that needed support supporting the well-being and following devastating natural disasters, development of the communities in which included much-needed funds, supwhich we operate and live. plies and hands-on assistance. WE ARE COMMITTED TO We contribute to communities through programs and partnerships developed THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH by our Kimberly-Clark Foundation and a wide range of health, education and WE OPERATE economic initiatives undertaken by our operations at the regional and international levels. Our goal is to contribute to every Kimberly-Clark community through socially focused programs by 2015. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 26 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report The Kimberly-Clark to broaden our reach and impact, and leverage the power of our brands to build Foundation a better future. Our global reach gives us tremendous opportunity to improve lives and communities around the globe. By The Kimberly-Clark Foundation, bringing to the table our employees and established in 1952, combines the scale and reach of our brands, we funding from the corporation and can help solve issues that enable people our employees, including financial to live better lives. contributions and product donations, to contribute to social The Foundation also sponsors college programs in our U.S. communities. scholarships for children of employees. In 2011, Kimberly-Clark marked the nineteenth year of the Bright Futures program, awarding college scholarships totaling $1.4 million to 68 children of Kimberly-Clark employees across 14 U.S. states and Canada. Bright Futures scholarships are valued at up to $20,000, or $5,000 per school year, for full-time students attending accredited colleges and universities. Since its inception, the program has awarded more than $33 million in scholarships to more than 1,650 students. Recipients are chosen based on academic achievement, leadership and involvement in extracurricular activities. WE CAN HELP SOLVE ISSUES In a few cases, the Foundation also THAT ENABLE PEOPLE TO LIVE supports international causes through its partnerships with U.S.-based nonBETTER LIVES governmental organizations (NGOs). In the Stakeholder Engagement section of 2011 Kimberly-Clark charitable conthis report, we describe a variety of our tributions: $12.9 million in cash and important long-term Foundation partner$19.2 million in product donations to ships, and other important outreach causes, ranging from education to diaper efforts in the Social Initiatives section. donation to performing arts and disaster relief. In 2011, the Foundation finalized a social responsibility strategy in support of Sustainability 2015 goals. The goal of the Kimberly-Clark Foundation is not only to continue supporting the communities in which we do business, but also Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 27 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Supporting Women Kimberly-Clark Argentina is a partner company of the Caminando Juntos and Children Foundation, an Argentine nonprofit that provides social programs supporting children and youth in Argentina’s Kimberly-Clark contributes to the more vulnerable sectors. In 2011, specific needs of its communities the Foundation invested $1.3 million, through a variety of initiatives. reaching 3,500 families, including 4,000 children and 500 youth in low-income Female healthcare professionals in China neighborhoods. More than 1,000 face enormous pressure to meet the volunteers contributed to programs to needs of the mothers and children under strengthen community centers, retrain their care in China’s cities and rural areas. older adults, and support 30 social orgaKimberly-Clark China’s Touch of White nizations in six urban centers. Angel, launched in 2011 in partnership OUR CAMPAIGN REACHED with the All-China Women’s Federation, is the country’s first campaign to provide 300,000 FEMALE HEALTHCARE these medical professionals with opportunities for professional development and PROFESSIONALS IN CHINA tools for better work/life balance. In 2011, the campaign reached approximately 300,000 female healthcare professionals in 10 major cities. Its goal is to support five In 2011, Kimberly-Clark Brazil supported million female healthcare professionals by initiatives to promote women’s rights. It 2015. The program’s success is helping held workshops with community memthe mothers and children who are treated bers in which issues such as culture and on a daily basis by the Angel practitioners. identity, empowerment and domestic violence were discussed. Following the workshops, the participants took a survey that measured local needs, challenges and public perceptions around the issue of women’s rights. The survey results will be released in 2012, with the goal of engaging government, industry, community organizations, the media and others to improve the status of women in Brazilian society. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 28 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Funding Economic Development As we strive to align our social programs with Kimberly-Clark’s expertise as a company, we are also mindful of the most pressing societal issues in our communities around the world. In addition to financial and product support, Kimberly-Clark’s regions contribute to capacity-building within our local communities. For example, through its contributions that address the needs of parents and to the First Aid Post, a nonprofit in Pilar, their children. Selected from more than Argentina, Kimberly-Clark supported 500 applicants, the 2011 grant recipients training for entrepreneurs in microdemonstrated original product ideas, enterprises. Provided in partnership with ranging from acupressure wristbands the Association for the Promotion of for the relief of morning sickness to an Education and Sport, four training sesadjustable chair and carrier that mimsions were attended by approximately ics the complex “colic-cradle hold.” 100 residents of the Las Lilas and The Huggies brand Mom-Inspired Monterrey neighborhoods. program was launched in 2010 to help fund women-owned business start-ups THE CREATORS OF and new product innovations inspired by the challenges and experiences of 9 UNIQUE IDEAS WERE motherhood. In 2011, the program was expanded to Australia to support the rise AWARDED $15,000 of the country’s “mumpreneurs,” awarding $20,000 grants to five applicants. EACH IN SEED FUNDING In December 2011, Kimberly-Clark’s Huggies brand announced the second year of its Mom-Inspired grant program. The creators of nine unique ideas were awarded $15,000 each in seed funding and provided with business resources to support the development of products Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 29 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Providing Relief in addition, we matched donations made by Kimberly-Clark employees to the earthKimberly-Clark provided additional product support, including hand sanitizers Emergencies quake appeals. and diapers, to victims of tornadoes in the U.S. Midwest, and the flooding of the Helping Hands for Japan Tsunami Mississippi River, through the American Unfortunately, the world On March 11, a massive earthquake Red Cross. experienced a number of largeoccurred off the coast of the northern scale disasters in 2011—some of part of Japan’s main island, creating a When disasters like extreme flooding which were unprecedented in their tsunami and triggering the failure of a in the northeast United States or the toll on their respective societies. major nuclear power plant. Thousands of earthquake in Turkey happen around the people died or went missing, and millions world, the American Red Cross is there to Kimberly-Clark and its employees were left without basic necessities such provide shelter, food, emotional support responded swiftly and generously. as electricity, water and transportation. and other assistance to people in need. The Kimberly-Clark Japan team was able As a member of the ADGP, Kimberlyto deliver 890 cases of much-needed surClark’s support ensures that the Red gical gowns, sterilized gloves and other Cross can be on the scene of a disaster at a moment’s notice. IN 2011, WE RENEWED OUR As an ADGP member, Kimberly-Clark is COMMITMENT TO THE a member of the Red Cross family, one of the largest humanitarian forces in the AMERICAN RED CROSS world. Every day, the Red Cross: • S  helters, feeds and provides vital supplies to area hospitals. emotional support to victims of disasters—from single-family house fires to Financial Support for the Red Cross catastrophic natural disasters Annual Disaster Giving Program • C  ollects, processes and distributes In 2011, Kimberly-Clark renewed our lifesaving blood and blood products commitment to the American Red Cross Annual Disaster Giving Program (ADGP), • G  ives support and comfort to military a select group of leading corporations members, veterans and their families Kimberly-Clark provided the following that provide the highest level of support • E  mpowers people with life-saving support in 2011: to Red Cross relief efforts. Kimberly-Clark health, safety and preparedness skills is one of 36 member companies of ADGP, Essential Products for Australia and which gives the Red Cross advance fund• H  elps prevent some of the most New Zealand Disaster Victims ing to provide immediate relief to disaster deadly diseases—including measles, Kimberly-Clark donated more than victims. In 2011, it contributed to relief malaria and HIV—in the world $350,000 in essential products to assist efforts around the world, including in victims of the Queensland floods. We regions where Kimberly-Clark operates, In 2011, the American Red Cross also supplied diapers, baby wipes and such as El Salvador, Thailand and the launched 137 disaster relief operations feminine hygiene products to local New United States. in 46 states and territories to help people Zealand community groups for distribuaffected by fires, floods, hurricanes and tion to victims of the earthquake. In tornadoes across the United States. In Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 30 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report addition, major international disasters Friends Helping Friends in Thailand included the extensive flooding in Flood Zones Pakistan and continuing work following A number of Kimberly-Clark employees the 2010 Haiti earthquake. In fiscal year have been affected by the ongoing flood2011 (July 1, 2010 to June 30, 2011), the ing in Thailand. The Pathumthani site’s American Red Cross worked with partNorth Mill and national distribution center ners in the Red Cross and Red Crescent closed due to flooding. The Kimberlynetwork to assist 229 million vulnerable Clark Thailand team launched the people in 76 countries. Friends Helping Friends campaign, which focused on helping families stay safe and In areas where Kimberly-Clark has operaminimizing damage to their homes. At tions, the American Red Cross was a first the same time, the team put contingency responder in the northeast U.S., where plans in place to reduce the impact of the flooding impacted our Chester and New distribution center closure on victims of Milford facilities. Additionally, flooding the flood. and tornadoes in the southeast U.S. and flooding in Central America and Thailand impacted our employees and again, Kimberly-Clark provided assistance through the American Red Cross. Not only did our monetary donation help to supply shelter, food and other essentials, Kimberly-Clark also provided support in the form of product donations. From paper towels to moist wipes, the needs of those facing disaster situations are numerous and varied, and KimberlyClark was able to help meet those needs with our most trusted products. Homes for Colombia Flood Victims Colombia’s 2011 rainy season was the most severe in recent memory, resulting in floods and landslides, loss of crops and more than 300 fatalities. Over 100 volunteers from Kimberly-Clark Colombia spent two days in May building houses for flood victims in four Colombian cities: Bogotá, Cali, Medellin and Barranquilla. Kimberly-Clark worked in partnership with Un Techo Para Mi País (A Roof for My Country), a Latin American nonprofit organization, to plan and gather supplies for the project. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 31 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Working with Our Ensuring high standards in our dealings with our suppliers is an important Supply Chain business goal and part of our Code of Conduct and Human Rights in Employment policy. In 2011, we further Kimberly-Clark’s suppliers provide underscored the importance of these us with many of the materials standards with the release of an updated and services needed to make Guide for Suppliers and approval of our products. a new Supplier Social Compliance Standards and Checklist. These stanOur relationships with suppliers are dards are consistent with the goals of essential to our ability to deliver on our several international standards, including promises to customers and consumers. the Labor Organization’s Declaration We seek to do business with those who on Fundamental Principles and Rights share our values of quality, service and at Work, as well as the principles of the fair-dealing, as well as our commitment United Nations Global Compact, which to sustainability. we signed in 2010. ENSURING HIGH STANDARDS FOR SUPPLIERS IS AN IMPORTANT BUSINESS GOAL Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 32 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Collaborating with are differences in laws, customs and economic conditions that affect busisuppliers’ compliance with the SSCS. The assessments include confidential Our Suppliers ness practices around the world. We interviews with employees and on-site emphasize the importance of responsible contract workers. Suppliers were required workplace policies and practices that to work with Kimberly-Clark to implement We choose our suppliers based comply with applicable employment laws any corrective actions needed. In the on a number of factors, including and regulations, occupational safety and event the supplier failed to fully comply price, safety, quality, value, health, and environmental regulations. with our standards, Kimberly-Clark technology, service and This is a priority for Kimberly-Clark, and reserved the right to issue corrective sustainability. we are determined to proceed with diliaction or remedies including possible gence and transparency. termination of a supplier’s agreement(s) In 2011, we communicated our new with Kimberly-Clark. We are on schedule requirements, the Supplier Social 2011 Progress to Supply to conduct more than 100 audits in 2012. Compliance Standards (SSCS), to Chain Compliance finished-product contractors and began The new standards and processes are GOOD CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP requiring letters of compliance. The being rolled out in a phased approach. SSCS are driven by the belief that good By the end of 2011, about 100 of our IS ESSENTIAL TO OUR corporate citizenship is essential to our finished product suppliers had signed long-term business success and must the compliance declaration. Additionally, LONG-TERM SUCCESS be reflected in our relationships and in partnering with our customers and activity in our workplaces as well as the external auditing firms, we deployed a workplaces of those who are authorized human rights risk-management process to directly supply our business. to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for impacts on human rights and demWorking with Suppliers in Argentina onstration of compliance. We focused Kimberly-Clark Argentina has been the program on countries at high risk for advancing social compliance through human rights abuses, requiring facilities its supply chain since 2009. This project to demonstrate the absence of violaincludes: tions in each of the following categories: child labor, forced labor, abuse of labor, • A  Code of Conduct for Suppliers, freedom of association and collective which requires implementation of bargaining, discrimination and working efficiency processes conditions that present an imminent threat or serious injury to employees. • A  Practical Labor Guide for SME Suppliers, which outlines basic In 2011, working with our customers we concepts in labor law and tax conducted more than 35 audits, utilizrequirements ing independent third parties, to assess This compliance program focuses on establishing consistent standards and control processes within our supplier facilities, while recognizing that there Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 33 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report • A Practical Tax Guide, offering guidance on the implementation of tax requirements and schemes • A Practical Leadership Guide, introduced in 2011, which outlines leadership concepts, organizational culture and planning In 2011, audits were undertaken with 100 Argentinean suppliers identifying actions and monitoring processes. We will report on our results in our 2012 report. This initiative received the Corporate Citizenship Award 2011 in the category of suppliers from the American Chamber of Commerce in Argentina. It was also granted the Communicative Social Responsibility Award 2011 by Veali Group Argentina. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 34 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Protecting Human Respecting Human Rights At Kimberly-Clark, leading the world in formalized in our Human Rights in Employment Policy and Instructions. Rights essentials for a better life is our business. Simply stated, operating with integrity and Today’s consumers, customers and with high ethical standards is the KimberlyClark way. Our Code of Conduct, Human OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY AND WITH HIGH ETHICAL other stakeholders increasingly Rights in Employment Policy, and Supplier care about human rights. Social Compliance Standards provide So do we. Kimberly-Clark’s commitment guidance for dealing with customers, suppliers, other employees, competitors and STANDARDS IS THE to protecting human rights is consistent with our respect for each other and the public with integrity and in an ethical and appropriate manner. KIMBERLY-CLARK WAY continues our heritage of honesty, integrity and fair dealing. This commitment Our acknowledgment of these interis formalized in our Human Rights in national principles is consistent with Employment Policy and Instructions. our dedication to enriching the workplace, preserving the environment and In 2011, we partnered with our customers strengthening the communities where and external auditors to set out a human we operate. Kimberly-Clark enforces rights risk-management process that identhese policies, practices and controls. tifies, prevents, mitigates and accounts In addition, the Audit Committee of our for human rights violations. The program Board of Directors provides oversight of focuses on countries at high risk for our efforts to ensure compliance with the human rights abuses. To either become Code and certain legal and regulatory or remain a Kimberly-Clark supplier, a requirements. We also seek to promote supplier must agree to comply with our our goal of social responsibility into our Supplier Social Compliance Standards. supply chain. We do this by requiring We will conduct audits and identify violaannual declarations of compliance on tions in the following categories: the part of Kimberly-Clark’s contracted supply chain, as well as by conducting • C  hild labor, forced labor and abuse periodic, independent third-party social of labor Kimberly-Clark respects international compliance audits. social compliance and environmental • F  reedom of association and collective principles aimed at promoting and bargaining protecting human rights and the environ• Discrimination ment. Our policies align with the goals of several international standards, including • W  orking conditions that present immithe International Labor Organization’s nent threat or serious injury Declaration on Fundamental Principles to employees and Rights at Work. These values are Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 35 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Maintaining Quality Kimberly-Clark is accountable and committed to integrity in our products and and Safety supply chain. Should they become necessary, product-recovery processes are established to proactively and promptly Quality is an essential part of address potential safety issues. These Kimberly-Clark’s business strategy, processes are tested periodically to and a culture of quality is the ensure they are effective and efficient. foundation for meeting customers’ as well as consumers’ Kimberly-Clark takes a proactive expectations. approach in recovering products that do not meet quality or regulatory standards It is the policy of Kimberly-Clark or may pose an adverse health or safety Corporation to design, manufacture and risk. In 2011, Kimberly-Clark Corporation deliver products that meet or exceed executed product recalls in the United customer expectations for quality, perforStates that included the following: mance and value. Each Kimberly-Clark business, function and facility is charged • J  ackson brand Safety Blockhead We are equally dedicated to protectwith developing and maintaining quality Hard Hats ing consumer health and safety. Our systems that support this policy. From product safety scientists are trained and • K  imberly-Clark MIC brand Gastrodesign and sourcing, through manufaccredentialed in the field of toxicology, bioEnteric Feeding Tube turing, commercialization, transportation, compatibility and health risk assessment. distribution and sales, quality is an impor• K  imberly-Clark Three-Quarter Most have doctoral degrees and several tant part of our entire process. Surgical Drapes are board-certified by the American • Kimberly-Clark Ultra Surgical Gown Board of Toxicology. Safety assessments External regulations and industry best generated by our product safety experts practices, as well as internally developed • K  imVent brand Oral Care Kits cover the complete lifecycle of a product: standards, define our quality expectawith CHG research and development, manufacture, tions. Programs are established to sale and use. • K  otex brand Natural Balance measure compliance to these expecSecurity Tampons tations and report results to senior Additional information on our policies, management. These quality standards CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT positions on animal testing, and impleand established quality-system processes mentation of the European Commission drive the continuous improvement activiENSURES THAT OUR Regulatory Framework is available on our ties that ensure Kimberly-Clark products corporate website. are safe and effective for consumers. PRODUCTS ARE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 36 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Performance Data–People Employees by region in 2011 14% EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA 36% 8,222 LATIN AMERICA 20,351 24% ASIA-PACIFIC 13,789 26% NORTH AMERICA 14,889 Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 37 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 38 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 39 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | people 40 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Planet virgin fiber from 99.9 Kimberly-Clark believes that we % have a duty to conserve and protect the natural environment. Our business and sustainability environmentally efforts focus on the resources— fiber, water, energy—upon which responsible we primarily rely and on which we can have the greatest impact. sources Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 1 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Valuing Our Planet As a fundamental value, Kimberly-Clark Manufacturing seeks to operate in compliance with all (Million MT) applicable environmental laws and reguKimberly-Clark has long recognized 4.96 5.13 4.87 5.08 4.82 lations. We foster employee engagement the importance of environmental to drive continuous improvement beyond conservation and protection. compliance. We also work collaboratively with stakeholders that share an interest in protecting, conserving and replenishing natural resources. 2011 Highlights • Kleenex brand became the first U.S. branded consumer tissue to offer tissue products certified by the Forest 07 08 09 10 11 Stewardship Council (FSC) to North American consumers, while KimberlyTotal Virgin Fiber Used Clark Professional expanded its (Million MT) FSC certification to more than 95 percent of its tissue and towel lines in 2.61 2.64 2.56 2.48 North America 2.47 • K  imberly-Clark and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) announced a global agreement with WWF’s Global Forest After all, our business success depends & Trade Network (GFTN) on the availability of some of the globe’s essential natural resources. Our 2015 • O  ur work since 2007 with the Sustainability strategy builds on our founSustainable Forest Mosaics Initiative dation of environmental commitments was featured as a case study in the and accomplishments while setting new Food and Agricultural Organization targets consistent with the complexity of (FAO) of the United Nations’ State of 07 08 09 10 11 today’s environmental challenges. the World’s Forests 2011 report, which outlines the results to date of global to communities of 205 million gallons In November 2011, Kimberly-Clark forest areas set aside for conservation (776 million liters), a first step toward a updated its environmental, energy and and restoration ten-year goal. waste policies. The new policies on Protection of the Environment, Waste WE ARE THE FIRST COMPANY • O  ur entire Personal Care Europe Minimization and Landfill Elimination, business achieved Kimberly-Clark’s and Energy Efficiency and Greenhouse TO SELL FSC TISSUE IN Sustainability 2015 goal of zero waste Gas Reduction capture our current thinkto landfill ing and reflect the goals and strategies of our global businesses. We benefited from the input of our Sustainability Advisory NORTH AMERICA • W  e made significant investments in combined heat and power generation at our Millicent facility in Australia, and Board in formulating the new policies. • W  e initiated water-replenishment in solar collectors to generate power We also began development of a posiprojects in India, Israel, Colombia and at our Romagnano facility, in Italy tion paper on climate change, which Spain, with a total anticipated return we expect to publish on our corporate website in 2012. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 2 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Our Brands & “Kimberly-Clark’s decision to adopt FSC certification for all Kleenex and Scott • C  aused less than 40kg of organic water pollution per metric ton of Sustainability Naturals brand products is a major step tissue produced forward for the health of the world’s • G  enerated less than 1,500 kg of CO2e forests. Kimberly-Clark’s leadership is Kimberly-Clark is a global leader in from fossil fuels per metric ton of tissetting the pace for the industry, and we the use of fiber sourced from sue produced hope other personal care manufacturers certified suppliers in its products. will soon follow suit.” • C  onsumed less than 2,200 kWh of electricity per metric ton of tissue In 2003, Kimberly-Clark became the first – Corey Brinkema, President, produced tissue company to require its wood fiber FSC’s U.S. national office suppliers to gain independent certificaAdditional 2011 FSC-certified products tion. In 2007, we set a goal of purchasing Advancing Sustainability through and product lines include: 100 percent of our wood fiber from certiEnvironmental Certification and fied suppliers and achieved 98 percent Labeling of that target within two years. In 2009, Kimberly-Clark Professional expanded its Kimberly-Clark Professional became the FSC certification to more than 95 percent first away-from-home tissue products of its tissue and towel lines in North company to receive Forest Stewardship America, a major step forward in the Council (FSC) certification for a broad company’s sustainability efforts and prorange of tissue and towel products. curement goals. It also received EcoLogo certification for more than 50 percent of KIMBERLY-CLARK’S its Kleenex and Scott brand towel and tissue products. The EcoLogo program is LEADERSHIP IS SETTING THE one of North America’s most respected environmental leadership certification PACE FOR THE INDUSTRY programs. To earn the EcoLogo mark, tissue products must demonstrate significantly reduced environmental impact Our 2011 achievements include: among five key lifecycle criteria: resource consumption, energy consumption, FSC Certification: A First for Kleenex wastewater quality, aquatic toxicity and brand and Scott Naturals brand solid waste. • F  SC certification on bath and facial In 2011, Kimberly-Clark became the first tissue and paper towels for KimberlyU.S. tissue maker to offer tissue products Kimberly-Clark Professional also earned Clark China certified by the FSC to North American European Ecolabel status for 60 towel • F  SC certification on Kleenex branded consumers. Kimberly-Clark’s Kleenex and tissue products, including Scott products in Taiwan, representing the and Scott Naturals brand products are and Kleenex brand lines. Kimberly-Clark first family tissue brand to receive made with fiber that has been sourced Professional met a series of stringent broad FSC certification in Taiwan from independently certified suppliers environmental standards to achieve that follow the highest standards in Ecolabel status for the products. Among • B  razil’s Neve Compacto brand preforestry management and protect High other things, Kimberly-Clark Professional: mium bath tissue with 100 percent Conservation Value Forests and habitat. FSC-certified virgin fiber • E  liminated bleaching agents contain• F  SC certification for fiber sources ing chlorine from its manufacturing used in most of Australia’s Family Care processes tissue products, including Cottonelle and Viva brands Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 3 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Switzerland’s Hakle Naturals Brand A major supplier to Walmart in Brazil, we Tissue Promotes Recycled Content were able to quantify its environmental Recycled tissue commands the largest performance based on sales volumes to segment (28 percent) in the Swiss tissue that customer, including: market. To meet consumer demand, increase its share of the marketplace and • R  educed fossil energy use by 37 gigaenhance its sustainability credentials, joules, which saved us 58 metric tons Kimberly-Clark Switzerland relaunched of CO2 through the use of 520 gigaits 100 percent recycled Hakle Naturals joules of renewable energy brand in 2011. Through its affiliation • R  eduction of 30 metric tons of solid with the World Wildlife Fund in Switzerland, waste sent to landfill the improved Hakle Naturals brand now boasts the WWF’s Panda logo on • R  eduction of 455,000 liters of its packaging alongside the consumerwater consumption respected Blue Angel eco-label. Hakle Naturals brand also achieved an “Excellent” Material Reductions in Our Personal rating in WWF’s online paper-rating tool, Care and Global Nonwovens scoring 95 percent of all possible points Businesses and five stars in the categories of forest, Kimberly-Clark’s Personal Care sector, climate and water. which produces feminine care, adult care, baby and child care and wipes products, We replicated the success of this product removed more than 2,600 metric tons in Holland, with plans for launches in of material from its products in 2011. additional European countries in 2012. Reductions were achieved in adhesives, ointments and nonwoven materials. Neve Compacto Brand Achieves Waste, Water and Energy Reductions Global Nonwovens’ (GNW) goal is to Kimberly-Clark Brazil received the reduce the weight of 80 percent of Ecological Forward Thinking Design sourced materials by 2015 compared with award, given by the U.S. Chamber of a 2009 benchmark. In 2011, GNW was Commerce and Brazilian newspaper Valor successful in reducing material weight Econômico, for its initiatives to reduce by 42 percent compared to 2009 through the environmental impacts of its products process and material improvements. and packaging. In 2011, Kimberly-Clark In the past two years, it has saved the Brazil improved the environmental equivalent of approximately 100,000 barperformance of its FSC-certified Neve rels of oil from material-weight reductions. Compacto brand bathroom tissue. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 4 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Comments From Our KIMBERLY-CLARK EMBRACED Sustainability A CREDIBLE SUSTAINABLE Advisory Board FIBER PROGRAM “While disposable tissue products provide undeniable comfort, this report clarifies their impact on the environment. Fibers, wasted or flushed just months after production, take forests decades to regrow. It takes Kimberly-Clark, and its suppliers, massive amounts of fuels and water to turn wood, paper, plastics and chemicals into its brands. “This could soon prove unsustainable on a “There is plenty to be done. Further progplanet so close to serious tipping points ress in the development of low impact in climate stability, biodiversity, freshwater products implies the use of innovation to and oil availability. Rising commodity prices go beyond legal compliance and informal are also signals of irreversible scarcity. regulatory frameworks in the attempt to reverse the traditional trend in business. “Shareholders should be concerned about this vulnerability to energy and freshwater “There is hope. After denial and supplies as well as constraints on carbon hesitations, Kimberly-Clark embraced emissions and forest conservation. They a credible sustainable fiber program. It should worry about the slow trickle needs to tackle carbon, water and of innovations on a low R&D budget postconsumer waste with equal urgency (1.5 percent of sales). and ambition.” Claude Fussler Former VP, Dow Chemical & Former Director–Stakeholder Relations, World Business Council for Sustainable Development Ricardo Young Former Executive President, Ethos Institute Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 5 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Supporting Healthy In 2007, Kimberly-Clark adopted what has been recognized by industry and Forests NGOs as a groundbreaking global fiber procurement policy. We are committed to using environmentally responsible fiber Kimberly-Clark is committed to susfrom three sources: taining natural forests. In 2011, the company used approxi• W  ood pulp purchased from suppliers mately 2.48 million metric tons of virgin that have achieved forest managefiber. With our manufacturing needs ment or chain of custody certification representing 6 percent of total market pulp demand, the company must support • W  ood pulp that we have manufactured a sustainable supply of fiber—sustainfrom logs or chips obtained from able not simply for our requirements but forest-certified suppliers The demands on natural forests continue equally for the health of the global ecoto grow with a growing population and • R  ecycled fiber recovered from systems where we live and work. In the new products and services entering the pre-consumer or postconsumer past—when Kimberly-Clark owned and marketplace. Because fiber is such an waste paper managed woodlands—it was a leader in important aspect of our business, and sustained yield forestry and maintained because trees and forests play a critical In addition, Kimberly-Clark will not active tree-planting programs. Now that role in the health of the global environknowingly use conflict wood, illegally harwe have divested our woodlands and ment, Kimberly-Clark has chosen to lead vested wood fiber or wood fiber procured pulping assets, we are committed to by conserving forests through protection, from High Conservation Value Forests. ensuring that our supply chain is environreforestation, responsible fiber sourcing mentally responsible and has embraced and research. In 2011, approximately “Kimberly-Clark has achieved sustainability sustainable forestry principles. Forests 30 percent of the wood fiber we used results far beyond other large companies are so important that the business comwas sourced from natural forests. We in the sector, netting real benefits for munity, including Kimberly-Clark, must are working to identify alternatives to forests worldwide.” continuously and collaboratively work to traditional fiber sources to reduce our preserve these natural resources. footprint in natural forests. – Rolf Skar, Forest Campaign Director, Total Fiber Used in 2011 Greenpeace U.S. “Given the company’s breadth of product WE ARE COMMITTED TO AN (Million MT) offerings and market influence, we commend Kimberly-Clark’s leadership ENVIRONMENTALLY VIRGIN in pushing the pulp and paper industry toward more responsible sourcing RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN 2.48 practices. Our collaboration is improving forest management, reducing impacts We provide information on our fiber from production, and helping protect the policy—responsible sourcing of wood forests and habitats at the core of our fiber and reforestation efforts—in the folmission. And Kimberly-Clark is offering lowing pages. We also describe some of consumers responsible alternatives for the important relationships that make our RECYCLED tissue and personal care products. This progress possible. 1.05 shows the true power of collaboration.” – Kerry Cesareo, Managing Director– Forests, World Wildlife Fund Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 6 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report How We Source In uncertain economic times, FSC certification can be expensive, increasingly so in Our Fiber such regions as Latin America. In addition, while the FSC certification program is international in scope, its standards may not be Kimberly-Clark’s Sustainability 2015 established in all regions or countries. goals include purchasing 100 percent of its virgin wood fiber We are supporting our supplier engagefrom suppliers that have their ment by working with such partners as forestry operations or wood fiber FSC International, FSC US, Greenpeace, procurement activities certified by the Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) one of the following third-partyof the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), and verified forest certification systems: other ENGOs. Our aim is to simplify and standardize FSC requirements, • Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) manage administrative costs and build consumer awareness of the value of • Sustainable Forest Initiative (SFI) FSC certification. In 2011, Lisa Morden, In addition, FSC has a requirement that, • C  anadian Standards Association Kimberly-Clark Professional Tissue in general, forest plantations established (CSA) National Sustainable Forest Category Manager and past Global after 1994 do not qualify for certification. Management Standards Sustainability Leader for Kimberly-Clark Kimberly-Clark’s policy allows unreProfessional, was elected to the FSC U.S. • S  istema Brasileiro de Certificacao stricted plantation development up to Board of Directors, where she will support Florestal (CERFLOR) (Brazil) March 15, 2007, and establishes criteria FSC consumer awareness initiatives. for use of plantation fiber after that date. • P  rogramme for the Endorsement of We also share our experience with other FSC IS THE WORLD’S MOST Forest Certification (PEFC) industry peers to support their development of fiber procurement policies and, RECOGNIZED FOREST FSC-Certified Fiber: Our Preferred Source ultimately, the uptake of certified fiber. As a member of FSC-International, CERTIFICATION SCHEME International in scope, the Forest Stewardship Council has developed the Kimberly-Clark has been involved in world’s most widely recognized forest certifipolicy and standards development and cation scheme, supported by environmental review, and attended the 2011 FSC Sourcing Challenges nongovernmental organizations (ENGOs) General Assembly and directly sponsored As with all commodities, supply and such as Greenpeace, The Rainforest or seconded motions that address demand for sources of wood fiber fluctuAlliance and World Wildlife Fund (WWF). FSC fiber availability and applicable ates. We have been successful in meeting standards. In addition, we made a preour fiber requirements to date, and It is the preferred forestry certification sentation on best practices at the WWF continue to be well positioned to meet our of a number of retailer customers in North America GFTN annual meeting in future needs in large part because of our Europe and, increasingly, of businessWashington, DC, in October 2011. We are long-term relationships with key suppliers. to-business partners globally. With a also a member of the Sustainable Forest We are close to achieving our 2015 goal certification process that is open and Products Industry’s Working Group of the of 100 percent fiber from certified supplitransparent, its requirements cover not World Business Council for Sustainable ers. At the end of 2011, we had only one only environmental concerns but also Development, and have been working to remaining non-certified supplier and we social issues, including the rights of revise its guide, Sustainable Procurement have made the decision to stop purchasindigenous peoples. of Wood and Paper-Based Products. ing from this supplier beginning in 2012. For a look at our global fiber procurement policy, click here. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 7 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Restoring Forests Taiwan Green Forest Campaign In December 2011, Kimberly-Clark Taiwan partnered with the Jane Goodall designed to protect local biological diversity and contribute to the capture of greenhouse gases. To support our preference for Institute of Taiwan to launch the Green certified fiber and improve the OUR TAIWAN GREEN FOREST Forest Conservation Campus Education habitat of communities in which we Campaign. Taiwan imports much of operate, we partner with local CAMPAIGN HELPS CHILDREN its wood fiber from Indonesia and groups on reforestation projects. Myanmar, both of which are threatened APPRECIATE FOREST by deforestation. The innovative educaWe profile some of these projects below. tion campaign combines the enthusiasm CONSERVATION In addition to these, Kimberly-Clark laid of Kimberly-Clark volunteers with the the foundation for reforestation initiaInstitute’s expert knowledge to help tives in Brazil at our Mogi da Cruzes teachers, elementary school students and Mill in partnership with The Nature their parents appreciate the importance El Salvador Tree Planting Conservancy, and in the Southeastern of forest conservation and sound environEighty Kimberly-Clark El Salvador volunU.S. in partnership with the National mental practices. teers contributed to our tree planting day Wildlife Federation. We will report on by planting 500 trees in the El Playón, a these initiatives in our 2012 report. protected three-hectare protected nature reserve sponsored by the company. Keep Korea Green Yuhan-Kimberly launched Keep Korea Green in 1984 with the goal of allowing Korean citizens to enjoy the benefits of forest areas and share in their preservation. Keep Korea Green offers a variety of programs, including tree planting and preservation and forest field trip programs for students. Program highlights in 2011 included: • N  ow in its 27th year, in April about 800 newlyweds participated in what has become an annual tradition of planting trees in honor of their future children • 2  50 employees at the new Choongiu Argentina Provincial Forestry Plan Mill celebrated its opening by Kimberly-Clark Argentina is collaboratplanting 3,000 trees on public land ing with the country’s ministries of near the facility Environment and Social Inclusion to carry • 1  38 high school girls attended two out a long-term reforestation plan along sessions of Green Camp, which prohighway corridors. The plan is designed vides education on the environment to minimize the impact of transportation by establishing buffers using indig• A  lmost 2 million trees were planted enous plant species. The program also and nurtured in 2011 through Keep promotes the creation of green spaces Korea Green Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 8 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Working with Our 2011, we achieved our commitment to a combined FSC/recycled content Stakeholders global target of 50 percent for all tissue and Personal Care products covered within our GFTN participation. This new Kimberly-Clark is involved commitment builds upon our previously with a number of partnerships announced Greenpeace agreement that and multi-stakeholder initiatives established combined FSC/recycled through which it fosters content targets for North American tissue responsible fiber sourcing. products only. Together, Kimberly-Clark and WWF will train and educate staff and We profile a selection of these below. suppliers on responsible fiber sourcing, encourage certification of small, nonWorld Wildlife Fund industrial private landowners, pursue In June 2011, Kimberly-Clark and the FSC chain of custody certification for all World Wildlife Fund (WWF) announced Kimberly-Clark facilities, and promote the expansion of Kimberly-Clark’s memFSC-labeled products in key markets. bership in WWF’s Global Forest & Trade plantation timber. Through careful planNetwork (GFTN). Kimberly-Clark has held Greenpeace ning for multi-use of the forest landscape, membership in the GFTN in select counIn 2009, Kimberly-Clark and Greenpeace Mosaics’ goal is to optimize conservation tries since 2008. shifted to a collaborative and constructive efforts while simultaneously generating dialogue to champion our common vision employment and income for nearby The GFTN aims to eliminate illegal logof sustainable forestry management. communities. ging and conserve the world’s most Since 2009, Kimberly-Clark has met valuable and threatened forests by colregularly with Greenpeace to discuss the In 2011, Kimberly-Clark continued laborating with companies to evaluate implementation of the company’s Fiber strong support for this multiyear initiaand improve their procurement of susProcurement Policy, set transparent and tive, contributing $275,000. This funding tainable fiber. Kimberly-Clark and WWF measurable fiber procurement goals, enabled consolidation and replication of are collaborating to help us realize our and review emerging issues related to CI’s foundational work in integrated forest commitment to source 100 percent of wood fiber. Our relationship is expanding modeling, and publication of Sustainable our virgin wood fiber from certified supin that Kimberly-Clark now regularly seeks Forest Mosaics Integrated Biodiversity pliers by 2015. Greenpeace’s point of view on a number and Guidelines for Forest Restoration. of important environmental issues. This publication will provide the basis WE MEET REGULARLY WITH for guidelines disseminated to forestry Conservation International companies in the Central Corridor and GREENPEACE TO DISCUSS Kimberly-Clark sources approximately will be promoted in other global planta42 percent of its fiber from eucalyptus tion forestry regions such as Indonesia. OUR FIBER POLICY plantations in Brazil. Since 2007, the Planning is now underway, with support company and its major pulp producfrom Brazil’s National Development Bank, ers have partnered with Conservation for a multiyear initiative focusing on This commitment includes a preference International (CI) on the Sustainable reforestation of 50,000 hectares in Brazil, for Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) cerMosaics Initiative in the country’s Central using the guidelines developed as part of tification, which best meets WWF’s key Corridor of the Atlantic Forest region. Conservation International’s Sustainable requirements for protecting environmenMosaics’ approach to plantation forestry Mosaics Initiative. tal, social and economic values essential is to establish interconnected natural to maintaining forests. By the end of forest preserves within larger areas of Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 9 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Canadian Boreal Forest Agreement One year after Kimberly-Clark and Greenpeace reached a cooperative agreement to protect the Canadian Boreal in 2009, nongovernmental organizations and logging companies reached the landmark Canadian Boreal Forest Agreement (CBFA) in 2010. The CBFA brought logging on 29 million hectares of boreal forest in Canada to an immediate halt and put in place strategies to conserve significant stretches of woodland, protect threatened caribou and sustain a healthy forestry industry. In alignment with the CBFA, KimberlyClark is committed to purchasing wood fiber from the Canadian Boreal only if its source is FSC-certified or is a CBFA signatory in good standing, a goal that we achieved by the end of 2011. To further support implementation of the Agreement, Kimberly-Clark serves as an invited member on the Boreal Business Forum, a roundtable of CBFA members, corporations and investors mandated to monitor progress in implementing the Agreement and serve as external advisors and advocates for the proposed solutions. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 10 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Managing Our in water use by focusing attention and resources on those facilities with strong with NGOs and our Sustainability Advisory Board, we heard that water efficiency Water Use business drivers to reduce water use. We was an internal measure for our mills, and have targeted the following methods for external stakeholders view water reducwater reduction: tion as a better measure of our impact Water is a key input in the on water. For this reason, we are now manufacturing of Kimberly-Clark • W ater efficiency improvements, as we measuring our progress in terms of absotissue products. restructure our tissue manufacturing lute water reduction. Measuring absolute footprint by shifting production to reduction is also congruent with how we more efficient mills measure our greenhouse gas emissions. • L ong-loop recycling to maximize treatment and reuse of process effluent 2011 INVESTMENT IN • Identifying and sharing water-use best practices within our operations WATER USE REDUCTIONS: • Increasing visibility of water use and our progress on reduction to $12.5 MILLION our businesses Our baseline for measuring absolute reduction is 2010. We used the World 2011 Progress toward Water Reduction Business Council for Sustainable In our previous Vision programs, we Development’s global water tool and tracked our water-usage progress by the Global Environmental Management measuring water use at all our tissue and Initiative tool for our measurement paper mills and calculating water effiprotocol. We also participated in the ciency. However, as we set our goals for development of the Ceres Agua Gauge. Sustainability 2015, and through our work Water use in manufacturing is of particular concern in water-scarce or water-stressed regions, such as the European Union, the Middle East, South Africa and Australia, where more than 35 percent of our tissue mills are located. An internal benchmark for older tissuemachine assets has been 30 cubic meters of water (25 cubic meters in water-stressed regions) per bone-dry metric ton of goods production. After implementing a number of efficiency measures, we achieved a success rate at 58 percent of our mills operating at or below benchmark for water use. However, our past progress on this metric has been inconsistent, and in 2011 we shifted our strategy to accelerate progress in making an overall reduction Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 11 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report We completed one project to increase water efficiency at our Kluang tissue mill, although other technical issues prevented us from gaining the full benefit. We will continue to address these efficiency issues in 2012. We also moved production from some of our less efficient tissue machine assets. As this was our first year of reporting absolute water reduction, we also planned projects and invested in technology to help lay the foundation for greater results in the coming years. Based on pilot projects, we had hoped to achieve a 2.5 percent reduction by the end of 2011. The plans implemented in 2011 resulted in approximately a 1 percent reduction in water use. Compliance with Water Discharge Standards Since 2000, we have required all facilities and business units to certify, on a quarterly basis, their compliance with our biological oxygen demand (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS) standards. In 2006, we developed a program to monitor acute toxicity at our international mills on a rotating basis and introduced corrective measures at mills where acute toxicity was present. In 2011, we formalized an acute toxicity standard requiring that all wastewater discharges be free of acute toxicity. This standard was met at all but one of our facilities. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 12 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Bringing Water to completed in 2011, villagers engaged in water and soil conservation projects Communities that cost $45,000. The second phase, in 2012, will focus on improving access to drinking water. Kimberly-Clark’s operations use approximately 34 billion gallons of The methods used in the project’s water per year, and we return implementation build on well-established 94 percent of our withdrawals indigenous knowledge and technology. (32 billion gallons). The project framework also encourages local ownership. A committee comprising As part of our Sustainability 2015 farmers, teachers, other villagers, local strategy, we aim to close the remaining authorities and technical experts super6 percent over the next 10 years. To that vises and monitors the work on a regular end, we have set a water-replenishment basis and plays a crucial role in securing target of 200 million gallons per year, local buy-in. which will accumulate to 2.0 billion gallons over 10 years. To achieve this, we our commitment to support the needs A second project in Akola, Maharashtra, collaborate with NGOs to provide clean of local communities, Kimberly-Clark captures monsoon rains by check dams drinking water, sanitation and hygiene provided funding in 2011 to Sanskriti to provide an immediate source of drinkeducation to communities, particularly Samvardhan Mandal (SSM), a local NGO, ing and washing water. The water is also those locations in which we operate. to implement the watershed development used for irrigation to augment a second project Trickle to Stream to help alleviate crop yield, thus boosting the economy of In 2011, we initiated water-replenishthese shortages. The project is being the village. ment projects in India, Israel, Colombia implemented in two phases. In the first, and Spain, described below. Our target was a total return of 205 million gallons. While it is too early to know the TISSUE MILLS 2% full effect of these programs, we are encouraged by preliminary results and PULP MILLS 3% will report the final outcomes in our 2012 Sustainability Report. OUR AIM IS TO RETURN ALL THE WATER WE WITHDRAW FORESTRY 20% Supporting Watershed Development in India WATER USE DURING 75% Sagroli village in India, located in the THE LIFECYCLE water-stressed region of Maharashtra in which our Pune facility is located, experiOF BATH TISSUE ences severe water shortages. Its existing water supply was designed for 2,500 people, but the current population of this CONSUMERS village is now 10,000 people. In line with (liters per 1,000 use events) Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 13 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Securing Water Supply in Israel year—and freeing up the equivalent of For the past five years, the Sea of Galilee, the annual water consumption of more also known as Kinneret Lake, has been than 6,000 people. disappearing. The lake is the only source of fresh water in Israel and supplies Reducing Water Use in Spain about 90 percent of water for private, More water is used in flushing toilets than agricultural and industrial use. Hoglaby any other household water use, and Kimberly’s Nahariya production facility, flushing accounts for about 75 percent of located 60 kilometers west of the lake, the water footprint of bath tissue—much has always been mindful of its water conmore than is used in tissue manufactursumption: The mill leads Kimberly-Clark’s ing. Inspired by an idea from the U.K. efforts in tissue production water effiand test-marketed in North America, ciency. However, as the water situation in Spain’s Scottex brand team rolled out its Israel has deteriorated, the Nahariya team Save-a-Flush campaign to help consumworked in partnership with the country’s ers reduce their water use. During the National Water Agency to reduce water November 2011 promotion, over 100,000 consumption and find substitute sources consumers, upon purchase of a pack of for fresh water. Scottex brand tissue, received a device that, when filled and fitted into a toilet The team determined that a private drilled tank, displaces 1 liter of water per flush. well could supply the mill’s water needs If only half of the devices are installed, while reducing its use of diminishing the Scottex brand team estimates water public water supplies. The well, comsavings of approximately 250 million liters pleted in 2011, draws on an aquifer that per year. Reducing water use is important has a plentiful and replenishable supply in Spain, a country that suffers from of non-drinkable water. It’s a win-win severe drought on a regular basis and solution, supplying 95 percent of the where 30 percent of the land is at high water consumed at the mill for production risk of desertification. purposes—about 80 million gallons per Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 14 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Striving Toward Approximately 94 percent of the waste generated by our U.S. Personal Care Waste per Metric Ton of Production (MT/MT) Zero Waste mills did not go to landfill. As a business unit, the Personal Care mills have set 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.29 internal targets to continually drive their 0.27 In 2011, Kimberly-Clark updated scrap materials up the solid waste hierarits waste minimization and landfill chy—reduce, reuse, recycle, recover elimination policy to reflect energy. In 2011, U.S. Personal Care mills our dedication to reaching our recycled 76 percent of their manufacturSustainability 2015 goal of sending ing scrap, up from 69 percent in 2010. zero manufacturing waste to landfill. The mills diverted 17 percent of total waste to energy generation, a reduction Disposing of waste in landfills is not a from our 2010 achievement of 26 perlong-term solution, nor is it cost-effective. cent. This reduction is the result of our 07 08 09 10 11 It wastes potentially valuable secondary efforts to find higher-value recycling outmaterials and costs Kimberly-Clark millets for materials that have historically Addressing the Challenges of Zero lions of dollars in landfill tipping fees. been used as a source of energy. Manufacturing Waste to Landfill Despite our efforts, we sent more 2011 Progress toward Zero manufacturing waste to landfill in 2011, TOTAL INVESTMENT IN WASTE Manufacturing Waste to Landfill and 52 percent of our facilities, repreOf our facilities, 48 percent have already senting 20 percent of our waste, have REDUCTION: $3.5 MILLION met our 2015 goal of sending zero some way to go before achieving our manufacturing waste to landfill. Our Sustainability 2015 goal. While we have global nonwovens facilities have been virtually landfill-free for a decade, and they continue to make advances in recycling their manufacturing waste into new Kimberly-Clark products. At the end of 2011, 62 percent of global nonwovens manufacturing waste was either reused or recycled by Kimberly-Clark. In September 2011, Kimberly-Clark’s Jaromer Mill, in the Czech Republic, achieved its target of sending zero manufacturing waste to landfill through a mixture of waste reuse, recycling and conversion to energy. With this milestone, the entire Personal Care Europe sector, including the Barton and Flint mills in the U.K., the Calatayud Mill, in Spain, and the Jaromer Mill, has achieved KimberlyClark’s Sustainability 2015 zero waste to landfill goal. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 15 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report made progress, we plan to step up our efforts in 2012 and subsequent years. Our primary waste stream that still requires landfill is tissue mill sludge from recycled fiber deinking operations, which accounts for approximately 90 percent of our manufacturing waste going to landfill. Diaper tailings from manufacturing facilities represent the remaining 10 percent. Many mills have successfully diverted sludge from landfill. Some current sludge uses include: animal bedding along with digestion to create energy; soil amendment; newsprint and corrugate manufacturing; building and insulation products; solidification agents for waste liquids; and fuel for steam boilers. Several innovative companies are using our sludge to make adobe-style bricks and other building components. These firms have won numerous innovation awards and have plans to expand their manufacturing capability globally. South Africa, reverted to landfilling waste reuse opportunities for waste streams in after a local brick manufacturer could Latin America and Europe. In 2011, we formed an open innovation no longer use the mill’s by-products. A team combining the inventive strength of waste-to-energy system to be installed In the Products pillar of this site, we prointernal and external partners to identify in 2012 will reduce waste to landfill by vide information on our efforts to address cost-neutral, enterprise-wide technology 25,000 metric tons. We are looking at postconsumer waste, which represents a solutions for sludge that will deliver our non-landfill applications at our Loudon, significant portion of the waste impact 2015 goal. We expect to begin to see Tennessee, Mill through a number of of our products over their lifecycles. We the impact of the team’s work in 2012. opportunities. We continue to explore also review our initiatives to reduce packFor example, in 2011, our Enstra Mill, in aging waste. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 16 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Our Greenhouse Gas improved energy efficiency. It focuses on three approaches: Footprint • Energy conservation Our Sustainability 2015 strategy set • S  witching to lower or zero GHGan enterprise goal of reducing our emitting fuels actual total GHG emissions by five • Implementing renewable and alternapercent from a 2010 baseline on an tive energy projects absolute basis, even after allowing for projected business growth. Kimberly-Clark has established an internal team to identify risks and potenOur strategy reflects our Energy Efficiency tial adaptations needed in response and Greenhouse Gas Reduction policy, to climate change. The team looks at which was updated in 2011 and intethe potential consequences of climate grates our emission reduction goals with change, such as which geographies and businesses may be exposed to the physical parameters of climate change absolute GHG reduction goal and are tarCarbon Dioxide Equivalents per and the magnitude of potential loss, geting an additional one percent absolute Metric Ton of Production as well as secondary effects such as emissions reduction in 2012. raw material shortages and employee 1.24 1.16 1.15 1.10 1.15 impact. It also evaluates the potential effects of regulatory changes, including 100% OF OUR ELECTRICITY AT carbon taxes, new product efficiency or labeling standards. The associated risks OUR HEADQUARTERS WILL BE and opportunities are discussed in detail in our information filing with the Carbon GREEN-E CERTIFIED Disclosure Project. Our GHG reduction initiatives include: We have set an annual companywide target of a 1 percent absolute reduction Solar Panels Cut Energy Costs 07 08 09 10 11 and Emissions in GHG emissions, and have implemented awareness, accountability and Since some of our mills are located in Carbon Dioxide Equivalents per monitoring programs to track shortsunny climates, Kimberly-Clark’s Global $1,000 of Sales and long-term progress. Energy Solutions Team (GEST) identified locations where solar would be a poten0.34 2011 Progress on GHG Reductions tial alternative energy source. In October 0.31 0.29 0.28 During 2011, Kimberly-Clark’s absolute 2011, our mill in Romagnano, Italy, com0.27 global emissions reduction was approxipleted installation of a rooftop solar panel mately 66,000 metric tons of CO2e. This system. The project is expected to enable equates to a 1.2 percent reduction in the mill to reduce its purchases from the GHG emissions from the 2010 baseline Italian electricity grid by 10 percent while year, primarily driven by lower global reducing annual greenhouse gas emisproduction levels at our mills. We remain sions by 600 metric tons of CO2e, the on track to achieve our 2015 5 percent equivalent of taking 200 cars off the road. 07 08 09 10 11 Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 17 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report The solar panel installation, which was done in tandem with a necessary roof upgrade, was undertaken with financial assistance from the Italian government. Building on the Romagnano achievement, a solar feasibility study, focused on AsiaPacific facilities, was conducted in 2011, with potential sites in India and Malaysia under evaluation. Renewable Energy In July 2011, Kimberly-Clark began purchasing wind power for our world headquarters in Dallas through the use of Green-e energy certified power from Constellation Energy. The certificates will match 100 percent of electricity use at our Dallas headquarters (approximately 3,300 megawatt hours of electricity per year) from July 2011 through June 2014. Kimberly-Clark’s certificates are sourced from wind-energy facilities in Texas. Travel Emissions A new “carbon report card” is increasing awareness of GHG reduction for Kimberly-Clark North American employees who travel as part of their job. The Travel Carbon Report Card, issued quarterly Kimberly-Clark, lists the amount of carbon emissions generated by business travel in the reporting period along with the year-over-year percentage change. The report card is designed to inform employees of how their business travel impacts the environment. It also encourages them to reduce emissions and costs by using video and teleconferencing when possible, and registers their commitments with Kimberly-Clark’s Small Steps for Sustainability program. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 18 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Managing Our energy targets. The results are shared, via teleconferencing and webinars, with Percent Energy from Renewable Sources Energy Use energy champions at Kimberly-Clark 24.0% 25.0% 23.9% mills worldwide, where energy conserva21.6% 20.7% tion best practices are implemented. Energy is a critical, strategic cost component for Kimberly-Clark, We are also involved in the EPA’s influencing the price of raw SmartWay Transportation Partnership, materials, manufacturing and a program that helps freight companies distribution. improve fuel efficiency, increase environmental performance, and increase supply In addition to reducing absolute GHG chain sustainability. Since 2006, we emissions by 5 percent, our Sustainability have engaged our internal supply chain 2015 energy efficiency goal is that partners and carriers to reduce CO2e Kimberly-Clark manufacturing facilities emissions and save fuel. Since 2006, meet zero percent deviation from best-intogether we have reduced 1.5 million 07 08 09 10 11 class energy targets. The Global Energy metric tons of CO2e and saved 134 million Solutions Team (GEST) undertakes gallons (507 million liters) of diesel fuel. Energy savings at our facilities include: Energy Performance Reviews (EPRs) at our facilities to support the identification Global Initiative to Save Energy and execution of opportunities to improve Yankee dryers are used on many our energy efficiency. In 2011, 30 EPRs Kimberly-Clark tissue machines to were completed across our manufacturremove water in the final step of the ing sites, and more than 50 process tissue manufacturing process. This is improvement studies on tissue producan energy intensive part of the tissue tion assets and reviews of boiler plants manufacturing process and has a large and utility operations were conducted. At impact on manufacturing costs. In 2009, the end of 2011, 50 percent of our manuKimberly-Clark installed insulation panels facturing sites had achieved the energy on the dryers at our Koblenz and Reisholz efficiency target goal. To fully meet this mills, in Germany, to reduce energy loss. challenge, we are investing capital, The project was so successful that we introducing new technologies and, most expanded the insulation program to 26 importantly, harnessing the creativity of additional tissue machines globally. In our employees to use less energy. 2011 Progress in Energy Efficiency 2011, the modifications yielded the folThe energy use intensity of Kimberlylowing results: Sharing Best Practices Clark manufacturing facilities worldwide Kimberly-Clark’s Energy Best Practices increased 2.5 percent, from 15.19 • A  n estimated reduction of 10,290 metand Energy Management System scoremmbtu/mt in 2010 to 15.56 mmbtu/mt ric tons of CO2e emissions card were updated in 2011 using the in 2011. These results were negatively Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) affected by the 5.2 percent decrease • A  5 percent average reduction in ENERGY STAR facilities management in worldwide production and structural Yankee Dryer steam usage on each system tool. Employing this and other asset changes as a result of the 2011 tissue machine analytical tools, GEST identifies the pulp and tissue restructuring action that global facilities with the greatest energy contributed to operation inefficiencies at and GHG emission savings potential and affected sites. helps develop plans to achieve defined Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 19 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Energy Cuts in Malaysia Australia Capital Investments The Family Care Production Facility at In 2011, Kimberly-Clark announced a Kluang, in Johor, Malaysia, manufactures $65 million reinvestment in its Australian a range of paper products, including manufacturing facilities. Of this, $6.5 milKleenex brand facial tissues and Scott lion has been directed to the Albury brand paper towels. Aiming to reduce plant to expand its capability to make energy consumption and improve innovative products and reduce carbon visibility within the plant, in 2011 the emissions. The Millicent Mill, in South company replaced the metal halide lightAustralia, which produces Kleenex brand ing fixtures on the manufacturing floor tissue products, is receiving $30 million with Light Emitting Diode (LED) High to finance the installation of a combined Bays lighting fixtures. The Kluang team heat and power generation project. When determined that the product offered the complete in 2013, these investments best combination of efficiency, payback will result in annual CO2e reductions of period and lifespan. The 150-watt LED approximately 90,000 metric tons, the High Bays have resulted in a 60 percent equivalent of removing 32,000 small cars reduction—208,500 Kwh of electricity—in from the road. annual lighting energy consumption in 2011. The Kluang Mill continues to explore other uses for this energy-saving lighting technology. 50% OF OUR MANUFACTURING SITES HAVE ACHIEVED THEIR ENERGY EFFICIENCY TARGET The results of the Kluang lighting initiative and other efficiency projects are captured in Kimberly-Clark’s Energy Best Practices Scorecard. The scorecard serves as a reference tool to identify potential common opportunities for Kimberly-Clark manufacturing facilities, such as in lighting, steam and compressed air. Projects and best practices are also shared across the organization through articles posted on the intranet site, SharePoint, global Web seminars, formal presentations and energy performance reviews. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 20 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Performance Data–Planet Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 21 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report virgin fiber purchases by certification scheme in 2011 5.4% 3.3% CERFLOR (BRAZIL) CANADIAN STANDARDS ASSOCIATION (CSA) 0.1% PROGRAMME FOR THE 6.0% NOT CERTIFIED ENDORSEMENT OF FOREST CERTIFICATION (PEFC) 7.9% FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL CONTROLLED 47.0% FOREST WOOD (FSC-CW) STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL (FSC) 30.4% SUSTAINABLE FOREST INITIATIVE (SFI) Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 22 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 23 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report direct energy use in 2011 (Trillion btu) 2% FUEL OIL 1.15 SELF-GENERATED LIQUOR 8% .32% OTHER SELF-GENERATED 4.48 .18 13% COAL 7.29 53% NATURAL GAS 30.28 23% PURCHASED BIOMASS, PURCHASED LIQUOR 13.30 indirect energy use in 2011 (Trillion btu) 2% STEAM 0.39 98% ELECTRICITY 18.91 Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 24 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 25 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Percent Energy from Renewable Sources 24.0% 25.0% 23.9% 21.6% 20.7% 07 08 09 10 11 Carbon Dioxide Equivalents per Metric Ton of Production 1.24 1.16 1.15 1.10 1.15 TISSUE MILLS 2% PULP MILLS 3% 07 08 09 10 11 Carbon Dioxide Equivalents per $1,000 of Sales FORESTRY 20% 0.34 0.31 0.29 0.28 0.27 WATER USE DURING THE LIFECYCLE OF BATH TISSUE (liters per 1,000 use events) CONSUMERS 75% 07 08 09 10 11 Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 26 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Total Global Water Use (Million M3) 144.6 143.3 129.7 128.4 127.3 process freshwater influent sources in 2011 14.9% GROUNDWATER 07 08 09 10 11 55.6% SURFACE 29.5% MUNICIPAL Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 27 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report process effluent discharge destinations in 2011 Waste per Metric Ton of Production (MT/MT) 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.29 21.1% MUNICIPAL 0.27 78.9% SURFACE 07 08 09 10 11 nonhazardous waste in 2011 (99.97% of Total) 3.1% 0.7% COMPOSTED 13.9% INCINERATED REUSED AND OTHER 19.3% CONVERTED TO ENERGY 20.5% BENEFICIAL USE 21.4% LANDFILLED 21.1% RECYCLED Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 28 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report hazardous waste in 2011 (0.03% of Total) 0.8% 1.1% PERMANENT STORAGE THERMAL TREATMENT 0.8% 3.6% LANDFILLED SURFACE INPOUNDMENT 0.4% BLENDED FUEL 11.5% CHEMICAL TREATMENT 29.8% BIOLOGICAL TREATMENT 22.3% INCINERATION WITHOUT HEAT RECOVERY 29.6% RECYCLED Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 29 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | planet 30 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Products net sales in 2011 13 % Every day, nearly a quarter of the world’s population uses from Kimberly-Clark products. The Product pillar, new under environmentally our Sustainability 2015 strategy, reflects our vision to meet innovative essential needs by developing environmentally innovative products designed with a products sustainable lifecycle approach. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | products 1 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Essential Products We are working to reduce packaging, as well as manufacturing and postconsumer Manufacturing (Million MT) for Our Customers waste. To achieve our Sustainability 2015 5.11 5.16 5.08 4.81 goals in this pillar, we are building a foun4.90 and Consumers dation from which to implement processes and tools to support environmentally innovative consideration at each stage of With the introduction of our a product’s lifecycle. We are tapping the Products pillar, we are embracing creativity of our stakeholders—employees, our responsibility to manage suppliers, distributors, customers, conthe sustainability of our products sumers and our network of external expert throughout their lifecycle— advisors to achieve our goals. including after their use. WE ARE TAPPING THE 07 08 09 10 11 CREATIVITY OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS TO ACHIEVE OUR GOALS For information on how we are working with our suppliers, click here. 2011 Highlights • We expanded our Global Innovation Centers and introduced our ecoLOGICAL program to enable the identification, development and tracking of environmental innovation • K  imberly-Clark’s Huggies brand team continued to expand its diaper composting initiatives, opening a second Kimberly-Clark–sponsored recycling plant in New Zealand and, through our partnership with Envirocomp, exploring locations for additional international plants Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | products 2 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Comments from our THE COMPANY’S EFFORTS ON Sustainability PACKAGING HAVE YIELDED Advisory Board A NUMBER OF IMPRESSIVE “Kimberly-Clark’s approach to product sustainability is broad and strategic. The REDUCTIONS AND INNOVATIONS company is moving from focusing on its own environmental and social impacts to implementing significant initiatives across the full value chain. “Kimberly-Clark now uses nearly 100 percent certified fiber, with a significant percentage (68 percent), particularly in its critical Kleenex brand, coming from Forest Stewardship Council–certified “One important caveat on products, sources. This commitment is a sign of real however, is Kimberly-Clark’s relative leadership in a product category with little weakness on understanding and satconsumer recognition around sourcing. isfying customer needs in underserved The company’s efforts on packaging have developing economies. Kimberly-Clark’s yielded a number of impressive reductions new Innovation Center in Bogotá, and innovations. Kimberly-Clark has also Columbia, is good start, but much developed a smart system for defining and remains to be done to serve the diaper designing greener “ecoLOGICAL” prodand personal care needs at the bottom of ucts in its portfolio. And the company has the pyramid. begun to address its biggest end-of-life challenge by identifying and supporting “But with that reservation, we’re comfortdiaper composting technologies. able that Kimberly-Clark’s efforts to manage its lifecycle impacts are robust, strategic, and will create significant value for Kimberly-Clark. We look forward to more progress in the future.” Malini Mehra Founder, Centre for Social Markets Andrew Winston Founder, Winston Eco-Strategies Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | products 3 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Our Product Colombia, which will develop products using local and regional insights to meet Innovations broader consumer needs around the world. We also expanded our product development capabilities to complement Innovation is core to Kimberlyour Innovation Center Asia in South Korea. Clark’s Global Business Plan and This expands Kimberly-Clark’s research, a key to our future success: engineering and design capabilities in a How do we make familiar products country that is at the forefront of sustaineven better? ability, technology and inventions to meet consumer and customer demands. How do we capture the breakthroughs of tomorrow? We are listening to the Together with our established innovavoices of our customers/consumers tion facilities in Neenah, Wisconsin, and and harnessing the inventiveness of our Roswell, Georgia, we are well-positioned employees and suppliers to explore new to stay competitive in a fast-changing ideas and approaches to reduce our market environment. environmental impact. To help accomplish this, we are expanding WE ARE WELL-POSITIONED TO our network of Global Innovation Centers. In the summer of 2011, we announced STAY COMPETITIVE IN A the creation of a new center in Bogotá, FAST-CHANGING MARKET Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | products 4 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report LifeCycle Analysis & • B  reakthrough environmental innovation that showcases new product • H  uggies Pure and Natural brand diapers (North America) Eco-Certification development and is recognized by • H  uggies brand Baby Wipes customers or consumers as delivering (North America) environmental benefits (as determined One of Kimberly-Clark’s by third-party testing) • N  eveNaturali brand Bath Sustainability 2015 goals is to Tissue (Brazil) achieve 25 percent of net In 2011, the ecoLOGICAL program was • S  cott Naturals brand Bath sales from environmentally rolled out and training sessions were comTissue (U.S.) innovative products. pleted in North America, Brazil and Asia. • K  leenex brand FSC-certified To measure our progress, our ecoLOGItissues (U.S.) CAL program enables the identification, development and tracking of environmental Harnessing the Value of innovation using an internal rating system. Eco-Certification Eco-certification programs are voluntary, To qualify for inclusion in our ecoLOGIoften country-specific initiatives intended CAL portfolio, products are evaluated to encourage businesses to develop and across four categories: market products that are better for the environment. Products are evaluated • U se of responsible materials, including by independent third parties against rapidly renewable, certified and postprogram-specific criteria and, if succonsumer materials cessful, carry the program logo on their packaging. While marketplace demand • A nalysis of their lifecycle footprint for environmentally preferable products is using Kimberly-Clark’s rapid lifecycle increasing, Kimberly-Clark is proactively assessment tools, which evaluate seeking this external assurance to help a product’s environmental impacts educate our customers and consumers, against climate change, fossil fuel and to demonstrate the value in products depletion, water use and solid waste ecoLOGICAL Portfolio that offer a better environmental choice. criteria By the end of 2011, we achieved approxiThird-party eco-certification is affording • T hird-party, multi-criteria recognition, mately 13 percent of net sales from the Kimberly-Clark competitive advantage such as Green Seal, EcoLogo, environmentally innovative products in and helping secure new business. Green Good Housekeeping, Ecolabel our ecoLOGICAL portfolio, including: and others Kimberly-Clark Professional continues • K  leenex brand FSC-labeled its legacy of sustainability leadership. In 13% OF NET SALES COME products (Europe) 2009, it became the first away-from-home tissue products company to receive FSC• K  leenex brand Eco-form Facial FROM ENVIRONMENTALLY certification for a broad range of tissue Cleansing Wipes (U.K.) and towel products. In 2011, this status INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS • K  leenex and Scott brand FSC-labeled was extended to the broad majority of Kimberly-Clark Professional products its tissue and towel products in North (North America) America. Also in 2011, it earned European • K  leenex, Scott, and Wypall brand EU Ecolabeled Kimberly-Clark Professional products (Europe) Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | products 5 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Ecolabel status on 109 towel, tissue and The program resulted in: skin care products. To achieve Ecolabel status, Kimberly-Clark Professional’s • M  ore than 97 percent of consumers manufacturing processes had to satisfy joining the conversation, taking the stringent requirements around water and pledge and recruiting their friends and electricity usage, effluent quality and family to save trees by switching to carbon emissions. Scott Naturals brand products, commenting that they either “liked or liked Ecolabel status requires an additional a lot” Naturals brand products step: elimination of any bleaching agents • A  7 percent lift in brand awareness containing chlorine gas. Finally, in 2011 and 14 percent lift in purchase intent Kimberly-Clark Professional achieved EcoLogo certification for the majority of its tissue and towel products in North America. To earn the EcoLogo mark, tissue products must demonstrate significantly reduced environmental impact among five key lifecycle criteria: resource consumption, energy consumption, wastewater quality, aquatic toxicity and solid waste. Changing Consumer Perceptions Kimberly-Clark is working to educate consumers that choosing “green” products does not require trade-offs with quality and performance. In April 2011, the U.S. Scott Naturals brand launched a “4 Week Test Drive” program with the objective of changing consumers’ perceptions about “green” paper products. The goal was to empower consumers to make the better environmental choice by emphasizing the balance of mainstream product performance and quality with eco-friendly product innovation. The program promoted bath tissue, towels, moist wipes and napkin product lines that blend virgin fiber and at least 20 percent recycled material in products or packaging. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | products 6 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Innovations for encouraged to reduce the transmission of germs and, ultimately, this reduces Workplaces and the multibillion-dollar cost of employee absenteeism due to illness. Communities Kimberly-Clark Health Care Education Bus In addition to the following Health care-associated infections (HAIs) examples, please read about our are one of the most critical issues social innovation work through facing the healthcare system today. our Huggies brand Every Little To help promote education and awareBottom initiative and programs ness—and ultimately reduce infection that support mothers and children rates—Kimberly-Clark Health Care’s in our People section, notably HAI Education Bus, a unique mobile Kimberly-Clark China’s Touch of classroom, has been touring the U.S. White Angel, Kimberly-Clark for four years. To enhance the HAI credit courses offered to nurses, a hygiene and Argentina’s partnership with infection control component for hospital forum for sharing infection-prevention Caminando Juntos Foundation, environmental services staff—the frontbest practices and accessing tools and and Brazil’s Women in Action line workers responsible for cleaning and resources, such as customizable posters initiative. sterilizing patient and operating rooms— to educate and reinforce the importance was added in 2011. of HAI prevention with staff. Kimberly-Clark Professional Healthy Workplace Project Kimberly-Clark Health Care also sponDepend Brand Supporting In 2011, Kimberly-Clark Professional sors the HAI WATCHDOG™ awards Incontinence Education introduced the Healthy Workplace program, created to recognize the efforts In 2011, Kimberly-Clark began a relationProject, a comprehensive approach to of dedicated healthcare professionals ship with Quantia MD, a mobile and workplace hygiene that supports better working together to prevent HAIs. The online community for physicians where business performance by engaging and awards program, an initiative of the HAI members share expert thinking, test their educating employees to help reduce sickWATCHDOG Community, facilitates the understanding and stay ahead of rapid ness levels in a comprehensive way. The sharing of best practices among cliniscientific advances. Our partnership is full program includes swab testing of the cians and recognizes winning healthcare based on the fact that men with prostate workplace to identify germ “hotspots,” facilities with educational grants. The health issues have not always received solution design, education and engageHAI WATCHDOG Community is an online information related to incontinence from ment materials and support and a portfolio of hygiene products and protocols. The Healthy Workplace Project Desk Caddy is one such product. Employees keep this caddy on their desk and have easy access to facial tissue, disinfectant wipes and an antibacterial hand sanitizer. The program can also include public area stand sanitizer dispensers, periodic swab testing to measure workplace hygiene levels, and challenges and games to encourage engagement. Employees are Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | products 7 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report their doctors, even though prostate probKotex Brand Empowers First lems are a leading cause of incontinence Period Conversation in men. Through this collaboration, the Research shows that one in three young Depend brand provides doctors and girls has no idea what’s happening when clinicians with educational materials she gets her first period, and four out regarding incontinence and Depend of five moms feel only somewhat or not products, and encourages doctors to at all prepared to talk to their daughters have conversations with their patients about their changing bodies. In 2011, the regarding incontinence. Kotex brand began providing the tools to empower moms to proactively talk to OUR KOTEX BRAND IS their daughters and guide them through this important “first,” including a new PROVIDING TOOLS TO line of products designed specifically for tweens—U by Kotex Tween brand. EMPOWER MOMS TO TALK This conversation is especially important given the earlier onset of puberty in girls TO THEIR DAUGHTERS today compared with previous years. The Kotex brand provides tools, including conversation starters and information on In 2011, Kimberly-Clark also worked with first periods and other tough topics, to EverydayHealth, an online consumer help moms prepare for this sometimes health information site, to provide inconuncomfortable and difficult talk. tinence education, including ways to live with incontinence, dietary tips, and traveling and exercising advice for those with the condition. Poise Brand Providing Protection In 2010, Kimberly-Clark’s Poise brand employed its “Great Women in History” series to educate women about light bladder leakage and benefit the Women’s Health Foundation (WHF). Approximately one in three women experiences light bladder leakage at some point in her life. In an effort to further the brand’s goal to raise awareness of the issue and the protection offered by Poise brand products, in March of 2011, a promotion featuring the emblematic Rosie the Riveter was launched. Women were encouraged to enter a caption-writing contest, with the Poise brand donating one dollar for every participant in the campaign to the WHF. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | products 8 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Tools for Our In 2011, Kimberly-Clark worked with a large U.S. retailer to reduce the OUR GREENMETER ENABLES Customers environmental impact of shipping our products. The collaboration resulted COMPARISONs OF RECYCLED We help our customers make the best environmental choices for in the elimination of: FIBER CONTENT, WATER their businesses by providing a variety of tools. • 2  75 trucks on the road per year (or 2 percent of annual volume) by AND ENERGY increasing cube fill (a 7 percent improvement over 2010) and just-inThe Greenmeter is an easy way for our time inventory delivery business customers to evaluate envi• M  ore than 114,000 pieces of cardronmental impacts of Kimberly-Clark board and associated backroom Professional products against alternawaste and recycling costs, by altering tives. The Greenmeter enables analysis shipping packaging and comparisons of inputs such as recycled fiber content, water and energy. Our Virtual Consultant tool provides additional insights regarding annual purchase costs, cost-in-use performance and more. In combination, these two tools deliver powerful information regarding both the environmental and cost impacts of their purchase choices. A growing number of our business customers are applying these findings when making their purchasing decisions. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | products 9 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Reducing Our neared completion of our baseline • R  eplacement of cardboard secondpackaging data collection from suppliers ary packaging to poly bundles at Packaging Impact and Kimberly-Clark production facilities. Kimberly-Clark Europe’s Barton Mill. We also built a framework and calculaTotal annual CO2 reduction: 5,000 mettor, currently in test phase, to help our ric tons (11 million pounds). Packaging is integral to the quality packaging engineers, product designers and safety of our products, and that WE ARE AN ACTIVE MEMBER and brand owners compare packaging integrity will not be compromised impacts within a common framework. as we pursue our 2015 goal to reduce the environmental impact of our packaging. 2011 packaging reduction IN THE SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING COALITION successes included: • Increased recycled-resin content in Defining an Intensity Metric our flushable moist wipes tubs to We employ a carbon-equivalent intensity 25 percent. Virgin polymers diverted • R eplacement in packaging of Depend metric to calculate packaging reducfrom use: approximately 226.8 metric brand underwear 3X from corrugate tions. The metric is defined as the total tons (500,000 pounds). to poly. Material weight reduction per number of CO2 equivalents of packag• R  eduction in U by Kotex brand tampon retail package: 82 percent. ing consumption (including any waste packaging wrapper film. Weight reducor unsold product) divided by the total • R eduction of poly bag gauge for tion per wrapper: 18 percent; annual amount of product produced. To calculate Poise brand liners and Poise Ultra reduction in poly use: approximately a package’s impact, packaging weights Thins brand liners packaging. Annual 2,700 metric tons (5.5 million pounds). are converted into carbon equivalents poly savings: 10.8 metric tons using externally recognized methods and (23,800 pounds). conversion factors. • R eduction of shrink film by 15 percent in Personal Care’s rigid tub design. Sharing Best Practices Annual film savings: 6.8 metric tons In 2011, Kimberly-Clark strengthened its (15,000 pounds). innovation capabilities with the formation of a multidisciplinary internal commit• Introduction of renewable thermoplastee that meets monthly to promote tic starch hybrid flexible packaging by collaboration and share best practices. China Feminine Care products includKimberly-Clark is also an active corporate ing Kotex brand Little Q pantiliner. member in the Sustainable Packaging • A pplication of compression technolCoalition (SPC), a thought-leader organiogy in European Kleenex brand zation that provides context and design facial tissue packaging. Reduction in guidelines to inform our thinking. packaging: 39 percent; in distribution transport: 50 percent. 2011 Packaging Impact Reduction Progress • C ompacted Brazil’s Neve brand We are capitalizing on opportunities tissue product. Reduction in packagto lighten packaging weight, increase • R  eduction in paper used in U by ing materials used: 13 percent; in recycled content, remove packaging Kotex brand tampon information transportation-related CO2 emissions elements and shift to packaging with insert from nine to six panels. due to reduced packaging size: a lower carbon footprint. In 2011, we Paper reduction: 25.6 metric tons 18 percent. (56,400 pounds) annually. Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | products 10 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Thinking Differently has positioned itself among the first to implement large-scale recycling programs About Waste for nontraditional waste streams in North America. TerraCycle collects, converts and resells waste material as either bulk Kimberly-Clark is committed to plastics or eco-friendly consumer prodtaking responsibility for its products ucts. Kimberly-Clark’s bar code system throughout their lifecycles, and in allows us to track waste reduction by 2011, we continued to pioneer facility. The recycling program further solutions to capture waste after our extends our sustainability initiatives by products are used by our customers saving time, material and money. and consumers. Our Huggies brand also collaborates Kimberly-Clark continues to expand its with TerraCycle to collect and upcycle diaper composting initiatives. In 2010, diaper packaging through its Huggies Kimberly-Clark’s Huggies brand team Brand Brigade program in the U.S. The partnered with Envirocomp Ltd. to offer Huggies brand sponsors the installation a first-of-its-kind composting service in of TerraCycle collection bins in schools new towels. This is a win-win strategy Christchurch, New Zealand. To respond and other community locations. The bins because the customer does not have to the enthusiastic uptake by families receive a variety of packaging, including to pay for the disposal of those fibers, and commercial businesses, including that of Huggies brand diapers, whose and Kimberly-Clark can purchase this preschools and senior care facilities, boxes and plastic wraps are labeled to raw material at a lower cost for use in its Envirocomp is on track to open a second alert consumers to this recycling option. production process. Kimberly-Clark–sponsored recycling plant The program was introduced in 2010 but in New Zealand’s capital, Wellington, saw a significant increase in participation In Australia, Kimberly-Clark Health in May 2012. In 2011, Kimberly-Clark in 2011, with more than 6,500 packages Care offers a new recycling program to announced that its partnership with collected compared with about 1,700 collect, recycle and recover Kimguard Envirocomp is going global. Envirocomp packages in 2010. brand Sterile Wrap and One-Step brand secured the global rights for first refusal Sterile Wrap from Australian hospitals. A to collect and compost Kimberly-Clark diapers and is exploring locations for WE COLLABORATE joint initiative with SITA-MediCollect, a specialized clinical waste business, the additional international plants. WITH TERRACYCLE TO program offers a one-stop solution for the collection, transportation and reproIn 2011, our Kimberly-Clark Professional business joined forces with TerraCycle, COLLECT AND UPCYCLE cessing of the wrap in an efficient and cost-effective manner. a leading “upcycling” company, to launch a U.S.-wide program for the DIAPER PACKAGING Our Global Nonwoven division served collection and recycling of clean room on the board of the Health Care Plastics protective apparel at pharmaceutical In Costa Rica, Kimberly-Clark Recycling Council and supported the cremanufacturing facilities. Through the colProfessional worked with our larger cusation of guidelines for the development of laboration, Kimberly-Clark Professional tomers to pilot a collection and recycling recyclable medical-care products. program for waste paper towels, which provide an excellent fiber stream for Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | products 11 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report data summary Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 1 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 2 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report economic indicators Packaging per Metric Ton of Production 0.103 0.104 10 11 materials used in 2011 (MMT) 0.07 ADHESIVES 0.02 0.50 PACKAGING POLYMER-BASED COMPONENTS 0.72 POLYMERS 2.48 VIRGIN FIBER 1.05 RECYCLED FIBER Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 3 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Employees by region in 2011 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST 14% AND AFRICA 8,222 36% LATIN AMERICA 20,351 24% ASIA-PACIFIC 13,789 26% NORTH AMERICA 14,889 Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 4 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report net sales for 2011 ($b) 7.5 ASIA, LATIN AMERICA & OTHER 10.5 UNITED STATES 3.4 EUROPE 0.7 CANADA Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 5 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Performance Data–People Employees by region in 2011 14% EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA 36% 8,222 LATIN AMERICA 20,351 24% ASIA-PACIFIC 13,789 26% NORTH AMERICA 14,889 Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 6 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 7 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 8 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 9 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Performance Data–Planet Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 10 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report virgin fiber purchases by certification scheme in 2011 5.4% 3.3% CERFLOR (BRAZIL) CANADIAN STANDARDS ASSOCIATION (CSA) 0.1% PROGRAMME FOR THE 6.0% NOT CERTIFIED ENDORSEMENT OF FOREST CERTIFICATION (PEFC) 7.9% FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL CONTROLLED 47.0% FOREST WOOD (FSC-CW) STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL (FSC) 30.4% SUSTAINABLE FOREST INITIATIVE (SFI) Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 11 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 12 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report direct energy use in 2011 (Trillion btu) 2% FUEL OIL 1.15 SELF-GENERATED LIQUOR 8% .32% OTHER SELF-GENERATED 4.48 .18 13% COAL 7.29 53% NATURAL GAS 30.28 23% PURCHASED BIOMASS, PURCHASED LIQUOR 13.30 indirect energy use in 2011 (Trillion btu) 2% STEAM 0.39 98% ELECTRICITY 18.91 Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 13 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 14 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Percent Energy from Renewable Sources 24.0% 25.0% 23.9% 21.6% 20.7% 07 08 09 10 11 Carbon Dioxide Equivalents per Metric Ton of Production 1.24 1.16 1.15 1.10 1.15 TISSUE MILLS 2% PULP MILLS 3% 07 08 09 10 11 Carbon Dioxide Equivalents per $1,000 of Sales FORESTRY 20% 0.34 0.31 0.29 0.28 0.27 WATER USE DURING THE LIFECYCLE OF BATH TISSUE (liters per 1,000 use events) CONSUMERS 75% 07 08 09 10 11 Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 15 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Total Global Water Use (Million M3) 144.6 143.3 129.7 128.4 127.3 process freshwater influent sources in 2011 14.9% GROUNDWATER 07 08 09 10 11 55.6% SURFACE 29.5% MUNICIPAL Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 16 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report process effluent discharge destinations in 2011 Waste per Metric Ton of Production (MT/MT) 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.29 21.1% MUNICIPAL 0.27 78.9% SURFACE 07 08 09 10 11 nonhazardous waste in 2011 (99.97% of Total) 3.1% 0.7% COMPOSTED 13.9% INCINERATED REUSED AND OTHER 19.3% CONVERTED TO ENERGY 20.5% BENEFICIAL USE 21.4% LANDFILLED 21.1% RECYCLED Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 17 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report hazardous waste in 2011 (0.03% of Total) 0.8% 1.1% PERMANENT STORAGE THERMAL TREATMENT 0.8% 3.6% LANDFILLED SURFACE INPOUNDMENT 0.4% BLENDED FUEL 11.5% CHEMICAL TREATMENT 29.8% BIOLOGICAL TREATMENT 22.3% INCINERATION WITHOUT HEAT RECOVERY 29.6% RECYCLED Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 18 Kimberly-Clark 2011 sustainability report Kimberly-Clark sustainability report | data summary 19
