Annual Report 2011 Contents Presentation 3 United States and Europe Unit 39 Vision 2020 4 Investments 39 Odebrecht Corporate Technology (TEO) 4 Investment Grade 40 Message from the Directors 5 Indicators 40 Profile 7 Social development 42 Challenges for sustainable development 9 People Management 42 Strategy 11 Suppliers 55 Acquisitions in the USA and in Germany 11 Projects for the Communities 57 Cade approves acquisition of Quattor 12 Valuing Culture 59 New PVC factory in Alagoas 12 Political participation and the practice of citizenship 60 Butadiene, 30% more supply 13 Ethylene XXI, petrochemical complex in Mexico 13 Environmental responsibility 63 Project in Peru 14 Management in SSMA 64 Partnership in Venezuela 14 Expense in protection and environmental Comperj-Braskem 14 investments 65 Acrylic hub in partnership with Basf 14 Accidents and learning in Alagoas 66 The numbers of Braskem in 2011 15 Health and Occupational Safety 67 Prizes and recognition 15 Injuries and occupational diseases 68 International certifications 16 Accidents at work, the lowest rate in 10 years 69 History – timeline 17 Process Safety 69 Chemical safety 69 Business and Sustainable Development 18 Energy 71 Innovate to grow 22 Greenhouse Gases 73 Consolidation of the green products 22 GHG inventory 77 Visio, the service to Clients 23 Spills 78 Reputation Platform 24 Water consumption 79 Life Cycle 24 Emissions, effluents and wastes 80 Recycled Water 25 Investments and spending on environmental Naphtha from recycled plastic 25 protection 81 Responsibilities and management 25 Biodiversity 82 Opportunities 26 Voluntary Commitments 27 Challenges proposed by 2011 results 28 About this Report 84 Analysis of materiality 84 Corporate Governance 29 Correlation between Braskem macro-objectives, Values and Principles 30 materiality and GRI 86 Practices of corporative governance 31 Contributions and challenges 91 Model of governance 32 Global Compact 92 Review of internal control 37 GRI Index 93 Other indicators of Corporative Governance 37 Guarantee Statement 99 Corporate Information 99 Economic development 38 Credits 101 Principal results 39 Polyolefins and Vinyls 39 Glossary 102 Basic Petrochemicals 39 Glossary of products 105 Presentation Contacts for questions, suggestions or criticism Mailing address: Avenida das Nações Unidas, 8.501 Centro Empresarial Eldorado, Pinheiros – 05425-070 São Paulo (SP) / Brasil. Emails: imprensa@braskem.com.br braskem-ri@braskem.com.br On Braskem´s website – www.braskem.com.br – there is a satisfaction consultation available on the 2011 annual report. The result obtained should orient the preparation of the 2012 report. Dear Reader, Braskem presents, in this Annual Report, the principal accommental dimension, the use of natural resources (water and plishments and challenges experienced in 2011 and related energy), the monitoring and the reduction of the consumpto its stakeholders, among them Shareholders, Customers, tion of those resources are addressed. Members, Communities where the industrial plants of the It is relevant to note that the graphics and tables published in Company are located, Suppliers, Governments, Financiers, this report with the legend “Braskem U.S.A.” do not include Academia (universities and teaching and research institutions) information about the polypropylene business of Dow Chemiand society in general. In this publication you will find inforcal acquired in July of 2011, with two industrial plants in the mation about the evolution of Braskem’s business strategy, United States and two in the Germany. Those data will be based on principles of sustainable development, and about consolidated and reported in the 2012 Annual report. the indicators that reflect performance in the period. For the fourth consecutive year, the model utilized to preThe structure of this report addresses three dimensions of pare the report was that proposed by the Global Reporting sustainable development – economic, social and environInitiative (GRI), organization with headquarters in Amstermental, and also the increase in cultural value and political dam, Holland, in which representatives of governments, participation, this last as a form of the practice of citizenship. companies and civil entities participate. The six principles Connected to those dimensions, themes material to the established by the GRI model were applied in this publicamanagement of the Company´s sustainability are reported. tion: balance, comparability, accuracy, frequency, clarity and In the social dimension, there are questions of health and reliability of information reported (read About this report). occupational safety, management of people, products and The complete Annual Report 2011, composed of text, graphGRI 4.15 service. In the economic sphere, the most relevant subjects ics, photos and videos, is available on the portal of Braskem are the positive and negative points resulting from ( www.braskem.com.br ), in a version for tablets and also in GRI 2.1 Braskem´s activities in 2011, questions on the market and alternative for PDF. The printed publication presents a synGRI 2.4 competitiveness, besides the financial result. In the environthesis of the annual highlights for the year. mental perspective, the management of the environment, GRI 3.4 including disposal and reuse of materials, cleaner production To all, pleasant reading! and internal processes are highlighted. Also in the environ3 Vision 2020 Odebrecht Corporate Technology (TEO) Presentation To be the world leader in sustainable chemicals, by innoConfidence in the people, valorization of the potential of vating to better serve people. human beings, capacity and desire to evolve are within the The actions of Braskem are aligned to the Vision 2020, principles of Odebrecht Corporate Technology. Centered in which incorporates the principles of sustainable developeducation and work, TEO establishes the fundamental ethics ment into its strategic management. These principles, reand morals that guide the conduct of Odebrecht companies garding the way to conduct the productive and economic Members, Braskem among them. activity, while respecting inherent aspects of the environIt also foresees a process of planned delegation, based on mental, economic, and social dimensions. Social, with repartnership and confidence between leaders and followers. spect to the development of its Members and people in the How corporate culture promotes unity of thought and action localities where it has projects; economic commitment with of Members of the Organization in different businesses and the Shareholders, Customers and the perpetuity of the Comcountries in which they are present. With such fundamenpany; and environment, respecting the ecological limits and tals, it is possible to walk together, satisfy the Customers, the need to conserve natural resources. aggregate value to the Shareholders’ equity by reinvesting Vision 2020 – To be the world leader of sustainable chemthe results achieved, generating wealth for society and proistry, by innovating to better serve people – was built from moting the development and welfare of the people. the understanding of the growth opportunities of the Company, of the socio-environmental impacts caused by the petrochemical and chemical industry business and the contributions that the Company can give to some of the present socio-environmental challenges. In Business and SustainGRI 4.8 able Development you find more information on Vision GRI EC2 2020 and what has already been done for its fulfillment. Commitment to sustainable development The commitment of Braskem to sustainable developthe populations of the Communities where it operment is fully aligned with the principles and values ates, supporting local production chains, taking work that guide the Odebrecht Organization, and looks to as a factor of personal and professional development secure, in business actions, permanent respect for and of productive social inclusion. human beings, the environment and society. The Valorization of culture: contributing to the dissemiobjective is to generate wealth by means of work, nation of artistic expression and the preservation reinvestment of resources to promote continuous of the memory and history that distinguish nations business development, and contribution to the Comand communities which we serve, and integration of munities where its teams work with proposals, suppeople of diverse backgrounds into the Organization port and partnership. with respect to their habits and customs... Over the years the concept has been improving, alPolitical participation: active contribution with the ways integrating economic, social, environmental, governments and representatives of the society, in cultural and political aspects. The Organization’s Susthe formulation of participatory public policies and tainability Policy is based on actions in this direction other initiatives that will promote the sustainable deand mandates that the results be obtained in a synvelopment of countries and regions where the comergistic manner, in the five following areas: panies of the Odebrecht Organization are present. Economic development: generating results for Environmental responsibility: rational use of natural clients, shareholders, suppliers and communities resources, use of clean technologies and renewable through the provision of services, manufacturing resources, efficient control of greenhouse gas emisproducts necessary for society and the consequent sions, reduction of residues and wastes, directly and payment of taxes. through Suppliers and Service Providers, and mitigaSocial development: creation of work and income tion of the impacts produced by its operations in the opportunities, directly for the teams of professionals, Communities, as well as the contribution of technoloSuppliers and Service Providers, and, indirectly, for gies and solutions for recuperation of degraded environments 4 Message from the Directors Presentation the previous year. The acquisition guaranteed Braskem the position of biggest petrochemical company of the Americas Message from the CEO in capacity of thermoplastic resins (PE, PP and PVC), becomThe results obtained by Braskem in 2011 represent a signifiing more competitive globally. cant advancement for the consolidation of the Vision 2020 Abroad, the Company acquired the business of polypropylof the Company, which is to become the world-wide leader ene (PP) from Dow Chemical, in July of 2011, with four proin sustainable chemistry, always innovating to better serve ductive units, two in the United States and two in Germany. its Clients and the communities in which it is present With an investment of US$ 323 million, Braskem became We advance in the realization of new stages of the the leader in PP in the United States, the biggest market of Company´s growth strategy, on the basis of three long term thermoplastic resin of the world. aspects: to grow with Brazil and our Clients, serving the The internationalization of the Company happens both by the demand of the domestic market and strengthening the Braacquisition of assets that add capacity and drive the growth zilian plastics production chain; to expand the business beof production, and by the construction of new plants. This is yond the domestic frontiers, with focus in the Americas; and the case of the project Ethylene XXI, which has already had its to innovate to enlarge the portfolio of the renewable prodconstruction begun in the state of Veracruz, Mexico develucts segment in which Braskem is a world-wide leader. oped in association with the Mexican petrochemical group In each one of these aspects we seek to prioritize the cenIdesa. In 2011, the basic engineering phase ended and the tral challenge of all our actions: to serve our Clients with earthwork began. The projects developed in Peru and Veneexcellence, offering them products and services that are inzuela, in partnership with local petrochemical enterprises also novative, unique and of high aggregated value. Our promdeserve to be noted. In Peru, the question is of an integrated ises with them are registered in the TEO, they are part of our complex for polyethylene production of similar size to that of culture and were once again reaffirmed through the Visio Mexico and also from gas, and in Venezuela, a project for program, with partnership and relationship actions, aiming production of polypropylene. to optimize the opportunities in common for growth. Based In the area of renewables, we enlarge and qualify yet more on three platforms of action competitiveness, business the partnerships with Clients around Green Plastic. The unit success and entrepreneurship –,Visio is mobilizing teams producing ethylene derived from ethanol in Triunfo (Rio from different sectors to understand and to better serve the Grande do Sul) has been in operation since 2010, producing needs of the Clients, not only as concerns products and inraw material for the green polyethylene. novation, but also in management, enlargement of market The future of renewables is just beginning. The next step and competitiveness. will be to take advantage of the production of green polyThe path traveled by Braskem in 2011 was – and will always propylene, reinforcing the position Braskem has already sebe – guided by the principles of sustainable development, cured as world-wide leader in Sustainable Chemistry, with based on the balance between economic, social and envithe production of bio-polymers from sugar-cane. ronmental interests. To these three dimensions, Braskem, as well as other enterprises of the Odebrecht Organization, inChallenges corporates two others, the cultural and political dimensions Undoubtedly, 2011 was a challenging year. In the first semesthis last being dedicated to participation in actions of pubter, when Brazil had not yet felt the reflections of the Eurolic interest. pean crisis, two events impacted the Company’s operations. In 2011, the plans for two new industrial plants evolved and In February, the production of the Basic Petrochemical Unit in they will begin to operate in 2012. One of them, the PVC unit, the Brazilian Northeast was paralyzed temporarily and damin Alagoas, will have capacity to produce 200 thousand tons aged by an electric energy outage. In sequence, the whole annually, and the other, the Butadiene unit in Rio Grande do line of polyethylenes and PVC in the region was affected. Sul, 100 thousand tons yearly, an addition of 30% to the curIn May, two unforeseen circumstances of processes took rent supply of the product. Another highlight was the decision place in the chlorine soda unit of Maceió (AL), one with a leak to advance in the project of engineering the Petrochemical of chlorine to the environment. For all of us of Braskem it was Complex of Rio de Janeiro (Comperj), which assumes a relean extremely difficult moment, because one of the strongest vant role for the growth strategy in the Brazilian market, from elements of our corporate culture is the safety of people. The GRI 1.1 competitive raw material, in this case, gas. accidents in Alagoas mobilized all areas of the Company, in an Also among the goals reached in 2011, we register the apintense campaign to reinforce the culture and practice of GRI 2.1 proval, by the Conselho de Administração de Defesa SSMA (Saúde, Segurança e Meio Ambiente Health, Safety GRI 4.8 Econômica (Cade Council of Administration for Economic and Environment). Braskem provided support and attendance Defense), of the acquisition of Quattor, which took place in to the people affected by the accidents. 5 Presentation In the second semester, the challenge was to maintain the Message from the Chairman of the Board business pace in an adverse scenario, resulting from the Created in 2002, Braskem is the enterprise that consolidates aggravation of the debt crisis in the Euro zone and the conthe tangible and intangible assets and the Odebrecht sequent retraction in the global economy, with negative knowledge of petrochemistry, since our Organization began impact on the demand for petrochemicals and derivatives. to work in this sector in 1979. In this internal scenario, putting pressure on the perforIn the last decade, Braskem became the petrochemical enmance and competitiveness of the Brazilian industrial secterprise leader of the Americas and one of the biggest of tor, we as, well as our Clients, have had to live with the exthe world, when its participation in the world-wide market change rate appreciating throughout the entire year and the of thermoplastic resin developed considerably, adding value unequal competition of imported goods benefited by the to the investment capital for the Shareholders and turning reduction of ICMS (Tax on Circulation of Goods and Services) the environmental challenges of the industry into opportuin the so-called “stimulation ports”, a benefit not extended nity to differentiate us with sustainable chemistry. to a national producer. This growth reflects the promise of all the enterprises of the Some points of distinctions are worth mentioning that will Odebrecht Organization to serve our Clients with excellence, be more deeply detailed within this report. In a year of cridreaming the dream of each one of them and offering them sis, the EBITDA of Braskem, which is the best measure of our innovative and differentiated solutions, by the practice of TEO. performance, decreased only 3% when measured in the In spite of the economic turbulence provoked globally by dollar, the currency of reference for the sector. We had the the debt crisis in European countries, with retraction of marsatisfaction of seeing Braskem obtain recognition from the kets and consumption, Braskem advanced in 2011 in one agencies of risk classification, Moody’s, Fitch Ratings and more cycle of expansion and achievement. On the internaStandard and Poor’s. tional level, we acquired the polypropylene production units We registered the lowest rate for incidence of accidents in of Dow Chemical, two in the United States and two in Gerour history, which makes us very proud. Following the prinmany, and began to invest in the project Ethylene XXI, in ciple of TEO of believing in the capacity of people for develMexico, for production of polyethylene from ethylene, opment, we continue to invest in training and capacity whose raw material is natural gas. building of our Members, so that we can always better In Brazil, we keep on investing in improvement of processes serve our Clients and produce more wealth and quality of and development of products and continue in the construclife for society. tion of new industrial plants, one for PVC, in Alagoas, and Braskem understands that part of its role is contributing to another one for butadiene, in Rio Grande do Sul. With inthe course of global discussions to reach sustainability The vestments in research and technology, we reinforce our Company is committed also to the application of the initiastrategic agenda to enlarge the portfolio of renewable tives related to 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, of products. which it is signatory. The initiatives are described in this Braskem thus reinforces, together with its primary Share2011 Annual Report. holders Odebrecht and Petrobras, the commitment to reinIn summary: in spite of the trouble experienced in 2011, we vestment and the competitive development of the whole maintained our growth strategy and kept sight of the imporplastics production chain, even in an economically adverse tance of investing in the future. We are going to grow toscenario. gether with Brazil, dreaming the dream of our Clients, workIn the same way as other enterprises within the Odebrecht ing for sustainable development of the Company and of the Organization, Braskem also fulfills an active social role as Communities where our units are installed. partner of the human and material development of the sociWe thank Clients and Shareholders for their confidence, with eties in which it is present. That takes place with the applicaspecial mention to Petrobras, for the synergies in research tion of economic, social and environmental practices aligned and development, for the partnership in the project Comperj with the Principles of sustainable development, in the con(Petrochemical Complex of Rio de Janeiro) and for the supstant exercise of serving the Clients, which will continue to be port to our activities, from the Members, Suppliers and a base for actions undertaken by the Company in the coming other partners for their effort in overcoming challenges and years. for keeping pace with the Company in the fulfillment of obThe year of 2011 reinforced confidence in the capacity of our GRI 1.1 jectives established for growth with responsibility before Members to turn the challenges into sustainable opportunities. the future that we intend to build. GRI 2.1 Marcelo Bahia Odebrecht GRI 4.8 Carlos Fadigas President of the Board of Directors President of Braskem 6 Profile In August of 2012, Braskem will complete a trajectory of 10 world-wide producer of biopolymers with the green polyyears, which began by the integration of six enterprises in ethylene and the largest producer of polypropylene in the the chemical and petrochemical sector and registered a seUnited States. ries of acquisitions, initially in Brazil, with the perspective of The Company has 35 industrial units concentrated in Brazil, consolidation of Brazilian petrochemistry, and, beginning in the United States and Germany. In Brazil, there are 28 facto2010, abroad also, with production units in the United States ries distributed within five states: Alagoas, Bahia, Rio de and Germany aligned to the strategy of internationalization Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul. The units installed of the Company. in the United States are in the states of the Pennsylvania, With activity in the chemical and petrochemical sector, the West Virginia and Texas. Those in Germany are in the cities production of Braskem is focused on the thermoplastic resof Wesseling and Schkopau. In the United States, as well as ins polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP) and Polyvinyl in Brazil, Braskem has a center for technology and innovaChloride (PVC), besides basic chemical inputs like ethylene, tion, fundamental to to the ongoing support of Clients in the propane, butadiene, chlorine, soda, solvents; reaching development of products and markets and to providing around 30 products. The portfolio of Braskem also includes technical services. a differentiated line of products with origin in a renewable With Clients in more than 60 countries on five continents, raw material, sugar-cane. This is the case of ethylene and of Braskem supplies products that, once processed, are turned green polyethylene. into various types of daily use items and applied in many At the end of 2011, 6,934 Members were acting in the Comdifferent sectors. pany, in Brazil and in the United States (not included in this At present the Company has commercial offices in the Unitreport is the total of Members of the PP units of Dow Chemed States, Argentina, Holland, Chile, Venezuela, Colombia ical, the last acquisition of Braskem on July 27, 2011). The and Singapore, the first Braskem office in Asia, inaugurated growth strategy for 10 years, supported by innovation and in 2011, with the objective of being closer to Clients situated GRI 2.1 the expansion of the ability to supply domestic market dein Singapore, China, India, Indonesia, Korea and Japan. The mand and open space in the global market, provided a new physical presence in Asia is also a door for prospecting opGRI 2.2 period of development for the Company in volume, quality portunities in the region. At present, the focus of the busiGRI 2.5 and business opportunities. Braskem is today the largest ness of the new office is basic petrochemicals. producer of thermoplastic resin in the Americas, the largest 7 Profile Business Model Braskem integrates the operations of first and second sate and gas from the refinery), natural gas and in generation petrochemistry in Brazil, obtaining comthe sugar-cane ethanol, a renewable raw material petitive advantages such as production scale and used in the production of green ethylene. The area of operational efficiency. The first generation produces Innovation and Technology researches new renewbasic raw materials like ethylene and propane, funable chemicals, aiming to consolidate the leadership damental for the second generation, which involves of the Company in this segment and in line with the the manufacturing of thermoplastic resin (PE, PP and promise to sustainable development registered in ViPVC), used subsequently by the manufacturing indussion 2020. In order to better understand the Vision try in consumer products. 2020 and its ramification in action strategies, see the The thermoplastic resins produced by Braskem chapter Business and Sustainable Development. originate from petroleum (naphtha, condenOperations and business units The operations of Braskem are structured in five soda, with industrial units in Alagoas (Maceió and business units: (1) Basic Petrochemicals, (2) polyoleMarechal Deodoro) and in Bahia (Camaçari). fine, Comperj and Renewables, (3) Vinyls, (4) United • Unit of Business in the United States and Europe States and Europe and (5) Latin America. Each unit (UNUSE): it joins the operations of polypropylene coordinates, with autonomy, its activities industrial, in the United States and Germany. Under its recommercial, of marketing, logistics, supplies, export, sponsibility are the units situated in the locations people and organization, planning and control. of Marcus Hook and Pittsburgh (PA), La Porte, Free• Unit of Basic Petrochemicals (UNIB): Responsible port and Seadrift (TE), and Neal (WV), in the United for providing chemical products like ethylene, proStates, and of Wesseling and Schkopau, in Germany. pane, benzene, butadiene and paraxylene, among • Unit for Latin America (UNALA): responsible for the others, to the units of polyolefines and Vinyls, as development of the project Ethylene XXI, in Mexico, well as several segments of the chemical and petand those which are in analysis for introduction in rochemical industry. The plants of the UNIB are loSouth America, such as Peru and Venezuela. cated in Camaçari (BA), Duque de Caxias (RJ), Mauá This macro structure was approved in April of 2012 (SP) and Triunfo (RS). to serve the needs of the strategic projects that • Unit of Poliolefines, Comperj and Renewables are being implemented by Braskem and that will (UNPOL): Joins the operations related to polyethstrengthen the performance base of the Company. In ylene and polypropylene resins, besides ethylene this scenario, the projects Comperj and Ethylene XXI derived from ethanol and green polyethylene. Its reflected in the new structure are undertakings of manufacturing units are located in Bahia (Camaçari), tremendous importance for the petrochemical sector in Sao Paulo (Paulínia, Mauá and Cubatão), Rio de Jaand for the growth of the Company. neiro (Duque de Caxias) and Rio Grande do Sul (TriunThough the limit of this Annual Report is the period fo). The unit also includes the activities of the project of January to December of 2011, the new structure Comperj-Braskem, to be described yet in this chapter is described, since it doesn’t impact the consistency and of the project for propylene and polypropylene of the data established and reported. To know more derived from the ethanol of sugar-cane. about the limits and range of this document, read • Unit of Vinyls (UNVIN): Includes the operations the chapter About this report. related to the PVC resin, besides chlorine and GRI 2.2 GRI 2.3 8 Profile Products and applications: some examples Polyethylene: raw material for bags, film and packagand tiles. It also has application in hospital and mediing for the industries of food, personal and domestic cal products, like serum and blood bags, and in agrihygiene products, and others. There are different famiculture, in the form of silo bags, sheds and irrigation lies of PE: of high density, low density, linear of low pipes. PVC can be found also in shoes and sport and density and ultra-high molecular weight , leisure products. plastic of engineering destined almost entirely to the Chlorine: used in the production of PVC, agrochemiexport market. has several applications, cals, and pharmaceuticals, in hospital cleaning and in such as the manufacture of tubes, coatings, pumps the treatment of water. and other applications, for the agricultural, food, naSoda and derivatives: used in the manufacturing of val, automobile, drink, paper, and cellulose industries. soap, paper, cellulose, aluminum and other products. Braskem offers also the green polyethylene produced Basic Petrochemicals: present in the basis of the from the sugar-cane ethylene. chemical industry. Examples of use follow: Propylene Polypropylene: resin used in flexible and rigid packis a raw material for absorbent polymers used in diaaging, disposables, sacks (raffia), domestic prodpers; the benzene, combined with propylene, changucts, plastic lids, toys, automotive components, and es into threads of nylon used in clothing; paraxylene household appliances, among others. composes the PET of the bottles; and butadiene is PVC: applied on a wide scale in civil construction, in essential in the composition of tires. tubes, connections, frames, windows, doors, floors Challenges for sustainable development and to ecosystems is a subject analyzed from different and complementary angles. Chlorine is an example. In deterThe principal challenges for sustainable development, refermined concentrations, it can be asphyxiating. In others, it is ring to the operations of Braskem and of the whole producnecessary to improve the quality of health and the life of tion chain, are associated with factors like chemical safety, people, as when used to make drinkable water and to sterilgreenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, intensity of water conize greens, fighting diseases which cause infant mortality. sumption in the production processes, use of non-renewSubstances whose use is not widely considered safe were able raw materials (oil and gas), strengthening of the relalisted in the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Poltionships with stakeholders and destination of the plastic, lutants (Program of the United Nations for the Environment / post-consumption residues. 2001). Among them are some pesticides and organochlorines, which were prohibited in the countries signatories to Chemical safety the treaty, among them Brazil. The ICCA, for its turn, develProcess that aims to promote safety during the production oped the program GPS (Global Product Strategy), contributing and use of chemical products resulting in greater protection with the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Manfor workers, environment and society in general. In the deagement (SAICM). The GPS is associated with the program cade of the 1990s, the global chemical industry was clearly Responsible Action, already mentioned in this chapter. positioned in this respect through the program Responsible Braskem uses and produces substances that, under certain Care, a voluntary initiative of the sector through the ICCA conditions, can be dangerous, such as ethylene, which is (acronym in English for International Council of Chemical ininflammable, and chlorine also already cited in this chapter. dustry Associations). Braskem has adhered to the program The substances produced by the Company, as well as the since the beginning in 1992. risks associated with them, are published in the Data Sheets Acid rain and the climatic changes, relevant points in the disof Chemical Substances (FISPQ), in the portal www. cussion of sustainable development, are especially associated braskem.com.br. Internally, the Company has the system of with the use of fossils fuels with high sulfur content. Braskem integrated management of Health, Safety and Environment, uses fossil fuels as raw material, as well as for generation of which addresses, among other subjects, the risks offered by energy. On the other hand, it has developed a series of acchemical substances. Learn about SEMPRE and, also, about tions to minimize the negative impact of its operations, intenthe evolution of Braskem´s environmental indicators, in the sifying its efforts to improve its production processes, controls chapter Environmental Responsibility. and mechanisms of environmental management. GRI 2.2 The danger of some chemical substances to human health 9 Profile Emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) units in Brazil and in the United States (assets acquired from This is a subject debated globally by governments, internaSunoco). In comparison with 2010, and considering only the tional institutions and industry associations, in which discusunits of Brazil, since those of the USA were not reported, the sion Braskem participates actively. The Brazilian industrial consumption of water increased, passing to 78,437,280.21 sector is responsible for around 8% of the total emissions of m3/year, from 64,953,369 m3, a reflection of unplanned ingreenhouse gases in the country (inventory relative to 2005 terruptions in some periods of the year. and given out in 2009 by the Ministry of Science and TechnolIn 2012, the Company will begin to use recycled water in its ogy pointed to the rate of 7.8 %), but it is working, through units of Mauá (SP) and is consolidating a project for use of actions of control and prevention, to reduce this indicator. rain water in the plants of Camaçari (BA). Learn more about Braskem, separately and also in the set of its production these projects in Business and Sustainable Development. The chain, is a great transmitter of GHG, but on the other hand it objective of the Vision 2020, as it refers to hydric efficiency, is has been acting in a systematic and solid way to minimize Braskem as a reference in the use of the hydric resources, rethe negative impact provoked by its production activities. using 100% of the water in locations of hydric stress. Besides looking for more efficiency in operational processes, it also invests resources in research and innovation of Use of non-renewable raw material new products from renewable sources, and new renewable The principal raw material for the petrochemical chain is sources of raw material. In complement, life cycle studies naphtha derived from petroleum, a non-renewable resource. demonstrate that the use of chemical products avoids the Though this is the resource first for the production of resin, emissions of GHG in the chain downstream and in the satisBraskem has been investing in research, innovation and defaction of the necessities of society. velopment of technologies for the use from renewable raw Since 2004, the Company has developed activities to fight material, which also contributes to the mitigation of climatic its emissions of GHG. Among the initiatives is the preparachanges. The Company inaugurated a green ethylene plant in tion of detailed inventories on the whole operation and 2010, in Triunfo (RS), starting to produce polyethylene from projects to perfect the use of energy. With 35 industrial ethanol of sugar-cane and becoming the biggest global proplants located in Brazil, in the United States and in Germany, ducer of biopolymers, in line with its Vision 2020. Braskem produces annually more than 16 million tons of The entry into this segment of renewables put the Company thermoplastic resin and other chemical and petrochemical in contact with a new chain of supplies that of agro-business, products. The Company intends to reach, by 2020, the same bringing challenges such as the use of the land and respect intensity of emission of GHG as the chemical industries betfor the rights of the workers in cane plantations. This producter placed in the world in this aspect, emitting the equivation chain is managed through control and auditing of the lent of 0.60 ton of carbon dioxide per ton of manufactured ethanol Suppliers. In 2010, Braskem approved the Code of product. The current level is 0.65 ton. Conduct for Ethanol Suppliers, with the requisites demanded On the global level, the Company participates in meetings for this partnership. Today, around 85% of all the ethanol acand discussions on the subject, presenting suggestions and quired for the green ethylene and ETBE plants are up to the exchanging experiences. You will find more information in code and, in 2011, an additional certification was adopted, this same chapter, Profile, in Economic Development and that of Bonsucro, an institution with headquarters in London, in Environmental Responsibility. England, whose certificate attests to sustainable practices in On the Braskem portal (www.braskem.com.br) you find the production, demanding the fulfillment of the laws, respect for video Low carbon chemistry, on the action of chemical enhuman and labor rights, the preservation of biodiversity and terprises to face the challenges of climatic changes. The the services of the ecosystem, besides productivity and convideo was produced by the ICCA and the version in Portutinuous improvement of productive processes. guese was developed with the support of Braskem. Post-consumption of the plastic Consumption of water Polyethylene, polypropylene and PVC manufactured by In accordance with studies of the National Water Agency Braskem, are raw materials for the plastic manufacturing (ANA), the industrial sector is not the principal consumer of industry. This resin is used in many different utensils, from water in Brazil, but even so it is a great consumer responsible toys to material for civil construction, to pieces for the autofor 18% of all the water consumed, a notable rate. Braskem motive industry and household appliances to medical utenuses a significant volume of water in its industrial processes. sils, packaging for foods, to probes for the oil industry. In 2011, the total volume of water consumed by the ComIn spite of the usefulness, practicality and benefits brought pany was 80,837,490.25 m3/year. The indicator corresponds to modern life, plastic also presents environmental chalto the sum of what was consumed by the manufacturing lenges. Its image is associated with solid urban waste, a 10 Profile global problem. One of the solutions is mechanical recyThe Company, which in 2010 had an excellent business year, cling. According to data from the Socio-environmental Instifaced challenges in 2011. The increase in imports was one of tute Plastivida, which Braskem helped to create in 1994, them. Imports of more competitive products, on account of the around 20% of the plastic wastes are recycled in Brazil, in origin of the raw material, of the Exchange rate appreciation other words, more than 600 thousand tons, thanks to the and also for the incentives of ICMS (Tax on Circulation of Goods participation of waste collectors and recycling workshops. In and Services) granted in determined ports (called stimulation countries like Germany, Denmark and Switzerland, the meports), which are affecting several sectors, besides the chemichanical recycling of plastics varies from 35% to 40% and cal and petrochemical industry (textile, machines and equipsolid wastes are used to produce energy, which does not ment, automotive vehicles). On the international level, 2011 take place in Brazil. Braskem elected mechanical recycling was marked by the debt crisis in Europe, affecting especially as one of the most relevant subjects for socio-environmenthe economies of Greece, Spain, and Portugal. As a response, tal actions undertaken by the Private Social Investment Projthere was a retraction of demand that affected the products ects. These are activities that help to consolidate the Vision and the profitability of the petrochemical industry. In Brazil, the 2020, as it refers to post-consumption: Braskem as imporGNP (Gross National Product) was below that expected, growtant player in the solution of plastic waste problems. ing 2.7% against 7.5 % in 2010. The expectation for 2012 is for the beginning of recuperaStrengthening relationships tion of the market from the second semester. The Brazilian In internal aspects, the focus is on Members and Third pargovernment appears worried and approves of measures to ties, for which the Company continuously develops and perstimulate the industrial sector, like Reintegra, a mechanism fects plans for health, safety, training and personal and procreated in the Plano Brasil Maior, involving devolution of fessional development. In the external arena, among the taxes in the form of credits to exporters, on the order of 3% stakeholders are the Communities near the production units of the exported value. In a more favorable business sceof the Company, with which socio-environmental projects nario, characterized by the industrial policies, heated labor and actions are developed. Also in the external social asmarket and continuous improvement of the income of Brapect, the efforts of relationship with Suppliers and Clients zilian families, Braskem acts with the expectation of inare relevant. creased demand for plastic products. All the big challenges for sustainable development, that In this scenario, the strategy of the Company is still based on have direct relation with Braskem operations, are expressed the strengthening of its business and in the elevation of comin the Vision 2020. To know what has already been done in petitiveness through the strengthening of the partnership the sense of consolidating this promise, read Business and with Clients, of profits in internal productivity (improvement Sustainable Development. in the performance of the industrial plants, of the logistics, of supplies and of planning), of the capture of synergies with the acquired enterprises, of cost reduction and maintenance of Strategy the financial state of health of the Company. The global petrochemical industry moves in cycles, which have a tendency to last from seven to ten years, between Acquisitions in the USA periods of investments in projects, maturing and entry into and in Germany operation of new plants. In the two last decades, nevertheless, the economic crises have made that dynamic more In July of 2011, Braskem signed a contract for the acquisition diffuse and with a less marked pace. of the polypropylene (PP) business of Dow Chemical, with In 2011, a new event marked the petrochemical industry: four industrial units, two in the United States and two in the extraction of gas from schist, investigated in the United Germany. The transaction, in the value of US$ 323 million, States for almost two decades and appearing viable from strengthens the strategy of international expansion of the the technological point of view, has entered into industrial Company and consolidates its position as leader in producscale, with transforming potential. Result: the gas produced tive capacity of PP in the USA, the biggest market of resin in in the USA becomes almost as competitive as much of the the world. Middle East. Two months after the signature of the contract, the acquisiOne of the strategies of growth of the Company is the intertion was approved by the antitrust authorities of the United nationalization of operations, taking as a direction projects States and Europe – Federal Commerce Commission and Anbased on natural gas. One of the examples is the project titrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice and the Ethylene XXI, in Mexico. European Union. The value of the transaction was paid on 11 Profile the spot and spent on the first weekday of October. So, from the fourth trimester of 2011, the financial-economic results Synergy on the active fronts of these assets started to be consolidated into the results of The acquisition of Quattor provided to Braskem Braskem. In what refers to the indicators of the social and a series of synergies in different areas of action. environmental dimensions, nevertheless, the results from Most of them concentrated on the industrial acthe units acquired from Dow Chemical have not yet been tivities, logistics and supplies. Next, some exincorporated. amples: The new business will allow the capture of synergies as a Production: better mix in the production of the result of a more diversified portfolio of products, reduction second generation plants with reduction in the of fixed costs and optimization of the working capital, logisnumber of grades (variations of the charactertics and supplies. istics of the resin in accordance with its application) per plant; centralization of the strategy for maintenance of the assets, like optimization of teams and scheduling of planned stops; Logistics: gains with freight resulting from better planning of sales for home and external The new industrial units market, distribution and storage; With the acquisition of the PP business of Dow Supplies: integrated purchase of inputs and reChemical, Braskem now has four new PP factonegotiation with Third Parties. ries. The assets in the USA are located in Freeport Financial: lower debt load and tax planning. and Seadrift, in the state of Texas. Together, they The capture of synergies which resulted from have a capacity of production of 505 thousand the integration of Quattor reached the value of tons yearly, representing an increase of almost R$ 400 million by the end of 2011 in EBITDA – 50% in the capacity of production of PP in the profits before interest, taxes, depreciations and country, totaling 1.4 million tons. Two new units amortizations – in recurrent bases. In terms of in Germany, located in the industrial complexes challenges, one of the most relevant was the of Wesseling and Shckopau, have annual producquestion of the safety of the Quattor plants. The tion capacity of 545 thousand tons. units were at a level inferior to that of Braskem, but the situation was reverted quickly. Cade approves New PVC factory in Alagoas acquisition of Quattor The cornerstone of the new productive unit of PVC, in the In February of 2011, Cade (Conselho Administrativo de Delocal authority of Marechal Deodoro, in Alagoas, was fesa Econômica Administrative Council for Economic Delaunched in April of 2011. The schedule of the work is being fense) approved the acquisition of Quattor by Braskem, confulfilled at the predicted pace, to put the factory in operafirming the global market as the space where competition tion in May of 2012. To the end of 2011, the construction of the petrochemical sector effectively happens. had registered more than 6.3 millions man-hours worked The Council analyses operations of acquisition and fusion without incident of accidents with or without lost time, a from the point of view of competition in the Brazilian marrecord rate in the undertakings of Braskem. ket, trying to secure a competitive environment. In this With investment around R$ 900 million, the new plant will sense, Braskem pledged itself to periodically supply to have a productive capacity of 200 thousand tons annually. CADE, in confidential character, information as to its conBraskem has another unit of PVC in Alagoas and, with this tracts and activities of import and marketing of resin that project, it will total 460 thousand tons yearly of productive involve clauses of exclusiveness. capacity of the resin in the state. Besides Alagoas, the ComThe negotiations for acquisition of Quattor ended in January pany has capacity to produce 250 thousand tons of PVC anof 2010, through an Agreement of Investment celebrated nually in Camaçari, in Bahia. between Odebrecht, Petrobras, Braskem and Unipar. With The PVC is used on a wide scale in civil construction and in the acquisition of Quattor, Braskem assumed the position of the infrastructure sector, which has remained heated in rebiggest petrochemical enterprise of the Americas, in capaccent years. The decision of building a new factory in Alagoas ity of thermoplastic resin (PE, PP and PVC) and became aims to serve this demand. In the construction phase of the more competitive globally. unit, the number of direct jobs came near to 2,500. 12 Profile House of PVC concrete Global Housing, DuPont and Braskem are working in Savings bank for the construction of one thousand partnership to consolidate in the Brazilian market the houses in the whole country, favoring also the aspect PVC House of Concrete, a new concept of residential of social inclusion while paying attention to the deand commercial construction. The technology repmand for dwellings at low cost. resents a quick way of building, in industrial scale, Global Housing is an enterprise developing solutions different types of construction, both in more simple and construction systems in concrete and PVC. Duconstructions, and in complex projects like hospitals, Pont develops innovative solutions for different mardaycare, schools, community centers and warehouskets, like construction, agriculture, nutrition, commues. It consists of articulating profiles of PVC that form nication, safety and protection, among others. empty structures to be filled with concrete. The PVC Concrete Construction System was analyzed In 2011, the construction system developed by Global and obtained positive technical evaluation accordHousing, with technology from DuPont and Braskem, ing to the directive SINAT 004 (National System received the approval of the Caixa Econômica Federal of Technical Evaluation) and NBR 15575. Butadiene, 30% more supply The employment of equipment and services also is in progress and, to closely accompany the work, Braskem already Braskem began to build in 2011 a second plant of butadiene maintains a team in the country. To participate in Ethylene in the petrochemical complex of Triunfo (RS), with the beXXI, the Company assembled a joint venture, in other words, ginning of operation predicted for July of 2012. At present, an association with the Mexican petrochemical company the Company already produces the raw material in Triunfo, Idesa, with majority share of 65% (Idesa 35%). Camaçari (BA) and Cubatão (SP). The new unit will have inThe project contemplates the integrated production of ethstalled capacity of 100 thousand tons yearly, raising by 30%, ylene and polyethylene based on ethanol from natural gas, approximately, the supply of the product, which will pass with the guarantee of a contract secured with Pemex-Gás, from 346 thousand to 446 thousand tons annually. of Mexico, for supply of 66 thousand barrels daily of the inThe butadiene is the raw material used in the industry for put, for 20 years. The project contributes to the diversificatires and rubbers. In 2011, the prices of the input in the intion of the system of raw material of Braskem, with profits ternational market had risen around 50% compared to the in competitiveness resulting from the greater participation previous year, reflecting the growing global demand and in the gas base. limited supply. Located in Coatzacoalcos, in Veracruz state, the petrochemical With total investment of R$ 300 million, the work will have complex will have a production capacity of 1 million tons per produced one thousand direct jobs and, when it enters into year of ethylene and polyethylene in three polymerization operation, 60 permanent work positions. plants , due to start in 2015. In 2011, the Mexican demand of polyethylene was around 1.9 million tons, and the material imported corresponded to around 70% of the total. The initiaEthylene XXI, petrochemical tive of Braskem-Idesa represents the most significant thing in complex in Mexico the petrochemical sector in the country in two decades, and the largest investment yet carried out in that country. The project Ethylene XXI developed in Mexico by Braskem in Two other accomplishments also deserve distinction in 2011: association with the Mexican petrochemical company Idesa, • The technology choice was for the process Lupotech T, of evolved in 2011. The phase of basic engineering ended, the the Dutch Enterprise LyondelBasell, for the plant of low works of landscaping began and the conditions of financing density polyethylene (LDPE), one of three units of polyeththat will give support to the project are in final stage of ylene integrated into the Mexican project. The Lupotech T structuring for signature. The total investment will be fitechnology allows production of an extensive range of nanced in the mode of project finance, or in other words, polyethylene, with properties which will bring gains in through the capturing of resources for the financing of the production costs and portfolio diversification. project (70% debt and 30% private capital of investors). In • The performance of risk engineering studies, so as to pro2011, the predicted fixed investment was updated from US$ vide the best conditions of process safety for the industrial 2.5 billion to US$ 3 billion, in function of the effects of inflaoperations. The studies include a risk analysis using Hazop tion and of the more refined detailing of the project. methodology in the activities of basic engineering of four 13 Profile industrial plants of the project, evaluating approximately service to the regional demand for resin and basic petro2,000 scenarios / situations. This evaluation allowed the chemicals, from the use of competitive raw materials. adoption of innovative measures for engineering and no In April of 2011, the business plan of the project was conscenario was classified as high risk. cluded, corresponding to the phase FEL1 (acronym in English to define planning of the pre-project), which showed the economic and environmental attractiveness of the alternaProject in Peru tive based on natural gas as raw material for the cracker to be installed. The development of a greenfield project (expression to charIn 2012, the Company will advance in the studies for the final acterize projects that, while being defined, do not dispose of detailing of the scope of the project (stage FEL2), from the any prior infrastructure) in Peru is part of the strategy of definition by Petrobras of their raw materials. In this phase, growth of Braskem, diversifying raw material and enlarging for example, the chosen technologies, the specificity of the the international operations to consolidate its strategic vision products and a series of other necessary aspects to define for the horizon to become by 2020 the world-wide leader of the dimension of the productive units will be considered. sustainable chemistry, innovating to better serve people. The measures taken in 2011 also included the signing of the The initiative has been in prospecting for some years and, in Memorandum of Understanding between Odebrecht, PetroNovember of 2011, Braskem and Petróleos Del Peru (PetroPebras and Braskem, with the objective of establishing the ru) announced the signature of a Memorandum of Understandbeginnings of a relationship between three enterprises and ing for technical and economic viability analysis of a petrothe technical terms that will regulate the development of chemical project in Peru. If the viability is proven, the two enthe project, from the conceptual phase of the technology terprises intend to implement units for the integrated producand engineering, up to its final introduction. tion of 1.2 million annual tons of ethylene and polyethylene, The Schedule of Comperj-Braskem predicts, for 2013, the using the ethanol originating from the reserves of natural gas definition of the bases and characteristics of the project. The in the region of Las Malvinas, in the south of the country. decision on the total investment will have to take place in This undertaking will be part of the Integrated Project of the the first trimester of 2014, in the context of Braskem´s Board South, which includes the construction of the Andean Gas of Directors. pipeline of the South, for the enterprise Kuntur, and of a The petrochemical project is aligned to the Company´s stratmodern industrial complex in the southern region of Peru, egy of looking for more competitive raw materials to capwhich will be a landmark in the process of industrialization ture all the opportunities for growth of the Brazilian market, of the country. guaranteeing the supply of the growing demand in the Braskem inaugurated an office in Lima, which will give support country for thermoplastic resins. To understand the chalfor the team involved in the petrochemical project and for the lenge in the predicted pace, an initial, highly qualified and commercial area, which already functions in the country. specialized team was appointed, with around 30 persons, which should receive reinforcements before the end of 2012, possibly reaching 70 persons. Partnership in Venezuela Braskem and the Venezuelan petrochemical Pequiven, partAcrylic hub in partnership with Basf ners in the joint venture Propilsur, developed a project for the installation of an industrial unit in the region of ParaBraskem is going to supply propylene and soda for the world guaná, state of Falcón, with capacity to produce, annually, scale project of Basf, for the creation of an acrylic hub in Ca300 thousand tons of polypropylene, from gas ethanol. The maçari (BA), which will be the only one in South America. raw material will be supplied by the state-owned enterprise Propylene will be the principal raw material for the producPDVSA (Petróleos of Venezuela). tion of acrylic acid, butyl acrylate and super absorbent polymers (SAP), removing the Brazilian dependence on the imported products. The agreement was announced in August of Comperj-Braskem 2011 and the project has begun to be implemented already. Basf is going to invest US$ 750 million more in the construcThe petrochemical project of Rio de Janeiro, Comperjtion of factories in the petrochemical complex of Camaçari, Braskem, in the municipality of Itaboraí, assumes a relevant and Braskem´s investment, principally in logistics, will be in role for the strategy of growth of the Company, as a factor the order of US$ 30 millions. of consolidation of the Brazilian market and to guarantee The acrylic complex of Camaçari should enter operation in 14 Profile 2014 and will feed a varied production chain, stimulating January of 2010, in an operation valued at R$700 million, the appearance of a new cycle of investment in the comwhich consolidated Braskem as the largest petrochemical plex. Acrylic acid, for example, is used in the manufacture of enterprise of Latin America. paints, in the textile industry and in the mining sector, Top Supplier Tetra Pak Supplier Evaluation 3Q2011: among others. The butyl acrylate is also an input for the best Supplier of the TetraPak in the third term of 2011. textile industry and civil construction, while the super abFinep Prize: winner of the Finep Prize for Innovation in the sorbent polymers are used in the production of shirt tails, category Large Enterprise. for the treatment of water, and the extraction of oil, among other applications. Socio-environmental Green Best 2011: in the category of material innovators for the development of green polyethylene, by Greenvana, an The numbers of Braskem in 2011 enterprise that has the mission to be a reference of consumption and behavior that considers the principles of sus6,477 in Brazil and 457 in the United tainability in Brazil. Members: States Business Excellence Prize (CIESP Santo André): winner Clients: in more than 60 countries in the category Large and Medium Enterprises. The prize highlights the best entrepreneurial actions and the develop35 (Brazil, the United States and Production units: ment of social and environmental actions between Germany) businesses. three units of the Center for Innovation and Technology, situated in Brazil, in 2nd Prize Top Ethanol: the category Industrial Input for the Triunfo (RS), Campinas (SP), and in the Production of Bioplastic with Green Polyethylene. Innovation: USA, in Pennsylvania. Around 240 specialized professionals support the Exame Sustainability Guide of 2011: Braskem was recogresearch and development of products nized as one of the model businesses in sustainability in and processes of Braskem. Brazil. 445 patents deposited in Brazil, the Patents: ECO Prize: the Green Plastic of Braskem was the winner of United States and Europe the 2011 edition as the best project in the category SustainPatents deposited in 2011: 30 ability in Products or Services. Net Earnings: R$ 33.2 billion Reputation Export earnings: US$ 6.5 billion Brazil’s Most Admired Companies for 2011: prize granted EBITDA: R$ 3.7 billion by the magazine Carta Capital. Braskem was the winner in Operational the Petrochemical and Chemical categories. R$ 2.1 billion investments: DCI Prize (9th edition): Braskem is recognized as the business Investments in safety, most admired in the chemical and petrochemical sector. health and R$ 151 million Best Company for Leaders Brazil 2011: research promoted environment: by the Hay Group on the best operations carried out by BrazilExpenditure on ian enterprises for the development of their leadership. innovation and R$ 155 million technology: The Best Companies to Start a Career 2011: reward of the magazine Você S/A that evaluates the work environment New Releases: 22 new products and the practices and policies of people management toward young professionals. Prizes and recognition Communication Aberj Prize: one of the winners at the regional stage of the Aberj Prize. Financial-economic Prize Enterprises that Communicate Best with JournalAbrasca Prize for Value Creation: conceded by the Brazilists: one of the winners in the Chemical and Petrochemical ian Association of Open Companies, as the best case of category of the prize granted by the magazine Negócios da value creation. The Company produced 38.8% of value to its Comunicação [Business of Communication], from the PubShareholders on the average of the last three years. lisher Segmento. The Best – revista Dinheiro: Recognition in the Chemical and Petrochemical category, for the purchase of Quattor, in 15 International certifications Profile Basic Petrochemicals Unit Local ISO 9001 ISO-14001 OHSAS-18001 UNIB 1 BA Camaçari / BA UNIB 2 RS Triunfo / RS UNIB 3 ABC Santo André / SP UNIB 4 DCX Duque de Caxias / RJ Polyethylene Unit Local ISO 9001 ISO-14001 OHSAS-18001 PE 1 BA Camaçari / BA PE 2 BA Camaçari / BA PE 3 BA Camaçari / BA PE 4 RS Triunfo / RS PE 5 RS Triunfo / RS PE 6 RS Triunfo / RS PE 7 ABC Santo André / SP PE 8 CUB Cubatão / SP PE 9 DCX Duque de Caxias / RJ Polypropylene Unit Local ISO 9001 ISO-14001 OHSAS-18001 PP 1 RS Triunfo / RS PP 2 RS Triunfo / RS PP 3 PLN Paulínia / SP PP 4 ABC Santo André / SP PP 5 DCX Duque de Caxias / RJ PP 6 BA Camaçari / BA PP 7 Neal Kenova / WV PP 8 La Porte La Porte / TX PP 9 Marcus Hook Marcus Hook / PA PP 10 Seadrift Seadrift / TX PP 11 Wesseling Wesseling / GER PP 12 Schkopau Schkopau / GER PP 13 Oyster Creek Freeport / TX Chlorine Soda Unit Local ISO 9001 ISO-14001 OHSAS-18001 CS 1 AL Maceió / AL CS 2 BA Camaçari / BA PVC Unit Local ISO 9001 ISO-14001 OHSAS-18001 PVC 1 BA Camaçari / BA PVC 2 AL Marechal Deodoro / AL Offices Unit Local ISO 9001 ISO-14001 OHSAS-18001 Offices São Paulo / SP Offices Salvador / BA 16 History – timeline Profile 1979 Odebrecht, at the time centered in civil construction, decided to enter the petrochemical sector. The initial step was to purchase a third of the voting capital in the Petrochemical Company of Camaçari, in Bahia, producer of PVC. 1980s Several business activities occurred in the 1980s. Odebrecht acquires shares of Salgema, in Alagoas, soda chlorine manufacturer, and in other companies: Poliolefinas (manufacturer of polyethylenes), PPH (producer of polypropylene) and Unipar (holding company of petrochemical enterprises). Thus Odebrecht Química S.A was born. 1990s Beginning of privatization in the Brazilian petrochemical industry. In this scenario, Odebrecht accelerates the pace of acquisitions, strengthening its position in the petrochemical industry. 2001 in partnership with the group Mariani, Odebrecht acquires control of Copene (Petrochemical Center of Camaçari), in Bahia, and begins the process of integration of first and second generation assets, never done up to that time in Brazil, giving rise to the current production model of Braskem. 2002 creation of Braskem, from the integration of six enterprises in the sector: Copene, OPP, Trikem, Nitrocarbono, Proppet and Polialden. The Company published, as its first gesture, its Public Promise, where values and principles practiced until today are expressed. Among them, the commitment to management practices and corporate governance based on ethics, on the transparency of one’s actions and on responsibility. The document reaffirms, also, the commitment of Braskem to sustainable development. Braskem has its shares listed on Bovespa and also offers to investors, level II ADRs listed on the Stock Exchange of New York NYSE (ADRs American Depositary Receipts: acronym in English that identifies the titles representing shares of enterprises not American, emitted and negotiated in the capital markets of the United States). 2003 Development of new products for industrial application. Braskem starts to have its shares listed in the Latibex, of the Stock Exchange of Madrid. Deposit of hundredth patent in the INPI (National Institute of Industrial Property). 2004 Introduction of Braskem+, program of competitiveness and operational excellence. 2005 Braskem consolidates its leadership in Latin America as the largest producer of thermoplastic resins. The Company is the first Brazilian company to sign the Declaration on Cleaner Production, of the UN. Braskem has been listed on the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial) of Bovespa since its first publication. Beginning of the “SEMPRE” Program of Health, Safety and Environment. 2006 Braskem acquires control of Politeno, enterprise producing polyethylene, in Camaçari. 2007 Acquisition, by Braskem and Petrobras, of the chemical and petrochemical assets of the Ipiranga Group Agreement of investment is secured with Petrobras, increasing its participation in Braskem through transfer of petrochemical assets. 2008 Braskem launches the first green polyethylene with verification by Beta Analytic of content up to 100% renewable. The analysis verifies the percentage of renewable raw material used in the product. Beginning of operations of the industrial polypropylene plant in Paulínia (SP). 2009 Incorporation of the Petrochemical company Triunfo, in Rio Grande do Sul. Setting of the cornerstone of the factory of green ethylene in Triunfo, raw material for production of the green polyethylene. Announcement of agreement between Braskem and the Mexican group Idesa, with the objective of building an integrated project for the production of polyethylene in Mexico. 2010 Acquisition of the polypropylene assets of Sunoco Chemicals, in the United States, and of Quattor, in Brazil. Inauguration of the industrial plant of green ethylene, in Triunfo (RS). A Braskem-Idesa joint venture was announced, for the development of the project Ethylene XXI. 2011 The cornerstone is laid for a new industrial PVC unit, in Marechal Deodoro (AL). Beginning of work on the new butadiene plant in Triunfo (RS). Acquisition of the polypropylene assets of Dow Chemical, being two plants in the United States, where Braskem becomes leader in the production of this resin, and two in Germany. The Green PE of Braskem receives the highest certification of the Belgian enterprise Vinçotte, principal institution of evaluation of products with content of renewable origin. 17 Business and Sustainable Development The actions of Braskem are determined in the principles of sustainable development, of producing wealth while preserving the environment, respecting laws and positioning itself as a relevant agent of human development. The actions and initiatives derived from the Vision 2020 have this focus and are based on three principal axes of performance: • to make the operations of the Company and sources of the resources used more and more sustainable; • to strengthen its portfolio of products in a way to make it more and more sustainable, enlarging, for example, the participation of the products from renewable raw material; • to develop, through research and innovation, resins still more useful, destined for new applications of plastic products that contribute to quality of life and sustainability. Besides the performance axes, the Vision 2020 is structured in seven macro-objectives defined from the analysis of materiality, which are the most relevant challenges for sustainable development and that impact the operations of the Company. Learn about the seven macro-objectives and the actions carried out in 2011 to give solidity to the long term strategy of the Company. 18 Business and Sustainable Development Vision 2020 strategies in order that Braskem evolves in seven macro-objectives MACRO-OBJECTIVE – CHEMICAL SAFETY Actions of Recorded its products in the European system Reach (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Braskem Chemical Substances). in 2010 Led, in Latin America, the project GPS (Global Product Strategy), of the ICCA (International Council of Chemical Associations), to promote the recognition and the publication of the risks, to the people and to the environment resulting from the use of chemical products. Prepared and adapted the safety information sheets (FISPQs) to a model NBR 1425/2009, with notice on the dangerousness of some substances used by Braskem, to meet the standards of the GHS (Globally Harmonized System for the Classification and Labeling of Chemicals), in Brazil. Actions of Carried out qualification process of new educators in the ICCA Guide for the Analysis of Risk of Chemical Products. Braskem in 2011 Submission of the Plan for Implantation of the GPS to the ICCA together with Abiquim. Emission of “safety summaries of 27 substances and of the plans for control, according to GPS, of two substances. Evolution in the management of process safety , represented by the emission of the Golden rules and by the project high risk sweep, when 608 scenarios were analyzed and when the implementation for the continuous improvement of the management of these risks had been defined and begun. Actions of 2012-2015: to lead the implementation of the GPS Global Product Strategy in units in Latin America. Braskem in 2015 2012-2015: to promote the continuous improvement of the Risk Rating, index of safety of processes established by insuring companies, so as to reach, at least, 90 points on the average of Braskem, with all the plants “above standard”. 2012-2015: to substitute the electrolytic cells of the process of production for chlorine for elimination of the mercury. 2012-2015: to maintain the generation of residues stable and to remain as a reference in the sector. Vision Braskem as reference in the use and in the responsible production of chemical products in the world. 2020 Neither use, nor produce substances included in global black lists. MACRO-OBJECTIVE – GREENHOUSE GASES (GHG) Actions of Reached reduction of 11.6% in the indicator of intensity of GHG emissions regarding the year of 2008. Braskem in 2010 Started to use sugar-cane as raw material for the manufacture of ethylene, which will avoid the emission of up to 750 thousand tons yearly of CO2. Actions of The evolution of the management in 2011 allowed the entry of Braskem in the Efficient Carbon Index (ICO2) of Braskem BM&F Bovespa, the classification of the inventory of the Company in the Category Gold of the GHG Protocol and the in 2011 entry of Braskem in the category HIGH TRANSPARENCY of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The principal results that reflect this evolution are: 1. Getting verification certificates by third parties on the GHG emissions inventory. 2. Reduction of 11% in indicator of emissions intensity of GHG regarding 2008. 3. Expansion of the scope approach 3 (indirect emissions), besides guaranteeing the inventory of the acquisitions carried out in 2010 (Sunoco and Quattor). 4. Identification and acting on opportunities for reduction of GHG in the production plants of Braskem. as da Braskem. Actions of 2012-2015: to reduce the intensity of the emissions. Braskem in 2015 2012-2015: to reach the evolution of the CDP in the dimension ‘transparency‘ and in the dimension ‘results’; 2012-2013: to obtain the first carbon credits. Vision Braskem reaches the same intensity of emissions of GHG as the best large chemical enterprises of the world. 2020 Braskem as important in sequestration of indirect emissions of GHG, because of the use of renewable raw materials. GRI 1.2 19 Business and Sustainable Development Vision 2020 strategies in order that Braskem evolves in seven macro-objectives MACRO-OBJECTIVE – HYDRIC EFFICIENCY Actions of Reduce by 12 % the generation of effluents in relation to the previous year. Between 2002 and 2010, there was a Braskem reduction of 36% in the generation of effluents. in 2010 Actions of In the Capuava complex in Sao Paulo, work on the Project AQUAPOLO was begun, in partnership with Foz do Brazil Braskem and SABESP, to make 433 liters per second of recycled water available for Braskem. in 2011 The Basic Raw Material Unit – UNIB 1 BA introduced a project to use the pluvial waters produced in the parking areas, which it makes possible to recover an annualized flow of around 8 to 12m³ per hour. Braskem ended the year with a reuse rate of 18% of all the water consumed during 2011. Actions of 2012-2015: to reduce by 23% the consumption of water and by 20% the generation of effluents (relative to 2010), Braskem with the adoption of recycling projects. in 2015 2012-2015: to give continuity to the projects of remediation. Vision Braskem as reference in use of hydric resources, re-using 100 % of the water in the towns with hydric stress. 2020 MACRO-OBJECTIVE – ENERGETIC EFFICIENCY Actions of It reduced by 6% the intensity of energy consumption relative to 2009. Braskem in 2010 Actions of The modification entered in operation in the GMB (Gestão de Melhorias Braskem Management of Braskem ImBraskem provements) for identification of new opportunities of reduction of energy consumption. in 2011 Project of co-generation with biomass in Alagoas and Paulínia – when the basis of the project and the economic modeling was defined. Performed a study of economic viability on the alternative use of natural gas or urban waste in Sao Paulo (ABC) Actions of 2012-2015: to continue reducing the intensity of energy consumption. Braskem in 2015 2012-2015: to continue evaluating the viability of the project of co-generation from biomass and from the use of solid urban wastes. Vision To reach the same intensity of energy consumption as the best large chemical enterprises of the world. 2020 To become an important user of energy from renewable sources MACRO-OBJECTIVE – RENEWABLE RAW MATERIAL Actions of Start to use ethanol from sugar-cane as raw material in the manufacture of ethylene, with the inauguration of the Braskem green ethylene plant in Triunfo (RS). in 2010 Announce the construction of a green propylene plant announced. Define a code of conduct defined for Suppliers of ethanol and implemented in 70% of their supply. Actions of 85% of all ethanol bought by Braskem was supplied by companies making a commitment to the principles of acting Braskem under the Code of Conduct for Suppliers of ethanol, following the principles of Braskem in sustainable development. in 2011 Continuity to the development of technologies for production of chemical products from renewable raw materials. Actions of 2012-2015: to evolve in research of technological alternatives in renewable raw materials. Braskem in 2015 To implement, by 2013, the process of management of sustainable development in 90% of the Suppliers of ethanol. 2013: startup of the first green polypropylene plant. Vision To act as the biggest world-wide player in the production of biopolymers. 2020 GRI 1.2 20 Business and Sustainable Development Vision 2020 strategies in order that Braskem evolves in seven macro-objectives MACRO-OBJECTIVE – POST-CONSUMPTION Actions of Invested in support for technical development, which includes 38 centers for selection and mechanical recycling of Braskem plastics, in Rio Grande do Sul. in 2010 Was one of the founders of the Plastivida Socio-Environmental Institute, which acts in the promotion of recycling. Began actions to introduce social programs, through recycling, in the states of AL, BA, RJ and SP. Actions of Social action of inclusion of waste recyclers became national, including the states of AL, BA, SP and RS. The projects Braskem promoted improvements in the infrastructure of recycling cooperatives, professional training and increased income of the in 2011 cooperatives. In 2011 Braskem carried out actions of greater impact in a lower number of cooperatives, aiming to create reference cases in the recycling chain. There were 15 cooperatives and 655 people benefited directly. Signed contract with the Novaenergia for supply of naphtha produced from post-consumption plastic. Beginning of the operation in 2013. Dissemination of the study of eco-efficiency of supermarket bags, concluding that the environmental impact depends on the habits of purchase of the consumers. The returnable bag is not always the best option, and the disposable one is the best option for small purchase scenarios. Besides, it was identified that, on the whole, the plastic bag had less impact when compared to its substitutes. Actions of 2012-2015: To define a model of business and of partnerships for the first energy recycling unit in Brazil. Braskem in 2015 2012-2015: to strengthen the recycling chain in the states in which Braskem acts (RS, SP, RJ, BA and AL). 2012 and 2013: to give continuity to promoting the project of chemical recycling. Vision Braskem as an important actor in the solution of the problem of the plastic wastes. 2020 To reach rates similar to that of developed countries, at present around 35%, in the mechanical recycling of plastics. To make energy recycling of solid urban wastes a reality. MACRO-OBJECTIVE – PEOPLE Actions of Launched programs of skill development for its Members. Braskem in 2010 Performed Private Social Investment. Prioritized relationships with the Communities around its units. Started deployment of the system of Excellence in Safety, Health and Environment (SEMPRE) in acquired units Sunoco Chemicals and Quattor. Actions of Education for conscious consumption focused on the analysis of the life cycle of plastic in partnership with the Braskem Institute Akatu and the Institute Faça Parte. Educational materials and for direction for teachers were produced on in 2011 the conscious consumption of plastic 1,577 schools received the material. R$16 million was invested in social-environmental and cultural projects carried out in 2011. Training of 712 persons in the Program Acreditar [To believe], in partnership with the Construction firm Norberto Odebrecht, in the project for the new PVC plant of Alagoas. Evolution of the level of implementation of SEMPRE, which went from 29% to 37% in Work Safety. Advance in the pilot project of culture in SSMA in the unit PE-3, with the realization of individual coaching to the leadership. Actions of Education for conscious consumption focused on the analysis of the life cycle of plastic in partnership with the Braskem Institute Akatu and the Institute Faça Parte. Educational materials and for direction for teachers were produced on in 2015 the conscious consumption of plastic 1,577 schools received the material. R$16 million was invested in social-environmental and cultural projects carried out in 2011. Training of 712 persons in the Program Acreditar [To believe], in partnership with the Construction firm Norberto Odebrecht, in the project for the new PVC plant of Alagoas. Evolution of the level of implementation of SEMPRE, which went from 29% to 37% in Work Safety. Advance in the pilot project of culture in SSMA in the unit PE-3, with the realization of individual coaching to the leadership. Vision Braskem starts to be perceived by the society as a company which is present and contributes to improve human 2020 development in the towns where it maintains projects. Braskem recognized as the best business of the sector to work in. GRI 1.2 21 Innovate to grow Business and Sustainable Development not only through the reduction of manufacturing costs , but also by the differential in the properties of the products To innovate to better serve the Clients and to supply prodmarketed. The paths followed pass through innovations in ucts that will bring benefits to consumers and to society is process technology and of the polymers themselves. one of the pillars that drive the growth of Braskem. In line In 2011, the pipeline of innovation of the Business Unit of with its promise of growing together with the plastic proPolyolefins (UNPOL), with present value of US$ 654 million, duction chain, the Company has strategic management of registered a record in the launch of 22 new products, with innovation based on new technologies of production, proUS$ 294 million in present value. Notable among them are: cesses and products. • New Polypropylene for the automotive market: a new In 2011, the area of Innovation and Technology (I&T) of the type of resin intended for the automotive industry, providCompany re-aligned its strategy of action through the prism ing greater versatility and flexibility for the Clients. of the quadrennial business plan of the Company. From this • Polyethylene for production of geomembranes: geobusiness plan, the I&T teams analyze in what way they will membranes are considered the most efficient product in be able to contribute on the horizon of up to 10 years. the restriction of residues and impermeabilization of the With this vision, the professionals of the area are working on ground, its use being demanded by environmental agenprojects for new products of renewable origin, which will cies, for several types of work. enrich the portfolio of Braskem. Those available today are • PVC House: in partnership with DuPont and Global Housing, the ethylene obtained from sugar-cane and the green polya new concept of residential and commercial construction at ethylene, in the second generation of the chain, both promore accessible cost was developed. The system allows the duced since 2010, in the petrochemical complex of Triunfo construction of houses with complete finishing in industrial (RS), as well as the bioadditive for fuel ETBE – Ethyl Tertiary scale in only one week (see more information in Profile). Butyl Ether. In the route for future new releases, the expecTo advance with these initiatives, the Company relies on a tation of most accessible fulfillment is that of production of team of 300 specialized professionals, among them technigreen polypropylene in industrial scale, reinforcing the posicians, masters and doctors, working in research, innovation, tion of the Company as world-wide leader in sustainable development, management and support to the area. In its chemistry, considering the production of biopolymers. installations, the Company has 15 quality laboratories and An important step in this sense was taken four years go, eight pilot plants in the country, besides three units of the with the production of the first samples of PP from renewCenter for Innovation and Technology, situated in Brazil (2) able raw material, with verification by the North American and in the United States (1). laboratory Beta Analytic, confirming content up to 100% The Company also acts in partnership with universities and renewable. The challenge for 2012 is to evolve in the detailresearch institutes. In 2011, the National Laboratory of Bioing of the project for a demonstration plant of Green propylsciences (LNBio), in Campinas, with which Braskem has an ene, a raw material for PP from sugar-cane. In 2011, the agreement for research in biotechnology, obtained the QualCompany obtained the licensing for construction of the unit ity certificate in Biosafety given out by the National Techniand the basic engineering studies were concluded. The cal Council on Biosafety. plant demonstration will have capacity for up to 50 thouThe sum of these efforts has enabled notable results for the sand tons per year and should enter in to operation in the Company and provided more than 30 patent submissions in second semester of 2013. 2011, totaling 445 patents registered in Brazil, the United In the green line also, five products were defined that are States and Europe. The budget intended for Innovation and being studied and for which the Company requests financTechnology in the last year was R$ 51 million. ing in BNDES (National Development Bank), in partnership with Finep (Financier of Studies and Projects), through the PAISS (Plan of BNDES-Finep of Support for Innovation in the Consolidation of the green products Sectors for energy and chemicals from sugar). It is an instrument of support for projects of development and production The year of 2011 was of training and consolidation of the of new industrial technologies intended for the processing project of ethylene and green polyethylene produced in Triof the biomass derived from sugar-cane. In 2011, Braskem unfo (RS) since September of 2010. As usual in the trial subjected its business plan for renewable chemicals to anallaunching any new product in the market, necessary adjustysis and obtained approval. The selection process will have ments were made in equipment and processes, for costnew stages in 2012. cutting and better competitiveness of the business. In the context of naphtha and gas, fields of action delimited Some factors had direct impact on the performance of the by the Company, the search is for profits in competitiveness, products you will see in 2011. The cost of the raw material 22 Business and Sustainable Development was one of them, on account of the prices of the ethanol that, on several occasions in the course of the year, exceedGreen EPDM Rubber ed the limit of 70% relative to the price of gasoline. At no moment did Braskem face difficulty in the supply of ethanol, Braskem secured agreement with the German industry Lanxess, manufacturer of chemical spebecause of maintaining long term contracts with its Supplicialties, for supply of green ethylene, which will ers. Nevertheless, the contracts do not guarantee price, be used, for the first time, in the production of which follow the fluctuation of the market. rubber of the type EPDM (acronym for ethylene The green project consolidation happened through the recogpropylene diene monomer). nition, on the part of Clients, of its differentials. One of them The raw material will be delivered to the Lanxess is based on the positive environmental balance of the Green unit in Triunfo (RS), through a gas pipeline and PE, since considering its complete productive chain, up to 2.5 production of the green EPDM should begin in tons of carbon gas (CO2) are withdrawn from the atmosphere November of 2012. The car industry is one of the for each ton produced, in accordance with the eco-efficiency great consumers of EPDM. With this partnership, analysis carried out by the Espaço ECO Foundation. a new market opens for the application of ethylIn 2011, the Client base for the green line grew, especially in ene: and rubbers. European countries, a destination for a great part of this resin. Braskem’s Clients include, for example, Coca Cola, Nestlé, Johnson & Johnson, Tetra Pak, Danone, Natura, ChaVisio, the service to Clients nel, Toyota Tsusho, among other corporations. The agreement secured in November of 2011, with the AmTo serve with value is the central message of the Visio prosterdam Arena, in Holland, for supply of Green Plastic that gram, focused on Clients. Inspired in TEO, this program reafwill be used in the manufacture of the seats of the stadium firms the pledge of Braskem to the construction of lasting deserves notice also. Initially, 2 thousand seats will be inrelations with Clients, to attend to their needs with a spirit stalled made from ethanol. By 2015, all the 54 thousand of innovation and to expand market opportunities, promotseats of the stadium will have been substituted by that from ing, in this way, the competitiveness of the whole plastic a renewable source produced with Brazilian technology. production chain. Created in 2011, the Visio program is causing the Braskem commercial teams to prospect opportunities in all the business areas of the Client to aggregate value, to share experiVinçotte Certification ences and to propose solutions that could be implemented in partnership. This partnership is supported in three action In May of 2011, the green polyethylene of platforms: Braskem received the certification for products Competitiveness: actions that aggregate value to the proof renewable content, verified by the Belgian ductivity of Clients, like transfer of specialized knowledge on institution Vinçotte, one of the principal referstrategic subjects for the operation, technical consulting, ences in the world in this type of certification. among others. Samples of the families of HDPE (high density Business Achievements: actions that aim for the increase polyethylene) and LLDPE (linear low density of business for Clients, through the joint development of polyethylene) were evaluated. The whole line of Green PE received the highest classification new markets, increment in finished exports and substitution conferred by Vinçotte, of four stars, and could of transformed imported goods. Here innovation projects start to use the seal OK Biobased, a reinforceare included. ment of credibility for the market. Entrepreneurship: actions that collaborate for improveIn August of 2011, the industrial units of green ment of the Business management of Clients, like exchange ethylene and green polyethylene, located in Triof experiences in various areas. For example, in 2011 unfo (RS), received ISCC certification (acronym Braskem opened a schedule of meetings between Clients in English for International Sustainability and and agents of BNDES, called BNDES Day. Three meetings Carbon Certification). That means that all the were held in Sao Paulo and one in Rio Grande do Sul, which Green PE produced using ethanol from sugarresulted in getting direct lines of financing, difficult to get cane certified by Bonsucro (see Social Developwithout the intermediation of an enterprise of the size of ment/Suppliers) automatically receives the ISCC Braskem bringing the two parties together. certification. The commercial teams of Braskem directly serve around 1,200 Clients. Of this total, 310 already have a common agen23 Business and Sustainable Development da with the Company, in other words, a special plan of action tion through another kind of inquiry, also carried out by the for each one of them, from which projects and activities will Reputation Institute with Clients, Members, Suppliers, Combe developed in partnership. Visio was created in May and munities near to the industrial units of the Company and the metrics for evolution of the program began to be regisopinion formers. tered in July. In six months, 391 common agendas were In 2011, Braskem formed a committee for the management of opened, 692 initiatives registered (632 with demands of comimage and reputation, composed of representatives from all arpetitiveness, 41 on the platform of business achievement and eas of the Company which has contact with those stakeholders. 19 of entrepreneurship) and 283 initiatives implemented. Life Cycle Reputation Platform Braskem created, in 2011, a specific area to develop studies In 2011, for the third consecutive year, Braskem continued to of life cycle analysis of products. The objective is to perfect monitor its reputation with its stakeholders through inquiries the internal knowledge and to intensify the application of carried out by the Reputation Institute. The inquiry focuses on these studies, aiming to support the strategy of the busiproducts and services, innovation, work environment, govness and to contribute to decisions on development of new ernment, citizenship, leadership and financial performance. products. The new area integrates the administrative strucThe objective is to evaluate the perception and to identify ture of Sustainable Development. strong points and opportunities of improvement in the manThe methodology for life cycle analysis, known by the acroagement of its relationship with stakeholders. nym LCA, allows measurement of the environmental impact The index of Braskem measured by the Global Pulse, one of the of various products and contributes to support the Members dimensions of the inquiry and that evaluates the reputation of of Braskem on the way to Vision 2020. Among the activities the biggest enterprises of 32 countries with the public in genplanned for 2012 is getting special software for the realizaeral, was 64.81 points. In the comparison with 2010, there was tion of new studies and training of Members. an evolution of four points and the index was maintained by Industries begin to invest in LCA to use it as a business manmedian indicators, in accordance with the methodology that agement tool and to perfect their production efficiency. For defines as excellent the score above 80; strong, between 70 Clients and consumers, the life cycle analysis studies of and 79 points; and weak below 40 points. products help in the purchase decision. Besides this general indicator, Braskem monitors its reputaSupermarket Bags Braskem carried out, together with the Espaço ECO efficiency when the consumers have low volume of Foundation, a comparative study on the different types purchases (of up to a basket monthly), less frequenof bags for supermarket purchases and the economic cy of going to the supermarket (up to twice weekly) and environmental impacts of each alternative anaand greater frequency of disposal of garbage (when lyzed. They were all evaluated for the period of one the frequency of disposal is equivalent to the freyear, considering different scenarios of use and disposal. quency of purchase), guaranteeing the reuse of the The study, novel for Brazil, contemplated the life cycle plastic bags in disposal of this garbage. of some bag options, available in the Brazilian market, • The reusable bags back of plastic or of cloth, in this among them were disposables (of PE, Green PE and order, have better eco-efficiency when the conthe additives that promote oxi-degradation) and reussumer has a high volume of purchases (more than ables of paper, raffia, cloth and TNT (trinitrotoluene). a basic basket monthly), greater frequency of goThe studies of eco-efficiency, like what was carried ing to the supermarket (daily rate, for example) and out by Braskem, take into consideration the analysis less disposal of garbage, allowing the use of disof the environmental impacts of a product along its posable bags for packaging of the garbage. When cycle of life, from the extraction of the raw material, increasing disposal, the purchase of bags increases production, use and disposal/re-use, including an to condition the garbage and, consequently, the eneconomic evaluation of each stage. vironmental impact. The result, released in August of 2011, showed that The Espaço ECO Foundation, which carried out the study, the best option of bag depends on the form in which specializes in analysis of eco-efficiency. The Akatu Instiit is used. The conclusions of the analysis follow: tute, which supported the publication of the initiative, • The disposable plastic bags presented better ecodisseminates practices of conscious consumption. 24 Recycled Water Business and Sustainable Development nergia, Bahian enterprise of the group Wastech, specialized in waste treatment. Novaenergia will mount its first adThe best use of natural resources is part of the platform of vanced recycling factory in CIA/Airport in Salvador, Bahia. Braskem and is defined in the Vision 2020. In this agenda, the Braskem should acquire initially 1.4 million liters of naphtha project Aquapolo, for reuse of water, is relevant. Along with yearly from plastic residues. The product will be processed Sabesp (Company of Basic Sanitation of Sao Paulo) and of Foz in the Basic Petrochemicals Unit, in Camaçari. This will be do Brasil, enterprise of environmental engineering of the Odeone more way for Braskem to reaffirm its commitment to brecht Organization, Braskem participates in the Aquapolo projsustainability of the production chain of plastic. The expecect, which will produce recycled water for industrial use, destation is that the project contributes to post-consumer recytined for the ABC petrochemical complex of Sao Paulo. cling in large cities, which is still a challenge in Brazil. The Sabesp and Foz do Brasil are the executors of the project. Braskem will use the water produced in its unit of the regional petrochemical complex. The partnership secured Responsibilities and management between three enterprises foresees the supply of 433 liters of recycled water per second, which will make Braskem the The Executive Committee of Braskem is a forum that coordiprincipal Client of Aquapolo, with consumption estimated on nates the analyses and discussions on subjects relevant to the order of 65% of the total of water produced. the management of the Company, in which its principal It will allow Aquapolo to economize drinkable water, imleaders participate. In its periodic meetings questions are proving quality of life of the population of ABC. It is a novel treated like the establishment of strategies, vision and poliproject for Brazil, and one of the biggest in the world of this cies in the perspective of sustainable development. It therenature, which combines the technology of treatment of fore relies on the support of the Directorship of Sustainable sewage and generation of recycled water, produced from Development and of a specialized team. The tool used for sewage processed in the Sewer Treatment Station of the construction of the middle and long term vision is the straABC. The supply of water is predicted to begin in 2012. tegic projection accompanied by the monthly reports containing the indicators used to evaluate the performance of each business unit of the Company. The Executive Committee of Braskem analyses questions Also in Camaçari relative to climatic changes and other strategic points of SSMA through the inclusion of the subject in the Cycle of The year 2012 will bring significant advanceProjection, attendance, evaluation and judgment of the ments to the water recycling indicators of Company, the moment in which all subjects related to ecoBraskem. Besides using the water produced by nomic, social and environmental performance are defined the Aquapolo project, in the region of the ABC, and accompanied. in Sao Paulo, the Company is investing in its As an enterprise involved in the subject of sustainability, own projects, to recover the rainwater in the containment basin in the Camaçari complex, in Braskem understands that the low carbon economy is the level Bahia. The expectation is to increase by 12% expected by the organizations aligned to this promise, and that the reuse of water by 2014, date predicted for the subject of climatic changes presents still uncertain impacts conclusion of the project. The first phase of that can produce risk for the business and for the society. To the work should end in 2012, with the reuse report on this challenge, the management of greenhouse gasof 500m3/year, in other words, more than four es emissions (GHG) is one of seven macro-objectives of the billion liters in the period, a quantity that correVision 2020, to which mitigated actions are associated. The fosponds to a third of the consumption of a plant cus is on the reduction of the intensity of these emissions, on of the Company. the use of renewable resources and on the improvement of energy efficiency. Targets were established for the reduction of the intensity of GHG (reduction of 11% between 2008 and 2012 and to reach 0.6 tons of CO2e (CO2 equivalent) per ton of Naphtha from recycled plastic product in 2020. Braskem publishes annually its inventory of GHG emissions, the strategy and the evolution of the actions in From 2013, Braskem will have one more alternative source its Annual Report and in other channels of communication with for raw material. Besides the ethanol from sugar-cane, the its stakeholders. Among these channels are the CDP, the GHG Company will use naphtha produced from recycled postProtocol Brazil and others. consumption plastic. The product will be supplied by NovaeFor the establishment of the objectives being followed as 25 Business and Sustainable Development business strategy, the risks and the opportunities of actions be for the Brazilian region. and projects are analyzed, like those which caused the techBraskem identifies the potential changes in the regions renological development of biopolymers from renewable raw sulting from climatic changes and the potential impacts in material, sequestering CO2 in its life cycle. One green ethylthe operations of the Company, like changes in the levels of ene industrial plant has been in operation since 2010 in Tridams and hydric balance; impacts on the biodiversity; imunfo (RS). Though they are analyzed, the risks and opportupacts on the agriculture of subsistence and on the health of nities are not quantified. the population; increase of the levels of rain and generation The identification of the risks and opportunities in the busiof hydroelectric energy. ness areas is carried out by a legal consultant, specialized in Environmental Law. Additionally, the consultant carries out periodic checks of adherence to the legislation through auOpportunities diting in the System of Environmental Management in all the units of Braskem. The area of Environment in the units The climatic changes present opportunities for the developalso acts in this sense. ment of new technologies dedicated to the reduction of The regulatory risks are accompanied in the advance form, GHG emissions. The optimization of Braskem’s own processwith the objective of preventing eventual negative impacts es for improvement of energy efficiency contributes to the and potentializing opportunities of greater magnitude for reduction of costs and improvement of business competithe business. Braskem acts, also, through associations in tiveness, from new technologies and products that contribwhich it participates, looking to positively influence the pubute to reduce the emissions of GHG and the conservation of lic policies of climate changes, analyzing continuously the the energy resources. risks and the opportunities through national and internaThe CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) is configured as tional forums where these subjects are discussed. It also an international market mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol accompanies several subjects referring to public policies for that offers opportunities in the generation of carbon credits the environment, like the National Solid Waste Policy, the for countries hosting these projects, like Brazil. Braskem unNational Policy on Climate and other regulations. derstands that the development and the strengthening of In the specific case of climate changes, Braskem is participatthe carbon credit markets and complementary mechanisms ing directly in the local and international discussions, supportproduce opportunities, like the development of regulations ing the positioning of the sector in a way to guarantee the and incentives based on the concept of innovation. Braskem possibility of growth in Brazil, with improvement of the effihas been looking to develop opportunities especially oriciency of the processes and less intensity of GHG emissions. ented to the substitution of raw materials, including togethA recent example was the presence of the delegation of the er with voluntary carbon credit markets. Company at the Conference on Climatic Changes (COP 17) In accordance with the IPCC (Inter-government Panel on Clicarried out in 2011 in Durban, in South Africa, where it exmate Changes), some areas will benefit from climatic changposed its experience in the improvement of processes and es, as opportunities also will appear with measures for adapproducts, in three parallel events promoted by the CEBDES tation to the physical consequences of the climatic changes. (Conselho Empresarial Brasileiro para o Desenvolvimento SusIn case an increase takes place in precipitation, and consetentáv Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Developquent increase in the hydric availability, activities such as the ment), by the Confederation of German Industry and by the production of ethanol from sugar-cane will be benefited. ICCA (acronym in English for International Council of Chemical Braskem considers the importance of a global effort for the Industry Associations). Learn more on the participation of stabilization of the concentration of GHG, this representing Braskem in international events, reading political participation the best scenario in the context of the change in the cliand practice of citizenship. mate. Knowledge of the vulnerabilities which exist must be priority, and actions of adaptation could be necessary, even Monitoring in this optimistic scenario, so the natural variability of the The monitoring of the physical risks and the definition of climate associated to the different vulnerabilities for regions emergency actions to deal with such risks take place on a of the globe are already present. So, the effort of the enterseparate level, by operational unit. The collected physical prise is directed with priority for emissions mitigation acimpacts of the units in the long term can be analyzed tions, with the objective of stabilizing the climate before the through data of studies published by the INPE (National Innecessity for adaptation actions. stitute of Space Research) between 2007 and 2009 (http:// Other opportunities related to climatic changes have a tenmudancasclimaticas.cptec.inpe.br/). These studies make a dency to appear as a reflex of measures that aim at the reGRI EC2 forecast of what the impacts of the climatic changes would duction of GHG emissions. In this sense, both the opera26 Business and Sustainable Development tional measures of efficiency, and also the new technolotion. Braskem was the first Brazilian enterprise to sign the gies developed with the intention of confronting climatic declaration in 2004. questions can result in opportunities. • Global Treaty: program of the United Nations, the Global Braskem developed a project to identify opportunities for reCompact aims to strengthen the application of business duction of emissions of GHG and energy efficiency. Like a social responsibility in the world. Braskem is signatory petrochemistry based on naphtha, the Company manages since 2007 and, from the following year, it started to intethe quantity of fuels that are used for the supply of part of its grate with the Brazilian Committee of the Global Compact, energy necessities. The use of the residual fuel and adequate formed by a group of large businesses and coordinated by choices in the diversification of energy import is its challenge. the Ethos Institute. Besides, high performance processes are going to guarantee • Mão Certa Program: more than 700 enterprises, Braskem not only the reduction of emissions, but also opportunities of among them, are signatories of the Business Pact Against financial economy and improvement of profits. Sexual Exploitation of Children and Adolescents on the BraThe program of development of biopolymers by Braskem is zilian Highways – a Program called “Na Mão Certa” [On the destined to differentiated markets, with distinction for the Right Track]. The initiative is from Childhood Brazil (organizaindustries of automobiles, of food packaging, cosmetics and tion for defense of childhood) and the Ethos Institute and it articles of personal hygiene. The program was begun in has as objective to sensitize governments, enterprises and June of 2007 with the launch of the first green resin. the society to the question of sexual exploitation of children and adolescents. In Braskem, the program is led by the area of Logistics that coordinates, with the Logístic Services ProVoluntary Commitments viders (transporters, in this case) the application of the concepts developed by Na Mão Certa. Braskem is signatory to some public promises and it partici• Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): (The acronym means a pates in forums and international discussions with the obProject for spreading information on the management of jective of reinforcing the contribution of the business sector carbon): initiative of an international non-governmental for sustainable development. organization, launched in 2000 with the objective to colIn the global arena, it is part of the executive group of leadlect and to publish the emissions of greenhouse gases ership of the ICCA, where it acts in work groups on energy, (GHG) of around 3,000 among the largest companies of 60 climatic changes and chemical safety. In Brazil, the Compacountries. Braskem has supported the initiative from the ny is one of the founders of the CEBDES and of the Brazilian year of launch and, in 2008 it began to report its emissions Committee of the Global Compact, occupying, at present, a of GHG to the CDP, for which it also asks the enterprises position of leadership in both associations. that reveal their strategies for climatic changes and for Learn about some of these commitments: industrial use of water. The information can be consulted • Responsible Care (Responsible Action Program): volunon the site. www.cdp.net. tary initiative set up by the global chemical industry • Global Product Strategy (GPS): Braskem, together with through the ICCA. In Brazil, Responsible Care was adopted Abiquim, is leading the introduction of this program in Braofficially by the Brazilian Chemical Industry Association zil and other countries of Latin America, to promote the (Abiquim) in 1992, through the enterprises that existed at recognition and revelation of the risks to workers, consumthe time and which today are integrated into Braskem. ers and the environment resulting from the production, From this date Braskem has been a signatory of the docuhandling and marketing of chemical products. ment. From 1998, the adhesion to the program became compulsory for all the enterprises associated with Abiquim. Responsible Action seeks to perfect the environmental management of the chemical enterprises and of their chain. Among the items observed are the safety of the manufacturing units, of their processes and products, as well as the preservation of the health of the workers and protection of the environment. • International declaration on Cleaner Production: the GRI EC2 declaration is part of the United Nations Program for the GRI 4.12 Environment and has as objective the dissemination of policies of environmentally clean production, as well as GRI 4.13 more sustainable practices of production and consump27 Challenges proposed Business and Sustainable Development by 2011 results To maintain the performance in all the eco-indicators Objective not reached. There was positive evolution in the performance of the eco-indicators in absolute values, but since various stoppages for maintenance were carried out along the year, the indicators measured in tons produced regressed in relation to 2010. More details in Social Development. To conclude the integration of Quattor and to capture the synergies of this process. Objective reached. The integration of Quattor was concluded and the capture of synergies reached by the end of 2011 the value of R$ 400 million in EBITDA – earnings before interest, taxes, depreciations and amortizations – in recurrent bases. More details in Profile. To maintain the investments in research and technological development. Objective reached. More details in Business and Sustainable Development. To develop the project of green polypropylene Objective reached. More details in Business and Sustainable Development. To reinforce the development of people Objective reached. More details in Social Development. 28 Corporate Governance An open stock company, with shares traded on BM&F Corporate structure Bovespa, of Sao Paulo, on the Stock Exchange of New York Braskem´s ownership structure on December 31, 2011 was (NYSE) and on the Latibex, the section of Latin-American the following: enterprises of the Stock Exchange of Madrid, Braskem is committed to the principles of good corporate governance. The processes of governance adopted aim to secure the obOther* servance of the following values: ethics, transparency and Petrobras 2,9% respect for the Clients, Shareholders, Members, Suppliers 47% and other stakeholders, as well as competitiveness and excellence in the actions of the Company, to guarantee remuVoting capital neration to the capital invested by the Shareholders and to aggregate value to their inheritance. Odebrecht With this vision, the Company has developed a model of 50,1% management with recognized practices of corporate governance. Besides the Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors, with powers increased according to the Sarbanes-Oxley Others* Law, the Company has Support Committees to the Board of 20,1% Odebrecht Directors, whose basic function is to previously evaluate 38,1% subjects of interest, aiming to perfect, in quality and speed, Bndespar Total the deliberation process of the Board of Directors. 5,5% capital Petrobras 35,9% *This does not include shares in treasury (0.34% of the total capital) 29 Values and Principles Corporate Governance Presence in the ISE Learn the values and principles of governance practiced by Braskem: For the seventh consecutive year, Braskem parIntegrity: to guarantee that ethical integrity permeates all ticipated in the Índice de Sustentabilidade Emthe systems of governance in the internal and external presarial (ISE) [Corporate Sustainability Index], relations of the Company. being part of a select group of enterprises included for the period of January to December of Transparency: To be transparent in the information given. 2012 and joins 51 actions from 38 companies. Equality: to give just and fair treatment to the stakeholders. They represent 18 sectors and sum to R$961 Responsibility: to demand that the agents of governance billion in market value. (Administrators, Fiscal Advisers and Auditors) answer inteCreated by BM&F Bovespa in partnership with grally to the one who chose them for their mandates. professional entities connected with the capiContinuity; to guarantee that the agents of governance tal market, besides the Getúlio Vargas Founshould look after the continuity of the Company, incorpodation, the Ethos Institute and the Ministry of rating a vision more spacious of the business strategy, conthe Environment, the index has as its objective sidering the principles of sustainable development. to consider a portfolio composed of shares of Ethics: to act in accordance with such principles, and the enterprises with recognized commitment to regulatory, legal, statutory or organizing standards. social responsibility and business sustainability and also to act as promoter of good practices in the Brazilian business environment. Transparency and communication Braskem was created following the most modern practices of Corporative Governance, based on principles that privilege transparency and reInclusion in ICO2 spect to all Shareholders, establishing the condiIn 2011, Braskem was included in the porttions for the development and maintenance of a folio of the Carbon Efficiency Index (ICO2) of long term relationship with its Investors. BM&F Bovespa. Created in 2010, the index is From the beginning of 2003, Braskem has parcomposed of the shares of the companies participated in the Level 1 of Corporate Governance ticipating in the index IBrX-50 who adopt transin the Stock Exchange of Sao Paulo, BM&F parent practices regarding their emissions of Bovespa. The shares of the Company are also greenhouse gases (GHG). listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and in the Latibex, the section of Latin-American enterprises of the Stock Exchange of Madrid. When launched, Braskem affirmed a Public Commitment, widely spread by the media, with the principles and values that orient its actions. In it the commitment to sustainable development stands out, with the generation of wealth and the social development of the country through technological development, the increase of competitiveness of the production chain of petrochemistry and plastics, the generation of foreign exchange and the supply of products that should contribute to the improvement in the population´s quality of life. With the intention of giving transparency to its actions and access to documents, the Company maintains a dedicated channel for Analysts and Investors, and other stakeholders, through the website. www.braskem.com.br/ri. GRI 4.8 30 Corporate Governance Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct of Braskem defines the values, treatment of privileged information / conflict of principles and practices that guide corporate conduct. interests: the Members of Braskem must see that In order to remain aligned to the legal and best practheir actions not conflict with the interests of the Comtice demands, the Code of Conduct is revised peripany nor cause damage to its image and reputation; odically, with the participation of the Members of the relationship with Shareholders and all the publics respective areas of interest and of the Board of Direcof interest: the treatment dispensed to the Sharetors (representing the Shareholders). The document, holders does not depend on the quantity of shares just like all the corporative policies of the Company, is which they hold, legal restrictions being observed. applied also to the operations out of Brazil. A flow of information will be provided to all with The Braskem Code of Conduct establishes the followequality of treatment; A flow of information will be ing basic principles: provided to all with equal treatment; relationship with Members: there will not be disuse and preservation of the property of Braskem: crimination for religion, philosophical or political conit is up to the Members to look after the conservation viction, nationality, origin, sex, age, color, sexual prefof the assets of Braskem, which includes installations, erence, marital status or physical or mental deficiency; machines, equipments, furniture, vehicles, values etc.; responsibility in the conduct of business: the transparency in the accounting and financial regMembers have the responsibility to practice their acisters: transparency is fundamental to allow the cortivities and to conduct the business of Braskem with rect evaluation of Braskem by agents of the market; transparency and strict observance to the law, to the environment: the balance of the environment and principles and to the directions of the Company; the preservation of nature are of basic importance commercial relations with Clients or Suppliers and for the business activity of Braskem; Public Authorities: Braskem orientates its Members Use of slave and/or child labor: Braskem does not (and expects this from them) that they conduct comtolerate, does not allow and not condone the emmercial relations in observance to the laws, to the ployment of slave and/or child labor in any process legal practices of the market and, especially, to the related to the activities of the Company. national and international standards relative to economic order and the defense of competition; Practices of corporative governance # Committee of Ethics acting together with the Internal Audit Department and Risk Management, reporting to the Learn about some practices of governance of Braskem: Board of Auditors with ample power. Its function is to regis# Level 1 of Corporative Governance of BM&F Bovespa since ter, to negotiate, to recommend and to promote the deciFebruary 13, 2003. Braskem also meets the other requiresions to solve the denunciations received through the Ethics ments for Level 2 and the New Market. They are: Line— anonymous channel of communication for receiving • release of financial statements in accordance with denunciations related to any potential situation of not fulfillinternational standards (IFRS); ing the Code of Conduct— aiming to guarantee its fulfillment • Board of Directors with, at least five Members and and the continuous improvement of the processes and interunified mandate of up to two years, re-election being nal controls of the Company. allowed, and at least 20% of independent advisors; # System of information for the Board of Directors and • tag along of 100% for all the shares in the case of Board of Auditors, which is accessed from the Braskem porchange of shareholder control. tal, where information necessary to the advisors for the ex# Permanent Board of Auditors with increased powers, conercise of their roles and responsibilities is available with forming to the Sarbanes-Oxley Law. security, transparency, equity and speed. # Code of Conduct known by all the Members, in which values, # Tools of support to the actions of Corporative Governance, principles and practices of the corporate culture are defined. among which the Shareholders’ Assembly Manual and the # Corporate Policies, among which are those for negotiation of Compendium of Proceedings and Practices of Corporative Valuable Furnishings, of Financial Management, of Social ReGovernance stand out. sponsibility, of Insurance and Guarantees, of Remuneration, of GRI 4.8 Health, Safety and Environment and of Investments stand out. 31 Model of governance Corporate Governance External auditing The model of governance of Braskem is composed of the In accordance with what is established in the Board of Directors, permanent Committees to Support the Instruction CVM-381/03, the sum of the services Board of Directors, Board of Auditors and Ethics Committee. given by the auditing firm of PricewaterhouseCThe Corporative Governance of Braskem is supported by the oopers Independent Auditors, referring to serarea of Business Safety, which exercises in practice the roles vices of tax revision done not related to the exof internal auditing; advisor in the management of business ternal auditing, was inferior to 5% of the total risks; responsibility for the compliance with regulations and value of their respective honorariums. These legislation, like the SOX (acronym for Sarbanes Oxley) and services include: (i) services contracted on April the FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act); as well as adminis27, 2011, for the term of four months; and sertrator of the Ethics Line denunciation channel, doing the vices (ii) contracted on November 8, 2011, for evaluation, investigation and monitoring of reports on violathe term of two months. tion of the Braskem Code of Conduct. The model of governance for the relationship between Shareholders, Counselors, Directorship and independent Auditors is organized thus: Organs Participants Objectives Macro-objectives and strategies Business and strategic Direction Board of Directors (BD) Representatives of the Shareholders Accompanying performance Approvals of basic policies Deliberations foreseen in the Statute Permanent committees to support the BD Recommendations to the Board of Directors, based on analysis of information, which aims to perfect the Finance and Investment Advisors elected in accordance with quality and speed of the deliberative process. their specialties Strategy and Communication Accompany decisions by delegation of the Board of Directors. People and Organization Audit Organ of the acts of the Braskem administrators, with the objective of securing the fulfillment of their legal and statuary duties. Board of Auditors Representatives of the Shareholders It has expanded functions, standing in for the Auditing Committee. Emission of opinions on the financial statements in an independent way and in accordance with the legislation in force. 1. External auditors Internal auditing program of Braskem, with the Auditing responsibility for evaluating and contributing to the improvement of the efficiency of the processes of 2. Business security risks management, internal controls and Government, favoring the adherence / compliance of the Company´s operation with internal standards, legislation and the regulations of the market. Responsible for Legal GRI 4.1 Responsible for Corporate GoverAdoption and constant updating of the Code of Conduct Ethics Committee nance, Responsible for People and Evaluation and direction of solutions of the reports Organization (P & O) and Responreceived by the Ethics Line channel. GRI 4.2 sible for Institutional Relations (IR) GRI 4.3 32 Corporate Governance Composition of the groups responsible for corporative governance in Braskem by age group and gender* Total of Members of the Commiteeon Governance (%)(*) 2009 2010 2011 EM 27.04.2012 W M W M W M W M Below 30 years 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 30 50 years 0% 18,75% 0% 18,75% 0% 18,75% 0% 25% Above 50 years 0% 81,25% 6.25% 75% 12,50% 68,75% 6,25% 68,75% Total 0% 100% 6,25% 93,75% 12,50% 87,50% 6,25% 93,75% W = Women M = Men (*) Holders of seats on the Board of Directors (11) and on Board of Auditors (5) * Base: 27.4.2012 GRI 4.1 GRI 4.2 GRI 4.3 33 Corporate Governance Board of Directors ed the responsibility for implementation of the subjects deThe Board of Directors represents the Shareholders of cided in the meetings. Besides this, there is no other form Braskem and consists of the deliberative organ of the Comof direct communication between the Board and the pany (non-executive). It acts in an independent manner, beCompany´s Members. ing responsible for the accounts rendered the Shareholders, The mandate of the members of the Board of Directors has other stakeholders and to the society for the tangible and a term of two years, when re-election is allowed. The periintangible assets used in conducting the Company. od of management of the President and of the Vice presiAmong the principal powers of the Board of Directors are: dent, who also can be re-elected, is two years. – to fix the general direction of the business; The Board meets, ordinarily at least, four times yearly and, – to periodically approve and to accompany the Company´s extraordinarily, whenever called by the President, Vice presBusiness plan; ident or by two of its representatives. In 2011, seven ordi– to approve proposals for general application policies; nary meetings and five extraordinary meetings were held. – to submit to the Annual general meeting the subjects of The deliberations demand a quorum of installation repreits competence, defined by Statute; sented by a majority of the Directors, being taken by major– to contract the registered independent auditing Company, ity of votes, the Shareholders’ Agreement of Braskem in in the terms of Brazilian Corporate Law; force being observed. – to decide on operational or expansion investments, as defined in the bylaws. In accordance with the bylaws, the Board of Directors of Members of the Board of Directors* Braskem is composed of 11 members and their respective Permanent Substitutes Marcelo Bahia Odebrecht Cláudio Melo Filho substitutes, Shareholders, residents or not in the country, President elected or dismissible at any time by the Annual general José Carlos Cosenza Antônio Aparecida de Oliveira Vice-President meeting, which also defines, among the members of the Alfredo Lisboa Ribeiro Tellechea André Amaro da Silveira Board, the President and the Vice president, being able to Almir Guilherme Barbassa Gustavo Tardin Barbosa substitute them at any time. During the absence or tempoÁlvaro Fernandes da Cunha Filho Carla Gouveia Barretto rary disability of an effective member, he is substituted by Felipe Montoro Jens Mauro Motta Figueira Francisco Pais Andrea Damiani Maia his substitute. José Alcides Santoro Martins Arão Dias Tisser Paying attention to a requisite of corporate governance as Luiz de Mendonça Paulo Oliveira Lacerda de Melo refers to the independence of the Board of Directors, it is Newton Sergio de Souza Mônica Bahia Odebrecht important to emphasize that no Director, titular or substiRoberto Zurli Machado José de Freitas Mascarenhas tute, including the President of the Board, is part of the Ad* Base: 4/27/ 2012 ministration of Braskem. In 2011, there were 11 Permanent Advisors with seat on the Board of Braskem, two being independent Advisors. The independence of the Advisors is Committees of Support understood on the basis of the following concepts: The roles and the basic responsibilities of the Committees of – to have no bond with the organization, except eventual Support to the Board of Directors of Braskem, as well as the participation in the capital; basic directives for its constitution and operation are estab– not to be a controlling Shareholder, member of the group lished by the Operational Procedures of the BD. According to of control, spouse or relative up to the second degree nor the rule in this document, the Committees can be permato maintain links with organizations related to a controlling nent or ad hoc (for a specific aim). The Permanent CommitShareholder; tees are those that treat subjects whose nature and objec– not to have been an employee or Director of the organizatives remain unchanged through time. tion or of any of its subsidiaries in the last three years; The Permanent Committees, three altogether, integrate the – not to be a spouse or relative up to the second degree of structure of corporative governance of Braskem and have as any Director or Manager of the organization; objective to advise the Board of Directors in prearranged – not to receive other remuneration from the organization, matters. Each Committee is coordinated by a member of the besides the Director’s honorarium. Board and constituted only by titular and/or substitute DiIt is relevant to consider also that there is no formal channel rectors. Executives of Braskem, qualified in the subject by of direct communication between the Members of Braskem responsibilities, involvement or knowledge, or by solicitaGRI 4.2 and the Board of Directors. In accordance with statutory tion of the Coordinating Director, can participate in meetpowers, the demands of the Board are directed directly to ings, in the capacity of guests. GRI 4.9 an Executive President of the Company, to whom is delegatAs organs of assistance and support, their function is to pro34 Corporate Governance vide assistance in the decisions of the Board of Directors, date of one year, being able to be re-elected. The mandates through recommendations, without deliberative character, expire in the next OGM. In accordance with the legislation, based in specialized analysis of specific subjects that aim to members of the Board of Directors or of the Directorship of perfect in quality and speed the process of deliberation. The the enterprises cannot be a part of the Board of Auditors. Permanent Committees are: Equally prevented from participating are the employees, Committee of People and Organization (CPO): has as asspouses or relatives of any member of the Administration. signment to evaluate new policies and the compliance and The Board meets, ordinarily, once each three months and, revision of the policies in force related to the subjects of extraordinarily, when necessary. People and Organization. It is responsible also for supporting As takes place in the Board of Directors of Braskem, the Board the Board in the decisions of its competence, as foreseen in of Auditors also disposes of an exclusive channel of information the bylaws of the Company. that can be accessed by the Braskem portal on the Internet. Committee of Finance and Investment (CFI): evaluate new policies, accompany and analyze the policies in force related to financial management, insurance and guarantees, The composition of the Fiscal Advice integrated risk management, among others. It answers also on April 4, 2012 was the following for evaluating in advance and recommending to the Board Permanent Substitutes of Directors proposals for investments and for the accompaMaria Alice Ferreira Deschamps Carlos Alberto Siqueira Gomes Cavalcanti niment of the investments and contracts with related parAluízio da Rocha Coelho Neto Jayme Gomes da Fonseca Júnior ties approved by the Board. The CFI also contributes in the Antônio Luiz Vianna de Souza Marcílio José Ribeiro Júnior preparation of Braskem´s Business plan. Ismael Campos de Abreu Afonso Celso Florentino de Oliveira Committee of Strategy and Communication (CSC): reManoel Mota Fonseca Ana Patrícia Soares Nogueira garding the strategic direction, it constantly evaluates the definitions for planning, in other words, the base for Board of Directors Braskem´s Business plan. Regarding the subject of commuThe Board of Directors is the executive administration organ. nication, it evaluates new policies and accompanies and In accordance with the bylaws of Braskem, the Board of Dianalyses the corporate policies in force referring to comrectors is composed of at least four and at most ten statutory munication with the capital market, social responsibility, directors, one being Director-president (Business Leader). The and sustainability. members of the Board of Directors, except the President Director and the Financial Director and Investor Relations, have Composition of the Committees no specific denomination, being designated “directors”. of Support to the Board on May 9, 2012 The statutory directors are elected by the Board of Directors Committees Coordinator Participants Participants Participants for a mandate of three years, being able to be re-elected. Finance and Felipe Mauro Motta Almir Roberto Zurli The current mandate of all the statutory directors expires at Investment Montoro Jens Figueira Guilherme Machado Barbassa the Board of Directors´ first meeting which will happen after People and José Carlos André Amaro Carla Gouveia Álvaro the Ordinary Annual general meeting of 2012. The Board of Organization Cosenza da Silveira Barretto Fernandes da Cunha Filho Directors can dismiss any director at any time. As the same Strategy and Newton Francisco Pais José Alcides Alfredo law predicts, the directors must be residents of Brazil, but Communication Sergio de Santoro Tellechea they do not need to be Shareholders. Souza Martins On May 31, 2012, the composition of the statutory The Board of Directors was the following: Board of Auditors Corporate Law demands the constitution of a Board of AudiCarlos Fadigas de Souza – Director-president tors (BA), permanent or not. Braskem´s bylaws forces the Elected on December 7, 2010, Carlos Fadigas is the current constitution of a permanent BA, composed of five titular president of Braskem. Acted as Director President of then members and five substitutes. The question is of a corporate America Braskem, today called Braskem the United States, as organ independent of the administration and of the busiperson in charge for Finances and Investors Relations with nesses of independent auditing, which has as principal reBraskem from 2007 to 2010 and as CFO in the Building firm sponsibility to review the activities of the Administration Norberto Odebrecht from 2002 to 2006, having occupied sevand the financial statements, as well as to account to eral posts in the OPP and in the Trikem, Companies that Braskem´s Shareholders. merged in the formation of Braskem. Graduated in business The members of the Board of Auditors are elected by the administration at UNIFACS, he has an MBA from the Institute Shareholders in Ordinary General Meeting (OGM) for manfor Management Development IMD, in Switzerland. 35 Corporate Governance Marcela Aparecida Drehmer Andrade – Finances and Reof Petroquisa, occupying various executive posts in Petrobras lations with Investors and in Petroquisa from 1980. Graduated in Chemical EngiResponsible for Finances and Investors Relations of neering from the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ). Braskem, Marcela Drehmer was Financial Director of the Company from 2005 to 2010, having occupied the manageMauricio Roberto de Carvalho Ferro – Legal and Corpoment of Structured Investment Operations between 2002 rate Governance and 2005. During this period she led the process of cost He has been a legal director of Braskem from 2001. He acts lengthening and reduction of the Company´s debt, particias substitute member of the Board of Directors of Cetrel pated actively in the principal consolidation processes of the S.A.. He has occupied previously the posts of titular member petrochemical sector, among them the acquisition of Poliof the Boards of Ipiranga Petroquímica S.A., before its incorteno, Ipiranga/Copesul and most recently of Quattor. From poration into Braskem S.A, and of Copesul – Petrochemical 2010 she assumed the Vice-presidency of Finances and InCompany of the South, before its incorporation by Ipiranga vestors Relations, incorporating under her responsibility the Petroquímica S.A.. He was also a member of the Board of areas of Control, Accounting, Investor Relations and InvestDirectors of Politeno Indústria Indústria e Comercio S/A and ment Financing. Also she acted as person in charge for of Polialden Petroquímica S/A, before the incorporation by Structured Operations and for the area of Planning of the Braskem, and of the Board of Directors of Petroflex Indústria Petrochemical OPP, from 1994 to 1999, when it joined Odee Comercio S/A, before the sale of his participation in April brecht S.A., passing to directly support the vice president of of 2008, of Trikem S.A. and of Nitrocarbono S.A.. He acted as Investments of the holding company. In 2000, she particilawyer of the office of legal practice of Carlos Eduardo Palapated in the Program of Corporate Finance Internship of dini Cardoso in 1989 and as lawyer of the office of legal Credit Suisse First Boston, in New York. Graduated in Busipractice of Bulhões Pedreira, Bulhões Carvalho e Advogados ness administration at the University Salvador (Unifacs), she Associados from 1991 to 1995. He graduated in Law at the has an MBA in Finance from Ibmec – Sao Paulo. Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio de Janeiro and has a master’s degrees from the University of London and the Décio Fabrício Oddone da Costa – Investments London School of Economics. Responsible for Investments in Braskem, acted as CEO of Petrobras Energia S.A., from 2008 to 2010, having presided Patrick Horbach Fairon – Project Comperj over its Board of Directors in the period from 2006 to 2008. Responsible for the Project COMPERJ in the Company, was a He presided over the Board of Directors of Innova S.A. and member of the Board of Directors of Copesul, Quattor, Petof several Companies of the Petrobras System. He occupied rochemical Suape and Refap (refinery Alberto Pasqualini), positions of management in Petrobras and in its internahaving been a director of the Administration of Braskem tional subsidiaries, having been a president of Petrobras from 2004 to 2007. He also occupied the post of Director of Bolivia S.A., besides answering for the operations of PetroEquity of Petrobras Química S.A PETROQUISA, Financial Dibras in the Southern Cone. Graduated in Electrical Engineerrector of Downstream Participações S.A., General Manager ing at the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRS), he of Equity and of Managing of Business Development of has a graduate degree in Engineering of Oil from Petrobras, Petrobras. Educated in Electronic Engineering at the Federal attended the Advanced Management Program in the HarUniversity of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), he has a graduate degree vard University Business School, in the United States, as well in Administration from the Pontifícia Universidade Católica as the Advanced Management Program in the Insead, in of Rio de Janeiro (PUC-RJ), MBA in Business Management France. He received the title Doctor Honoris Causa in Educafrom SDE – Society for Business Development (IBMEC), MBA tion from the Universidad de Aquino, in Bolivia. in Finances from COPPEAD (graduate Institute of research in Administration of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro) Edmundo José Correia Aires – Innovation and Corporate and courses of specialization from the Kellogg School of Technology Management and from Insead Business School. Responsible for the Technology and Innovation areas, was part of the Board of Directors of Braskem between 2008 and Committee of Ethics 2010 and was a substitute member of BD of the Company in The Committee of Ethics is an advisory and deliberative enthe period from 2001 to 2008. He also presided over the tity, responsible for guaranteeing the understanding of the Board of Directors of the Petrochemical company Triunfo from ethical principles of Braskem, to negotiate, to recommend, 2005 to 2008, and was on the Board of Fábrica Carioca de to give out opinions and to promote the decisions to solve Catalisadores (FCC) and of Ipiranga Petroquímica. He also the denunciations received, recommending sanctions for acted as coordinator of the Board of Directors of Participations discipline in the cases of transgression of the values de36 Other indicators of Corporate Governance scribed in the Code of Conduct of the Company. The Committee is composed of at least four members: those Corporative Governance responsible for legal, for Corporate Governance, a leader of People & Organization and another member defined by the # Relationship between remuneration for members of the member responsible for legal. The members meet ordinarily Executive Board and the performance of the Organization. four times per year and, extraordinarily, whenever necesThe members of the management team organized accordsary, with the proper register in minutes. In 2011, the Coming to the Company’s by-laws earn a fixed monthly remumittee held four meetings. neration, in agreement with the Policies of Remuneration of Braskem and aligned with the market, and a variable remuEthics Line neration, conditioned on both individual performance with The Ethics Line Channel of Braskem is a way of communicaspecific targets, be it financial-economic, social and/or ention open to Members, Clients, Suppliers and other stakevironmental, and on the surpassing of results previously holders to the Company. The Channel is accessible through agreed regarding the economic profit of the Company. the services of e-mail, telephone or P.O. box, to register de# Processes are in force in the highest organ of governunciations related to the violation of the Code of Conduct nance to secure that conflicts of interest are avoided. of the Company. The area of Business Security is responsible There is no process for resolution of conflicts of interest at for the registration and analysis of all the reports, in absothe level of the Board of Directors. lute confidentiality, relying on the support of a specialized # Process for determination of the qualifications and knowlthird party. All the cases communicated and the results of edge of the members of the highest organ of governance their respective analyses are presented and discussed in the to define the strategy of the organization for questions reCommittee of Ethics of the Company. lated to economic, environmental and social subjects. The channel of communication is also responsible for the There is no process defined to determine the qualifications consolidation of the good practices of Corporative Goverand the knowledge of the members at the level of the Board nance (initiative of the meeting requirements of Section 301 of Directors, but, historically, all the Directors have qualificaof the Sarbanes-Oxley Law), contributing to the maintetions and proven knowledge in the petrochemical business. nance and dissemination of the Ethical Principles and Stan# Proceedings of the highest organ of governance to sudards of Conduct of Braskem, in accordance with the stanpervise the identification and management by the organidards of transparency demanded by the market. zation of the economic, environmental and social perforThe Company does not have formal mechanisms for the mance, including risks and relevant opportunities, as well Members to make recommendations or give directions to as the adherence or agreement with standards agreed the Board of Directors. So, all and any communication adinternationally, codes of conduct and principles. (GRI 4.9) dressed by them to that forum is carried out through the The identification, supervision and management of the ecoarea of Corporate Governance. nomic, social and environmental performance activities preSee in Social Development / Combating discrimination, dicted in the bylaws of the Company and in Company rules what registers were set sent to the Ethics Line Channel in of the Board of Directors (BD). The subject is also discussed 2009, 2010 and 2011. frequently by the Members members of the BD Support Committee of Strategy and Communication, which meets at Review of internal control least three times yearly. # Processes for the self-evaluation of the performance of The area of Business Security of Braskem develops a prothe highest organ of governance, especially as to the ecogram of systemic and permanent evaluation processes to nomic, environmental and social performance. GRI 4.10 identify business risks and to propose alternatives to manThere is no process defined for self-evaluation of the perforage them to the leadership. This program guarantees more mance of the Board of Directors. GRI 4.11 efficiency of the internal processes, making the leaders # Explanation of if and how the organization applies the GRI 4.4 aware of the importance of the evaluation and continuous principle of precaution. improvement of management efficiency, risk and internal On principle, Braskem does not produce, handle, use, marGRI 4.5 business process controls of the Company, favoring adherket, transport or discard any product, if is not possible to do GRI 4.6 ence to the internal standards and to the regulations of the it in a safe way, with the least impact on the environment. market, besides minimizing the incident of frauds. GRI 4.7 GRI 4.9 37 Economic development In the economic plan, 2011 was characterized by the challengtaking place in May, in the plant of chlorine soda, in Maceió, es that it imposed on the Brazilian industrial sector. The beginwhich provoked the stop of the unit for two weeks (inforning of the year was of strong expectation for growth of the mation detailed in Environmental Dimension). economy of the country, supported on the positive perforAt the end of the first semester, beginning of the second, admance of the previous period. The forecasts, nevertheless, verse factors of an economic order impacted the Company´s were not confirmed, influenced by factors of different orders. operational performance. Among them, in an internal scenario For Braskem, the first and strong impact took place in the of high competitiveness on the part of imported products, the beginning of February, as a result of an electric energy outappreciation of the Real in relation to the dollar and the Euroage in eight states of the Northeast, with around three pean economy experiencing a period of crisis of sovereign hours of duration in some cities. It was sufficient time to debt, which persists still today, affected the global demand for provoke the disconnection of the Company´s production petrochemical products and the sector´s profitability. units in the petrochemical complex of Camaçari (BA), and to In spite of the unfavorable environment, Braskem reached affect the operations in Alagoas. significant accomplishments in 2011, on its strategic agenda, The consequences were relevant because the lack of energy especially in the growth and internationalization dimentemporarily interrupted the operations in the manufacturing sions, evolving in the middle and long term vision impleplants and the ovens cooled, solidifying and spoiling the mentation. The maintenance of this strategy is based on inputs that were in production. Repairs demanded a stop for confidence regarding the development potentialities of inmaintenance, with the difference of not having being ternational petrochemicals, the Brazilian market energy and planned. The equipment needed to be taken to pieces for the resultant opportunities of the Company´s market posicleaning and, before there were conditions for recovering tion and leadership. production, more than three months had passed. Braskem advanced one more stage consolidating the interThe prolonged interruption affected around 10% of the volume nationalization strategy of its business and operations. The of annual production of ethylene of the Unit of Basic Petroacquisition of four polypropylene plants from Dow Chemical chemicals, impacting also the whole line of polyethylenes in in the United States and Germany, announced in July, prothe region and PVC. At present, studies are being carried out for vided to the Company the leadership of the North American the adoption of preventive measures, since the existing ones market of PP, consolidated its position as largest producer of were not sufficient to avoid the stop in Camaçari. resin of the Americas and one of the biggest petrochemical The production was also affected by two process accidents enterprises of the world. 38 Principal results Economic development six years of operation. The polyolefin (PE and PP) market ended the year with a fall Income: Braskem´s consolidated gross income in 2011 was of 2% and the PVC market, with a rise of 4%, strongly reR$ 39.8 billion, 15% superior to that presented in 2010, that lated to the civil construction sector. was R$ 34.7 billion. Also there was growth, on the order of 19% in the consolidated liquid income, which was R$ 33.2 billion compared to R$ 27.8 billions in 2010, positively influBasic Petrochemicals enced by the higher prices of resin and basic petrochemicals, driven by the prices of raw materials and which reThe year, 2011 was marked by better prices of basic petroverted this tendency to rise in the 2nd semester, in line with chemicals, with distinction for butadiene, paraxylene and the international market, due to the aggravation of the ecotoluene, with high average of 26% in relation to 2010. The nomic crisis. In dollars, the liquid income reached US$ 19.9 total sales of ethylene and propylene in the year presented billion, a rise of 25%. a reduction of 4% and 10%, respectively, explained by the Exports: Export revenue in 2011 was $ 6.5 billion (33% of planned and unplanned maintenance stops, totaling 872 net revenue), 55% higher than 2010 revenue. This perforthousand tons. mance is due mainly to the continued opportunity for resale, the amount of U.S. $ 2.6 billion, and increased prices of some cracker co-products, such as butadiene, which had a United States and Europe Unit high around 50%. EBITDA: In 2011, the EBITDA reached R$ 3.7 billion, 8% infeThe volume of sales of the United States and Europe Unit rior to the R$ 4.1 billion registered in the previous year. In was 1.0 million tons of PP, an increase of 21% in relation to dollars, the EBITDA presented a fall of 3%, reaching US$ 2.2 2010 explained by the consolidation of the results of the PP billion in 2011. Contributing to this performance was the business of the Dow, from the fourth term of 2011. reduction of the volume of sales, when affected by the interruption in the supply of electric energy that impacted the production up to the middle of May, and by the planned Investments stops for maintenance; the reduction of the profitability of the thermoplastic resin, measured through the spread, in Maintaining its promise with the realization of investments line with the tendency of the international market, which with return above their capital cost, Braskem carried out registered a fall of 15% to the year, partially compensated operational investments that totaled R$ 2.1 billion in 2011, by the largest spread of the basic petrochemicals, which had 17% superior to the R$ 1.8 billion of 2010. The largest divera high around 20% and the medium appreciation of the sions regarding the value of R$, 1.6 billion previously comReal of 5% between the periods. municated are related to the acceleration of projects of exLoss: Braskem reported in 2011 a loss of R$ 517 million, compansion, among them the Ethylene XXI, in Mexico, and the pared to the net profit of R$ 1,889 millions in 2010. Contribprojects for increase of capacity in Brazil (expansion of PVC uted to this result was the financial expense of R$ 2.8 billions, in Alagoas and new Butadiene plant in Rio Grande do Sul). influenced by the depreciation of the Real in the year, which led to a negative liquid exchange variation of R$ 1.2 billion. The operational investments of 2011 were distributed thus: Polyolefins and Vinyls Ethylene XXI, in Mexico R$ 191 million SSMA R$ 151 million The Brazilian thermoplastic resin market in 2011 maintained Replacement of equipment R$ 207 million itself on a level similar to 2010, with a light retraction of 0.8%. The demand of 4.9 million tons was affected by the Increase of capacity R$ 696 million in Brazil entry of imported manufactured products during the year. Maintenance stops R$ 469 million The low demand period, associated with the reduction of Productivity R$ 84 million spreads in the international market, led Braskem to anticipate for December, a stop of 25 days for maintenance of Others* R$ 280 million two crackers in Camaçari planned for 2012. A stop was also *(improvement of the quality of the product; fixtures and fittings; carried out for maintenance in one of the crackers of the investment in the areas of Commercial and/or Marketing and Strategy; Information Technology and modernization, technological updating) Triunfo complex and in the cracker of Duque de Caxias, after 39 Investment Grade Economic development For the financial area, 2011 was a positive year, with recogtion with Quattor and the capture of synergies. nition by the risk classification agencies of Moody’s, Fitch The approval by Cade (Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Ratings and Standard and Poor’s. Econômica Administrative Council for Economic Defense) The agency Fitch Ratings raised Braskem by investment of the purchase of Quattor, resulting in the evolution of the grade, which passed from the concept “BB+” to “BBB-“, in operational performance and of cash flow generation, also function of the strategic position of the Company in worldwas highlighted by the risk classification agency Moody’s, wide petrochemical, as well as the management of its fiwhich raised the rating of Braskem from “Ba1” to “Baa3”, nancial profile and its solid Shareholder structure. granting investment grade to the Company. Standard and Poor’s also raised the rating, in other words, The classification given by the risk evaluation agencies to the “score” of Braskem from “BB+” to “BBB-”. At the same enterprises or countries corresponds to a score that attests time, the rating of the Company on the Brazilian National to its good financial condition and the capacity of honoring Scale rose from “brAA+” to “brAAA”, for the improvement of debts within the established terms. the cash flow and of the liquidity of Braskem, the integraIndicators Direct Economic value produced and distributed in 2011 Components Consolidated (R$) 2009 2010 2011 (+) Direct Economic Value Produced 16.136 25.495 33.176.160.000,00 a) Income 16.136 25.495 33.176.160.000,00 (-) Distributed Economic Value 15.975 25.825 35.118.385.201,21 b) Operational Costs 13.530 21.412 29.317.951.000,00 c) Salaries and Members’ benefits 431 742 717.205.000,00 d) Payments for providers of capital -493 1.872 3.753.518.000,00 e) Payments to the government (by country) 2.499 1.781 1.313.788.000,00 f) Investments in the community 7,5 18,0 15.923.201,21 (=) Accrued economic Value 161 -330 -1.942.225.201,21 Notes: (1) Sources: Financial statements of Braskem, audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Independent Auditors CRC 2SP000160/O-5 “F” BA; IBASE (Brazilian Institute of Social and Economical Analyses), for Investments in the community (2) The information reported in this chart is registered and processed by the SAP system used by Braskem. (3) Captions of the chart (+) Direct Economic Value Produced a) liquid sales plus receipts originating from financial investments and sale of assets. (-)Distributed Economic Value b) payments for suppliers, nonstrategic investments, royalties and facilitation payments. c) Salaries and Members’ benefits: total of the payroll for Members. (current payments, and not the future obligations) (current payments, and not the future obligations) d) Payments to capital providers: all the financial payments made to the organization´s capital providers. e) Payments to the government (by country) f) Investments in the community, voluntary contributions and fund investment in the community as a whole. (includes donations) (=) Accrued economic Value Investments, mortgages, etc. (4) The investments in the community include Private Social Investment, environmental compensations agreed with financing organs and donation by the Odebrecht Foundation and other forms of donation. The data of investment in the community do not include the units of Braskem in the USA GRI EC1 and in Europe. GRI EC4 40 Economic development Significant financial Help received from the government in Consolidated (R$) 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal incentives / credits 107.765.000,00 19.885.255,00 40.607.541,36 Subsidies 0,00 0,00 0,00 Subsidies for investments, research and development and other 5.362.216,52 1.400.900,00 5.362.216,52 relevant types of concessions Prizes 0,00 0,00 0,00 Exemption from the payment of royalties 0,00 0,00 0,00 ECAs (financial help from export credit agencies) 0,00 0,00 0,00 Financial incentives 0,00 0,00 0,00 Other financial received benefits or receivable from any government for 0,00 0,00 0,00 any operation TOTAL 107.765.000,00 21.286.154,54 45.969.757,88 Notes: (1) The information reported in this chart is registered and processed by the SAP system used by Braskem. Subsidies for investments, research and development and other relevant concession types from the Innovation and Technology General office of the Government of Bahia (Inovec) and Finep (Financiadora of Studies and Projects) (3) Data of 2011 include the units acquired from Dow Chemicals (October, November and December) GRI EC1 GRI EC4 41 Social development The commitment to sustainable development, in the Vision People Management 2020 of Braskem, has as objectives the increase in value and the improvement of the conditions of life of people: In December of 2011, Braskem was maintaining on its roles Members, Clients, partners and society. 6,934 Members, 6,477 in Brazil and 457 in the United States. In this chapter of the 2011 Annual Report practices of relaThe strategy of people management is based in the followtionship with Members, Suppliers and Communities near to ing pillars: education and development; increase in value the units of Braskem are reported. In the internal arena, the and recognition; culture; excellence in serving; environment Company renewed the actions of education through work and image. Each pillar unfolds in a set of programs and iniand for work, with the objective of giving support to the tiatives that, combined, aim to support the process of growth planned for coming years, characterized by the ingrowth and internationalization of the Company through the ternationalization of the industrial operations (see more integration of new persons with knowledge, and of the dedetails in the chapter Profile). velopment of the Members through education through and It also carried out a succession diagnosis of the beginning for the work, to guarantee a motivating and productive enthe preparation of the people identified in this process, and vironment and to promote the continuous strengthening of contracted research for the work environment, aiming to the practice of the TEO, among other objectives. better know the strong points and the improvement opporAs initiative of incentive to creativity and to the reapplicatunities within the Company. tion of knowledge produced by Members, Braskem carries In the external arena, Braskem continued socio-environout, annually, the Prêmio Destaque Prize [Stand out Prize]. mental projects and investments in the Communities, mainIn 2011, the prize started to have greater adherence to the taining as pole the increased capacity of people and genVision 2020, with the creation of a new category – Innovaeration of work and income. It enlarged the scope of practive Solutions – and the guarantee that all the projects are tices for Suppliers of ethanol, adding international requisites valued according to criteria of sustainability. In total, 194 audited by an external consultant (Bonsucro), to the clauses projects were registered in Brazil and abroad. already established in the code itself for conduct of the sector. Check the distinctions of 2011 in the following. 42 Social development Executive MBA Proficiency Model In parallel to the program of formation of global leaders, another group composed by 23 Members of Braskem are The proficiency model is the basis for evaluation of participating in the specialization program of Executive MBA Members, it includes professional characteristics, in the Odebrecht Organization. Administered in partnership Braskem proficiencies and technical proficiencies. with the Institute of Teaching and Research (Insper), the The first two items reflect the Organization´s culcourse has duration of 528 hours, 480 of them present. ture and the last, the skills and the knowledge apMembers of other enterprises of Odebrecht also participate plied for the exercise in the function. in the MBA. To align knowledge, attitudes and values of all the Members to the proficiencies applied by the PDP of Sustainability Company, Braskem applies the Plan of IndividuThe Proficiencies Development Program (PDP) in Sustainal Development (PID), prepared on the basis of ability was created in 2011, together with the FIA-USP opportunities for improvement observed during (Foundation Institute of Administration of the University of the Cycle of Planning, Accompaniment, Evaluation and Judgment. Sao Paulo), with the objective to develop a network of disThe PID links the training plan of each Integrant to criminators of the concepts of sustainability and also to supthe proficiencies necessary to the performance of port the Members in the attainment of the marks defined in his function. The evaluation of performance folthe Vision 2020. In the program 31 persons participate, 25 lows the model of the System of Development of being Braskem Members and six guests who represent Proficiencies, which reflects the career moment some of the strategic public for the Company (Supplier, Cliof the professional and supports his training with ent, non-Governmental Organization and Financial Institueducational actions by and for the work. tion). There are 360 classroom-hours, at the graduate level. The course ends in July of 2012. PDP – Laboratories Proficiencies Development Program has focus on the techniEducation and development cal qualification of professionals educated in Chemistry and Courses and trainings structured for Members in all the career Engineering and interested in following the career in mantraineeships are aligned to the strategy of business and growth agement of laboratories. Developed in partnership with the of Braskem. To develop persons to support this growth and Universidade Estadual de Campinas, it has as objective to confront the current and future challenges is one of the pillars promote the management and the transfer of knowledge, in the People and Organization (P&O) action areas. contributing to the renovation of the team and the attracDescribed in the People Development Proceeding, corporate tion of talent to the technical area. The initial group is comtraining is the responsibility of P&O. The rest are defined in posed of 27 Members. accordance with the necessities of the operational units and are the responsibility of the leaders, monitored by the P&O Learning Tracks representative in the unit. In 2011 an exclusive proceeding To stimulate the self-development of the Members, the was implemented to define subsidies and participation in Company created in 2011, in pilot phase, the program Learnthe Braskem Program of Languages (English or Spanish). ing Tracks. With initial focus in the industrial area and previSome examples of actions orientated for training and edusion of expansion to other sectors in 2012, it has as initial cation of Members follow. objective identifying the knowledge required for the posts of operators. Subsequently, multiple solutions of apprenticeGlobal leaders ship will be developed for this knowledge. Braskem is internationalizing its operations and, to give support to the process and confront the challenges of the Education at a distance chemical and petrochemical sector, it initiated in 2011 the The platform of education at a distance of Braskem is in develprogram of training global leaders in the Wharton School, a opment. In 2011, specialized institutions were mapped in the highly thought of school of business at the University of the market to create the e-learning trainings (expression in English Pennsylvania (USA). Thirty-one directors are participating in for training through the Internet). Examples of courses: Manthe program. agement of Contracts, Code of Conduct, among others. 43 Social development Program of Leader Development In the near year, Braskem is going to strengthen two interstrengthen the relationship of leader with the follower acnal programs: the PDE – a Program for Development of Busicording to the principles of the TEO. In a relationship of connessmen, for leaders already in advanced stage of career fidence and mutual respect, the leader is someone who who move toward assuming challenges of direction – and orients, delegates and teaches. The challenge is constant for the PDLE – a Program for Development of Team Leader, orthe enterprises pertaining to the Odebrecht Organization, ganized for Members who emerge as leaders of projects but it is today more urgent for Braskem, considering the hisand teams. In 2011 the PDLE was not carried out, because tory of acquisitions of the Company in Brazil, the United the Company was oriented towards the diagnosis of persons States and Germany. It is the question of solidifying the corindicated for succession in the Company. porate culture as a practice of daily life. The challenge for the leadership development actions is to 2009 2010 2011 Trainings / Programs of for improving Members capacity Braskem Brasil Braskem Brasil Braskem Brasil Braskem EUA a) Internal Trainings b) Financial Support for improving capacity or external training c) Sabbatical Periods with professional insertion guaranteed Items offered in the programs of support to integrant that are retiring or were dismissed a) Pre-retirement planning for the one who intends to retire b) Retraining for one who intends to keep on working c) Compensation for dismissal d) If there is compensation for dismissal, does it takes into account the age and the time of service e) Services of placement in the labor market f) Assistance (e.g training, mentoring) in the transition to a life without work Notes: (1) The data referring to Braskem USA was not reported in 2010 and in 2009, there were still no Braskem operations in the United States. (2) The Braskem USA data from 2011 does not include the PP units acquired from Dow Chemical. Plan of succession Operator 2020 One of the distinctions of 2011 was the greater emphasis on Around 2,400 professionals act in the different operational the identification of the Company´s successors. As a part of fronts of Braskem and represent approximately 36% of the the planning 70 meetings were carried out, in which 550 Company´s Members. To account for the growth of the Compersons were evaluated with the objective of mapping pospany, the diagnosis and planning for people in the longsible successors to leadership positions. The work was carterm, showed the need to hire and train more than 1,300 ried out by the business and support areas and taken to the operators for Brazil and Mexico¬ in this country, due to the Executive Committee at the end of the year, between Noethylene XXI project, with opening scheduled for June 2015 vember and December, to validate the next set of actions. (possible expansion plans in the United States are not covThe objective is to identify and to support the development ered in the current planning). of current Members with growth potential, as well as to atThis is the purpose of the program Operator 2020, which tract and to train new Members for areas and positions that will seek to support the professional development within are made necessary. the Company through educational actions. Under the responsibility of the People and Organization area, a team People Planning was appointed devoted to industrial education, in which In 2011, Braskem carried out a diagnosis to identify all the directors, managers and operators of the productive units operators, engineers, investigators and scientists it will need participate. The group is mapping the set of proficiencies to contract and train in the years to come, to support the and the profile most adequate for facing the future chalmovement of expansion of the Company, aligned to the Vilenges of productivity and competitiveness. sion 2020, which is to be a world-wide leader of sustainable The work includes, still, the identification of the technical chemistry. For each one of these groups there is a plan of schools (besides the Senai – National Service of Industrial GRI LA 11 action in progress. Apprenticeship, with which the Company already maintains 44 Social development a partnership) where the future professionals will be Excellence in serving trained, taking the regions as a reference where Braskem is PDP – Commercial Excellence present with its industrial units. This is one of the challenges Proficiencies Development Program directed at the Commerfor the area of People and Organization in 2012: besides cial area managers, developing skills able to increase their identifying and promoting the approximation with technical effectiveness and efficiency in acquiring the Client, besides schools and schools of secondary education (according to enlarging the strategic vision of the business and evolution of degree), to promote the technical profession among stuthe global market. There were 23 participants in 2011. dents and to emphasize the value of the professional for the growth of Brazil. The starting point will be the region near Increase in value and recognition the petrochemical complex of Camaçari, in Bahia. Remuneration and benefits The training of operators will also happen internally, directIn agreement with the Policies and Practices of corporate ed to those who already work in the Company, intensifying Remuneration, the salaries, benefits and the variable remuthe use of the existent simulators and evaluating the introneration paid to Braskem Members are positioned in a comduction of new simulators and new strategies for developpetitive wage belt in relation to the market standard in force ment. A larger rate of employment is predicted for the next in companies of similar size and nature in Brazil. The agreethree years, it will bring a positive social impact to Braskem ments of variable remuneration (PLR) are discussed and apand to the regions where the Company operate, from the proved by the Company, by a commission of Members generation of jobs. elected by secret ballot and a union representative. The definition of the earnings also follows the concept of Young talents meritocracy, with the objective of recognizing individual As result of actions and participation in university events, givperformance. The Company carries out an annual wage reing more visibility to the brand Braskem among students, view cycle, in which meritocracy is one of the pillars, comenrollment in the internship program had significant growth. paring the individual’s positioning with the market range for There were 14,940 enrollments for 133 available positions. the region where they work. So it is possible to reduce the Already the trainee program counted on 12,108 candidates, differences for the fixed remuneration and to recognize infrom whom 19 were selected. Considering the two programs, dividual effort. there was a growth of more than 100% in relation to 2010. One of the performance management tools, with influence One of the novelties of the selection process in 2011 was on individual remuneration, is the Program of Action (PA), the hotsite www.jovensbraskem.com.br. The new portal applied to all Members. The PA defines the individual targets was prepared to be a channel of communication between to be reached in service, which reflect on the share of results the Company and the young public. Information is available for the Company, in the form of variable remuneration. The GRI LA3 on it about the internship and trainee programs in the Comremuneration policy does not include questions of gender, pany and the market. In this period, 113 thousand accesses and the criteria are applied equally to men and women, beand 40,584 registrations were counted. ing based on aspects of merit and performance. As for the benefits offered in 2011, they are the same for Members of the units in Brazil and abroad: life insurance, Among the best 30 health plan, coverage for incapacity/disability, maternity/paternity leave, funds for retirement and meals. The only differIn recognition to the opportunities of profesence refers to Members contracted part time: In Brazil, those sional development offered by the Company to young people, Braskem was classified in the contracted for six hours/day receive the same benefits as Guia Exame S/A – The Best Enterprises To bethose as full time and in the United States, those contracted gin a Career, a project of the magazine Você for fewer than 30 hours/week do not receive benefits. S/A in partnership with the Cia. de Talentos and In 2009 and 2010, the benefits for Members contracted full the Fundação Instituto de Administração (FIA). and part time, in the Brazilian units were the same. As for 850 Members participated in the research of the units in the United States, there are no data to compare, Braskem, between 20 and 28 years of age. The because in 2009 Braskem still did not operate in the country weighing evaluated the Company´s work enviand in 2010, the data were not reported. ronment, practices and the management policies. Braskem was among the best 30, standing out because of offering apprenticeship agendas and for growth inside and out of the country. 45 Social development Collective agreements young people had contact with the values, principles and In 2011, the percentage of Members included in collective lines of action of the Company in different events. bargaining agreements between Braskem (Brazil) and trade For the future employment of researchers, the main sources unions, by region, was 99%. The percentage of Braskem in are universities devoted to innovation and research centers, the United States, before the acquisition from Dow, was 15%. sources of renovation of knowledge and environment difThe data of 2010 (98.5%) and 2009 (99.1%) refer, exclusively, to ferentiated by the exchange of experiences. A first step was Braskem’s operations in Brazil. The collective agreements define taken in 2011, with the decision to sponsor 20 scholarships wage adjustments and benefits, among other subjects. for master’s degrees and doctorates, in the amounts of R$ 1,500 and R$ 2,500 monthly, respectively. As prerequisite, Post-career the candidates should already be enrolled in the courses at The Horizons Program is applied to retired Members and to the time of enrolment, with exclusive dedication to studies. those who are near to full retirement. It is a program of apThe projects were selected among three subjects of great preciation, recognition and orientation, with voluntary parinterest for the Company: ticipation, destined for supporting and facilitating the transi• chemical products from renewable raw materials; tion to retirement, pointing to productive paths for post-ca• solutions for post-consumption of plastic; reer. Horizons is organized in modules with a total duration • development in the area of processes, products and cataof 12 months. The program is not applied to the Braskem lysts for the petrochemical industry. units in the United States. A mixed commission Braskem/university analyzed the projects and selected the investigators, from a hundred regisEnvironment and image tered. The direction is to attract them to the Company when Environmental Research the courses have ended. In this field, the challenge for 2012 In 2011, Braskem contracted the Institute Great Place to is still to map existing research centers of Brazil and to idenWork to carry out research on the work environment, with tify scientists interested in acting in Braskem. the objective of obtaining a detailed diagnosis, looking for productivity, for capacity of innovation and results, as well Labor relations as for the strengthening of the practices of the corporate The Code of Conduct of Braskem reaffirms the company to culture. All the Members were invited to participate and the be opposed to discrimination, including for affiliation with research was individual and secret. The rate of spontaneous union entities, guaranteeing freedom of association and of response was 70%. collective bargaining. In the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, no The general rate of satisfaction was 66%, average between risks or obstacles were identified to the rights of the the strong points and the opportunities for improvement. Braskem unit Members to the exercise of freedom of assoAmong the strong points the knowledge of the strategic ciation or collective bargaining. vision of the Company was highlighted, the pride and the Braskem has no targets related to freedom of association. In desire of belonging to the Organization. Aspects to evolve: what refers to collective bargaining, the area of Labor and clarity in the practices of remuneration policies and internal Union Relations has two targets: (1) to secure the interests promotions, when they take place, and the necessity for of Braskem in the negotiation of agreements and collective greater delegation by leaders in routine tasks. contracts of work, celebrating the agreements in all the reThe diagnosis was published for the Members and around 80 gions of the country and (2) closure of agreements of PLR priority points were defined, corporate and by area, for which (acronym for variable remuneration) in all the regions of the plans of action will be executed along 2012 and in the first country. For revision of the agreements of PLR, according to half of 2013. Braskem has not contracted climate research legal requirement, a committee is constituted with memsince 2005. The objective, now, is to increase the frequency. bers elected by secret ballot, and one representative of the trade union. The principal strategy to reach the proposed Partnerships with teaching institutions targets is the constant dialog with Members and represenThe plan of action for employment of engineers has one of tative institutions (trade unions and associations), sharing its bases in the universities. In 2011, Braskem identified information, plans and objectives before the economic scearound 20 universities in all the regions of the country and nario of the market. GRI LA3 carried out a series of events, markets and actions focused Braskem understands that the leaders are responsible for the GRI LA4 on students and teachers. The objective is to reinforce the work relations with those led and must assume the legitimacy institutional image, to be known and recognized by the tarof the union relations. The decentralization of this responsibility GRI HR5 get public, with the intention of attracting interest for a proshould make the solutions nearest to where conflict is estabfessional future. As result, around 50 thousand university lished. Claims or denunciations can still be directed to the im46 Social development mediate leaders or to their superiors, or to the Ethics Line chanGlobal Compact on Work Relations and People Development. nel. All the denunciations are investigated and, when directed For 2012, Braskem´s Risk Management area will consider to the Ethics Line, the accompaniment will be corporate. The potential institutional crises, including those related to the union claims are usually made by the trade union itself to the subject of labor relations (demonstrations, union concerns, Management of Labor and Union Relations. etc.), faced with the European crisis with strong repercussion In what concerns Suppliers, Braskem, when sought by the in the national chemical and petrochemical segment. In the trade unions of the partner companies, orients the represendatabase of the collective negotiations, Braskem evaluates tatives of the Service Provider for the question´s solution. the scenarios and operational risks related to the subject. In 2011, 95 leaders of Braskem were trained in Labor Relations and, for 2012, the same mark is stipulated. The objective is to reinforce the model of management based on the Respect relation between led and leader practiced in the Company, The principles of Braskem that orient the relation and the position of Braskem, of recognition and respect to with the trade unions and workers are: the trade unions, thinking also that union relations are more • Recognition of the trade unions as entities that and more present in the life of the enterprises. legally represent the workers; The objectives of the course are: • Respect for freedom of expression; • understanding of the importance of the union and labor • Respect for the option of the Members as to afrelations; filiation with union entities; • leaders acting in alignment in different scenarios; • Dialog and understanding must constitute, in • training for analysis of the work relations in the Company; Braskem, the main path for the solution of even• leaders acting at the critical moments of labor and union tual labor and union conflicts; relations; • Principles and Values of Braskem are not an object of negotiation; • understanding of the role of the leader as it refers to work • Physical integrity of the persons and of the patrimorelations what Braskem expects from its leaders. ny of the Organization must be preserved by them. The methodology of the training includes discussions in The Code of Conduct of Braskem secures to the Memgroup, presentation of cases, and presentation of expositive bers a system of complaints, inclusive in the labor material and contact with the union leader of the workers. area, via the Ethics Channel, guaranteeing anonymity. By incentive of the Directorship of Sustainability, the area of GRI HR5 Labor Relations participated, in 2011, in the commissions of the GRI LA9 Health and Work Safety Besides the wage clauses, of conditions of work and es agreed in the process of collective bargaining: of a social character, subjects of Health, Work Safety to authorize the access of the trade union doctor and Environment have been discussed and estabto information on biological control; lished in formal agreements with the trade unions in promise of joint realization of technical seminars on the regions where Braskem acts in Brazil. individual subjects of SSMA, gender and sexual harassment; safety equipment; training and education; right of annual presentation to the trade union of the Polirefusing or to suspending the operation being carcies of Health, Safety and environment; ried out when it is understood that there is risk for in case of work accident, to secure the participalife or physical integrity, to the individual and/or to tion of a representative of the Internal Commission work colleagues, for lack of appropriate measures of on Accident Prevention (Cipa) in the committees for protection. The fact must be communicated immeInvestigation of Work Accidents of the area in which diately to a hierarchical superior and, in the absence the accident took place; of this, to the area of Work Safety for analysis of the presentation of technical lecture, in the Internal situation. There is union participation in the Individual Week for Prevention of Accidents (Sipat); Service of Equipment Inspection (SIPIE). to secure access to the factories to the union leadIn the period from 2009 to 2011, the collective agreeers not employed at the enterprises by solicitation of ments signed with the trade unions of the workers conthe trade union, after prior understanding with the disidered topics referring to health, to safety and to the rection of the Company, or with whom it designates, environment, besides the wage clauses, conditions of when objective, date, place and duration are defined. work and items of a social character. Examples of claus47 Social development Rotation Rotation, in accordance with the GRI, is the number of Memthese do not include the operations of the PP assets acbers that leave the Company, voluntarily or due to dismissal, quired from Dow Chemical. retirement or death in service. This is the first year in which The rates of rotation were calculated taking as base the total Braskem registers unified data of rotation (Braskem + Quatcontingent of Members at the end of the period covered by tor) and, so, there are no compatible historical series of this report (December 31, 2011). Check the following charts. 2009 – 2010 to compare. Regarding Braskem in the United States, this is the first year of collection of information and Total No. of new Members contracted in the period covered by the report SUBTITLE USA Women below 30 years Men above 30 years Women between 30 and 50 years Men between 30 and 50 years LA PORTE MARCUS Women above 50 years Men above 50 years 0 0 0 1 Brazil 0 0 2 2 SOUTH 6 3 35 5 0 15 Total women: 0 Total women: 1 0 Total men: 13 Total men: 5 45 40 5 NEAL PHILADELPHIA Total women: 50 0 2 Total men: 90 0 7 0 0 1 3 SOUTH-EAST 8 8 3 3 62 Total women: 0 Total women: 9 39 Total men: 12 Total men: 14 2 114 114 61 PITTSBURGH 4 0 Total women: 103 Total men: 179 0 0 1 1 NORTHEAST 0 39 Total women: 0 33 Total men: 2 0 77 73 2 * Location of the plants in the USA. Total women: 72 • La Porte Texas Total men: 152 • Marcus Pennsylvania • Neal West Virginia GRI LA2 • Philadel Pennsylvania • Pitts Pennsylvania 48 Social development Total No. of new Members contracted in the period covered by the report Total in Brazil Total men and women Above 30 Between 30 Above 50 Country Region / state Men and women Total years and 50 years years South 140 Women 136 87 2 225 South-east 282 Men 236 174 11 421 Brazil Northeast 224 Total 646 La Porte 13 Total in USA Marcus 6 Above 30 Between 30 Above 50 Neal 12 Total years and 50 years years USA Philadelphia 23 Women 2 8 0 10 Pittsburgh 2 Men 9 26 11 46 Total 56 Total 702 Total in Brazil and USA Above 30 Between 30 Above 50 Total years and 50 years years Women 138 95 2 235 Men 245 200 22 467 GRI LA2 49 Social development Total No. of new Members contracted in the period covered by the report who left the job (in %) SUBTITLE USA Women above 30 years Men above 30 years Women between 30 and 50 years Men between 30 and 50 years LA PORTE MARCUS Women above 50 years Men above 50 years 0 0 0 0 Brazil 0 0 0 0 SOUTH 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total women: 0 Total women: 0 0 Total men: 0 Total men: 0 0 0 0 NEAL PHILADELPHIA Total women: 0 0 0 Total men: 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 SOUTH-EAST 0 0 0 0 0 Total women: 0 Total women: 0 5 Total men: 0 Total men: 0 0 3 4 PITTSBURGH 0 0 Total women: 5 0 Total men: 7 0 0 0 NORTHEAST 0 1 Total women: 0 1 Total men: 0 0 2 2 0 Total women: 2 Total men: 4 GRI LA2 50 Social development Total No. of new Members contracted in the period covered by the report who left the job (in %) Total in Brazil Total men and women Above 30 Between 30 Above 50 Country Region / state Men and women Total years and 50 years years South 0 Women 1 6 0 7 South-east 12 Men 5 6 0 11 Brazil Northeast 6 Total 18 La Porte 0 Total in USA Marcus 0 Above 30 Between 30 Above 50 Neal 0 Total years and 50 years years USA Philadelphia 0 Women 0 0 0 0 Pittsburgh 0 Men 0 0 0 0 Total 0 Total 18 Total in Brazil and USA Above 30 Between 30 Above 50 Total years and 50 years years Women 1 6 0 7 Men 5 6 0 11 GRI LA2 51 Social development Total No. of new Members contracted in the period covered by the report who left the job (in %) Women Men Below 30 Between 30 Below 30 Between 30 Country Region State Above 50 years Above 50 years years of age and 50 years years of age and 50 years South 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% South-east 0% 13% 0% 3% 7% 0% Brazil Northeast 3% 3% 0% 3% 3% 0% Total 1% 7% 0% 2% 3% 0% La Porte 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Marcus 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% USA * Neal 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Philadelphia 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Pittsburgh 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Total 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Total 1% 6% 0% 2% 3% 0% Notes: Location of the plants in the USA. 1) This was the first year of collection of information in Braskem USA • La Porte Texas and, therefore, there are no data to compare. • Marcus Pennsylvania • Philadel Pennsylvania 2) In the units of Braskem in Brazil, there are no historical data (2009 • Pitts Pennsylvania and 2010) on rotation of Members. Combating discrimination Braskem considers discrimination all and any conduct that non-discrimination. disregards the human being, including sexual harassment The cases of discrimination are identified through the Ethics and verbal aggression, and disposes of internal mechanisms Line Channel (0800, P.O. box, Portal / internal network), of management, combat and treatment of such attitudes in opened to the participation of Members, Suppliers, Clients the work environment. and other stakeholders. The channel is audited regularly and Braskem has policies and proceedings, among them the Braskem adopts specific proceedings to treat the denunciaCode of Conduct, in which subjects are addressed like relations directed there. They are all evaluated by the Ethics tionship and conduct of Members, work environment, reCommittee, which defines the action to be taken. The responsibility in the conduct of the business, commercial relasults obtained are stored in the Braskem system (SAP). If tions with Suppliers, relatives and public power, liberality, discrimination in the workplace is determined, two types of conflict of interest, activities out of Braskem, relations with treatment are foreseen. the Shareholders, privileged information, political and union • Inclusion or intensification of the Integrant in programs of proactivities, use and preservation of Braskem´s property, parfessional improvement with monitoring by the leadership ticipation and use of social media, Braskem´s spokesmen, and teams of P&O. The evolution of the conduct of the Inteaccounting registers, environment, employment of slave grant must be reflected in his annual qualitative evaluation, and/or child labor. which, in its turn, influences the variable remuneration. Each When they are contracted, the Members receive orientation 12 months, the qualitative evaluation of the Integrant is anaas to the Code of Conduct and, reinforcing the corporative lyzed by the Business Security team to check if, in fact, it standards; internal campaigns are carried out every two presents some evolution in the work environment. years. On that occasion, the Members reassume the com• Separation of the Integrant. mitment to know the Code. Besides, the subject is treated None of the cases reported in 2011 concerns discrimination punctually, whenever leadership judges it necessary. The for gender, race, color, religion, political opinion, nationality responsibility for the fulfillment of the determination and or social origin. Also there was no need for a plan of redress “no discrimination” in the Company is that of all the Memthis year, since in none of the incidents were signs of disbers, especially Braskem´s leaders, since the Code of Concrimination or violation of the Code of Conduct identified. duct establishes that “there will be no discrimination for There are no corporative targets referring to the question of religion, philosophical or political conviction, nationality, oridiscrimination, but the Management of Business Security, gin, gender, age, color, sexual preference, marital status, connected with the Legal Department, has an individual tarphysical or mental deficiency”. The TEO also reinforces the get of serving 100% of the cases registered on the Ethics corporate culture in that it refers to respect and to Line Channel. 52 Social development Number of cases of discrimination Members by type of and measures taken* – 2009/2011 contract and gender (2011) 20091 20102 2011 Full Time Substantiated Country Men Women Total 1 1 cases Brazil 5.222 1.255 6.477 Unsubstantiated 5 3 10 USA 381 73 454 cases Total 6 4 10 Half Time Country Men Women Total Notes: (1) The cases reported in 2009 and 2010 refer to the operations in Brazil 0 0 0 Brazil. The 2011 ones are distributed as follows: nine cases in units of Braskem in Brazil and one case in the United States. USA 0 3 3 (2) The increase of the reports of sexual harassment received, same without signs of discrimination or violation of the Code of Conduct, Notes: The system of Braskem does not separate permanent Members are possibly attributable to the increase of the operations of Braskem, from temporary ones. However, it is a small number compared to the with the acquisition of new enterprises. total. *Resolution of the substantiated cases. 1 Braskem asked a Supplier to remove the official who was assisting inside the Company´s installations and who was not maintaining a cordial relationship with the people. Workforce by region and gender (2011) 2 the Integrant received feedback from the leadership, being constantly accompanied and evaluated. Under this condition, he Total of Workers (Members + Partners) presented significant evolution in his conduct, without repeating the inappropriate behavior. Total of General Index GRI HR4 Country Region Total of Men Women total South 8025 932 8957 Brazil South-east 9829 1306 11135 Indicators of social performance Northeast 9367 4722 14089 Workforce by gender (2011) La porte 93 8 101 Marcus 94 11 105 USA Neal 101 9 110 Workforce by gender (2011) Philadelphia 53 37 90 Members Pittsburgh 40 11 51 Country Men Women Total Total Workers 27602 7036 34638 Brazil 5.222 1.255 6.477 USA 381 76 457 Contractors / Partners Country Men Women Total Brazil 21.999 5.705 27.714 USA ND* ND* ND* * Contractors / partners were employed in the USA, but the data are not reliable. So, no fact reported in this indicator includes the nº of contractors / partners of the USA. Total Members + Partners Country Men Women Total Brazil 27.221 6.960 34.181 USA 381 76 457 GRI HR4 GRI LA1 53 Social development Diversity Age group and gender (%) SUBTITLE Women below 30 years Men below 30 years Women between 30 and 50 years Men between 30 and 50 years Women above 50 years Men above 50 years 2011 2010 OPERATIONAL / TECHNICAL BRASKEM AND QUATTOR 24% 34% 8% 20% 4% 12% 76% 66% 92% 80% 96% 88% Total women: 10% Total men: 90% BRASKEM UNITED STATES 39% ADMINISTRATIVE 14% 54% 16% 47% 33% 25% 94% 46% 89% 53% 75% Total women: 46% Total men: 54% LEADERSHIP 42% 19% Notes: 7% (1) In 2010, the data of Braskem in the United States (they do not include PP operations acquired from Dow) were reported separately. 58% From the Annual Report of 2011, they start to be reported consolidated. (2) In 2010, the data of this indicator were reported aggre81% gated. From 2011, they start to be reported by professional category. 93% (3) Braskem does not monitor the number of Members by indicators of minorities. Total women: 16% Total men: 84% GRI LA 13 54 Social development Training and Education 2009 2010 2011 1. To indicate which of the items below integrate the training Braskem Estados Braskem Brasil Braskem Brasil Braskem Brasil or program of capacity enhancement of the Members: Unidos a) internal Trainings b) financial Support for improving capacity or external training c) sabbatical Periods with professional insertion guaranteed d) Others (describe) 2. What Items are offered in the programs of support to Members that are retiring or were dismissed a) Pre-retirement planning for the one who intends to retire b) Retraining for one who intends to keep on working c) Compensation for dismissal d) If there is compensation for dismissal, does it takes into account the age and the time of service e) Services of placement in the labor market f) assistance (e.g. training, mentoring) in the transition to a life without work Notes: The data of Braskem United States were not reported in RA 2010 Diversity and equality of opportunities Code of Conduct Division of Members by occupational level The Braskem Code of Conduct establishes the ethical principles and the standards of conduct that must guide the inBraskem Brazil Braskem USA ternal and external relations of the Members, independently Proportion of the Occupational level of their powers and responsibilities. Among the topics covremuneration between (2009) men and women ered are the following: Relationship with Members; responOperational / technical 1,24 sibility for the conduct of business; business relationships Administrative 1,21 with customers or suppliers; treatment for privileged inforLeadership 1,14 mation / conflict of interests, relationships with shareholdProportion of the ers and other stakeholders, use and preservation of the asOccupational level remuneration between sets of Braskem ; transparency in accounting and financial (2010) men and women records; environment and safety; slave and/or child labor . Operational / technical 1,24 All the Members receive an example of the Code of Conduct Administrative 1,23 when joining the Organization. Leadership 1,18 Occupational level Proportion of the remuneration between Proportion of the remuneration between Suppliers (2011) men and women men and women Braskem establishes with its Suppliers a relationship of partOperational / technical 1,19 1,17 nership. To them it transmits the values defined in the Code Administrative 1,24 1,15 of Conduct of the Company and its commitment to sustainLeadership 1,13 1,30 ability, acts in their integration and offers training. From them, it expects the same standards of behavior and ethics Notes: (1) The data of 2009 and 2010 do not include Braskem United States; demanded of the effective professionals of the Company. (2) The data of Braskem USA of 2011 does not include the PP units The criteria of selection include technical, commercial comGRI LA 11 acquired from Dow Chemical in the period. (3) The historical data (2009 and 2010) were corrected in the chart petence and financial evaluation. above, because those which are in the Annual Report of Sustainability GRI LA 14 To secure the quality of the given services and to make 2010 were calculated in accordance with the professional categories grouped erroneously. continuous improvement possible, the Suppliers are evalu55 Social development ated constantly, in queries like quality of the service, of the Supply Management materials supplied, certifications ISO NBR 9000 and 14000, In 2011, the Supplies area began a process of reorganization among others. The result of the evaluation produces the of its daily practices. From one side, it is carrying out a diagRate of Performance of the Supplier (IDF), from which opnosis of the demands that it serves, both in the operational portunities of improvement are identified. units and in the administrative sectors. On the other, it is Braskem also has available a program of relationship with analyzing the supplier markets, the composition of prices Suppliers: Braskem + Partners. Created in 2006, the program practiced and the services offered. has as objective to support the Suppliers in the structuring, The proposal of reorganization was caused by the growth of management and competitiveness of their business, as well the Company, overall from the recent acquisitions, bringing as to enable them in technical questions and management new demands and new volumes of supplies. By 2013, more of Health, Safety and Environment. than 100 categories of purchases will be analyzed. Among In 2011, the area of Supplies adopted a new strategy in the the results expected are gains of productivity and better processes of large bids, through the methodology of Stratereturn of the capital employed in the acquisition of equipgic Sourcing. It is a method of purchases that aims to reduce ment and in the employment of services. the total costs of acquisition of materials or services by the mapping of consumption and future demand, supplier marquantiQ, integration via processes ket knowledge specifications evaluation, making the negoIn 2011, the area of Supplies promoted the effective aligntiations based on facts. Among the advantages of use are ment of the processes of quantiQ to the corporate one of the approximation of the area of Supplies to the user areas the Organization, through Formula Braskem, an integrated and to the Suppliers, understanding by the sector of the system of information and management. Synergies were Braskem vision, and identification and proposition of strucidentified, allowing the reorganization of teams, who starttural changes in the processes. ed to act in the Center of Shared Services, in Salvador. quantiQ, controlled by Braskem since the acquisition of Ipiranga Petroquímica, in 2007, is the largest distributor of chemical and petrochemical products of Brazil. It acts in Braskem´s 20 largest suppliers* around 50 market segments, with a portfolio of approximate(*in alphabetical order) ly 800 products, and a list of more than 100 Suppliers. Braskem is one of them, moving 30% of the distributor´s busi• Air Products Brasil Ltda. ness. The headquarters of quantiQ is located in Sao Paulo. • Bahiagás – Cia. de Gás da Bahia • Companhia de Gás de São Paulo – Comgás • Companhia de Gás do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul Unified management • Chesf – Cia. Hidroelétrica do São Francisco • Construtora Norberto Odebrecht S/A A relevant corporative landmark reached in 2011 • CPFL Comercialização Brasil S/A was the migration of the totality of the processes • Empresa de Navegação Elcano S/A of the Company for Formula Braskem, which uses • Gás de Alagoas S/A the integrated system of Business management • JSL S/A SAP, with more than 8 thousand users, among • Opip – Odebrecht Plantas Industriais e ParticiMembers and some third party Service Providers pações S/A with access to the system. Only the business ac• Petrobras Distribuidora S/A tivities of Dow Chemical polypropylene, acquired • Petrobras Petróleo Brasileiro in September of 2011, and those of the Cetrel • Raízen S/A Company with 50% of participation of Braskem, • Refap S/A are still not processed by the SAP. Cetrel acts in • Rip Serviços Industriais S/A the management of industrial wastes and envi• Terminal Químico de Aratu S/A ronmental monitoring of the petrochemical com• Tractebel Energia Comercializadora plex in Camaçari (BA). • Unidão Transportes e Logística Ltda. • White Martins Gases Industriais Ltda. 56 Social development Commitment to the ethanol chain The expansion predicted for the business from ethanol deCode of Conduct for Suppliers rived from sugar-cane brought Braskem to perfect the control already practiced on its Supply chain. Besides the Code Besides the special code for the production chain of Conduct for Suppliers of Ethanol, applied since September of ethanol, Braskem applies, for all the Suppliers of 2010, the Company began, in 2011, to also use the certiand Services Providers of the Company, the Supplification of Bonsucro as reference of good management ers Code of Conduct. Among these principles are transparency, ethics and clarity of information. The practices of the sector, which refers to the alignment of the code details, also, the practices considered repreproductive chain with the beginnings of sustainability, from hensible and not to be tolerated. Violations of the the origin of the raw material up to the final product. Code of Conduct of Braskem and/or of the Code of The Bonsucro (Better Sugarcane Initiative) is a global initiaConduct of Suppliers are susceptible to sanctions. tive, which developed a standard metric of certification with the objective of promoting sustainable production, in the social, environmental and economical dimensions, of the sugar-cane and its derivatives. With headquarters in London, Bonsucro established a set with Projects for the Communities more than 100 criteria, indicators and controllers applied to certify producers of the sector, throughout the world. The cerThe orientation of Braskem of valuing the human being tification is based on auditing of the agricultural area producthrough education and work is applied also to the Communiing cane, the sugar mill, as well as Braskem. ties near the industrial installations of the Company, through To serve the demands of the European market, Braskem activities of productive social inclusion, environmental educacertified the EBTE (bio-additive for automotive fuels) protion and cultural promotion, on the basis of the Policies of duced from the sugar-cane ethanol. Since the certification Social Responsibility and aligned to the Vision 2020. demands that the whole production chain have this stamp, One of the forms of reaching the objectives delineated is Braskem has been demanding of its Suppliers the certificathrough private social investment in programs aligned to tion for the part of the ethanol purchased. the strategy, principles and values of Braskem. In 2011, a There is a complementarity between the criteria established new directive of Sponsorship and Social Private Investment by Bonsucro and that expressed in the Code of Conduct for was created that, associated with the implementation of an Suppliers of Ethanol created by Braskem. It is for this that evaluation tool and selection of projects, reinforces manthe Company maintains the two tools as a form of propagatagement on the subject and directs the priorities of the ing sustainability among the Suppliers of ethanol. The ComCompany, helping orient both the selection of social projects pany is the largest industrial consumer of ethanol in Brazil, itself and the sponsorship to be defined. using around 700 million liters yearly, destined for the proIn 2011, R$16 million were invested in different projects. In duction of green polyethylene and of ETBE 2010, the resources for Private Social Investment were of The adherence to the Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Ethathe order of R$ 9.2 million, besides R$ 7.1 million intended nol happens through a formal document signed by the repfor social-environmental projects associated with new inresentative of the factory. To accompany the fulfillment of vestments. In 2009, the total was R$ 7.5 million. the confirmed promise, Braskem carries out periodic auditFor the completion of programs with the Communities, ing of the producing units of its Suppliers. Braskem also looks for partnerships with governments and The target of Braskem for 2011 was to have 70% of the ethainstitutions. See, next, some examples of socio-environnol bought from factories signatories to the Code. The annual mental projects. average reached 85%. For 2012, the objective is to keep on enlarging the adherence to the Code of Conduct to reach, in National projects 2013, from 90% to 100%. The Code of Braskem foresees, Recycling Projects – In 2011 Braskem consolidated its action among other practices, which by 2014 fire will no longer be of social inclusion through recycling with actions and initiaused in areas considered appropriate for mechanization. tives in the states of Sao Paulo (Capital and Mauá), Alagoas, Bahia and Rio Grande do Sul. The pillars of development projects are: diagnosis, training, planning and entrepreneurship, looking to create real social transformations based on autonomy and social inclusion. Besides, the recycling projects have a connection with the production chain of plastic, focused on post-consumption, and, in the case of mechanical recycling, 57 Social development are destined to the most fragile link of this chain. and the waste of water and electric energy. Among the projects of recycling supported by Braskem, the To develop this project Braskem looked, in the last year, for most advanced is that of Rio Grande do Sul. Created in 2009 partners with experience in presenting the subject of susby the State General office of Justice and Social Development tainability in schools: The Akatu Institute, which has acted and led by the Foundation Vonpar, the project relies on finanfor ten years with the concept of the conscious consumpcial and technological resources of various enterprises and tion, and the Institute Faça Parte, which stimulates educainstitutions. Besides the productive integration of recyclable tion volunteers. With the support of Plastivida (Social-envimaterial collectors, the initiative envisages strengthening the ronmental Institute of Plastics), materials and pedagogic recycling units, which receive investments in the improveresources were developed on the life cycle of plastic, its ment of the installations, in equipment for selection and work benefits and the responsibilities of the consumer in disposal, safety, training in management and productive process. to avoid negative impacts to the environment. In Sao Paulo, Alagoas and Bahia, the projects of recycling Altogether, 115 schools of 23 states of the country were began in 2010, with the diagnosis of the situation of the mobilized to present projects directed to young people, adrecyclable material collectors and of the quality of the exisdressing the importance of conscious consumption. Subjects tent recycling sheds, aiming for the development of actions like product life cycle, impacts of consumption, recycling together with the sector. In 2011, Braskem joined CEMPRE and correct disposal of residues were presented to more – Compromisso Empresarial para a Reciclagem [Committhan 35 thousand children. The material was delivered to ment of Business to Recycling]. As first contribution to the teachers of 1,577 schools of the public and private systems institution, the Company delivered the diagnosis carried out of all the Brazilian states. in the previous year, with details on the cooperatives of In 2012, the school that presents the most innovatory initiaseveral cities near the productive units of the Company. tive will choose a group of representatives of the project to Altogether, there were more than 200 interviews with reprevisit the factory of plastic made from ethanol of sugar-cane sentatives of associations, cooperatives, and social moveof Braskem, in Triunfo (RS). ments connected with the collection of recyclable materials, managers, traders, enterprises and industries connected with Local projects the recycling of plastic, and also with independent recyclable Program of Integrated and Sustainable Development material collectors . The finding concluded that the principal (PDIS) of Mosaic of APAs of Southern Bahia (PDIS) – In difficulties of the sector refer to the lack of training and orga2011, Braskem allocated R$ 4.5 million to the program, nization of labor, precarious conditions of functioning of the through the Odebrecht Foundation. The PDIS has been apcooperatives, inefficiency in the collection and in the selecplied there for years, with the challenge of creating condition and lack of increase in value of the recycled material. tions for the sustainable development of a rural area with Giving continuity to the project, in 2011, actions were develextensive environmental inheritance and accented sociooped together with 11 cooperatives selected by Braskem, economic imbalance. The way chosen was the fixation of which began with activities of training, legal structuring, logisyoung persons in the field, by education and incentive to tics and a search for partners. In this year alone, 665 recyclable the creation of opportunities for work and generation of inmaterial collectors were directly benefited by the action of come in the Area of Environmental Protection of Pratigi. The Braskem and 134 derived increase of income. The positive reinitiative includes eight Objectives of Development of the sults of this first movement caused Braskem to look for scale in Millennium (ODM) proposed by the United Nations (UN), the action through strong and solid partnerships. signed by 192 countries, Brazil among them. A New Glance at Plastic – The idea is to tell the story of plastic Lagoa Viva Program of Environmental Education – Begun to pupils of schools throughout the whole country, addressing in 2001, in the district of Pontal da Barra, Community near the subject of conscious consumption and of sustainability. The to the unit of chlorine soda of Braskem, in Maceió, the projstory begins with the origin of the raw material, the stages of ect gained other dimensions, expanding its actions for production in the petrochemical complexes, the transformation around 40 local authorities from Alagoas. Working with coninto products that are present in the life of people, like the cepts of environmental education and sustainability, in 2011, packaging and plastic bags, and at the end of the production Lagoa Viva gained 32 workshops of various themes, enchain, the recycling, allowing the reuse of the material. abled around one thousand teachers and benefited more The initiative stimulates the children to propose solutions for than 200 thousand pupils of Alagoas public schools. current problems connected with subjects like the choice of what to consume, differences in the production chains as to Acreditar Program [To believe] – Created by the Odebrecht eco-efficiency, and combating unsuitable disposal of wastes Organization to enable workers older than 18 years for civil 58 Social development construction, and developed in partnership with education coast of Bahia, overall near to springs and riparian forests. institutions, Acreditar is destined to persons residing in The region stretches from the industrial complex of CamaCommunities near to works/projects of the Company. çari to the Sauípe Park . In 2011, the planting of the seedAmong the specialties offered are structural steel assemlings contributed to the restoration of around 30 hectares blers, carpenter, electrician, boilermaker, plumber, mechanwith more than 121 thousand seedlings planted in Camaics, welders and scaffold assemblers. çari, Simões Filho, Entre Rios and Dias D´Ávila. Through Acreditar, Braskem also has been forming teams for the construction of its new industrial units. In 2011, the proParque da Amizade (Friendship Park) – an initiative of gram was applied during the construction of the factory of Braskem, with the support of the Town of Paulínia (SP) and PVC in Marechal Deodoro (AL). More than 670 persons were technical and operational management of GAIA [Group of enabled and 314 were employed. In Triunfo (RS), where the Interdisciplinary Application to Apprenticeship]. With 300 Butadiene plant is being built, 68 persons were enabled and thousand m2, the park was inaugurated in January of 2011 57 were employed. and it offers leisure areas and sports and a varied free program to the regular visitors. Friendship Park was built by Cidade do Saber [City of Knowledge]: Museum of Science resources donated by Braskem, as part of the investment of and Technology – Partner in a series of initiatives developed its industrial unit of polypropylene in the region and donatin the cultural and sporting complex Cidade do Saber, in Caed for management by the Town of Paulínia, which had maçari (BA), Braskem sponsored in 2011 the first Museum of managers enabled during 2010. Science and Technology of Bahia directed to a young public, the UNICA Universe of the Child and Adolescent. The space allows children and young people to try the sciValuing Culture entific phenomena in practical life and realize that they can always, in the future, be part of these achievements From this year, the valorization of culture begins to be treated through the application of the sciences in the industrial area, as one of five dimensions of sustainability, in alignment with for example, aiming for development and the good of socithe Odebrecht Sustainability Policy. The projects supported ety. In 2011, the Museum received more than 5 thousand already are a tradition for the Company and, in previous restudents of public and private schools, serving 15 different ports they were grouped as social projects. There was no allocal authorities of Bahia. The objective of Braskem with this teration in practices of management and financing associated action is to stimulate the creativity and the interest of chilwith them, like private social investment. Only the form of dren for the disciplines related to the sciences, in a way to reporting them has changed, now in an exclusive chapter. awaken the curiosity and to stimulate investigation. The valorization of culture is part of the set of actions developed by Braskem, as one of seven macro-objectives of the Cinturão Verde (Green Belt) – an Area of Environmental Vision 2020, in the arena “People”. Learn about the cultural Preservation created in 1987, with 150 hectares, located in projects supported in 2011. the salt marsh of the district Pontal da Barra, near Lagoa Mundaú, in Maceió. The resources intended for the project Braskem Theater Prize (PBT) — Created in 1994 with the are applied in recuperation of the ground, topographical reobjective of recognizing, valuing and rewarding professionconstitution of the dunes and re-composition of the landals of the Bahian theater and to open space for new talent, scape of the salt marsh Atlantic Forest. The reserve has 280 the awarding of the prize is done from indications and evalthousand planted seedlings, 200 plant species preserved, uation of a judging commission specialized in the cultural 400 animals of the wild Brazilian fauna. The Green belt is area. In 2011, tribute was paid to the actor Wagner Moura in opened to public visitation. the 18th publication of the prize, that took as theme The From these results, the Green belt has been granted the desBahian Actor On Screen. ignation of Biosphere Reserve of the Atlantic Forest (UNESCO) and as Conservationist Arboretum of the fauna and flora (IBBraskem on the Stage Prize — Exclusively for the cultural AMA). In 2011, in the ten years of Braskem contribution, more production of Rio Grande do Sul, the reward is divided into than 10 thousand people visited the Environmental Station. the categories Presentation, Direction, Actor, Actress and Best Show of the Popular Jury. The reward takes place at the Forest Factories – The objective of the project is to promote close of the festival Porto Alegre em Cena, fulfilled there for the production and planting of seedlings of native species 17 years with shows of theater, music and dance. Braskem along the Ecological Corridor of the Costa dos Coqueiros [Cosponsored the six last editions of the festival. conut palm Coast] and the Forest Ring, on the northern 59 Social development Frontiers of Thought — Is an international seminar in conferfirst time, in function of the alignment of the structure of ence format, which proposes discussions on subjects of varithe report to the dimensions of the Policies of Sustainability ous areas of knowledge, making possible a public meeting of the Odebrecht Organization and, also of the more and with scientists, artists, writers and thinkers of the present. In more relevant political and transforming role assumed by 2011, the 6th edition was held in Porto Alegre and the 2nd the Brazilian business sector. edition in Sao Paulo, With a total of 16 meetings, Frontiers of Braskem acts together with government spheres, societal repThought is enjoyed the participation of names like Fredric resentatives and diverse institutions and associations, national Jameson, Shirin Ebadi, Edgar Morin, Luc Ferry, Fernando Henry and international, in the sense of participating in the discussion Cardoso among others, who held conversations on very dion subjects of general and, also, sectorial interest. verse subjects of modernity between May and December. As example of subjects of interest to society, there are the questions referring to climatic changes, to the contribution of Neojibá (State Centers of Youth and Children Orchestras industry for the control of emissions of CO2 and to the correct in Bahia) Is a program of the Secretary of Culture of the destination of solid wastes. For the relevance of the subjects Government of Bahia, created in 2007 for the pianist and conand for what they represent of social and environmental imductor Ricardo Castro, with the objective of promoting excelpact provoked by the operations of the Company, these queslence and social integration, through orchestral practice. The tions are among the macro-objectives of the Vision 2020 and initiative of 2011 promoted the realization of the tour of the there are plans of action in progress for them. To learn more, Youth Symphony orchestra July 2, pertaining to the project read the chapter Business and Sustainable Development. Neojibá, to European capitals. The orchestra is formed of 92 members with age from 11 to 25 years. The initiative stimuClimate Changes: this is one of the challenging subjects for lates and facilitates the familiarity between children and the activities of the whole petrochemical sector. The cliyoung persons of various social segments, through culture. matic changes and the increase of concentration of gases of greenhouse effect are debated and accompanied by The Great Recycler – Also in 2011, a musical show was carBraskem, both internally, in the context of the Members and ried out, without cost for the audience, with seven presentaPartners, and for the participation in more spacious discustions in Independence Park, in Sao Paulo. The piece The Great sions, in the sphere of the Abiquim and of the ICCA or on the Recycler proposes environmental Conscientization supported level of government. In this case, the Company plays its part by contributions that each person can give in his day to day. of citizenship, of a business disposed to participate in the The itinerary sought to valorize the collector of recyclable mareflections and solutions, entering into the debate led by the terial, while showing that we are all “The Great Recycler”. National Confederation of Industry (CNI), through the Sectoral Plan of Industry for Mitigation and Adaptation to CliTribute to the scientist – In February of 2011, Braskem matic Changes, with the Ministry of the Development, Inlaunched a contest to pay tribute to the scientist José de dustry and Exterior Commerce. Freitas Machado, founder and first director of the National School of Chemistry and founder of the Brazilian Society of Solid waste: this is another example of national debate in Chemistry. The contest for delivery of monographs on The which Braskem has been and is present, working with parLife and Work of José de Freitas Machado was organized liamentarians and technical committees in Congress during with the objective of stimulating undergraduate and graduthe drafting stages of the National Solid Waste Policy, enate pupils of the institutions of higher learning of Brazil to acted in August 2010. From that date, companies must deinvestigate and to think about the work of the scientist. The velop reverse logistics, i.e. need to look at the post-conprize was launched in partnership with the Foundation of sumption and treat what remains of the marketed products Support to Research of the State of Alagoas (Fapeal) and the after discarded by the final consumer. The treatment can be three first places in the contest received of R$10 thousand through reuse, recycling or adequate disposal. For all these to R$2 thousand. The action is part of the commemorations cases, Braskem develops specific actions. Read in this same for the International Year of Chemistry. chapter, Social Development, actions and social-environmental projects and of education and conscientiousness for correct consumption developed by Braskem. Political participation and the practice of citizenship Participative agenda The activity of Braskem in the Brazilian Business Council for The subject of political participation and of the practice of Sustainable Development (CEBDS) is also relevant, through citizenship is included in the Braskem Annual Report for the the Leaders in Sustainability council, created in 2011 with 60 Social development the objective of driving the agenda of sustainability in Brazil and to make of the country one of the global leaders in the Linked Growth green economy. Companies from different sectors: particiThe economic and business strengthening of pate in the group: energy, transport, iron metallurgy, metalBraskem is also the strengthening of its Clients, lurgy, petrochemical, civil construction, financial market and which happens in different manners, including service providers in general. Braskem has a seat on the through political action. An example of partBoard of directors of the Council. nership with Clients and of incentive to regional Among the sector discussions, one of the subjects of the development marked the agenda of action of present, of ample interest and impact, is the stimulated Braskem in Alagoas. ports, mechanism by which some Brazilian states grant tax In 2005, the Company mediated the approxiincentives to imported products, thermoplastic resins mation of companies of the production chain of among them, which enter the country through its ports, plastic and government organs of the State, with the objective of viabilizing the creation of a procompeting in the domestic market with the local industry, in duction complex in the municipality of Marechal unequal conditions. Deodoro. The initiative benefited enterprises In this case, the action of Braskem happened, in 2011, in that migrated to the region, with fiscal incenstate spheres and in the parliamentary arena, through tives. It also benefited local authorities from meetings with technicians and representatives of the BrazilAlagoas and its inhabitants, with the generation ian Senate, surroundings where proposals on taxes and quoof jobs, the opening of education centers and tas are appreciated. The intention was to demonstrate the training of workers specialized in chemistry and negative impact on the development of the production plastics, the attraction of public utilities and the chain of plastic in Brazil provoked by the combination of dolgrowth of local commerce, with generation of lar in decrease and incentive to imports. The subject already taxes. Besides the partnership with government entered the list on the agenda of the Senate, but it still has organs, the Federation of Industries of the State not gone to plenary session. of Alagoas had a significant role in this initiative. Another example that deserves distinction is Braskem´s participation in the Petrochemical-chemical Council of Competitiveness, together with trade associations of the sector. The sector competitiveness councils, special for each segment of the industry, were set up in 2011, by the Federal Government, to support the management of Plano Brasil Maior, which envisages strengthening the competitiveness of the national industry by the incentive to technological innovation, driving the growth of the economy in the country. Agenda Bahia Interested in discussing directives for the growth and strengthen and leverage the economy of Bahia and sustainable development of the State, since 2010, represents a great opportunity for learning, updating Braskem supports the seminar Schedule Bahia, proof knowledge and incitement to entrepreneurship. It moted by Rede Bahia, affiliate of the Rede Globo of is relevant to point out that the seminars of Agenda television. Altogether there are four meetings carried Bahia are accompanied by businessmen, executives, out that count on the participation of businessmen, managers of public and private enterprises, consulauthorities and specialists to deal with subjects ditants, self-employed professionals, representatives of rectly connected with the local economy, like indusNGOs and students. try, infrastructure, tourism and innovation this last Besides, the coverage of the event done through speone included the participation of the Braskem´s presicials for TV Bahia, for the newspaper Correio and the dent, Carlos Fadigas. radio CBN Salvador contributes to reinforce the positive Braskem believes in this type of project since it image of Braskem and its action in the State as prinmakes possible new ideas and suggestions to cipal enterprise of the Industrial complex of Camaçari. 61 Social development Rio+ 20 on the sustainability agenda Braskem has been part, since 2009, of the team of Among the contributions that Braskem will be taking representatives of Enterprises of the Odebrecht Orgato the Rio + 20 Conference is the preparation of a nization, in the Brazilian delegations present at the document to be presented in the international meetdiscussions of the Conference on Climate of the Uniting, with proposals in the name of the “Future that ed Nations (UN) carried out in Denmark, in Mexico we want”. In this case, the participation of the Comand in the South Africa, successively. The contribution pany will happen through the Brazilian Committee of of the Odebrecht Enterprises has been to report the the Global Compact, the Brazilian Business Council successful experiences developed in the field of susfor Sustainable Development and the Brazilian Comtainability, with the objective of disseminating pracmittee of the International Chamber of Commerce. tices and exchanging experiences. Two central subjects of the Rio + 20 Conference will be: With the intention of again positioning itself in this • A green economy in the context of sustainable dediscussion, Braskem participates in the organizavelopment and the eradication of poverty tion of activities for the United Nations Conference • The institutional picture for sustainable development on Sustainable Development, Rio + 20, to happen in These are subjects that concern the Braskem strategy June of 2012, in Rio de Janeiro. The event will take of action and the Vision 2020 of being a world-wide stock and will mark the 20th anniversary of the interleader of sustainable chemistry, innovating to better national meeting on the environment and developserve people. For that very reason, Rio + 20 will be an ment, which brought together more than 120 chiefs opportunity for the Company for setting out its collabof State in 1992, in Rio de Janeiro, which adopted the orative posture, in the definition of global policies for Convention on Climate, the Convention on Biodiversustainability, and to strengthen its image with sity and Agenda 21. the stakeholders with which it is connected. 62 Environmental responsibility This chapter includes questions referring to health, safety • Preparation of the carbon footprint of 12 products. and environment. • Verification of the inventory of emissions of GHG by an In 2011 Braskem registered the lowest rate of accident freindependent third party, allowing classification in the catquency at work, with and without time lost, in almost a egory Gold, of the program of GHG Protocol, in Brazil. decade of history, which will be completed in 2012. The re• In the CPD Investor, Braskem exceeded the scale of 70 cord attained includes Members and Third Parties, improvpoints, being situated in the highest category of transparing by more than 40% the rate of the previous year, reachency of the management in climatic changes. ing 1.16 accidents per million man hour of work. This indica• In chemical safety, Braskem leads in Latin America the tor puts Braskem on a level similar to that of the best chemproject GPS, of the ICCA, to promote recognition and the ical industries of the world. publication of the risks to people and to the environment The result, a reflection of investments, training and reinresulting from the use of chemical products. forcement of the culture of occupational safety, represents • In hydric efficiency, since 2002, according to the ICCA, the advancement in the consolidation of the Vision 2020, as it consumption of water by Braskem is around a fifth of the concerns People. mean consumption of water of the world-wide chemical With the effort of all the teams it was possible to revert the industry. In 2011, Braskem reached the rate of 18% of reunfavorable situation of the first semester, when two prouse of all the water consumed along the year. cess incidents occurred in the Industrial Unit of chlorine • In energy efficiency, Braskem carried out improvements in Soda, in Maceió (AL) that caused leaks of chlorine. The incitools for identification of opportunities and advanced in dents, on May 21st and 23rd, led to the revision and studies of new energy mixes. strengthening of the safety system in all the units of the • 85% of the ethanol acquired by Braskem has come to be Company, through the safety program Sempre Ligado [Aloriginated from Suppliers who are signatories to the Code ways Connected] (more information in this chapter). of Conduct for Suppliers of Ethanol, indicating the promise Another highlight in 2011 went to conquest of new progress of the Partners in supplying renewable raw material with related to the seven macro-objectives of the Company in its standards of sustainability. Vision 2020. Learn next about the achievements of 2011. • Demonstrating its preoccupation with post-consumption of • Reduction of 11 % in indicator of the intensity of greenhouse the plastic materials, Braskem developed initiatives for sogas emission, when compared with the result of 2008. cial inclusion of collectors of recyclable material in Alagoas, 63 Environmental responsibility Bahia, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul. safe environment in work processes with greater risk of ac• In relation to its promise with people, Braskem has procidents. The Golden Rules are: grams for Members proficiency development, carries out 1. We communicate and treat every scenario of high risk as private social investment, focusing on environmental edusoon as it is identified cation, culture and social insertion; it has advisory councils 2. We release the Permission to Work (PT) in the service in the proximities of the plants, strengthening the relationlocation and implement all the necessary safeguards ship with the Community (more information on Social 3. We perform any activity in safe conditions and refuse to Development). perform the work if there is sign of insecurity The investments in Health, Safety and Environment, in 2011, 4. We carry out all the activities with Individual Protection were R$ 151 million and contribute to evolution of the indiEquipment (EPIs) and appropriate tools ces of performance of the Company in this area. 5. We allow the performance of critical activities only by qualified and suitable persons 6. We secure the isolation and the blockade of dangerous Management in SSMA sources of energy 7. We only leave the instrumented safety systems and The practical and strategic actions of Braskem´s SSMA alarms unavailable through formal authorization [Health, Safety and Environment] are integrated in a man8. We register, communicate and investigate 100% of acagement program consolidated in 2005, with the objective cidents and all the incidents considered of high potential of preventing and minimizing risks, as well as personal, enfor gravity vironmental and material losses. the question is about the 9. We do not accept the violation of any golden rule. program SEMPRE – Excellence in SSMA, with 16 Strategic The committees of SSMA of the Company monitor the apElements that compose a set of directives and requisites plication of the Golden rules. being followed by Members and Third Parties in all the Company’s units. The powers of SEMPRE are the following: • To enable Members and Third Parties on safety proceedings in accordance with the reality of each industrial unit • To guide conduct standards • To establish a prevention environment • To define responsibilities • To promote the change of behavior and the evolution of the culture of prevention All the teams are enabled and fulfillment of the standards is compulsory. Internal auditing is carried out periodically to verify the fulfillment of the requisites and attributions of SEMPRE in the units of Braskem. As consequence of the auditing action plans are prepared, whose implementation is accompanied/monitored by Members of the areas of SSMA in the industrial units, through the respective Committees of Health, Safety and Environment. The area has the goals of reducing eco-indicators: rates of personal accidents, rates of accidents with removal (CAF), rates of gravity and new cases of occupational diseases. The Members can always find detailed information on the system of management in the internal portal “Braskem view” (intranet), in Produtividade >> Gestão e Qualidade >> SEMPRE SSMA. In 2011, Golden rules were instituted and promoted in all the units of the Company, to communicate to Members and Third Parties the standards of behavior practiced in Braskem. There are altogether nine rules based on the system of management SEMPRE – Excellence in SSMA, and that highlight the proceedings considered essential to guarantee a 64 Environmental responsibility Training and accompaniment The objectives and targets of SSMA are established It is also part of the monitoring to apply corrective by the Company´s upper management committees, and preventive measures for all the diversions, the some of them being included in the Programs of Acreal losses associated with accidents and the losses tion (PAs) as objective for the year and are linked to with medium or elevated potential. In these cases, the variable remuneration. the first step is the analysis of the events, followed by The seven macro-objectives of the Vision 2020 are application of the measures indicated to remove the a guide for establishment of long term targets and causes of potential and real diversions. objectives. Through them, the middle term targets The area of SSMA is responsible, also, for specific unfold that are translated into the PAs with annual trainings, such as sensibility of leadership for mantargets and monitored monthly by the committees of agement in SSMA; safety of process for leaders; SSMA and by the leadership. training of instructors of the Program for Prevention The monitoring evaluates the evolution of the manof Losses in the Work Environment (PPAT); enabling agement of SSMA, legal compliance and results obin the process of investigating diversion and losses; tained. Reactive indicators of performance are monicourse of business sustainability. The necessities of tored, for example, (consumption of water, effluent training in Health and Safety are identified and mangeneration, generation of wastes, GHG emission and aged by the operational units. consumption of energy) and level of implantation of the requisites of the Integrated System SEMPRE. Expense in protection and Risks and opportunities environmental investments The principal risks and opportunities identified in Investments in SSMA are priority for Braskem, which, bethe area of Health, Safety and Environment are: sides attending the corporative necessities involving the Growing space for questions of health, safety areas of Health, Safety and Environment, carries out deterand environment in the media; minations of the specific legislation. The resources intended Appearance of more restrictive specific legisfor SSMA are directed toward, among other factors, the lation; training of Members, the improvement of performance, the Corporative governance, social responsibility reduction of risks of different natures inherent in the proand sustainability seen as vectors of valuable duction, at the reduction of the consumption of natural recreation for the Investors; sources in the production processes, the water among Explanation of performance improvement; them, and the reduction of the emissions of CO2. Restrictions for dangerous products; In 2011, Braskem invested R$ 151 milhões in SSMA, in units Growing restrictions to wastes; Commitment of society organized; in Brazil and the United States. A distinction in the course of Increase of the power of police of the State; the year went to insertion of the tool SIGA (System of IdenCollection of water; tification of Environmental Profits) in the methodology of Growing importance of the subject of Climate investment of projects. Now, besides the economic evaluaChange; tion, the environmental impacts also are considered for the Obligation for SSMA Management Systems analysis of investments. The prescriptive documents on investments in SSMA are available in the system of management of the Company, Formula Braskem. 65 Accidents and learning in Alagoas Environmental responsibility aimed at the identification of the causes of the first event. Technical teams of Braskem worked in the identification of On the days 21 and 23 of May of 2011, two incidents took the two events and, with the support of external consultants, place in the industrial unit of chlorine soda in Maceió (AL). The providences were taken to remove the causes of the accifirst one was provoked by the breakage of the lower part of a dents. Among the measures adopted and presented to the piece of equipment (pre-refrigerator), with subsequent leak competent authorities of Alagoas are the application of adof chlorine into the environment. As soon as the existent deditional protections and improvement of the process control. tectors of chlorine in the factory were activated, control meaBraskem and the service provider enterprise supported the sures were provided and the production was interrupted. people affected by the incidents and their relatives. In the In the second accident, with the plant out of operation and two cases, state organs of Work and the Environment, as the chlorine already removed from its interior, a breakage well as of the Public prosecution service and Workers’ Trade took place of the lower mouth of another piece of equipunion, were informed and they accompanied the providencment (inter-refrigerator), with release of metal fragments. es that followed. The unit of chlorine soda retook its operaOn that occasion, there was no leak of chlorine. tions on June 7, after the conclusion of risk analyses and In both cases, medical service was necessary for the perapplication of the additional measures of protection. sons involved in the first event, an Integrant of Braskem The unit has been in operation there for 34 years and there and residents of the region near the factory, on account of had been 950 days without registering a work accident with the leak of chlorine; in the second one, five workers of the time lost. In the last three years it had received more than service provider of Braskem, specialized in assembly of scafR$ 300 million in maintenance and investments in health, foldings. They were not intervening in the equipment, but safety and environment. near to the place assembling scaffolding for inspection Fines, laws and regulations Braskem acts in accordance with the laws and regugans will shelve the administrative processes. lations of the country. The Company was not conAfter the event, the plant was totally motionless and demned in a definite form to the payment of fines or without production of chlorine and soda, not posing to the fulfillment of non monetary sanctions in the any risk to the community and to the workers, until period understood between 2007 and 2011. the necessary providences to remove the cause of For the aims of this report, the same criterion of the event were adopted. materiality used in the Form of Reference set up by The unit returned to operation on June 9, after the the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários (CVMSecurities implementation of all the measures of improvements and Exchange Commission of Brazil) was adopted, in recommended by the Commission of Investigation of terms of the Regulatory Instruction CVM 480/2009, Braskem and noted by the competent authorities. which is R$ 60 million. It is relevant to point out that the Company is conOn account of the event of May 21, the Company was sidered the largest chlorine-soda producer of Latin sued by the federal, state and municipal environmental America and has a regular environmental license for organs: Ibama (Brazilian Institute of the Environment operation, besides having certificates ISO 9001 and and of Natural Resources), IMA (Institute of the EnvironISO 14001 attesting, through independent auditors, ment) and Sempma (Municipal General office of Protecto its excellence in quality management and in envition to the Environment of Maceió), respectively. ronmental management, respectively. The Company The report of the IMA attested that there was no enhas operated in Alagoas from 1977 without the ocvironmental damage (fauna and flora), applying a currence of a similar event. fine of R$ 583,000.00, understanding that other orGRI SO8 GRI EN28 66 Environmental responsibility Sempre Ligados (Always Connected) Two accidents in the unit of chlorine soda in Alagoas refectories and reception, e-mail marketing, banners unleashed the internal safety campaign Sempre Ligafor the intranet, plaques and awnings for the busdos, with the objective to reinforce the measures, stops near to the units. the practices and the culture of Health, Safety and In the second phase of the campaign – “To accept”-, Environment, besides the role of each Integrant and Members and Third Parties were invited to particiThird Party in the fulfillment of procedures and basic pate in a contest, telling stories related to safety, in requisites for the preservation of life. which prevention and fulfillment of the rules saved Divided in three phases, the campaign was carried lives. The inscriptions, a total of 92, were done in urns out between October 10 and December 16 of 2011, and through the portal “Braskem view” (intranet). in all the units of Braskem in Brazil, communicating Three winning stories of the contest, selected by an with 24 thousand persons, between Members and evaluator commission , were published in a special Third Parties. The first phase – “To understand” had publication of December of the internal report Generas objective to reinforce the concepts of SSMA. 12 ation Braskem, with a print run of 24 thousand units. meetings were carried out in the manufacturing In the third phase of the campaign – “To practice” – plants, with the presence of around 200 leaders to informative material on concepts of SSMA and the present the campaign and the importance of their Golden rules (see Management in SSMA and Golden support in the dissemination of the messages. rules) was distributed to Members and Third ParSpecial posters were produced for the internal areas ties. Around 30 thousand units were printed (outpatient departments, clothing, refectories) and in format of a pocket-sized book. external areas, stickers for glasses and tables of the Health and Occupational Safety The policies of occupational safety foresee corporate trainPrevention and Health ing for the leadership, as sensitization for the management In 2011, the area of SSMA included new directives in SSMA, process safety, enabling for investigation of diverin the manual of SEMPRE, with the objective of sions and losses, among others. In the operational areas, strengthening the activities of health promotion. the necessities of trainings are identified and attended to Also in 2011, a new tool was developed with folocally. The application of the principles is subjected to aucus on prevention, to systematize the identification diting by the areas of quality and SSMA. and evaluation of the Environmental Aspects and The Suppliers of Braskem must also follow standards of Impacts, of the Dangers and Risks to Health and to health and occupational safety, whose fulfillment is evaluHuman and Environmental Safety (AIPR), involving the processes, the activities, the products and the ated at the first contacts with the Company, in the phase of services carried out in the Company. registration. From the initial evaluation, they are classified in Two distinctions in occupational health, in 2011, were: accordance with the type of activity practiced, associating • There was no register of cases of occupational disthe risk of the activity to its capacity for prevention. The ease, meningitis and flu A H1N1 in Members, along Supplier certified in health and occupational safety receives 2011 (see chart in Injuries and occupational diseases). additional points in the registration evaluation. • The program of immunization vaccinated 4,452 As reinforcement to the culture of SSMA in the Organization, Members (adhesion of approximately 66% of the safety dialogs are carried out daily in the operational areas. total) against flu – influenza type A H1N1, H3N2 In 2011, 103,135 dialogs took place in the units of the Comand type B. pany in Brazil, in other words, each hour 12 leaders met with their teams to discuss the tasks of the day, with focus on health and occupational safety. In 2010, 84 thousand safety dialogs were carried out. 67 Injuries and occupational diseases Environmental responsibility Rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, abstention from voting and deaths related to work, by region (Brazil and the United States). 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Rate of Injuries (TL) 0.96 0.40 0.24 Rate of accident frequency (Total of injuries *200,000 / (Brazil (Brazil (Brazil (CAF) (No. of accidents CAF / total of worked hours) + USA) + USA) + USA) hht) * 1,000,000. Members and 1,05 0,62 0,55 Service Providers and Service Rate of occupational diseases Providers 0.014 0.004 0.00 (TDO) (total of occupational (Brazil (Brazil (Brazil diseases * 200,000 / total of Rate of accident frequency SAF + USA) + USA) + USA) worked hours) + CAF (No. of accidents SAF + CAF/ man hour worked) * Rate of days lost (TDP) 11.32 49.92 11.24 4,79 2,02 1,16 1,000,000. Members and Service (total of lost days * (Brazil (Brazil (Brazil Providers Employees and Service 200,000 / total of worked days) + USA) + USA) + USA) Providers Rate of absenteeism * Rate of lost days (TDP) (No. 0.073 0.041 0.026 (No. of days* 100) / man / days lost + charged) / man hour (Brazil) (Brazil) (Brazil) hour worked worked)* 1,000,000. Members 56,59 249,61 56,18 and Service Providers Employees Notes referring to the chart: and Service Providers 1 in 2011, there were no deaths in Braskem in Brazil nor in the United States. Rate of occupational diseases 2 small injuries (attended in first aid) were not considered in the (nº of diseases * 1,000,000 / 0,07* 0,02** 0,00 collection of data for this indicator. man hours worked ) It considers 3 “ lost days “calculated correspond to “consecutive work days”. the incidence. Only Members 4 the counting of “lost days” begins the next day following the Rate of absenteeism *”(No. accident, according to NBR 14280. 0,073 0,041 0,026 of days * 100) / man / hour 5 – the report of indicator LA7 did not use the same base of data of (Brazil) (Brazil) (Brazil) worked Only Members LA1 for the calculations of worked hours because this is not the base that Braskem uses in its day to day. To calculate this value, Braskem uses the values of worked hours coming from the accompaniment that some industrial plants do by electronic turnstile and others by ** Hearing loss induced by noise (PAIR). Both without any lost day, the estimate in relation to the number of Members. since the diseases were characterized in the examinations decommis6 Data of 2011 include Members and partners (Service Providers), sions of the Members, and a case in the PE2, identified as aggravation with the exception of the rate of absenteeism, which includes only of preexistent osteo-muscular injury, with 66 lost days. Members. removal for clinical disease of Integrant of the area of maintenance of 7 data of 2011 Brazil include Braskem + Quattor the CS BA, with history of lumbar alteration, which cervicalgia crisis was characterized by the INSS as Occupational Osteomuscular Disease, without conditions of challenging the characterization by the industrial unit, from non-existence of counter-proofs in ergonomic evaluations . In 2009 there were no deaths of Members or Service Providers. In 2010 there was one death of a Service Provider and none of Members. Note.: pro forma Indicator . Not controlled are occupational diseases and rate of absenteeism of Service Providers. In 2009 Cinal is not included GRI LA7 68 Accidents at work, Environmental responsibility information on the transport, handling, storage and disposal, the lowest rate in 10 years considering the aspects of safety, health and environment. In 2011, two products, the benzol and the butadiene, were In 2011, the Rate of Accident Frequency with and without subjected to the analysis of risk according to the guide of the Removal (CAF + SAF) of Braskem was of 1.16 for million man GPS, an analysis that will have to be carried out, also, for hours -worked (HHT), a record in the 10 years of history of other products of the portfolio of the Company. By the end of the Company. The Rate of Accident Frequency with Time this decade, Braskem will not produce, will not use substancLost, considering Members and Partners per million man es cited in global black lists, as expressed in the Vision 2020 . hours worked, was 0.55, a reduction of 11% in relation to All the products manipulated internally, like raw materials, the previous year. reagents, inputs, among others, have their information records which are subsequently supplied to the Clients. The guarantee of fulfillment of this orientation are the programs Injury Frequency Rate with and without Lost Time (1.000.000 hht) of inspection, internal and external auditing, auditing of 10,07 SEMPRE and the respective plans of action prepared on basis of the diagnoses resulting from the auditing. 8,49 7,52 It is possible to obtain this information in the portal of 6,53 Braskem and of the ICCA, in Information and Safety of 6,13 4,85 4,93 4,63 Chemical Substances, http://www.icca-chem.org/en/Home/ICCA-initiatives/global2,02 product-strategy/) , providing transparency to Clients, Suppliers 1,16 and other interested parties as to the risks of the products. The principal objectives of adequate labeling are: 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • To reduce the differences in the safe handling of products between developing countries, emergent and industrialized. Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (1.000.000 hht) • To guarantee the handling and the correct application of 3,06 2,45 2,18 the products along the value chain, through supply of rel1,70 1,70 1,07 0,66 1,01 evant and reliable data. 0,62 0,55 • To give more transparency while supporting the manufac2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 turers in the supply of data in an easily understandable format (the question is the Safety Summary). Distinctions in 2011: Process Safety • Braskem, in partnership with the Brazilian Association of As a result of the integration of Braskem, Quattor and the Chemical Industry (Abiquim), leads the implementaBraskem America, there was a modification in the scheme tion of the GPS in Latin America, supporting the enterof classification of the Risk Rating (classification of risk) in prises so that they can safely manage all the chemical the insurance inspections of the plants to measure the safeproducts handled, produced and marketed. ty of processes. In 2011, auditing was carried out in the in• The 27 substances of Braskem registered in the REACH (acdustrial plants and seven of them were classified as above ronym in English for Register, Evaluation, Authorization and standard, in other words, above the standard and three clasRestriction of Chemical Products) have, now, their respecsified in the standard category. The classification considers tive Safety Summary completed and available for consulcomparative criteria between international industries of the tation in GPS Chemical. same segment, at which the conditions of safety and man• Conclusion of the SDS (Safety Data Sheet, official docuagement are evaluated. The auditing and classification are ment of REACH) of all the 33 substances of Braskem regiscarried out by Aon Energy Risk Engineering. tered in REACH. Reach: are directives of the European regulation that demands the identification of the composition, application Chemical safety and use of all the substances exported to the continent. GPS: an initiative of the ICCA to promote the recognition All the products of the portfolio of Braskem pass through a proand the publication of the risks to people and to the envicess of quality analysis and toxicity and, for each one of them, a ronment resulting from the use of chemical products. The GRI PR3 File of Information on Safety of Chemical Product (FISPQ) is preinitiative is aligned to the global strategy of the United pared, following standard NBR 14725. This document contains Nations Program for the Environment. 69 Environmental responsibility Product Responsibility The portfolio of Braskem includes around 30 products, with origin in renewable raw material. Of this universe, the among thermoplastic resins polyethylene (PE), polypropylproducts related in the chart below were evaluated as to ene (PP) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC), besides basic chemithe impacts provoked on health and safety, considering cal inputs, such as ethylene, propylene, butadiene, chloritheir principal lifecycle phases. nate, soda, solvents and a differentiated line of products Phases of product and service life cycles, in which the impacts on health and safety are evaluated aiming at improvement. The percentage of products and services subject to these proceedings. Green Ethylene Soda / Chlorine Green propylene Green polyethPVC % of products Green polyBasic Petrocovered by Phase of Life cycle / Evaluation of the Impacts (plants of (theoretical study) ylene and Derivatives Alagoas and ETBE epropylene Salvador) chemicals evaluation Development of the concept of the product (definition of pa63% rameters of specification) Research and development (study Life Cycle Assessment) 63% Certification (ISO 14001) 63% Manufacture and production (analysis of risks) 63% Marketing and promotion (labeling) 63% Storage, distribution and supply (risk analyses) 63% Use and service 63% Arrangement, reuse or recycling (legal waste requisites class I, 63% IIth and IIb) 1. Of eight products quoted in this indicator, the PVC has analysis only with the objective of improvement of processes. 2. Soda / Chlorine and Derivatives and Basic Petrochemicals have no analysis and other products have analysis with focus on what the indicator asks. 3. Green Ethylene, Green Propylene and Verde Polypropylene: analysis of the life cycle (AVC) done on basis of theoretical data for a strategic analysis in relation to the new product, aiming to calculate the environmental benefit of the product (if it is environmentally beneficial analysis is not done by focus on what the indicator asks). 4. ETBE: the study of ACV was carried out to obtain a product with reduced level of toxicity. 5. Green polyethylene ACV done on basis of theoretical data for strategic analysis in relation to the new product, aiming to calculate its environmental benefit (the analysis is not done by the focus on what the indicator asks). 6. Since the study of ACV is contracted, the impact on health and safety is evaluated at all stages of the life cycle of the product. 7. For new products, which will be still developed, the impact on the health and safety is analyzed in all the phases, from the conception up to production, logistics and disposal. 8. For PVC (plants of Alagoas and Salvador) study of ACV is done aiming for the implementation of process improvements to reduce the environmental impact. GRI PR1 70 Energy Environmental responsibility Braskem is among the largest consumers of energy (electric register in the system GMB (Braskem Management Imand thermal) in Brazil, participating with 2% of the conprovement) information on the improvements in efficiency sumption in the country. In this sense, the supply of energy and energy conservation. The goal is to make the GMB a with guarantee of supply and competitive costs is a critical single system of registers that may improve the managefactor for the survival and the planned growth of the Comment of initiatives and the reapplication of ideas by other pany. The risk, however, opens space for opportunities, users. Disclosure of the GMB is being made in the program since it causes the search for new technologies, increase of for training in operational excellence Braskem+. energy efficiency, optimization of processes, and reduction In 2011, there was an increase of 2.5 % in the indicator of of operational costs. specific energy consumption (GJ/tonne) of Braskem in relaThe area of Energy has a dedicated Administration, which tion to 2010. Among the reasons are structural issues such contributes with the constant target of reduction of the indias the blackout of electric energy in the Northeast region, cator of specific consumption (GJ/ton), this target determined, occurred at the beginning of the year (see details in Ecoindividually, for each industrial unit. The performance is moninomic Development), with negative impact on the Comtored monthly and the indicators are published, allowing pany’s production in Camaçari (BA), reducing volumes and comparison of the results obtained and the correction of didamaging the balance of energy performance, as well as versions, when they take place. The targets and the results the other environmental indicators. Also as a result of the consolidated by unit compose the corporate indicators. impact of blackout in production, the improvements impleAmong the strategies to reach the proposed targets are the mented in the course of the year, aiming at energy effiemployment of energy on competitive bases and with guarciency, not reflected in the consolidated income of 2011 (GJ/ antees of supply; the development of projects of co-genertonne). Despite this, the energy consumption (GJ) current, ation for increase of reliability in the supply; the diversificacompared with the average of the last three years, and aption and the optimization of the energy matrix (contractual proximately 4.5 % lower. flexibility, short term contracting and use of opportunities As a highlight for 2012, Braskem will develop the Program for energy efficiency). The portfolio of contracts is moniof Energy Efficiency in a pilot plant. One of the objectives is tored by the Executive Board of the area, which also monito seek to align the issues related to consumption and effitors the new projects of the Company in relation to future ciency actions to the prerogatives of ISO Standard 50001, energy demands and their evaluation. published in June 2011, with a focus on the performance of At the end of the year the industrial units were asked to energy management. Energy Consumption directly broken down by source of primary energy ( GJ ) * Non-renewable sources of direct energy 2009 2010 2011(GJ) Coal 3.767.315 5.618.611 4.817.051 Natural Gas 17.180.543 29.619.944 32.538.906 Fuel distillate of crude oil, including gasoline, diesel, LPG, 85.912.951 109.054.289 172.453.502,34 CNG, LNG, butane, propane, ethane etc. Electric Energy 18.705.455** 19.234.301** 18.060.734 Steam 206.307 1.484.229 1415.535 Renewable Sources of direct energy Biological Fuels Not used Not used Not used Ethanol Not Calculated Not Calculated 330.900,00 Hydrogen 1.193.875 1.195.538 41.495,54 Total 130.584.282 168.718.267 200.439.195,54 * The data do not include Braskem United States. ** In the Annual Report and Sustainability 2010 information of the electrical energy consumption was published in a mistaken form. (GRI EN3) GRI EN3 GRI EN5 71 Environmental responsibility Focus on efficiency The following data refer to the initiatives of Braskem but by the technology of the equipment, drawings of to provide products or services with more energy efmolds and processing conditions. Customers benefit ficiency or based on renewable energy, in addition from the better color of injected parts. to achieved reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. • Assumptions used for the calculation of the reductions as standards for consumption or normal factors: • Description of the initiative: For the calculation of the reductions the standard The objective of the development of resins was of optic quality in the current product temperature in order to ensure the optic quality for transparent profile current is considered. Energy consumption is parts with reduction of processing temperature. measured with a high precision multimeter, for a This means that, to achieve the properties of transgiven period. After data collection, there is the new parency and brightness, the processors can operate product in fuel injection and a new set up for prowith a profile of lower temperature, and can significess with lower temperatures found (remembering cantly reduce the energy consumption, depending that it does not apply to all systems), keeping the on the equipment and molds of each client. In the quality standard of the optical parts. Compare the tests performed a reduction of energy consumption data obtained. by up to 10 % was observed. Some products are already approved and others are • Performance result: in approval. Currently all are marketed with the noAs the resin is in the market only in test lots, we do menclature of development. not yet have data for this indicator. In previous years there was no such measurement. • Units where the initiative is applied: PP1 / PP2, in triumph (RS) • Practices planned or carried out related to the PP3, Paulínia (SP) theme of the indicator: PP4, Maua (SP) Seek to optimize the production processes of customers, with a focus on competitiveness, and one • Reductions in energy requirements affected in of the practices of application engineering. The en2011, for products or services: gineers are able to indicate products that can proThis project provides gains in the process of injection of vide lower power consumption, such as products transparent parts such as domestic appliances, housewith fluidity rate higher, allowing, in many cases, hold appliances, rigid containers, etc. The benefit does the processing in temperatures and smaller cycles, not apply, however, to all the injection systems, betaking into account the mechanical requirements cause this process is limited not only by temperature, basic of each application. GRI EN6 72 Greenhouse Gases Environmental responsibility Braskem is an emitter of relevant industrial greenhouse indirect emissions of GHG. gases, although monitoring and reducing emissions in reEven in this context, Braskem works with defined goals for cent years. Its performance strategy is committed to the low reduction of the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions: recarbon economy and remains aligned with the international duction of 11% between 2008 and 2011, and reaches 0.60 guidelines in this direction. tCO2e/t product in 2020. With the objective to provide transIn its Vision 2020, the Company expressed the commitment parency and make public the evolution of targets, the comto seek improvements in production processes that contribpany discloses the inventory of GHG emissions, as well as the ute in reducing the intensity of emissions of carbon dioxide strategy and the development of actions, in the Annual Reper product. In another aspect, the use of renewable raw port and in other channels of communication with their materials, such as sugar cane, favors the sequestration of stakeholders, such as COP, GHG Protocol Brazil and others. 2009 Type of source 2009* Emission (Mg) HFC HFC CO2 CH4 N2O SF4 CO2E (134) (Others) Indirect Emissions (Purchased energy) 214,676.55 1.69 214,712.11 Indirect Emissions (Transferred energy) 429,314.35 7.28 429,467.32 Fugitive Emissions (CH4 lines) 33.90 162.34 3,442.95 Fugitive Emissions (Refrigerant/Insulating Gas Lines) 15.76 45.65 0.05 77,248.00 Process Vent Emissions 12,685.65 112.72 100.78 46,294.76 Combustion Emissions 9,176,339.87 822.15 158.67 9,242,794.08 Emission Scope 2: 214,676.55 1.69 214,712.11 Emission Scope 1: 9,189,059.42 1,097.21 259.45 15.76 45.65 0.05 9,369,779.79 2010 Type of source 2010 Emission (Mg) HFC HFC CO2 CH4 N2O SF4 CO2E (134) (Others) Indirect Emissions (Purchased energy) 33727885% 70% 33729364% Indirect Emissions (Transferred energy) 39403282% 6.48 39416901% Fugitive Emissions (CH4 and CO2 lines) 2651% 158.98 3,365.18 Fugitive Emissions (Refrigerant/Insulating Gas Lines) 23.8 45.2 0.01 88,370.15 Process Vent Emissions 6,376.27 229.80 11,202.13 Combustion Emissions 9,060,137.48 1,116.07 152.11 9,130,730.52 Emission Scope 2: 337,278.85 0.7 337,293.64 Emission Scope 1: 9,066,540.26 1,504.86 152.11 23.8 45.2 0.01 9,233,667.98 GRI EN16 73 2011 Tipologia da Fonte (2011) Emission (Mg) HFC HFC CO2 CH4 N2O SF4 CO2E (134) (Others) Indirect Emissions (Purchased energy) 21622771% 60% 21624036% Indirect Emissions (Transferred energy) 28890877% 4.74 28900832% Fugitive Emissions (CH4 and CO2 lines) 3062% 1,499.86 31,527.71 Fugitive Emissions (Refrigerant/Insulating Gas Lines) 24.5 77.2 0.05 126,531.73 Process Vent Emissions 12,587.24 243.57 17,702.19 Combustion Emissions 2,914,964.92 83.85 55.26 2,933,856.93 Fugitive Process Emissions 5,727,677.91 688.76 118.89 5,778,996.58 Waste disposal (internal) 839.35 17,626.31 Wastewater treatment (internal) 259.83 0.24 5,529.39 Emission Scope 2: 216,227.71 0.60 216,240.36 Emission Scope 1: 8,655,260.69 3,615.22 174.38 24.5 77.2 0.05 8,911,770.84 Scope 1 Direct emissions of GHG Scope 2 Indirect emissions of GHG Unit of measure (tCO2e) Reduction Initiatives Type of emission Reduction achieved Advanced Control of H2 Other combustion process (e.g. flare) -12.320,0 Increase operational continuity and Six Sigma project to reduce Other combustion process (e.g. flare) -526,0 the specific consumption of propylene. Energy Conservation recomposition of thermal insulation in rua -3,1 Hidrogênio Norte Pre-heating air in Superheaters BA-1110 A/B -11,9 Optimization of the mesh of V TO 3,5 kgf/cm2g -3,2 Optimization of coils in boilers -7,9 Improvements in efficiency in BA -701 A/B/C -4,6 Replacement purgers UTE -1,5 Actions for reducing the energy consumption that consequently Other combustion process (e.g. flare) -2.577,3 reduce emissions Total -15.455,5 * The data do not include Braskem United States. * In 2009 and 2010, the basis of information was reported in scope for reduction of emissions. In this RA 2011, the information is organized by emission reduction initiatives. ** The low emission reduction in 2011 is given on account of information intermediaries = the total of -15,455.5 was only obtained by the related practices. GRI EN16 74 Environmental responsibility 2009 Emissions / Scope Sources Values Combustion emissions Fugitive Emissions (refrigerant gas lines) Fugitive Emissions (gas insulating lines ) Direct emissions (Scope 1) Fugitive Emissions (line of methane gas and carbon dioxide) 9061 Ventilation emissions in the process 255792 Total scope 1 264853 Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) Purchase of energy 33696 Total scope 1 + scope 2 298.549 2010 Emissions / Scope Sources Values Combustion emissions -10841100% Fugitive Emissions (refrigerant gas lines) Fugitive Emissions (gas insulating lines ) -88400% Direct emissions (Scope 1) Fugitive Emissions (line of methane gas and carbon dioxide) -7800% Ventilation emissions in the process -35,093.00 Total scope 1 -144,466.00 Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) Purchase of energy Total scope 1 + scope 2 144.466 2011 Emissions / Scope Sources Values Combustion emissions Fugitive Emissions (refrigerant gas lines) Fugitive Emissions (gas insulating lines ) Direct emissions (Scope 1) Fugitive Emissions (line of methane gas and carbon dioxide) Ventilation emissions in the process Total scope 1 361.972,83 Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) Purchase of energy 121.053,28 Total scope 1 + scope 2 483.026,11 * The data do not include Braskem United States. 75 Environmental responsibility Emission of destructive substancesof the ozone layer by weight Tables and caption above HFC-134 (Mg) HFC-134a (Mg) HFC-152a (Mg) HFC-125 (Mg) HFC-32 (Mg) HFC-143a (Mg) 24,50 76,95 0,04 0,18 0,10 0,06 24,50 76,95 0,04 0,18 0,10 0,06 2009 / 2010 Potential destroyer of ozone layer HFC 134a HCFC22 HCFC141b CFC12 CTC (CFC11 equivalent) 2009 68,63 25,55 4,55 0 23,92 28,35 2010 91,12 41,18 0,12 0 0 2,48 * The data do not include Braskem United States. GRI EN18 GRI EN19 76 GHG inventory Environmental responsibility As it has done every year, Braskem, in 2011, took inventory col. In 2011, Braskem obtained the recognition of its invenof greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), encompassing the tory (referring to 2010) in the Gold category of the Brazilian gases CO2 (carbon dioxide), CH4 (methane gas), N2O (nitrous Program GHG Protocol, awarded to companies that provide oxide), and HFC-134 (hydro fluorocarbon, refrigerant fluid). a complete accounting of all GHG emissions, with verificaAll the industrial plants and corporate centers are included tion by an independent third party. In addition, the invenin the inventory. tory in 2011 takes 100% of the categories of scope 3 deThe GHG emissions inventory of Braskem follows the guidefined by WRI World Resource Institute. lines and methodology of the Brazilian Program GHG ProtoEmissão Escopo Fonte de Emissão 2010 2011 Emissões Diretas Emissões de Combustão 2.769.060,54 2.761.622,19 (Escopo 1) Emissões de Combustão/ Fugitivas de processo 6.358.501,61 5.913.015,82 Emissões de Combustão Móvel 3.168,36 4.597,76 Emissões Fugitivas (Linhas Gás Refrigerante) 88.059,45 125.336,73 Emissões Fugitivas (Linhas Gás Isolante) 310,70 1.195,00 Emissões Fugitivas (Linhas CH4 e CO2) 3.365,18 25.788,41 Emissões de Ventilação de Processo 11.202,13 16.972,72 Disposição de resíduos (Interno) ni 17.626,31 Tratamento de efluentes (Interno) ni 5.540,19 Total Escopo 1 9.233.667,98 8.871.695,15 Emissões Indiretas Transferência de energia (entre unidades) 394.169,01 289.008,32 (Escopos 2) Compra de energia 337.293,64 216.240,36 Total Escopo 2 337.293,64 216.240,36 Total Escopo 1+2 9.570.961,61 9.087.935,51 Escopo 1+2 Intensidade das Emissões de GEE 0,65 0,65 Detailing the scope 3: indirect emissions of GHGS Cat. 15 Investments 0 Cat. 12 Final Disposition of product 432.496 Cat. 10 Processing of product 2.668.208 Cat. 9 Transport Downstream 601.246 Cat. 8 Leased ssets 4.814 Cat. 7 Dislocation of Employees 6.658 Cat. 6 Business Travel 8.982 Cat. 5 Wastes 76.336 Cat. 4 Transport Upstream 141.104 Cat. 3 Furel & Energy 368.837 Cat. 2 Capital Goods 3.648 Cat. 1 Goods & Services 5.489.955 Categories of the scope 3 (indirect emissions of GHG) 77 Spills Environmental responsibility Sustainable Internal Logistics The events involving spilled products were properly treated In 2011, Braskem launched the pilot project of by specialized teams, using all the standards and resources of Sustainable Internal Logistics, replacing forklift contingency plans in preparation for the Company´s emertrucks powered by LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) with similar electric ones (rechargeable gency care, so that all impacts were minimized, not being batteries) in the packaging and shipping area characterizing as emergency or an environmental event. of the PE6 industrial unit in Triunfo (RS). In one year, seven vehicles were changed , which would have consumed, in the period, 43 tons of gas, one of the transmitters of CO2 (carbon dioxide); in addition to being a source of clean and renewable energy, electricity and more economic than the LPG. In comparison, Braskem would have spent R$ 37,440 with the gas; with electricity, the cost was R$ 1,424. Emissions, effluents and wastes number and total volume of significant spills Identification Unit Description Volume (l) Spilled Material Impact Contamination in water course Spill of Gasoline in limit Battery of 1 Unib RS Non disposable Fuel (pluvial internal) the restricted Olefins 2. area of the Company. Contamination in water course Oil Leakage In pipeline C (Utilities 2 Unib RS 200,0 Oil (pluvial internal) restricted area area). of the Company. Contamination in water course (internal pluvial and accumulation Leak in the transfer line of Ethanol basin and safety basin No. 7). 3 Unib RS 4.300,0 Fuel loading For the tank area. Main impact restricted area of the Company. External impact is not significant. Passage of oily current due Point impact, but extended to the to leakage through valve, external area / contamination QB PE 4 contaminating pluvial water pipe 200,0 Oil of the water course (Canal do DCX which, therefore, reached the waterCoelho), but was corrected course (Canal do Coelho). immediately. Contaminated Soil / restricted 5 UNIB BA Gasoline leak. 1.800,0 Fuel area of the Company. Contaminated Soil / reached the common system of effluent 6 UNIB BA Leakage of sulfuric acid. 6.000,0 Chemical Material treatment of Cetrel (company that operates in the environmental area). * The other units of Braskem Brazil (PE 1 / PE 2 / PE 3 / FOOT 4 / PE 5 / PE 6 / PP 1 / PP 2 / PP3 / PVC AL / PVC BA / CS AL / CS BA / QB CK ABC / QB NC ABC / ABC PP / PE ABC / PE CUB / PE CAM / PP CAM / PP DCX) had no significant spills in 2011. ** No unit of the United States had significant leaks in 2011. *** In QB PE DCX are being performed preventive work to avoid possible spills. Opportunities for improvement are also suggested in special audits. **** In the UNIB RS there have already been improvements implemented for control and monitoring of leaks and, furthermore, there is an ongoing project to identify and retain leaks to the course of rain water in real time. Year Unit Description of spill 200900% Unib BA Failure in turbine a gas of Olefins II 201000% Unib – RS Spill of toluene by (safety valve) 201000% Unib BA Spill of hydrocarbons (BTX and DMF) mixture GRI EN23 * The leak in 2009 caused a loss of US$ 8.5 million ** The two spills in 2010 totaled 1,300 liters, with a loss of US$ 280 K *** The data of 2009 and 2010 include Braskem Brazil (with Quattor), but does not include Braskem America 78 Water consumption Environmental responsibility Braskem has sought invest in projects that prioritize the resource. In 2011, the specific water consumption was imuse of water, the abstraction of water from rain and alternapacted, mainly, by events that demanded the operational tives to optimize and reduce the impact of this natural reinterruption of plants, or shutdown for maintenance. Water: Total water withdrawal by source Brasil USA Total Total volume of water Withdrawal from surface, Including humid areas, Rivers, 41.965.539,34 2.400.210,04 44.365.749,38 lakes and oceans (m3/year) Total volume of water Groundwater withdrawal (m3/year) 24.397.351,58 0,00 24.397.351,58 Total volume of water Direct from rain Collected and stored (m /year) 3 105.120,00 0,00 105.120,00 Total Volume of Effluents from another Organization collected (m /year) 3 0,00 0,00 0,00 Total Volume of Municipal water supplies from water or other collected (m /year) 3 11.969.269,29 0,00 11.969.269,29 Total volume of water Withdrawal of any Source (m /year)3 78.437.280,21 2.400.210,04 80.837.490,25 * In relation to the steam purchased from external sources to the Company, Braskem Brazil generates 402,043 ton in units of PP3 and PE CUB and 5,499,73 M 3 in the unit of PE ABC. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 2009 2010 2011 Total volume of water recycled/reused by the organization (m /year) 3 1.684.058 13.457.018 14.502.604,82 % Of the total volume of water recycled/reused by the organization (m /year) 3 2,90% 20,70% 18,49% in relation to the total volume of water withdrawal reported in indicator EN8. * The indicator GRI EN10 does not include: 1. Data of water recycled/reused for the following units in Brazil: PP CAM / PP3 / CS BA / PP ABC / PE ABC / PE CUB. 2. Data in the USA and data of steam purchased and reused/recycled throughout the Company. 3. The result of EN10 is linked to the result of EN8 and, therefore, are reported together. Evolution of the total withdrawal of water by source (m3) Origin of the withdrawal and/or supplies 2009 2010 2011 Total volume of water withdrawal of surface, including humid areas, rivers, lakes 28.959.083 50.285.423 and oceans (m3/year) Total volume groundwater withdrawal (m3/year) 9.393.225 16.324.193 Total Volume of rain water directly collected and stored (m /year) 3 1.225.203 0 Total Volume of effluent from another organization collected (m /year) 3 329.544 593.715 Total Volume of municipal water supplies of water or other collected (m /year) 3 12.599.776 16.121.036 Total volume of water withdrawn from any source (m /year) **3 57.502.408 64.953.369 * The data do not include Braskem America. ** Total withdrawal and the sum of all the water brought up to the limits of the Company and from different sources (surface, underground, rain and water supply by municipal public school network) for any use, in the period covered by the report. GRI EN8 GRI EN10 79 Emissions, effluents and wastes Environmental responsibility Braskem has evolved in the evaluation of its internal prorate of generation of solid waste (kg/t) achieved a reduccesses, seeking to direct the waste destination for alternation of 9% compared with the previous year. tives aligned with the strategy of sustainable development. In 2011, the concept of management indicators was stanIn addition, there is an evolution in absolute number of dardized to allow the identification of actions for the evolusome methods of disposal and recycling initiatives, in its tion of the routing of the disposition of such waste. implementation phase in some Company units in Brazil. The Total weight of waste by type and method of disposal of waste type Hazardous waste Quantity (kg) Methods of disposal 2009 2010 2011 Composting 0 109.714 697.305 Reutilization 0 0 157.602 Recycling 2.086.160 5.388.357 2.658.654 Recovery 0 3.724.068 2.729.690 Incineration (or use as a fuel) 134.62 14.897.396 13.795.368 Sanitary Landfill 163.65 8.359.709 2.842.059 Underground waste injection 0 0 0 Storage at the location 0 0 388.209 Others* 234.899 4.040.074 2.328.571 TOTAL 25.597.458 Non-hazardous waste Methods of disposal 2009 2010 2011 Composting 0 0 276.807 Reutilization 436.530 85.920 14.543 Recycling 0 1.370 4.920.291 Recovery 0 0 703.903 Incineration (or use as a fuel) 1.570.640 1.551.050 27.198 Sanitary Landfill 0 1.318 8.333.722 Underground waste injection 0 0 278.850 Storage at the location 278.520 313.010 15.040.484 Others* 0 0 1.889.426 TOTAL 31.485.223 Notes: Other methods of disposal: autoclave; de-mercurization thermal vacuum; co-processing of waste in rotary clinker kilns for the manufacturing of cement; industrial landfill Weight of waste transported, imported, exported or treated, considered hazardous under the Convention of Basel 13 Annexes I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of shipments of waste transported internationally. Quantity (in kg) 2009 2010 2011 Total weight of the hazardous waste transported 20.315.539 12.496.443 23.598.936 Total weight of the hazardous waste imported Não disponível Não disponível Não disponível Total weight of the hazardous waste exported Não disponível Não disponível Não disponível Total weight of hazardous waste treated 20.376.739 12.752.029 14.862.916 GRI EN22 1 Comment as published in RS2010: the difference between the weight of waste transported and processed due to the treatment at the generating unit. The data of 2009, 2010 and 2011 do not include Braskem USA.. GRI EN24 80 Investments and spending on Environmental responsibility environmental protection The costs associated with prevention and environmental mana function of interventions not planned at the industrial plants, agement increased, as well as, with the same profile, the acimpacting the performance of some eco-indicators. tions associated with the requirements for the environmental In 2011, the investments in environment increased by licenses. The trend was also of growth for the variable costs, as around 20 %, as compared to the previous period. 2009 2010 2011 Expenditures Description of the expenditures Braskem Braskem + Quattor Braskem Liquid waste treatment/disposal of solid wastes / recovery of packaging and other / emission Variable services treatment / Depreciation of specific equipment Production R$ 120.294.507 R$ 128.747.301 R$ 147.717.926 / Expenditure with materials and operation and (cost Variable) maintenance services and people costs for this purpose Management of Atmospheric Treatment of emissions R$ 1.809.504 R$ 2.019.852 R$ 2.291.691 emissions Management of Atmospheric Treatment of emissions R$ 544.628 R$ 459.143 R$ 235.973 emissions Energy and water R$ 1.549.510 R$ 3.686.458 R$ 4.749.906 Administrative Other monitoring R$ 1.994.739 R$ 3.356.166 R$ 11.687.969 Environmental Depreciation of specific equipment and expenses Investments in with materials and operation and maintenance safety, health and R$ 28.694.862 R$ 41.400.000 R$ 49.000.000 services, in addition to people costs for this purpose / environment extra expenses to install cleaner technologies Environmental R$ 136.232 R$ 302.556 R$ 942.788 Licenses Environmental Total cleaning costs, including spill remediation costs R$ 11.412.936 R$ 19.419.839 R$ 17.729.462 liabilities Costs of prevention Other costs of environmental management / and environmental R$ 33.779.966 R$ 45.643.887 R$ 64.158.421 external services for environmental management management Total R$ 200.216.884 R$ 245.035.202 R$ 298.514.136 * The answers of this indicator does not include Braskem USA ** Although the indicator does not include Braskem USA, there are controls that allow us to affirm that in 2011 and 2010, Braskem USA did not present environmental liabilities. *** Reported values do not include expenses with: External Certification of management systems research and development Insurance for environmental responsibility **** Braskem does not have expenses with the purchase and use of emission certificates. GRI EN30 81 Biodiversity Environmental responsibility Habitats protected or restored in 2011 Social Projects, environmental, educational and cultural deversity. In this sense, the Company identifies, monitors and veloped by Braskem are in protected areas or in the vicinity reports the risks associated with the activities developed to of the industrial units of the Company, in areas of rich biodiprevent them and/or minimize them. Habitats protected or restored in 2011 Size of areas Size of the Location Location of the of habitats areas of Description of the approval, by external specialists, measures Region of the areas of habitats Areas of habitats protected habitats for restoration protected Restored (ha) restored (ha) The Environmental Agency of ABC asked the environmental recovery of an area of 2.31 hectares in the places where the Aquapolo pipeline passes. To meet this requirement, seedlings were planted in an area of 1.46 ha in Piscinao Maua (May/ 2011). The costs were São Paulo absorbed by the Company Aquapolo Ambiental. NA NA 1,46 Mauá To complement the remaining area of 0.85 ha, Aquapolo Ambiental is hiring another company to do the rearrangement in a forest park of Pedroso, area given by Municipal Service Environmental Sanitation of Santo André. Braskem does not invest financial resources in this initiative, but is an articulator of the forest recomposition process. Ring Forest (Camaçari) Riparian vegetation of the dam Bahia NA NA 28 of Santa Helena (Dias d´Ávila) Source of the River Ipitanga (Simões Filho) Area restored by Braskem received the titles of “the Atlantic Forest Biosphere Reserve” Maceió, between by Unesco and by the National Council of the Bairro do Pontal da Barra, In the the Atlantic Forest Biosphere Reserve and Alagoas Municipalities of 904 50 surroundings of the chlorine soda “Conservationist Nursery of the Fauna and Marechal unit Maceió Flora”, by Ibama. It is a public area, where 121 Deodoro and thousand seedlings were planted, an action Coqueiro Seco in the Forest Factory project. The restoration process is still underway. Municipality of Rio Grande Triunfo, 1 km from Braskem, 68 0 0 0 do Sul Within the area of preservation center petrochemical Total areas 972 79,46 Protected in there * In 2010, the total of protected areas was also 972 hectares and restored areas was 50 hectares. GRI EN13 82 Environmental responsibility Protected Areas in hectares 2010 Partnerships with third parties to protect or Size in restore areas in habitats Operational Unit Protected Areas Location Additional Information hectares that are not the object of Braskem’s operations, directly. São Paulo 0 0 0 0 0 Bahia 0 0 0 0 0 This area still has no external certification. The size of the area is contained in document in the possession of the company. Alagoas Maceió between the Atlantic Forest To start the external Alagoas 904 municipalities of There are no partners Reservation certification in 2010 CNRBMA Marechal Theodore and was asked to consider the Coqueiro Seco area an “outpost of the Atlantic Forest reserve “. This solicitation is still under review and has not yet been accepted. It is an open area and The partner in therefore the animals that Rio Grande do Sul monitoring the fauna are there can leave. It has Municipality of Triunfo Environmental and flora of the a partnership with the local to 1 km from UNIB of Station in Environmental Station police for security (to avoid RS. Located along the Rio Grande do Sul Green Belt 68 and the Zoobotânica presence of hunters). Braskem banks of Rio Cai, within (preservation Foundation of RS, has developed work of the preservation area area) organ is linked to biological monitoring in the of the Petrochemical SEMA Secretary of the Environmental Station. For Complex of RS. Environment. more information see report 2009 Protected areas. Total of Protected Areas in Hectares 972 Recovered Areas in hectares 2010 Approval by external specialists Operational Unit Areas Recovered Size in hectares Location Additional Information of the restoration measurement results. São Paulo 0 0 0 0 0 The ring was restored by the Forest Factory Project and The plantings have the restoration process is still already been visited Ring Forest in underway. This area was not and approved by ESALQ Bahia the Camaçari ND Camaçari used during the operational experts in 2010. They complex activities or affected by the are in the process of company. For more information resuming this activity. see report 2009 protected areas. This area was restored by Braskem. Today Area This area was not it has the titles used during the operational of “the Atlantic activities or affected by the Green Belt Forest Biosphere Alagoas Maceió company. The main reason Environmental Reserve” by UNESCO Bairro do Pontal da why the belt has been Alagoas Station (Estação 50 and by CNRBMA Barra (in the vicinity of restored and contains the real Ambiental (National Council of the factory) estate advance on the outskirts Cinturão Verde) the Atlantic Forest of operational unit. For more Biosphere Reserve) information see report 2009 and “Conservationist protected areas. Nursery of Fauna and Flora” by IBAMA. Rio Grande do Sul 0 0 0 0 0 GRI EN13 Total Recovered Areas in Hectares 50 83 About this Report This is the 4th Annual Braskem Report constructed based on sion of such data for Shareholders, Customers, Members and the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a other stakeholders, recognizing their commitment to those non-profit organization that develops and disseminates who are affected by their activities, those who have power of overall guidelines for the preparation of sustainability reinfluence in the company and society in general. ports. For this report the last documentary guide of GRI, the The report is a means to strengthen the relationship of trust G3.1version was used as reference, counting, for the third between the Company and the public that relates to and consecutive year, with external verification by Det Norske must be continually improved. The document also enables Veritas (DNV). the evaluation of the overall performance of the Organization The Braskem Annual Report includes the period from Januby these public, when reporting data comparable and consisary 1 to December 31, 2011, so that the reader can identify tent, which are depicted in a balanced way, reflecting positive the evolution of Braskem, data from 2009 and 2010 were and negative aspects occurring throughout the year. GRI 3.1 included. Whenever it was relevant to the understanding of Below are described the stages of construction and definiGRI 3.2 the data reported, information about the first quarter of tion of the topics covered in the document. 2012 was also included. GRI 3.3 The limit includes the information concerning the business GRI 3.6 and the Company’s activities in Brazil (including the inforAnalysis of materiality GRI 3.7 mation of Quattor, acquired in 2010, and whose data are already fully integrated) and covers also, where possible, To start the survey and the organization of data to be reGRI 3.8 the Company’s operations in the United States, relating to ported, it is necessary to prioritize the issues and the inforGRI 3.9 assets acquired from Sunoco Chemicals, purchased in early mation that reflect the economic, social and environmental GRI 3.10 2010. Throughout this report, explanatory notes were inimpacts, significant to the Organization, or that may influcluded on the alteration in ceiling or on the basis of calculaence the evaluations and decisions of its stakeholders. This GRI 3.11 tion of the indicators. is the concept of materiality, a principle that represents GRI 3.5 The document contains information about the forms of mangood business practice in the search for sustainability. GRI 4.14 agement and economic indicators, financial, social and enviThe materiality is understood by the Organization as a form GRI 4.15 ronmental, as well as corporate governance practices of the of support to strategic planning, in so far as it is one of the Company. Braskem has clarity on the importance of the provitools that give it support in the identification of relevant 84 About this Report subjects and in the construction of short and long term strarelevance for stakeholders and for Braskem, and, through a tegic and operational directions. The report becomes, concriterion of prioritization by points; those subjects that sequently, the result of the commitment of the Company to reached the maximum points were listed as materials for the beginning of transparency. the stakeholders. Such understanding is reflected in the construction of the As a final proceeding of this stage, correspondence was materiality along the last three years. In 2009, the base was done of the questions of interest evaluated as relevant for an internal inquiry with leaders of Braskem, and the matethe stakeholders consulted, with the GRI indicators and thus, rial subjects listed were used for the definition of seven the final phase of the construction of the materiality was macro-objectives of the Vision 2020 of Sustainable Developcarried out. The material subjects are reflected in the pubment, which are described in the chapter Business and Suslishing structure of this report. tainable Development. While in 2010, the process of definition of material subjects Validation evolved through a new cycle of consultations, more ample, The material questions listed next underwent verification to accomplished with stakeholders of Braskem in Brazil, aiming be revised in accordance with the specifications of the for the inclusion of questions pointed to by them. The descope (the variation of topics of sustainability included in limitation of the materiality established in this year was also the document), of the limit (the units of the Company that used as a base for the 2011 Annual Report, and its construcrepresent the performance reported) and of the time (data tion went through the following stages: selected in the defined period of the report) established for the report, when guaranteeing the completeness of its inIdentification of material subjects formation, one of the principles of the GRI. Finally, correThe initial step, already cited previously in this chapter, was spondence of the material questions with the GRI indicators the definition of the limit of the report, in other words, the was also reevaluated. delimitation of which units of the Organization would have their information addressed in the document. Data referring to the last acquisitions are being consolidated and included, gradually, in the established limit. For more information read Contributions and Challenges. The cycle of consultations carried out in 2010 was maintained in this report, for which three representatives from each one of eight categories of stakeholders in Braskem were interviewed, in a total of 24 persons consulted, among Shareholders, Clients, Members, Suppliers, representatives of the state government in Alagoas, Rio de Janeiro, and Bahia, Academia (universities and other institutions of teaching and research), Financers and representatives of Communities nearby to the industrial plants in the states of Sao Paulo, GRI 3.1 Rio Grande do Sul, Bahia and Alagoas. GRI 3.2 The identification of these stakeholders took as criteria, balGRI 3.3 ance, the proximity of the relationship with Braskem, the level of influence and the impact of the Company on them, GRI 3.6 as well as the capacity of interference of the publics in the GRI 3.7 decisions of the Organization. The consultation also tried to GRI 3.8 hear the opinion of stakeholders in the public information, the management and the performance in the activities of GRI 3.9 sustainability. GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 Prioritization As result of the interviews and of the cycle of consultations, GRI 3.5 87 questions of interest were identified, grouped in subjects GRI 4.14 and allocated according to the dimension of sustainability to GRI 4.15 which they belong (environmental, social, economic). Subsequently, the questions were evaluated according to their 85 Correlation between Braskem macroAbout this Report objectives, materiality and GRI The following chart presents the correlation between seven interest. The table also shows how such issues are repremacro-objectives of the Company and the material quessented by GRI indicators reported in this report. tions of interest, here grouped in their respective subjects of Indicators Reported Macro Topics of Stakeholders Questions of Interest (Related To Macro Objectives Objective Interest And Issues Of Public Interest) Indicators of the three Macro objectives: EC2 financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate changes EN8 total withdrawal of water by source EN16 emissions direct and indirect greenhouse gas • Productive Processes (discard, reutilization, cleaner production, EN18 initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 1 Greenhouse Internal processes) and reductions obtained Gases • resources use / water and energy / EN19 emissions of substances destructive of the ozone Monitoring and reduction of water layer, by weight consumption and the gas emission of greenhouse gases EN22 total weight of waste, by type and method of disposal • evolution of environmental practices throughout the growth EN23 spills recorded significant losses and in Dollars of the Company / indicators environmental in general / aspect EN24 total weight of the hazardous waste transported management Environmental / Total waste intended for volume(kg) and their environmental impact of Braskem representation on the total waste for, measured in % / use of best environmental techniques and environmental Specific Indicators of “Greenhouse Gases”: practices / protection environment Shareholders, EN13 Habitats protected or restored Suppliers, • Contribution of Braskem for Environmental Financiers, minimizing global warming EN28 monetary value of significant fines and total Management Government, number of penalties non-monetary resulting from the 2 Energy Community non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Efficiency EN30 Total investments and spending on environmental protection, by type SO8 monetary value of significant fines and total number of penalties not--monetary resulting from noncompliance with laws and regulations • Productive Processes (discard, Specific Indicators of “Energy Efficiency”: Reutilization, cleaner production, Internal processes) EN3 -Sources bought from direct energy • resources use / water and energy / EN5 Energy conserved because of greater efficiency GRI 3.1 Monitoring and reduction of water consumption And the gas emission EN6 Initiatives to provide products and service with low of greenhouse gases power consumption, or that use energy generated by GRI 3.2 renewable resources, and the reduction in the need of 3 Water • evolution of environmental practices energy resulting from these initiatives GRI 3.3 Efficiency throughout the growth of the Company / indicators environmental EN7 Initiatives to reduce energy consumption and GRI 3.6 in general / management indirect reductions obtained of aspects environmental / environmental impact of Braskem Specific Indicators of “water efficiency”: GRI 3.7 / use of best environmental techniques and environmental EN10 Volume of water recycled and reused in m3 per GRI 3.8 practices / protection of the year and the percentage of water recycled or reused as environment the percentage of water withdrawal GRI 3.9 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 86 About this Report Indicators Reported Macro Topics of Stakeholders Questions of Interest (Related To Macro Objectives Objective Interest And Issues Of Public Interest) LA1 Total number of workers by type of employment, employment contract and region LA2 The total number and rate of turnover of employees, by age, gender and region LA3 Benefits offered to full time employee that are not offered to temporary employees or half period, broken down by major operations. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by agreements negotiated collective LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and deaths related to work, by region. • Training and integration of the Members People Members LA9 issues relating to the health and safety covered by formal agreements with unions. LA11 A program for management of the competencies 4and learning continues to support the continuity of the Chemical employability of officials and to manage the end of their Safety careers. LA13 Composition of the groups responsible for corporate governance and discrimination of employees by category, according to gender, age group, minorities and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Proportion of base salary between men and women by functional category. PR1 Phases of the life cycle of products and services in which the impacts on health and safety are evaluated aiming at improvement, and the percentage of products and • Commitment to health and safety services subject to these proceedings” Members The people who work at Company Health and and the and the Community Safety LA7 Rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, Community absenteeism and deaths related to work, by region. • Safety of Braskem installations LA9 Subjects relative to safety and health covered by formal agreements with trade unions. • Management of third Parties in the LA7 Rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, commercial relationship absenteeism and deaths related to work, by region. Members, • Management of the Supply LA9 Subjects relative to safety and health covered by Management Suppliers chain– impacts in the value chain / formal agreements with trade unions. of the value and activity of Braskem in the chain of chain Customers production (from the producer to a LA11 Program for management of proficiencies and final client) / impacts of standards continuous learning that support the continuity of the of Braskem on the method of work employability of employees and manage the end of the of the third party enterprise. career. • Plans for the future / green 5Chemistry (use of renewable raw Biopolymers material). PR1 Phases of the life cycle of products and services in • Partnership in the development which the impacts on the health and safety are evaluated GRI 3.1 of new products and market Government, aiming at improvement, and at the percentage of products prospecting to serve the current Customers, and services subject to these proceedings” Innovation and future necessities (ex. products GRI 3.2 Suppliers with renewable raw materials) and Sponsors PR3 Type of information on products and services / Innovation: new product GRI 3.3 demanded by proceedings of labeling, and the percentage development, partnerships with of products and services subject to such demands. universities, R&D/ possibilities of GRI 3.6 partnership in development of new products, technical projects and GRI 3.7 social projects. GRI 3.8 GRI 3.9 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 87 About this Report Indicators Reported Macro Topics of Stakeholders Questions of Interest (Related To Macro Objectives Objective Interest And Issues Of Public Interest) • Productive Processes (discard, EC2 financial Implications and other risks and opportunities reuse, cleaner production, internal for the activities of the organization due to climatic processes)“ changes” EN8 Total of retreavalretrieval of water from the source” • Use of resources / water and energy/ monitoring and reduction EN16 – direct and indirect Emissions of greenhouse gases” of the consumption of water and of the emission of greenhouse gases” EN18 Initiatives to reduce the emissions of greenhouse Shareholders, gases and the reductions obtained “ Suppliers, • Evolution of the environmental Environmental Financiers, practices along the growth of the EN19 Emissions substances destructive to the ozone layer, management Government, Company/ environmental indicators by weight” Community in general/ management of the environmental aspects / impact EN22 total Weight of wastes, by type and method of environmental of Braskem use of disposal” the best environmental techniques and environmental practices / EN23 – significant Spills registered and losses in dollars” protection to the environment “ EN24 – total Weight of the dangerous wastes transported • Contribution of Braskem for Total of residues in volume (kg) and their representativeness minimization of global warming in the total of wastes, measured in % • Management of third Parties in the LA7 Rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, 6 Postrelationship commercial“ absenteeism and deaths related to work, by region. consumption Members, • Management of the Suppliers’ LA9 Subjects relative to safety and health covered by Management Suppliers chain– impacts on the value chain/ formal agreements with trade unions. of the value and action of Braskem in the chain of chain Customers production (from the producer to a LA11 Program for management of proficiencies and final client) / impacts of standards continuous learning that support the continuity of the of Braskem on the method of work employability of employees and manage the end of the of the third party enterprise. career. • Plans for the future / green Chemistry (use of renewable raw material). PR1 Phases of the life cycle of products and services in • Partnership in the development which the impacts on the health and safety are evaluated of new products and market Government, aiming at improvement, and at the percentage of products prospecting to serve the current Customers, and services subject to these proceedings” Innovation and future necessities (ex. products Suppliers, with renewable raw materials) Financiers PR3 Type of information on products and services / innovation: development of demanded by proceedings of labeling, and the percentage new products, partnerships with of products and services subject to such demands universities, R&D / possibilities of partnership In the development of new products, technical projects and social projects. GRI 3.1 GRI 3.2 GRI 3.3 GRI 3.6 GRI 3.7 GRI 3.8 GRI 3.9 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 88 About this Report Indicators Reported Macro Topics of Stakeholders Questions of Interest (Related To Macro Objectives Objective Interest And Issues Of Public Interest) Communication Customers, • Acting between the Clients and and management Finance, Braskem regarding the image of of relationship Members petrochemical. with stakeholders • Management of third Parties in the LA7 Rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, relationship commercial “ absenteeism and deaths related to work, by region. • Management of the Suppliers’ chain– LA9 Subjects relative to safety and health covered by formal Members, Management of Impacts on the valuable chain / agreements with trade unions. Suppliers and the value chain action of Braskem in production chain Customers (from the producer to final client) / LA11 Program for management of proficiencies and impacts of the standards of Braskem continuous learning that support the continuity of the on the method of work of the third employability of employees and manage the end of the party enterprise. career. HR4 total Number of cases of discrimination and the measures taken “ HR5 Operations identified in which the right of practising freedom of association and collective negotiation can be running significant risk and the measures taken to support this right” LA1 Total of Workers by type of job, work contract and region” LA2 total Number and rate of employee rotation, by age group, type and region” LA3 Benefits offered to full time employees that are not 7 People offered to temporary employees or in regime of half time, distinguished by the principal operations. • Training and integration of Members People Members LA4 Percentage of employees included in collective bargaining agreements “ LA7 Rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and deaths related to work, by region. LA9 Subjects relative to safety and health covered by formal agreements with trade unions. LA11 Program for management of proficiencies and continuous learning that support the continuity of the employability of employees and manage the end of the career. LA13 Composition of the groups responsible for the corporate governance and discrimination of employees by category, in accordance with gender, age group, minorities and other indicators of diversity. LA7 Rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and deaths related to work, by region. • Commitment to health and safety LA9 Subjects relative to safety and health covered by of persons who work in the Members and formal agreements with trade unions. Health and Safety Company and of Community GRI 3.1 Community PR1 Phases of the product life cycle and services in which • Security of the Company’s facilities the impacts on health and safety are evaluated aiming at GRI 3.2 improvement, and the percentage of products and services subject to these proceedings GRI 3.3 GRI 3.6 GRI 3.7 GRI 3.8 GRI 3.9 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 89 About this Report Questions of interest on aspects of economic and financial performance also were indicated by the stakeholders. They follow, in the chart below, the GRI indicators that respond to the questions presented. Indicators Reported (Related To Macro Objectives Stakeholders Topics Of Interest Questions Of Interest And Issues Of Public Interest) EC1 Direct economic Value produced and distributed, including earnings, operational costs, remuneration of • Financial impact of Braskem´s employees, donations and other Investments in the investments. community, accrued profits and payments for providers of capital and governments • Increased productivity of Shareholders, Braskem EC2 financial Implications and other risks and Employees, Financial opportunities for the activities of the organization due to Government Economic • Products and services climatic changes and performance Suppliers • Performance / growth of EC4 significant Help received from government Braskem / current economic and financial results and future EN13 Habitats protected or restored prospects EN30 Total of investments and expenses in protection of the environmental, by type GRI 3.1 GRI 3.2 GRI 3.3 GRI 3.6 GRI 3.7 GRI 3.8 GRI 3.9 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 90 About this Report Rio+20 MACRO-OBJECTIVE SUBJECTS FOR RIO + 20 (“The Future that we want”) 1 Effect The UN is holding another World Conference on SusGreenhouse Green Economy tainable Development, also known as Rio+20. Aiming Gases Energy Climate Changes to increase its contribution to sustainable develop2 Energy Sustainable Consumption and Production ment, Braskem decided to support both the content Efficiency of the political agreement that is under discussion Green Economy 3 Hydric and the event itself. The base for discussion of the Water efficiency Sustainable Consumption and Production content was given out in January of 2012 and it reGreen Economy ceived the name of “The future that we want (draft 4 Chemical Sustainable Consumption and Production zero)”. This document consolidates a first version safety Chemical and Waste about what would be most relevant to be discussed Green Economy and agreed at Rio+20. Climate Changes Considering the analysis of materiality previously de5 Biopolymers Sustainable Consumption and Production scribed and its correlation with the macro-objectives of Chemical and Waste Braskem, a correlation was prepared also between such Chemical Waste and 6 Postobjectives and the subjects of the “The Future that we consumption Sustainable Consumption and Production of Poverty Eradication and Social Inclusion want (Draft Zero)”. The objective is to demonstrate the Sustainable Consumption and Production relevance of the report to the principal challenges of Education sustainability and present the evolution of the perfor7 People Diversity mance of Braskem in these subjects through the Chemical waste indication of its elements of management. Eradication of Poverty and Social Inclusion Contributions and challenges Braskem understands that the production process of its AnAmong the challenges for the coming years, there is the nual Reports must be constantly polished and gradually revaluation of the Braskem limit exercise. The report of data aligned to the GRI principles. So, it is of interest to express referring to the industrial units acquired in 2011 will initiatwhat the advancements were in the process of the 2011 ed, as well as evaluation of the relevance of social, environreport in relation to the previous period and, also, to assume mental and economic impacts of other Companies linked to challenges and pledge ourselves to improvements to be inBraskem, like Cetrel and quantiQ. The revaluation of the limit cluded in the documents of the coming years. has as aim to define the inclusion, or not, of information Among the improvements in the process of construction of from other operations connected with Braskem in the next GRI 3.1 the Annual Report of 2011 there is the enabling of the report cycles. Also seen as challenges are advancements in GRI 3.2 Members responsible for the weighing of information and the internal systematization of the Company´s information in consolidation of the indicators, through a cycle of worka common and unified database, which incorporates the GRI GRI 3.3 shops, in order to contribute to a better rooting of the GRI directives as reference for its construction, and, equally, acGRI 3.6 directives in the Company and to the advancement in data tions to increase the correspondence between material subGRI 3.7 collection management. Another contribution was the evojects and the indicators reported, responding to all the queslution in the report of information from the Companies actions considered priority, even if only partially, with medium GRI 3.8 quired in 2010 (Quattor and Sunoco), as predicted in the and long term commitments. GRI 3.9 2010 Annual Report and Report on Sustainability. GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 91 Global Compact About this Report Braskem has been a signatory, since 2007, of the Global Comable growth and citizenship. Since 2008, Braskem has been pact ( Global Compact ), program of the United Nations (UN) part of the Brazilian Committee of the Global Compact. which aims to raise awareness of the international business The program is based on 10 principles and the adherence on community in its activities and business practices, for values the part of enterprises and institutions is voluntary. This Anof human rights, labor relations, the environment and comnual Report 2011 presents the initiatives developed by the bating corruption. Besides businesses, the initiative convenes Company related to these principles. For more information, civil society, through its representatives, to promote sustainsee the site www.pactoglobal.org.br. Chapters and GRI indicators that present the results of Braskem Principles of the Global Compact related to the Global Compact Business and sustainable development / Vision 2020 strategies for Braskem to evolve in seven macro-objectives Principle 1 To respect and to protect human Corporate Governance rights Social Development / Management people / combat discrimination GRI LA7 / LA9 / LA13 / LA14 / HR5 Business and sustainable development / Vision 2020 strategies for Braskem to evolve in seven macro-objectives Principle 2 To respect and to protect human Corporate Governance rights Social Development / Management people / combat discrimination GRI LA7 / LA9 / LA13 / LA14 / HR5 Principle 3 Social Development / People Management / Recovery and recognition Support the freedom of association at work. GRI HR5 Corporate Governance Principle 4 Abolish forced labor. Social Development / Suppliers / Commitment in the chain of ethanol and Code of Conduct for Suppliers Corporate Governance Principle 5 Abolishing child labor. Social Development / Suppliers / Commitment in the chain of ethanol and Code of Conduct for Suppliers Corporate Governance Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination at the Social Development / Management people / combat discrimination workplace. GRI LA2 / LA13 / LA14 / HR4 / HR5 GRI 3.1 Business and sustainable development / Vision 2020 strategies for Braskem evolve in seven Principle 7 macro-objectives GRI 3.2 Support a precautionary approach Environmental responsibility to environmental challenges. GRI 3.3 GRI EC2 / EN5 / EN6 /EN7 / EN18 / EN30 GRI 3.6 Business and sustainable development / Vision 2020 strategies for Braskem evolve in seven Principle 8 macro-objectives GRI 3.7 Promote environmental Environmental responsibility responsibility. GRI 3.8 GRI EN3 / EN5 / EN6 / EN7 / EN8 / EN13 / EN18 / EN19 / EN22 / EN23 / EN24 / EN28 / EN30 GRI 3.9 Business and sustainable development/ Vision 2020 strategies for Braskem evolve in seven Principle 9 macro-objectives GRI 3.10 Encourage environmentally friendly Environmental responsibility technologies GRI 3.11 GRI EN10 / EN18 / EN30 Principle 10 Business and sustainable development / Vision 2020 strategies for Braskem evolve in seven GRI 3.5 Combat corruption in all its forms, macro-objectives GRI 4.14 including extortion and bribery Corporate Governance GRI 4.15 GRI 4.12 92 GRI Index About this Report 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities Location in the report/response Page 1.1 Statement by most senior decision-maker in the organization • Presentation 5, 6 (as president and chief executive officer, president of the Board Message from the Directors of Directors or an equivalent position) on the relevance of sustainability for the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of the key impacts, risks and opportunities. • Business and Sustainable Development 19, 20, 21 Vision 2020 strategies for Braskem evolve in seven macroobjectives 2. PROFILE OF THE ORGANIZATION Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities Location in the report/response Page 2.1 Name of the organization. • Presentation 3, 5, 6, 7 Message from the Directors • Profile History – time line 2.2 Main brands, products and/or services. • Profile 7, 8, 9 Business model Operations and business units Products and applications: some examples 2.3 Operational Structure of the organization, including main divisions, • Profile 8 operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. Operations and business units Ethylene XXI, petrochemical complex in Mexico History – timeline 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. • Presentation 3 2.5 Number of countries in which the organization operates, and names • Profile 7 of the countries with either major operations located or which are Acquisitions in the USA and in Germany specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered by the The numbers of Braskem in 2011 report. History – time line 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. • Corporate Governance Corporate Structure 2.7 Markets served (including geographical breakdown, sectors and • Profile types of customers/beneficiaries). Operations and business units 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization • Profile The numbers of Braskem in 2011 History – time line 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, • Presentation structure, or ownership: Message from the Directors • Location or changes in operations, including opening, closing and expansion of operational units; • Profile • Changes in the structure of social capital and other capital Operations and business units formation, maintenance or modification in the operations (for Acquisitions in the USA and in Germany private sector organizations). History – timeline 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. • Profile Awards and recognition GRI 3.1 GRI 3.2 GRI 3.3 GRI 3.6 GRI 3.7 GRI 3.8 GRI 3.9 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 GRI 3.13 93 About this Report 3. PARAMETERS FOR THE REPORT Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities Location in the report/response Page 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided • About this Report 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). • About this Report 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, Contributions and challenges 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 3.3 Reporting Cycle (annual, biennial etc. ) • About this Report 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. • Presentation 3 3.5 Process for defining the report content, including: determining the • About this Report 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, materiality; prioritization of issues in the report; identification of Analysis of materiality 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, which stakeholders the organization hopes to use the report for. Material themes for Braskem 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, subsidiaries, rented • About this Report 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol For 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, further guidance. 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 3.7 Statement on any specific limitations on the scope or the limit of • About this Report 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, the report. 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, • About this Report 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, affect comparability from period to period and/or between 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, • About this Report 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information • About this Report 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 business, measurement methods). 3.11 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information • About this Report 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, provided in earlier reports . 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the • About this Report report: GRI Index • Strategy and analysis (1.1 and 1.2 ); • Organizational Profile (2.1 to 2.10 ); • Parameters for the report (3.1 to 3.13 ); • Governance, commitments and engagement (4.1 to 4.17 ); • Management Processes, by category. • Key performance indicators; • Any additional indicators of GRI that are included; • Any indicators of sectoral supplements GRI included in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external • About this Report 93, 99 assurance for the report. If the check is not included in the report of Assurance Statement DNV sustainability, we must explain the scope and basis of any external verification provided, as well as the relationship between the reporting organization and the auditor(s). GRI 3.1 GRI 3.2 GRI 3.3 GRI 3.6 GRI 3.7 GRI 3.8 GRI 3.9 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 94 About this Report 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities Location in the report/response Page 4.1 Governance Structure of the organization, including committees • Corporate Governance 32, 33 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, Governance Model such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an • Corporate Governance 32, 33, 34 executive officer (and, where appropriate, their functions within the Governance Model organization management and the reasons for this composition). Board of Directors 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the • Corporate Governance 32, 33 number and gender of members of the highest governance body Governance Model that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Members to provide • Corporate Governance 37 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Line of ethics • Includes reference to procedures relating to: Use of deliberations of shareholders or other mechanisms that allow minority shareholders to express opinions to the high direction; • Information and consultation to Members on labor relations with components of formal representation, such as “workers committees”, at the organizational level and representation of Members in the highest component of governance. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest • Corporate Governance 37 governance body, senior managers, and executives (including The members of Statutory Board are entitled to a fixed departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance remuneration monthly, in accordance with the Remuneration (including social and environmental performance). Policy of Braskem and aligned with the market, and a variable remuneration, conditioned both for individual performance with specific targets, is economic-financial, social and/or environmental, or even the overcoming of results previously agreed upon in relation to the economic profit of the Company. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure that • Corporate Governance 37 conflicts of interest are avoided. There is no process for resolution of conflicts of interest at the level of the Board of Directors. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and • Corporate Governance 37 expertise of the members of the highest governance body and There is no process defined to determine the qualifications and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other the knowledge of the members at the level of the Board of indicators of diversity. Directors, but, historically, all the Directors have qualifications and proven knowledge in the business of petrochemistry. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of • Corporate Governance 4, 5, 6, 30, 31 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and Values and Principles social performance and the status of their implementation. Explain Code of Conduct to what extent they: • Presentation • are applied in the organization in regions and departments/ Message from the Directors different units; Odebrecht Entrepreneurial Technology (TEO) • relate to the internationally agreed standards. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the • Corporate Governance 34, 37 organization’s identification and management of economic, Board of Directors environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally The identification, supervision and management of the economic, agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. social and environmental performance activities predicted in the bylaws of the Company and in Company rules of the Board of Directors (BD). The subject is also discussed frequently by the members of the BD Support Committee of Strategy and Communication, which meets at least three times yearly. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s • Corporate Governance 37 own performance, particularly with respect to the economic, There is no a process defined for self-evaluation of the environmental and social performance. performance of the Board of Directors. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or • Corporate Governance 37 principle is addressed by the organization GRI 3.1 On principle, Braskem does not produce, handle, use, market, transports or discard any product, if is not possible to do it in a GRI 3.2 safe way, with the least impact on the environment. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, • Business and Sustainable Development 27, 92 GRI 3.3 principles, or other initiatives which the organization subscribes to Voluntary commitments or endorses. • About this Report GRI 3.6 Global Treaty 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/ • Business and Sustainable Development 27 GRI 3.7 or national/international advocacy organizations in which the Voluntary commitments organization: • Has positions in governance bodies; GRI 3.8 • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or GRI 3.9 • Views membership as • strategic.. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. • About this Report 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, GRI 3.10 Analysis of materiality 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 GRI 3.11 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to • Presentation 3, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, engage. It includes the process of the organization for the definition 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, GRI 3.5 of its stakeholders and to the determination of the groups with • About this Report 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, which to engage or not. Analysis of materiality 105, 106 GRI 4.14 Material themes for Braskem GRI 4.15 95 About this Report 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of • About this Report engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Material themes for Braskem 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through the • Presentation engagement of stakeholders and what measures the organization • About this Report has adopted to deal with them. Material themes for Braskem GRI 3.1 GRI 3.2 GRI 3.3 GRI 3.6 GRI 3.7 GRI 3.8 GRI 3.9 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 96 About this Report ECONOMIC DIMENSION Description Location in the report/response Braskem Coverage Global Pact: Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, • Economic development Braskem operating Table economic value direct generated and costs, employee compensation, donations and other community distributed (R$ million) 2009/2011 investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the • Profile Braskem and 7 organization’s activities due to climate change. Challenges for sustainable development Braskem United States and Europe EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. • Economic development Braskem and Table Significant financial assistance received from Braskem United the government States and Europe ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION (CHAPTER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY) Description Location in the report/response Braskem Coverage Global Pact: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Table Energy consumption directly broken down by Braskem 8 source of primary energy EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Table Energy economized due to improvements in Braskem 7 and 8 efficiency improvements. conservation and efficiency EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Energy / Focus on efficiency Braskem 7 and 8 or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce energy consumption and indirect reductions Energy Braskem 8 obtained. Water EN8 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Consumption of water Braskem 8 achieved. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Consumption of water Braskem 9 Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Biodiversity Braskem 8 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Greenhouse Gases Braskem 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Greenhouse Gases Braskem 7, 8 and 9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Greenhouse Gases Braskem 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Emissions, effluents and waste Braskem 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Spills Braskem 8 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed Emissions, treatments and waste Braskem 8 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Conformity EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Braskem acts in accordance with the laws and Braskem and 8 sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. regulations of the country. The Company was not Braskem United condemned in a definite form to the payment of States * fines or to the fulfillment of non monetary sanctions in the period between 2007 and 2011. For the preparation of this report, we adopted same GRI 3.1 criterion of materiality used in the form of reference, established by the Securities Commission (CVM), GRI 3.2 in accordance with the CVM Normative Instruction 480/2009. GRI 3.3 General EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Investment and spending on environmental Braskem 7, 8 and 9 GRI 3.6 protection GRI 3.7 GRI 3.8 GRI 3.9 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 97 About this Report SOCIAL DIMENSION: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Description Location in the report/response Braskem Coverage Global Pact: Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, • Social development Braskem employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. People Management / Social performance indicators LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover • Social development Braskem and 6 by age group, gender, and region. People Management / social performance indicators Braskem United States * LA3 Benefits provided to full-time Members that are not provided to • Social development Braskem and temporary or part-time Members, by significant locations of operation. Braskem United People Management / Recovery and recognition States * Work/relationship management LA4 Percentage of Members covered by collective bargaining agreements. • Social development Braskem and 1,2 and 3 People Management / Recovery and recognition Braskem United States * Health and Occupational Safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and • Environmental Improvement Braskem and 1 total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. Injuries and occupational diseases Braskem United States * LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade • Social development Braskem 1 unions. People Management / Recovery and recognition / collective agreements Training and education LA11 Programs for skills management and • Social development Braskem lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Members People Management / social performance indicators and assist them in managing career endings. Diversity and equality of opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per • Corporate Governance Braskem 1 and 3 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Governance Model membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee • Social development Braskem 1, 2 and 3 category, by significant locations of operation. People Management / social performance indicators SOCIAL DIMENSION: HUMAN RIGHTS Description Location in the report/response Braskem Coverage Global Pact: Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. • Social development Braskem and 1, 2 and 3 Combating discrimination Braskem United States Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to There has been no operation of Braskem with danger Braskem and 1, 2 and 3 exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be or obstacle to the rights of its Members to exercise Braskem United violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. the freedom of association and collective bargaining States * in the period covered by the report. SOCIAL DIMENSION: SOCIETY Description Location in the report/response Braskem Coverage Global Pact: Conformity SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Braskem acts in accordance with the laws and Braskem and GRI 3.1 sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. regulations of the country. The company was not Braskem United convicted of final form to the payment of fines or States * to comply with sanctions for non-monetary, in the GRI 3.2 period 2007 to 2011. For the preparation of this report, we adopted the same criterion of materiality GRI 3.3 used in the form of reference, established by the Securities Commission (CVM), in accordance with the GRI 3.6 CVM Normative Instruction 480/2009. GRI 3.7 GRI 3.8 GRI 3.9 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 98 About this Report SOCIAL DIMENSION: LIABILITY ON THE PRODUCT Description Location in the report/response Braskem Coverage Global Pact: Health and safety of the customer PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and All the products of Braskem are evaluated in the Braskem and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant categories defined by the indicator, covering the Braskem United products and services categories subject to such procedures. following steps: development of the concept of the States product; research and development; certification; manufacturing, and production; marketing and promotion; storage, distribution and supply; use and service; disposal, reuse and recycling. Labeling of products and services PR3 Tipo de informação sobre produtos e serviços exigida por procedimentos • Business and sustainable development Braskem and de rotulagem, e o percentual de produtos e serviços sujeitos a tais Vision 2020 strategies for Braskem evolve in seven Braskem United exigências. macro-objectives States * The products marketed by Braskem require procedures on information and labeling, in the categories defined by the indicator, attended by the Company, except in the case of the category “outsourcing of components of the product or service”, for which there is no requirement. * Braskem United States: does not include indicators from PP plants purchased in 2011 from Dow Chemical. Guarantee Statement UN PP 4 ABC Avenida Ayrton Senna da Silva, 2.700 – Jardim Oratório The external verification of the Portuguese version of Mauá – SP the Sustainability Report was conducted by Det Norske CEP: 09380-901 Veritas (DNV) in accordance with the GRI G3 Guidelines, Tel.: (55 11) 3583-2200 meeting the requirements of B + application level declared by Braskem. UN PE 8 CUB Rodovia Cônego Domenico Rangoni – SP 055 – Km 266 – Corporate Information Pista Oeste, s/n Cubatão – SP CEP: 11573-903 Addresses and contact information for Braskem Tel.: (55 13) 3361-9000 commercial and industrial units. Fax: (55 13) 3361-9004 SUDESTE UNIB 4 e PE 9 DCX Rua Marumbi, 1.001 – Campos Elíseos UNIB 3 CK ABC Duque de Caxias – RJ GRI 3.1 Avenida Presidente Costa e Silva, 1.178 – Pq. Capuava CEP: 25221-000 GRI 3.2 Santo André – SP Tel.: (55 21) 2187-8883 CEP: 09270-901 GRI 3.3 Tel.: (55 11) 4478-1515 UN PP 5 DCX GRI 3.6 Rua Marumbi, 1.400 – Campos Elíseos GRI 3.7 UNIB 3 IN ABC Duque de Caxias – RJ Rua da União, 765 – Jardim Sonia Maria CEP: 25221-000 GRI 3.8 Mauá – SP Tel.: (55 21) 2173-4100 GRI 3.9 CEP: 09380-900 GRI 3.10 Tel.: (55 11) 4977-2020 ESC. RJ Avenida Graça Aranha, 182 – 9º andar GRI 3.11 UN PE 7 ABC Rio de Janeiro – RJ GRI 3.5 Avenida Presidente Costa e Silva, 400 – Pq. Capuava CEP: 20030-001 GRI 4.14 Santo André – SP Tel.: (55 21) 2157-7760 GRI 4.15 CEP: 09270-000 Fax: (55 21) 2157-7719 Tel.: (55 11) 4478-4000 99 About this Report UN PP 3 PLN UPVC – MARECHAL DEODORO Avenida Wagner Samara, 1280 – Bairro Cascata Rodovia Divaldo Suruagy – Km 12 – Via II – Polo Cloroquímico Paulínia – SP de Alagoas CEP: 13140-000 Marechal Deodoro – AL Tel.: (55 19) 3344-6700 CEP: 57160–000 Mineração RIO GRANDE DO SUL Av. Maj. Góes Monteiro, 2.889 – Mutange Maceió – AL PP1 CEP: 57017-515 BR 386 – Km 419 – III Polo Petroquímico – Via Oeste – Lote 5 Triunfo – RS Cinal CEP: 95853-000 Rodovia Divaldo Suruagy, km12 – Via 06 – Polo Cloroquímico UNIDADE DE PETROQUÍMICOS BÁSICOS Marechal Deodoro – AL BR 386 – Rod. Tabaí/Canoas – Km 419 – Via de Contorno, 850 CEP: 57160–000 Triunfo – RS CEP: 95853-000 BAHIA PP2/PE5-Spherilene BR 386 – Km 419 – Lote 4 – Polo Petroquímico do Sul UNIB 1 Triunfo – RS Rua Eteno, 1.561 – Copec – Polo de Camaçari CEP: 95853-000 Camaçari – BA CEP: 42810-000 PE4 BR 386 – Rodovia Tabaí/Canoas – Km 419 – Via de Contorno, PE 1 1.216 – Polo Petroquímico Rua Eteno, 1.582 – Copec – Polo de Camaçari Triunfo – RS Camaçari – BA CEP: 95853-000 CEP: 42810-000 PE5 PE 2 BR 386 – km 419 – Lote 04 – Polo Petroquímico Rua Hidrogênio, 3.520 – Copec – Polo de Camaçari Triunfo – RS CEP: 42810-280 CEP: 95853-000 PVC PE6 Rua Hidrogênio, 3.342 – Copec – Polo de Camaçari GRI 3.1 BR 386 – Rodovia Tabaí/Canoas – Km 419 – Via de Contorno, Camaçari – BA GRI 3.2 1.178 – Lote 29 CEP: 42810-280 Polo Petroquímico – Passo Raso GRI 3.3 Triunfo – RS PE 3 GRI 3.6 CEP: 95853-000 Rua Benzeno, 2.391 – Copec – Polo de Camaçari GRI 3.7 Camaçari – BA CEP: 42810-020 GRI 3.8 ALAGOAS CLORO SODA GRI 3.9 Rua Oxigênio, 765 – Copec – Polo de Camaçari GRI 3.10 UCS – MACEIÓ Camaçari – BA Avenida Assis Chateaubriand, 5.260 – Pontal da Barra CEP: 42810-270 GRI 3.11 Maceió – AL GRI 3.5 CEP: 57010-500 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 100 Credits About this Report ESCRITÓRIO Av. Antônio Carlos Magalhães, 3.244 – Ed. Thomé de Souza – 21º andar Camaçari – BA CEP: 41820-000 Head of Institutional Relations Marcelo Lyra do Amaral BRASKEM AMERICA Head of Corporate Communication Braskem America Head Quarters Nelson Letaif Polypropylene 1735 Market Street 29th floor Sustainable Development Supervision Philadelphia, PA 19103 Jorge Soto, André Leonel Leal, Deborah Baré and Natália Phone: 215-977-3298 Hazarian La Porte Plant GRI Consulting services 8811 Strang Road ERM Brasil LTDA. La Porte, TX 77571 Phone: 281-476-0303 Verification Fax: 281-930-2070 DNV Det Norske Veritas Marcus Hook Plant Writing and Editing P.O. Box 432 Versal Editores Marcus Hook, PA 19061 Phone: 610-497-8850 Design and videos Fax: 610-494-3792 Versal Editores Neal Chemicals Plant Digital development 200 Big Sandy Road Trupi Interativa Kenova, WV 25530 Phone: 304-453-1371 Photos Fax: 304-453-5916 Almir Bindilatti Edu Barcellos Technology and Innovation Center Lalo de Almeida 550 Technology Drive Arquivos Braskem Pittsburgh, PA 15219 GRI 3.1 Phone: 412-208-8100 GRI 3.2 Fax: 412-208-8205 GRI 3.3 Braskem America Houston Sales Office GRI 3.6 Office of Basic Chemical GRI 3.7 5100 Westheimer Rd – Suite 495 Houston, TX 77056 GRI 3.8 Phone: 713-255-4747 GRI 3.9 Fax: 713-255-4740 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 101 Glossary About this Report BNDESPAR National Bank for Economic Development and Social Equity. Cade Administrative Council for Economic Defense. Abiquim Brazilian Association of the chemical industry. CAF with time lost (work accident). ABNT / NBR Brazilian Association of Technical Standards / CEBEDS Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable DevelopBrazilian Standard. ment (CEBDES) Above standard one of the classification categories of Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP in a free translation means organizations by insurance enterprises (risk rating). In all, Project for dissemination of information on the management they are: Good (good), Above standard (above the stanof carbon). It is a global initiative to encourage companies to dard), Standard (standard), Substandard (below the standisclose their actions to confront climate change. dard) and Poor (weak). CO2 carbon dioxide gas. Above average Classification of insurers on the risk of CO2e carbon dioxide equivalent (the sum of the emissions firms: below average, average, above average and excelof all greenhouse gases “converted” into CO2). lent. Braskem is rated above average. Composting set of applied techniques for controlling the ADR (American Depositary Receipts or Shares) Title repdecomposition of organic material, with the purpose of obresenting the shares of non-US companies issued and tradtaining, in the shortest possible time, a stable material, rich ed in the capital market of the United States. There are three in humus and mineral nutrients. levels of ADRs, with different transparency requirements Basle Convention global initiative to control border moveand adequacy to the North American standards. A deposiments of hazardous wastes and their disposal, promoted in tary bank North American issues ADRs against the tank the 1988 by the United Nations Environment Program (Unep). underlying shares, held by a custodian in the country of oriCracking Processing by rupture (cracking, breakage) of gin of the shares. In the case of Braskem, each ADR reprelarge molecules into smaller molecules. In the industrial sents two class A preferred shares. processes of Braskem, and used to transform the nafta into ANA National Water Agency. lighterderivatives, such as ethylene, propylene and other coGlobal warming a phenomenon caused by the increase products, among others, butadiene, toluene, paraxylene, of emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG), caused by human orthoxylene, mixed xylene and gasoline. The process takes activities, which results in the increase of average temperaplace in crackers. ture of planet Earth. CVM Securities and Exchange Commission of Brazil , a BB+ BBB/ Classifications that assess the credit value of body with powers to discipline, normalize and oversee the the debt emissions of a company or government/country. performance of the various members of the market. BB+ is a step of investment grade and BBBalready repreSustainable development development capable of supsents investment grade. These classifications, made by plying the needs of the current generation without comproagencies of risk, represent the capacity for payment of mising the ability to meet the needs of future generations. debts within the time limit. DNV Det Norske Veritas (consulting). Biodiversity the variety and variability existing among EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and living organisms and the ecological complexities in which amortization. GRI 3.1 they occur. Such diversity includes ecosystems, animals, Eco-efficiency the ratio between the use of resources GRI 3.2 plants, fungi, microorganisms and genetic diversity. needed for the production of a product and its production Biomass from the point of view of energy generation, volume. Expresses the productivity from the environmental GRI 3.3 covers the derived from recent living organisms used as fuel point of view. GRI 3.6 or for production. Under the aspect of ecology, it is the total Energy Efficiency the rational use of energy to maximize GRI 3.7 quantity of living matter existing in a given ecosystem or in its benefits. an animal population or plant. Therefore, the two concepts Water Efficiency rational use of available water resources. GRI 3.8 are interlinked, although they are different. Entrepreneurship the practice of entrepreneurship held GRI 3.9 Biopolymer (bioplastic) thermoplastic resin produced from within the company by their members (it is part of the prinGRI 3.10 renewable raw materials, the sugar cane between them, ciples of TEO). and/or considered biodegradable (source: European BioplasEPI Personal Protective Equipment. GRI 3.11 tic Association). The term biodegradable, in turn, is applied to ESALQ Escola Superior de Agricultura Luiz de Queiroz, UniGRI 3.5 products which degrade naturally, by the action of microorversity of São Paulo. (Luiz de Queiroz School of Agriculture, GRI 4.14 ganisms. The process entails CO2 emissions into the atmoUniversity of Sao Paulo.) GRI 4.15 sphere (a gas generator of the greenhouse effect). Scope 1 : Are the direct emissions of GHGS, from sources BM&FBovespa Stock Market, Commodities and Futures. that are owned or controlled by the Organization, as for ex102 About this Report ample, combustion emissions from boilers, furnaces, vehipanies with shares traded in euros, in Stock Exchange in cles of the Company or by it controlled. Madrid, Spain. Scope 2: Counting of GHG emissions from the purchase of Lupotech T process technology tubular high pressure electric energy and heat consumed by the Organization. (Source: blog of plastic). Scope 3 : Are indirect emissions of GHG emissions. Scope 3 MBA Master of Business Administration (specialization in involves the consideration of all the other emissions arising business administration). from the direct activities of the Organization, but occur from Nafta derived from oil used, mainly, as raw material in the sources that do not belong or are not controlled by it. petrochemical industry (“naphtha”) in the production of ethHydric Stress phenomenon that occurs when the water ylene and propylene, besides other net fractions, such as consumption of humans is greater than 40% of renewable benzene, toluene and xylenes. sources of fresh water for a particular river basin. NYSE English acronym for New York Stock Exchange. GHG Gases or substances causing the greenhouse effect Millennium Development Goals Commitment defined in (heating) in the earth’s atmosphere. the UN and was adopted by 191 countries, in 2000, that GHG Protocol Brazil program that aims to encourage provides a set of eight goals to improve the quality of life, companies to develop and publish emission inventories of health, education and environment of the planet. greenhouse gases. THE GHG Protocol is a method developed OHSAS Occupational, Health & Safety Assessment Series in the United States in 1998 and today is used worldwide by Olefins ethylene, propylene, butadiene, raw materials for companies and governments for the implementation of the chemical and petrochemical industry. GHG inventories. NGO Non Governmental Organization. Joint venture association of companies with the objective UN United Nations Organization. of expanding their economic foundation for performance in PA Program of Action. business. Global Compact initiative developed by the UN with the GJ Giga Joules. aim of mobilizing the international business community to GPS Global Product Strategy adopt their business practices, of fundamental values and Investment Grade companies or countries considered internationally accepted in the areas of human developgood payers. For a company, be classified “investment ment, labor relations, the environment and combating grade” by rating agencies means the possibility of attracting corruption. investors. The more secure a country or a company is, the PAIR noise-induced hearing loss. more possibilities will have to obtain financing costs (interPDC Program of Development and skills. est) differentiated. PDI Individual Development Plan. Greenfield (greenfield) investment in projects to be dePDE Program for the Development of entrepreneurs. veloped or that require the construction of a structure to PDVSA Venezuelan crude oil. come into operation. Carbon Footprint the quantity of greenhouse gas emissions GRI Global Reporting Initiative (network that has created a of a product, usually considering since the raw materials that new methodology for a global pattern of reports on ecomake it up to the gate of the factory of which proceeds. nomic, social and environmental performance of Basic Petrochemicals products derived from the process GRI 3.1 organizations). of cracking naphtha and natural gas, subdivided into two GRI 3.2 Holding Company a company that has as main activity, main families: the olefins (ethylene, propylene, butadiene) the shareholding majority in one or more companies and and aromatics (benzene, toluene and xylenes). GRI 3.3 that holds the control of its administration. Green Plastic (Green PE) For Braskem, this is the plastic GRI 3.6 HHT men-hours worked. made with more than 50% of raw materials from a renewGRI 3.7 ICCA International Council of Chemical Associations able source. IDH Human Development Index. UNEP United Nations Environment Program. GRI 3.8 IPCC (International Panel of Climate Change (International Polyethylene (PE) petrochemical of second generation GRI 3.9 Panel on Climate Change), the UN. derived from ethylene. Thermoplastic resin (type of plastic) GRI 3.10 ISE Corporate Sustainability Index of BM&FBovespa. that can be molded by heating. It is used as raw material in ISO International Organization for Standardization the manufacturing of various plastic products, such as flexGRI 3.11 ISO 26000 First international standard for corporate social ible packaging, packaging for cleaning products and perGRI 3.5 responsibility. sonal hygiene, shopping bags and flexible films for GRI 4.14 ISP Private Social Investments. packaging. GRI 4.15 kg/t kilo per ton. Green polyethylene (Green PE) polyethylene made from Latibexsuffix that brings together Latin American comrenewable source, such as ethanol from sugar cane, and not 103 About this Report from raw material fossil. edly abrasions or hardened in accordance with the exposure Polypropylene (PP) Product petrochemical of second to different temperatures, suffering physical changes and generation derived from propylene, has similar properties to reversible. polyethylene, but with fusion point higher. Thermoplastic Risk Rating a method used by insurers to assess and clasresin with wide application in automobile industry, in offices sify the risk potential procedural in the activities of a given of household appliances, sacks for fertilizers, seeds and cecustomer. ment, cups and disposable dishes. SAF without expulsion (work accident). First generation reference to the producers called “crackSAICM English Acronym for Strategic Approach to Internaers”, responsible for fractionation of NAFTA (by-product of tional Chemicals Management. oil refining or natural gas, its main inputs, transforming SAP Systems, Applications, and Products in Data Processing them into basic petrochemicals. Sebrae Brazilian Service of Support to Micro and Small Cleaner Production continuous application of an environEnterprises. mental strategy integrated preventive to processes, prodSecond generation covers the producers responsible for ucts and services to increase the overall efficiency and rethe processing of basic petrochemicals from cracking units duce risks to human health and the environment. of NAFTA. The products of the second generation are called Green Products for Braskem, are products manufactured petrochemical intermediaries, case of thermoplastic resins. from renewable raw materials. Chemical Safety the prevention of adverse effects to huResponsible Care Program voluntary initiative estabman beings and the environment, resulting from the prolished by the chemical industry overall by means of ICCA duction, storage, transport, handling, use and disposal of (English acronym for International Council of Chemical Aschemicals. sociations), with the aim of improving the environmental Senai National Service of Industrial Learning. Synergy: comanagement of chemical companies and their supply operative integration between things, persons or organizachains. tions, obtaining better processes and results through the Project finance financing arrangement, mainly of venjoint action of parties of the system. Based on the assumptures of infrastructure, the largest part of the invested capition that “the sum of the parts is greater than the whole”. tal comes from the financial market. Synergy cooperative integration between things, persons Kyoto Protocol international agreement launched in 1997, or organizations, obtaining better processes and results in Japan, to stabilize the concentration of greenhouse gases through the joint action of the parties of the system. and ensure a model of clean development. Sipat Internal Accident Prevention Week of work. Sustainable Chemistry chemical offer to meet the needs SOX Sarbanes-Oxley Act, passed in 2002, in the United States. of modern society, which it considers its economic, social HSE health, safety and environment. and environmental impacts and their form of production, Tag along guarantees to minority shareholders, with commaximizing positive and controlling/minimizing any negamon shares, the same rights of controlling shareholders in tive impacts. the event of sale or transfer of control. Rating this is the opinion of agencies specializing in risk Severity Rate time computed per million man hours of analysis, on the ability of companies or governments to pay exposure to the risk at a given time. GRI 3.1 their debts. Clean Technology products, services and processes that GRI 3.2 Reach Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of use preferably renewable sources of raw material and enChemicals ergy, with less use of natural resources and low or no emisGRI 3.3 Energy recycling recover the energy contained in municision of wastes. In addition, using or producing products or GRI 3.6 pal solid waste, in the form of electrical energy or heat, inservices not aggressive to the environment and the health GRI 3.7 cinerated in controlled conditions. of people. Mechanical Recycling in the case of plastic, refers to the TEO Odebrecht Entrepreneurial Technology. GRI 3.8 use in the post-consumption, by physical conversion of TL injury rate. GRI 3.9 waste into granules, after the process of amalgamating and UN Business Unit. GRI 3.10 extrusion. UNIB Basic Petrochemicals Unit. Chemical recycling occurs when waste plastics are subUNPol Polymers Unit . GRI 3.11 jected to chemical processes for Depolymerisation and obVisio relationship Program with clients, developed by GRI 3.5 taining gas and oils, used later as a raw material in the Braskem. GRI 4.14 manufacture of other polymers with the same properties of GRI 4.15 the original resins . Thermoplastic Resins are polymers that can be repeat104 Glossary of products About this Report ETBE Ethyl tert Trin-butyl ether (Ether ethyl tert-butyl ether). GLP Liquefied Petroleum Gas. MTBE methyl tert Trin-butyl ether (Ether methyl tert-butyl ether). PE polyethylene. PEAD High Density Polyethylene. LDPE low density polyethylene. LLDPE linear low density polyethylene. PE-UHMW ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene PP Polypropylene. PVC Polyvinyl chloride. UTEC – Braskem´s own brand for PE-UHMW, an ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene. GRI 3.1 GRI 3.2 GRI 3.3 GRI 3.6 GRI 3.7 GRI 3.8 GRI 3.9 GRI 3.10 GRI 3.11 GRI 3.5 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.15 105
