NPF The National Projects Foundation Tel.: +7 (905) 719 90 54 Moscow, Russia Fax: +7(495)9568262 ext. 210375 Tel.: +7 (963) 755 95 35 www.auctions.mpi.ru Email: auctions.npf@gmail.com Исх./Our ref.: 20111121 no 001 IP Дата/Date: 2012-03-14 Communication on Progress Ten Principles and participation in partner projects to support development of the UN Structure I. Basic provisions II. Partner projects to support UN Global Compact III. Human Rights IV. Labour Rights V. Environment VI. Anti-Corruption I. Basic provisions The National Projects Foundation confirms constant support of the principles of the UN Global Compact in our activities. II. Partner projects to support UN Global Compact Taking into account that Global Compact considers active participation of the interested parties who do not belong to business circles as an important factor of achieving real progress, the Foundation sees the responsibility in our support of the UN Global Compact. As we are a non-commercial organization, our basic targets in this aspect is partnership, cooperation and expertise. The National Projects Foundation performed a number of projects, targeted at spreading information about the UN Global Compact and at a dialogue with the interested persons. In particular: holding Business Forum Russia-Slovenia 2011 (incl. holding conferences: Global Compact; Energy and Alternative Energy; Education and Personal Development; Tourism and Balneology; Agriculture, etc. in September, 2011 in Maribor, Slovenia holding charity auction and foreign art exhibitions, targeted at support of young (minor) artists and acquaintance and narrowing with cultures of other countries and peoples (Fiji, Solomon Islands, Myanmar, Venezuela, Suriname, etc.) other events, incl. Those enumerated in this report. III. Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The Foundation supports in its day-to-day activities the basic principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other generally recongnized norms of International Law. Over the period of this report the National Projects Foundation did not receive any complaints connected with non-observance of human rights. FEEDBACK (example) Taking into account that one of the basic freedoms of human is the freedom of literary and art creativity, the National Projects Foundation held an event to support one of the least protected people – start-up young artists. Following the event the Foundation developed special recommendations for protection of intellectual property when olding auctions and other charity events for children. The recommendations were distributed to the interested people, including the Government of Moscow and the Office of Human Rights Commissioner in Russia who expressed their support of the document. IV. Labour Rights  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Foundation considers its people as the most important value of the company. The Foundation does it utmost to create conditions for optimal use of potential of human resources and observance of labour rights of human. 2011 as part of the Business Forum Russia-Slovenia 2011 arranged by the Foundation matters related with the development of trade union movement in Russia and EU were discussed. Employees of the Foundation in 2010-11 actively took part and interacted with the representatives of different trade unions, including the interactions aimed at development of mutual recommendations and performance of practical actions to support the employees’ rights. During the period of this Report we have not received any complaints connected with non-observance of human rights. Any cases of discrimination, child labour, forced and compulsory labour, bans of association and collective bargaining over the report period did not occur. Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies The Foundation observes all requirements of environmental laws and ecological norms. The Foundation assists development and resource saving technologies and innovations in this sphere, incl. those in Intellectual property protection and assistance in promotion on the market. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. All employees of the Foundations are obliged to act in the interest of the Foundation, avoid any interest conflict, which means any situation when personal interest contradicts to the interests of the Foundation in general. In relation to anti-corruption the Foundation developed special recommendations aimed at prevention of financial violations and abuse of the Intellectual Property. Recommendations were distributed (and in some cases discussed) among the anticorruption. Some matters connected with possible corruption factors in Intellectual property were also sent to and discussed with some prosecution offices of the Russian regions. No facts of corruption over the stated period occurred. Best regards Mikael Dashian President of The National Projects Foundation
