CARIBBEAN OFFICE OF TRADE & INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUBMITTED TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT RD FOR THE PERIOD ENDING 23 KU DECEMBER 2011 TITLE TOWARDS TRANSPARENT REPORTING PARTICIPANT'S ADDRESS #8 CHACONIA TERRACE MARACAS, ST. JOSEPH, REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD & TOBAGO A Caribbean flffieeif Trade & Industrial Development Limited [[Facilitating Economic Cooperation]] United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Office Two United Nations Plaza, United Nations New York, NY 10017 United States of America. OUR STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT On December 13th 2010, Caribbean Office of Trade & Industrial Development Limited took the decision to support the Ten (10) Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. We became a Participant on 23rd December, 2010. We are proud to submit our first Communication on Progress and be part of the International community that supports public accountability and transparency. Our Company now renews its commitment and support to the Ten (10) Principles, the work and initiatives of the United Nations Global Compact. This is our Statement of Continued Support. Yours respectfully, CARIBBEAN OFFICE OF TRADE & INDUTRIAL DEVELOPMENT LIMITED, Managing Director #1 Cham ilia Terrace, Hararas, SI. Joseph, Trinidad, llesl Indies Telephone: (W)2!HHS, (MNHiCi-IOI F«: (XMI'21-454! effireeflrade@yaliiio.t'effl ainfo@offii'e»flrade.foin \Vebsite: ivHtt.ofnreoflrade.i'oin TO ALL STAKEHOLDERS • National • Regional • International Caribbean Office of Trade & Industrial Development Limited wishes to advise that the document accompanying this Statement, reaffirming our support and continued adherence to the Ten (10) Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, is our first submission of a Communication on Progress. We resolve to continue our support of the Ten (10) Principles and invite you to join with us and together let us advance the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In the conduct of our business operations and relations with all our stakeholders these principles would be evident. Support the Principles. We thank you. Yours respectfully, CARIBBEAN OFFFICE OF TRADE & INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT LIMITED Managing Director [[Facilitating Economic Co-operation]] X • HUMAN RIGHTS The Universal Declaration of Human Rights We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10th December, 1948. This Document is one of the Pillars of the Global Compact and lays the foundation for the Human Rights 1 & 2 of the Ten (10) Principles of the Global Compact. Caribbean Office of Trade & Industrial Development Limited confirms its support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Preamble and Articles 1 to 30. (a) Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Internationally proclaimed Human Rights and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. Office of Trade endorses and supports Principles 1 & 2. We conduct our operations in a manner that is consistent with these principles and we endeavour to identify and associate our business relations with employees, suppliers and stakeholders that recognize the right of the individual and the respect for human rights. The Constitution of our Country the Republic of Trinidad & Tobago have enshrined the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms. We support and abide by the law. (b) ASSESSMENT, POLICY & GOALS Office of Trade has not at this stage determined any document on human rights that is the sole purview of the Company. Our Country has several organizations that champion the cause of human rights. In addition to the Supreme law of the Country the Constitution matters pertaining to human rights abuses or the rights of the individual, company or organization can be referred to the Privy Council in London, which is the final Appellate Court for the Republic of Trinidad & Tobago. [[Facilitating Economic Co-operatioTTj] The Policy of Office of Trade is to endorse, support, facilitate and adhere to the Principles of human rights and by our actions, persuasion and encouragement, convince others, whether individual or organizations of the importance, relevance and moral obligation to support, human rights and freedom and discourage and seek to correct any form of human rights abuse nationally and internationally. Office of Trade's goal is to strive to obtain recognizable states as an organization that will support both financially and morally, initiations of the UN and other approved international organizations that would be in the forefront to prevent human rights abuses. (c) IMPLEMENTATION Description of concrete actions to influent human rights policies, reduce human rights risks and respond to human rights violations. 1. Establish an approved international reporting system that addresses human rights abuse. 2. Cooperate with others to identify human rights abuses. 3. Ensure that all human rights abuse is reported to the relevant authorities and action is taken on every report. 4. Lobby with others for public disclosure on matters pertaining to human rights abuse and the relevant findings on a national and international level. (d) MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Description of how the Company monitors and evaluates performance. Office of Trade would every three (3) months make inquiries and/or investigate reports of any human rights abuses. There has been no reported incidence at human rights abuse or violation of the freedom of the individual or any organization as a result of any action by Office of Trade. [[Facilitating Economic Co-operation]] • LABOUR The International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and rights at Work. (a) Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold Freedom of Association and the effective recognition of rights of collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour and; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination, in respect of employment and occupation. (b) ASSESSMENT, POLICY & GOALS Description of the relevance of labour rights for the Company [i.e. labour rights related risks and opportunities]. Description of written Policies, Public Commitments and Company Goals on labour rights. We the Directors and Shareholders of Caribbean Office of Trade & Industrial Development Limited supports the UN Principles as adopted in its entirety from the ILO Declaration of the Fundamental Principles and Rights at work. Office of Trade is not a unionized organization but there are no restrictions on employees should they wish to be associated with a Union of their choice. We abide by the labour laws of our Country. Office of Trade does not at this time have a written labour policy. We follow the regulations and laws as set out by the Government of the Republic of Trinidad & Tobago. [(Facilitating Economic Co-operationj] Employees have recourse and forums for review as a result of Legislation enacted under the Industrial Relations Act of 1972; The Workmen's Compensation Act; the National Insurance Act and the Occupational Safety and Health Act among others. In addition, judicial review in the Country's High Court is also another avenue available to any worker. There have been no industrial complaints reported against the Company. (c) IMPLEMENTATION Description of concrete actions taken by your Company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. The Company abides and conforms to the industrial and labour laws of the Country. While the Company is not engaged in any high risk industry, every effort is made to protect employees and the general public from harm or danger at our business location. Our Company has had no industrial report or dispute to date. (d) MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Performance of employees is measured by internationally recognized industry standards. Office of Trade continuously encourages its employees and associates and lends support for training and development. Office of Trade operates as trade facilitators, business coordinating agents and provides related commercial services. The Company demographics is generally 60% men and 40% women with ages between 21 years and 70 years comprising employees and associates. There has been no instance of employee injury, fatality or any reported notice of public danger to date at the Company's location. [[Facilitating Economic Co-operation]] • ENVIRONMENT The Rio Declaration on Environment & Development (a) The Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. (b) ASSESSMENT, POLICY & GOALS Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the Company [i.e. environmental risk and opportunities]. Description of public commitments and Company goals on environmental protection. Caribbean Office of Trade & Industrial Development Limited supports the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. Our Company does not have a written Environmental Policy. We support policies and initiatives of the United Nations Environment Programme [UNEP] with respect to the folio wing:UNITED NATTIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME [UNEP] • Climate Change • Disasters & Conflict • Ecosystem Management • Environmental Governance • Harmful Substance • Resource Efficiency We also support the Report [[Facilitating Economic Co-operation)] We recognize this report as a joint publication of (a) The United Nations Global Compact (b) United Nations Environment Programme (c) Oxfam (d) World Resources Institute We confirm that clear attribution is given to the United Nations Global Compact, UN Environment Programme, Oxfam and the World Resources Institute and that content is not used for commercial purposes. All disclaimers pertaining to this Report have been duly noted and recognized. Office of Trade supports the following contents of the Report. (1) Climate Change Risk, Sustainable Development and Implications for Business. (2) Doing business in our changing climate measures for practical business action. (3) Catalyzing Strategic Private Sector Adaption: Policy measures to promote Effective Business Investment & Engagement. In addition we support any directive issues by the Environmental Management Authority of the Republic of Trinidad & Tobago. It is our goal to develop an approved and internationally acceptable Environmental Policy Manual. (c) IMPLEMENTATION Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. • Office of Trade always strive through discussions with our employee to emphasize the importance of protection and maintaining the environment for the benefit and well being of future generations and ourselves. [(Facilitating Economic Co-operation]] • The nature of the Company activities does not require any significant physical implementation of environmental policies. We however, encourage our stakeholders to be supportive of environmental protection. • Any matter pertaining to the environment will be the responsibility of the Board of Directors. (d) MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Description of the Company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. The Company does not operate in any industry that require monitoring and evaluation of environmental performance of any significance. The Environmental Management Authority which is a State enterprise is responsible for monitoring evaluation and approval of major projects that may impact on the environment. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Works and the Ministry of Local Government generally attend to day to day routine environmental matters. [(Facilitating Economic Co-operation)] • ANTI-CORRUPTION The United Nations Convention Against Corruption (a) Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all forms. (b) ASSESSMENT, POLICY & GOALS We support the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Office of Trade recognizes that corruption in any form leads to weak governance, injustice, poverty and developments that war against a just and civilized society. Our Company practices zero tolerance on corruption. We support the initiatives of the International Anti-Corruption Academy Transparency International Anti-corruption Center and all organizations/institutions engaged in the elimination of corruption. Our resolve against corruption extends to our relationship with employees, associates, stakeholders and others. (c) IMPLEMENTATION Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, reduce anticorruption risks and respond to incidents. The Managing Director has the responsibility to report any corrupt activity to the Board of Directors. An investigation must commence and be completed within a particular time frame depending on the nature of any corruption report. The time frame for completion of the investigation is determined by the Board of Directors. Reporting of any incidence of corruption to the relevant authorities is the remit and direction of the Board of Directors as the circumstances of the matter may require. [[Facilitating Economic Co-operationj] (d) MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Description of how the Company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Office of Trade is a Company designated as an SMB. The Company conducts business as Trade Facilitators and coordinating Agents. Sign-off on any transaction must be approved by the Board. Therefore, any incidence of corruption being undetected in very limited. Stakeholders are encouraged to contact any Director with respect to transactions conducted by the Company. Supporting documentations, correspondence and project approval must be obtained from all Parties involved before proceeding with or finalizing a business transaction. [[Facilitating Economic Co-operation]] CONCLUSION The main objectives of Caribbean Office of Trade & Industrial Development Limited follows:1. To increase our transparency and COP reporting to achieve GC Advanced Level Status, within the UN Global Compact. 2. Participate and establish a reporting framework as recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative and recognized by the UN Global Compact 3. Be recognized internationally as a Company actively implementing the Ten (10) Principles of the UN Global Compact. 4. Encouraging other companies and organizations to join the UN Global Compact and support its Principles, initiatives and programmes. Managing Director CARIBBEAN OFFICE OF TRADE & INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT LIMITED [^Facilitating Economic Co-operation]]
