Investing in the future United nations global compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 Old Mutual is an international long-term savings, protection and investment Group Introduction 1 Statement of support from Julian Roberts, Group Chief Executive 2 Our business at a glance 4 Our approach to responsible business our progress 5 Human rights 6 Labour 7 Environment 8 Anti-corruption Looking ahead 9 Looking ahead 9 Useful links contact and feedback If you would like to find out more information, have any questions, or would like to provide any additional feedback on this Communication on Progress please email: Helen Wilson, Head of Responsible Business responsiblebusiness@omg.co.uk STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM JULIAN ROBERTS, CEO OF OLD MUTUAL Throughout 2011, we all witnessed or were impacted Our five key issues by large scale natural disasters, escalating social ■■ Responsible investment unrest in a number of countries, the continued ■■ Responsible customer service international debate about the role of financial ■■ Responsible to our employees services, and the protests of the Occupy movement. ■■ Responsible to our communities These all served to reinforce the fact that we live in a world where news travels fast, and where events on ■■ Responsible environmental management one side of the globe can have a major impact elsewhere. Through our position as an international Key progress in 2011 long-term savings, investment and protection ■■ Creating a framework for responsible decision Group, I believe Old Mutual can play a positive and making in our owned and managed investments stabilising role in global society, I am proud that we ■■ Better understanding the needs and aspirations are responding to global trends to create a longof our customers to ensure products and services term, responsible and transparent business to appropriately meet these create positive impact. ■■ Working with our employees to create a better culture that will deliver greater success for them We find the Global Compact a useful framework and the business for helping us deliver that positive role in society. ■■ Continuing to invest in helping build stronger The Global Compact’s principles have an influence on how we conduct our business day to day; and sustainable communities principles of responsibility which have been important ■■ Driving down our carbon emissions across the Group. to us since our formation over 165 years ago. In 2011 we made good progress to responsible business I know that there is always more to do, and more to and in further embedding the principles that form the learn. New challenges will arise that will cause us Compact. I believe our greatest achievement has been at Old Mutual to reassess our approach to running identifying and working with networks and individuals our business in a responsible manner. That is why we across the Old Mutual Group to share our Responsible choose to be an active member of the Global Compact; Business strategy and deliver it consistently. Taking into to share our progress and challenges and to learn from account the different geographies in which we operate other members. Our 2011 Communication on Progress and markets we serve, has helped us focus on five provides a brief summary of our activity against the key issues where we have invested time and resources Global Compact principles over the last year. For further to create momentum and accountability across details, you can access other Old Mutual publications the Group. that detail our progress and plans including our 2011 Responsible Business Report. Julian Roberts Group Chief Executive  Old Mutual plc 1 Communication on Progress 2011 OUR BUSINESS AT A GLANCE Below is a high-level summary of the Group and our four principal business units. group Old Mutual is an international Adjusted operating profit Primary locations (AOP) 2011 long‑term savings, protection ■■  TS – Southern Africa, Europe, Colombia, L £1,515m Mexico, India and China and investment Group. ■■ US Asset Management – US ■■ Banking – Southern Africa 2010: £1,371m ■■ Short-term insurance – Southern Africa Funds under management Responsible business highlights (FUM) 2011 4 ■■ Good progress in our approach to integrating £267.2bn 2010: £295.2bn responsible investment principles ■■ Implemented a new customer loyalty measure to help us continuously improve our customer service Number employed1 2011 ■■ Positive results from our employee 57,430 culture survey ■■ Invested £11.6 million in our communities ■■ Well on track to deliver our 2020 target to 2010: 55,730 reduce carbon emissions LONG-TERM SAVINGS (LTS) We provide innovative life Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2011 Contribution to Group assurance-based solutions which address both protection £793m AOP2 FUM3 and retirement savings needs. 2010: £787m 60% 40.6% Funds under management Our brands (FUM) 2011 £108.5bn 4 2010: £117.9bn Number employed 2011 22,851 2010: 21,729 1 Includes Group Head Office, Bermuda, Nordic and US Life.  2 % of total operating business unit’s AOP after tax and non-controlling interests. Old Mutual plc 2 3 % of FUM in Group core operations. Communication on Progress 2011 OUR BUSINESS AT A GLANCE continued Banking We have a majority Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2011 Contribution to Group shareholding in Nedbank, £755m AOP2 FUM3 one of South Africa’s leading banks, which also has 2010: £601m 28% 3.6% banking interests in other Core tier 1 ratio countries in Southern Africa. 4 Our brand 11.0% 2010: 10.1% Number employed 2011 28,494 2010: 27,525 SHORT-TERM INSURANCE We provide short-term Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2011 Contribution to Group insurance solutions in £89m AOP2 FUM3 Southern Africa through Mutual & Federal. 2010: £103m 6% 0.1% Underwriting margin Our brands 4 5.0% 2010: 7.6% Number employed 2011 2,390 2010: 2,222 US ASSET MANAGEMENT We aim to grow our customers’ Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2011 Contribution to Group savings and wealth, whether £67m AOP2 FUM3 through active and direct asset management or the selection of 2010: £72m 6% 55.7% funds and managers for Funds under management customers to invest in. (FUM) 2011 4 Some of our brands £148.8bn 2010: £166.4m Number employed 2011 BARROW, HANLEY, MEWHINNEY & STRAUSS, LLC 1,564 2010: 1,537  Old Mutual plc 3 Communication on Progress 2011 OUR APPROACH TO RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS At the heart of how we address the Compact’s Ten Principles is our approach to responsible business. We have outlined below how we conduct our frameworks in place to monitor our progress and business responsibly by: keep responsible business high on everyone’s agendas. We also have metrics in place to track our ■■ Putting the right processes and policies in place progress, an area we are continuing to develop. ■■ Sharing information with our employees and other stakeholders ■■ Encouraging feedback Our employees ■■ Building ownership for responsible business in In 2011 we engaged with each of our businesses to everyone’s role. understand what they were already doing – and what still needed to be done – to make sure we had a Our governance common understanding of responsible business. Through a series of networks and responsible At Group level, Don Schneider (Group Human business practitioners, there are individuals at a Resources Director and Executive Committee senior level in each business driving forward activity. Member) chairs our Responsible Business We see opportunities to expand this senior level Committee which has representatives from the network. They are supported by employees who help different business functions. The Committee’s role is implement changes and work with the wider to champion and challenge our responsible business employee base to embed responsible business approach and to help embed it in all we do. The Chair practice into everyday business activity. As well as is also responsible for reporting to the Executive various initiatives held throughout the year such as Committee on responsible business plans and community volunteering and environmental campaigns, achievements, and on working with the rest of the our aim is for everyone at Old Mutual to behave Executive team to make sure they lead effectively on responsibly in their everyday behaviours and decisions. our Responsible Business strategy. Each strand of our Responsible Business strategy Our future has governance structures in place to ensure accountability for decisions made and actions taken. For 2012, we have refined our Responsible Business Each part of the Group has its own governance strategy so that it is clearer and better aligned to our structures for responsible business reporting to, and overall business strategic priorities. The five key focus working closely with the Group structures. The CEO areas of our approach to responsible business are: of each business is accountable for compliance with responsible investment, responsible customer service, our Group Operating Model, which includes responsible to our employees, responsible to our responsible business practice. communities and responsible environmental management. We will work with our businesses to deliver this strategy with an added focus on improving Our processes the way we report our progress so that there is greater transparency on our challenges and achievements. Measuring and sharing our progress is an important way for us to track performance and highlight where additional effort may be required. We have  Old Mutual plc 4 Communication on Progress 2011 OUR progress 1. Human rights UN Global Compact Principle 1 UN Global Compact Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect Businesses should make sure that they the protection of internationally proclaimed are not complicit in human rights abuses human rights Old Mutual’s position are tasked to track implementation and compliance. It is their Throughout our operations Old Mutual is committed to raising responsibility to escalate material instances of non-compliance awareness of human rights and labour standards, and ensuring with the Group policies with the Group Governance function. they are respected in all our activities. Our Code of Conduct and Group Operating Model are core to Our relations with employees and other stakeholders are based on ensuring responsible business practices are embedded across respect for the individual. We manage our engagement with all our the Group. stakeholders in accordance with the Group’s core values: Pushing beyond boundaries, Accountability, Respect and Integrity. Our Group Code of Conduct contains a number of specific statements that address the principles relating to human rights in Systems and Processes the Global Compact. In our Responsible Business Policy, which Any suspected breach of human rights is reported through is part of our Group Operating Model, we explicitly reference human appropriate channels, including the Human Resources, rights and the responsibilities of all our employees towards others. Responsible Business and/or Risk functions, to the Audit and Risk Committees that are in place around the Group, with escalation to At Group level we have policies that encourage engagement the Group Audit and Risk Committee where warranted. with our communities. At local level there is flexibility to focus on the issues that are most appropriate to that business. It is standard practice that the owners of all Old Mutual Group policies, with the support of their business unit representatives, 2011 highlights on progress Our support for our local communities is an active expression of In 2011 we started the process of revisiting a number of our key some of the work we do to promote the principles of human rights responsible business processes and governance tools. This where we operate. In 2011 we invested £11.6 million in community included: projects across the world including: ■■ S  tarting a revision of our Responsible Business Policy to align ■■ Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) ran the Learners’ Scholarship with new strategy and other third party frameworks including Programme giving promising students from disadvantaged the Global Compact backgrounds schooling at top mathematics schools ■■  evising our Code of Conduct which we plan to embed as our R ■■ M  utual & Federal worked with the South African Insurance fundamental statement of the Group’s ethics. Association and the Financial Sector Charter on programmes such as the Managing Your Money initiative to help improve In 2011, we also heavily invested in improving our approach to mathematical literacy in South African schools responsible investment to get a better understanding of how our investments can impact social issues such as human rights: ■■ O  ld Mutual Investment Group South Africa (OMIGSA) launched a nationwide scholarship initiative, Imfundo Trust, to address the ■■ O  ld Mutual continued its support of external codes and shortage of black investment professionals principles raising the profile of environmental, social and good ■■ O  ver 1,000 Nedbank employees volunteered for Nedbank’s governance criteria in investment decision making Caring for our Communities education programme ■■ In line with the commitments of the Code for Responsible ■■  roup Head Office continued to support financial education in G Investing in South Africa (CRISA), we have made public the London through the Young Enterprise Scheme, reaching over Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa (OMIGSA) guidelines 4,000 young people on responsible investment and ownership processes. ■■ Old Mutual Namibia helped establish The Old Mutual Women’s Micro-Business Project, providing women with financial and business training and access to interest-free loans ■■ O  ld Mutual Foundation in South Africa grew its Legends Programme, supporting the development and sustainability of small black-owned businesses and community projects, from 10 projects in 2009 to 67 projects in 2011. For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9  Old Mutual plc 5 Communication on Progress 2011 OUR progress continued 2. Labour UN Global Compact Principle 3 UN Global Compact Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should uphold the effective abolition association and the effective recognition of child labour of the right to collective bargaining UN Global Compact Principle 4 UN Global Compact Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Old Mutual’s position in relation to our employees. This policy sets out the mandatory We uphold the principle of the freedom of association and the requirements in terms of policy and practice that all business units effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, where must meet. The policy covers employee relations and allowed by the law. employment, diversity, selection and appointment, remuneration and performance management, talent management & We do not tolerate forced labour or child labour. organisational development, and employee welfare. We are committed to increasing diversity throughout the Group: CEOs from each business unit are required to sign a letter of the different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives of our Representation annually to confirm they and their employees have employees are a great asset. Our policies ensure that no complied with the Group Policy over the last year and indicate employee receives less favourable treatment on grounds of their where any issues have arisen. This is supported by regular internal gender, age, sexual orientation, race, disability, religion or any audit checks that take place regularly to confirm compliance to other factor unrelated to the requirements of their position. In this and other Group Policies. southern Africa, recognising the unique circumstances, we balance these principles against our commitment to address We also spend time carefully selecting and working with our suppliers employment equity and transformation issues. to ensure they reflect the values we see as important in relation to labour standards. This work is underpinned by internal governance Systems and Processes bodies that promote and facilitate good labour practices. We also We have a detailed Human Resource Risk Management Group provide on-going training of employees to ensure all people Policy in place that governs the management of labour standards responsible for procurement are aware of the relevant requirements. 2011 highlights on progress Building our diversity Broadening horizons to improve our culture We continued to increase the diversity in a range of areas, with a In 2011 we delivered a range of activities across the Group to strong focus on increasing the number of women within the help share understanding and experience across the different business and increase the proportion in leadership positions. businesses. These included: For example this year: ■■  e launched our International Talent Programme which equips W ■■ Employees in the UK launched a Women’s Network, open our emerging leaders with skills for global leadership including to all, to share experiences and provide insight to the leadership cross-cultural management skills ■■ Women hold 13% of senior management positions within ■■ In partnership with the University of Cape Town, Old Mutual the Group Emerging Markets (OMEM) launched the Cross Boundary ■■ We have a second female member on the Group Board Programme, designed to improve cultural awareness among of Directors our future senior managers ■■ In the UK, we are part of the FTSE 100 Cross-Company ■■  MEM ran a ‘Connect our World’ event to increase awareness O Mentoring Programme which focuses on equipping of the opportunities for working in different locations. talented women to be credible candidates for senior Maintaining strong employee relations and a healthy workplace roles in UK businesses Across the Group we have continued to build better working ■■ We submitted a response to the Davies Report on Women on conditions for our employees. For example in 2011: Boards in September 2011 outlining our commitment to increase the number of women on our Group Board of Directors. ■■ The proportion of Old Mutual South Africa’s employees who are union members grew from 35% of the total workforce last year External recognition to 38% this year (43% of the permanent workforce). OMSA lost This year we have been recognised by a number of external zero days to industrial action in 2011, maintaining our record organisations for our achievements, including: from previous years ■■ Old Mutual South Africa and Mutual & Federal appeared ■■ In Swaziland we established a Wellness Committee to on the Best Employers list compiled by the Corporate co-ordinate support for the physical, social and financial Research Foundation wellbeing of employees. ■■ Old Mutual South Africa and Nedbank maintained level 2 status and Mutual & Federal level 3 status as Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment contributors. For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9  Old Mutual plc 6 Communication on Progress 2011 OUR progress continued 3. Environment UN Global Compact Principle 7 UN Global Compact Principle 9 Businesses should support a precautionary Businesses encourage the development and approach to environmental challenges diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies UN Global Compact Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Old Mutual’s position our impacts as far as possible – from waste production, water While the nature of our business means that our environmental and paper consumption and energy consumption in our buildings impacts are less extensive than some other industries, we are to how we travel to our meetings. nonetheless very aware of our footprint and know that we can continue to improve our operations and behaviours to minimise At the start of 2010, we developed a Group Climate Change any negative impacts. At the same time, we look for innovative Strategy to help us reduce our climate change impacts and ways of contributing positively to the environment and making improve our energy efficiency. Within this strategy we set sure the way we do business reflects emerging thinking on best ourselves the target of reducing Old Mutual’s carbon emissions by environmental practices. 20% by 2020. We have 12 Environment Taskforces to implement our Climate Change Strategy, acting as a focal point in helping As an investor we also invest in ‘green’ technologies and promote deliver our target and build on the multitude of activity already products and services that allow our clients to have greater going on around the Group. environmental responsibility. One of the greatest climate change risks to our business is through Systems and Processes the investments we hold and the policies we underwrite. While we We approach our environmental management through effective have a number of socially responsible investment and ethical funds facilities and property management, aligned with employee that allow our customers to invest in specific environmental engagement and encouraging them to take ownership of their projects, our group-wide aim is to include environmental, social and own environmental footprints. We monitor, manage and reduce ethical criteria into all our investment making decisions. 2011 highlights on progress Promoting greater environmental responsibility Reducing our environmental footprint We also continued to work to promote greater environmental In 2011 we continued to make progress in reducing our responsibility through support of others and investment of environmental footprint. Highlights include: our own and our clients’ funds. Highlights include: ■■ Reduced overall carbon dioxide emissions by 16% group-wide ■■ O  ld Mutual Property continued to work closely with the Green Building Council of South Africa and helped develop an ■■  ld Mutual appeared in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership O open-access toolkit on green leases which seeks to promote Index for the third consecutive year, increasing our score and and encourage environmentally sustainable practices in the being ranked seventh for the Financial Services sector property industry ■■ In our investment property portfolio, we decreased our carbon ■■ A consortium of Old Mutual South Africa and Macquarie Capital emissions by 10% to 0.21 tonnes of CO2e per square metre secured a deal to start an infrastructure project that will build a (2010: 0.23 tonnes CO2e/m2) 300-megawatt wind farm in the Eastern Cape of South Africa ■■ We decreased our water consumption by 28% from 4.5 million ■■ N  edbank launched a green exchange-traded fund on m3 to 3.3 million m3 in 2011. The biggest reduction occurred in the Johannesburg Stock Exchange ranking South Africa’s South Africa where our water consumption was reduced top-20 listed companies in terms of sustainability by 31% ■■  e had over £2.8 billion funds under management in W ■■ Unfortunately we increased our waste to landfill from 2010 by specifically social, environmental and transformation related 10%. However, some of this increase has resulted from more investments – including OMIGSA’s Futuregrowth fund and the of our businesses reporting this Key Performance Indicator African Infrastructure Investment Managers fund. (KPI) in 2011. A number of our businesses, including Nedbank and our operations in the UK, have significantly reduced waste consumption ■■ Sharing of best practice between Wealth Management and our South African businesses on how to integrate the social, environmental and governance factors into Requests for Procurement. For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9  Old Mutual plc 7 Communication on Progress 2011 OUR progress continued 4. Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Old Mutual’s position We work closely with regulators, law enforcement agencies and Bribery and corrupt business practices create unfair markets, trade associations to share good practice both inside and outside erode public trust and stifle long-term economic development – the Group. By promoting better education and awareness of these are contrary to Old Mutual’s values. We are committed to issues connected with financial crime we also help promote a ethical and legal business conduct in all the countries where we more accountable society that is able to combat other anti-social operate. activities that are often supported by gains from financial crime. Systems and Processes We have a Group anti-bribery and corruption policy in place. The Business Protection team at Group Head Office oversees the All business units are required to follow the requirements of implementation of our financial crime prevention policies across this policy and CEOs are required to attest annually in relation the Group. This team reports to the Group Executive, Board Risk to compliance with this policy. and Group Audit Committees. Major issues are escalated and dealt with as they arise, while less serious issues are reported and We have skilled and experienced Forensics teams in our major analysed quarterly. All our work is underpinned by regular contact businesses that have responsibility for overseeing the policy and for with the business units. investigating any allegations of bribery that involve our employees. Our Group Code of Conduct helps our employees clearly We also have whistleblowing arrangements in our businesses that understand the ethical standards we all apply when interacting facilitate employees (and in some businesses, members of the with customers and other stakeholders. public) raising issues anonymously. Such issues would include instances of bribery or corruption. 2011 highlights on progress ■■ Nedbank ran an anti-bribery campaign in partnership with Tackling corruption in all its forms requires having the right the bank’s ethics team which included employee workshops systems in place, and also having the right culture within the ■■ Retail Europe implemented new anti-money laundering organisation. We also work with other organisations to create software improving its ability to check for politically positive networks to tackle corruption. In 2011 we continued to exposed individuals and financial sanctions make progress in a number of these areas. Highlights include: ■■  utual & Federal used external advice to investigate M ■■ We updated our Code of Conduct to take account of the and prosecute fraud with local authorities Bribery Act 2010 in the UK, and to make it more ■■ Nedbank shared intelligence with other major South African understandable and accessible to employees as this legislation banks in relation to criminal activities to improve the banking affects all of our operations throughout the world industry’s capacity to fight fraud ■■ W  e conducted our second bribery risk assessment across ■■ Mutual & Federal continued to participate in initiatives all our businesses with sign off by CEOs or senior executives overseen by the South African Insurance Fraud Bureau ■■  ld Mutual South Africa (OMSA) and Nedbank started to O ■■ O  ld Mutual Group Head Office assisted City of London implement monitoring systems to help identify internal fraud police with the arrest of two individuals involved in an ■■ The Group continues to run an annual financial crime international fraud case. conference for business unit experts to share their knowledge and experiences. In 2011 this conference brought together 17 different speakers including four from external organisations For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9  Old Mutual plc 8 Communication on Progress 2011 looking ahead Old Mutual is committed to advancing the Global Compact’s principles and broader UN goals within our business and through working with others. Some of these commitments and plans include: ■■  ncourage greater feedback from our stakeholders E on our reporting of our Responsible Business approach ■■ B  ecome signatories of the UN-backed Principles for and incorporate this into our future reporting and Responsible Investment in 2012. We will continue to Communications on Progress integrate Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) ■■ Develop a set of group-wide community investment criteria and decision-making into our investment decisions, principles so that we can better invest, measure and following these Principles and those of the Global work in partnership with the communities in which we Compact with the aim to publicly report in 2014 operate ■■ Expand our Climate Change Strategy to take into account ■■ Working together to build our cross boundary our wider environmental impacts and management. We understanding of risk and opportunity. will report more KPIs to demonstrate our progress and share challenges ■■ Disseminate our revised Code of Conduct across the Group Useful links For further information Nedbank United Nations Global Compact Communications on Progress Old Mutual Group values http://www.unglobalcompact.org/COPs/detail/16583 http://www.oldmutual.com/about/ourValues.jsp Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa – Guidelines on Old Mutual Group Code of Conduct Responsible Investment http://www.oldmutual.com/vpage.jsp?vpage_id=2726 http://www.oldmutual.co.za/documents/omigsa/ OMIGSAResponsibleInvestmentGuidelinesJan2012.pdf Old Mutual Group Responsible Business Report 2011 http://rbreport2011.oldmutual.com/ Old Mutual South Africa transformation http://www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/transformation.aspx Nedbank Integrated Report 2011 http://www.nedbankgroup.co.za/financial/Nedbank_ar2011/ Old Mutual Group and Nedbank CDP reports default.asp https://www.cdproject.net/ Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2011 FutureGrowth http://www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/sustainability-report.aspx http://www.futuregrowth.co.za/  Old Mutual plc 9 Communication on Progress 2011
