Sustainability Report 2012 GRI G3.1 compliant Sesa Goa Limited Application level A+ Sustainability Report 2012  Sesa Goa Limited SESA GOA LIMITED Our Vision To be one of the top four iron ore mining companies in the world Our Mission • To maximise stakeholder wealth by exploiting core skills of iron ore mining, coke and iron making • To constantly seek high levels of productivity and technical efficiency; to maintain technological superiority over competitors • To aggressively seek additional resources • To maintain costs in the lowest quartile globally • To be an organisation with best-in-class people and a performance driven culture by attracting and retaining quality manpower • To continue to maintain a pre-eminent position in safety, environment and quality control management in the respective industry sectors • To contribute to the development of the communities, the Company operates in, or have influence on its business activities • To uphold human rights in the workplace and communities surrounding our operating areas Our Values Entrepreneurship Excellence Sustainability We foster an entrepreneurial spirit Achieving excellence in all that we do is We practice sustainability within the throughout our businesses and value the our way of life. We strive to consistently framework of well-defined governance ability to foresee business opportunities deliver projects ahead of time at industry structures and policies and with the early in the cycle and act on them swiftly. leading costs of construction and within demonstrated commitment of our Whether it is developing organic growth budget. We are constantly focused on this management and employees. We aim projects, making strategic acquisitions or and aspire to achieve a top decile cost of not only to minimise damage to the creating entrepreneurs from within, we production in each of our businesses. To environment from our projects, but also ensure an entrepreneurial spirit at the heart achieve this, we follow a culture of best to make a net positive impact on the of our workplace. practice benchmarking. environment wherever we work. Growth Trust We continue to deliver growth and generate The trust that our stakeholders place in us significant value for our shareholders on a is key to our success. We recognise that we sustainable basis. Moreover, our organic must responsibly deliver on the promises growth pipeline is strong as we seek to we make to earn that trust. We constantly continue to deliver significant growth strive to meet stakeholders’ expectations for shareholders in the future. We have of us and deliver ahead of expectations pursued growth across all our businesses without compromising our other values. and into new areas; always on the basis that value must be delivered.  Sustainability Report 2012 CONTENTS Overview 3 Environmental Stewardship 39 About Sesa 4 Regenerating Resources 40 Chief Executive’s Statement 7 Product Responsibility 47 7 Features of Our 7th Report 10 Strategy & Governance 11 Empowering Communities 49 Our Sustainability Approach 12 Reaching Out to Community 50 Our Stakeholders 13 Economic Performance 17 Risks and Mitigation 20 Corporate Governance 22 Ethics & Human Rights 27 Assurance 57 Ethics 28 GRI Content Index 58 Human Rights 29 UNGC & NVG Guidelines 67 Sustainable Supplier Relations 30 NVG Report Application Table 68 Assurance by DNV 70 GHG Verification by DNV 72 Memberships and Associations 74 Glossary 75 Nurturing People 31 Our People 32 Health and Safety 37  Sesa Goa Limited YEAR IN REVIEW Sesa continued to pursue improvements across all areas of its sustainability performance. Our ongoing drive of “Zero Accident Mindset” efforts and focus on addressing the root causes of safety and near-miss incidents over the last few years has led to a 60% decline in the lost time injuries since 2006-07. Highlights • 5% reduction in lost time injuries to 0.81 per million hours worked • Pig Iron and Shipbuilding Division achieved zero lost time injuries; whereas Pig Iron Division achieved this for the second consecutive year • Zero cases of occupational illness / disease from exposure to current occupational hygiene hazards • 101,129 CERs have been accrued while we continue to reduce carbon and GHG • Voluntary corporate social involvement of Rs. 310 millions to support communities • Contribution of over Rs. 35,000 million in terms of taxes, duties and royalties to the exchequer • Ranked amongst the “Top Ten Leaders” for CDLI (Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index) in the CDP 2011, India 200 Report • 96,208 man hours of training were imparted Table 1: Performance Parameters 2011-12 Parameters Units Performance Target Performance (2010-11) (2011-12) (2011-12) Production (Iron Ore) mt 18.8 21.3 13.8 Economic LTIFR per million man 0.86 0.68 0.81 Safety hours worked Lifecycle Assessment Compilation of baseline Study results will be On track (LCA) studies for all data and awareness revealed end of 2012 LCA the products program to identified persons SGL Mining kL / t 0.732 5-10% reduction on 1.348 Specific Water previous year’s achieved targets Environment SGL PID kL / t 2.002 2.038 consumption SGL MCD kL / t 0.779 0.799 SGL Mining GJ / t 0.106 3-5% reduction on 0.150 Specific Energy previous year’s achieved SGL PID GJ / t 0.568 targets 0.666 Consumption SGL MCD GJ / t 0.136 0.144 High Impact Projects 1 completed 6 2 completed 5 ongoing 11 ongoing Social Workplace SA 8000 Awareness and SA 8000 Audit & Completed & Certificate Betterment Training Certification obtained from Bureau Veritas  Sustainability Report 2012 OVERVIEW Sesa believes in sustainable development in all aspects of its Highlights operations, and over years has created long-standing value for stakeholders through responsible stewardship. Sustainability at Sesa is a three-fold philosophy: • Community initiatives benefit more than 4,00,000 lives in and around our operations Sustainable operational practices Sustainability through resource generation • Gross addition of over 257 mt of reserves and resources over the last four years, increasing the mine life by more than 10 years Sustainability of the organisation • Environmental friendly generation of electrical power of 60 MW, using heat from waste gases • Sesa Goa Limited is the first iron ore company in the world to receive SA 8000 certification  Sesa Goa Limited ABOUT SESA Sesa is India’s largest producer and exporter of iron ore in the In 2011, Sesa acquired 51% interest in Western Cluster Limited, with private sector, with operations in the states of Goa and Karnataka mineral development rights for iron ore in Liberia. in India and a project site in Liberia, West Africa. Founded in 1954, Sesa also holds 20% interest in Cairn India Limited, India’s secondit has about 6 decades of expertise in the exploration, mining and largest private sector upstream oil company (by reserves). processing of iron ore. Sesa is listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange and National Stock Sesa is a part of Vedanta Resources plc., the London-listed FTSE Exchange. 100 diversified global metals and mining group, with operations in the core business sectors of zinc-lead-silver, copper, aluminium, Sesa aims to be a leading global iron ore producer, with an iron ore and energy across India, Australia, UAE, Zambia, Liberia, impeccable track record of operational safety, while delivering South Africa, Namibia and Ireland. superior stakeholder value. With this driving commitment, teams at Sesa work towards excellence through a systematic approach Sesa also produces pig iron and metallurgical coke and provides to exploration and mining, continuously seeking innovation in proprietary environment-friendly met coke making technology, operations and technological up gradation of processes. along with power. The Power Plant, Met Coke Division and Pig Iron Division operate as independent business divisions. Operations Below is a map showing our operations. The Liberian iron ore project depicted in the map does not fall under the scope of this report. India Liberia Iron Ore Operations Pig Iron & Met Coke Operations Iron Ore Project 1. Codli Mines, Goa 5. Pig Iron Plant, Goa 7. Bomi Hills 2. Sonshi / Surla Mines, Goa 6. Met Coke Plant, Goa 8. Bea Mountain 3. Bicholim Mines, Goa 9. Mano River 4. A Narrain Mine, Karnataka 10. Monrovia Port  Sustainability Report 2012 Certifications The below table indicates the Sesa Goa Limited organisation, along with its subsidiaries, divisions and operations. The table also indicates which operations or projects are covered / not covered under the scope of this report, and the certifications applicable to each unit / operations. Table 2: Business Units and Certifications Company SD Report ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18000 SA 8000 Iron Ore Division, Goa Codli Group of Mines ü ü ü ü ü Gawal Sonshi Mine* ü ü ü ü ü Sanquelim Mine ü ü ü ü ü Orasso Dongor Mine ü û û û ü Mareta Sodo Mine ü û û û ü Iron Ore Division, Karnataka A Narrain Mine, Chitradurga ü ü ü ü ü Pig Iron Division Pig Iron Plant, Amona ü ü ü ü ü Expansion Project, Navelim û û û û û Met Coke Division Met Coke Plant, Amona ü ü ü ü ü Expansion Project, Navelim û û û û û Other Divisions Shipbuilding Division, Sirsaim ü ü ü ü ü River Fleet & Shipping, Vasco ü ü ü ü û Sesa Resources Limited Surla Sonshi Mines ü ü ü ü û Colomba Mine ü û û û û Curpem Mine ü û û û û Sesa Mining Corporation Limited Bicholim Group Of Mines ü ü ü ü û Western Cluster Limited Liberia Project Site û û û û û Goa Energy Private Limited Power Plant, Amona û û û û û * Cosme Costa & Sons ü Covered / Certified û Not Covered / Not Certified The units that are not covered, as above, in the current SD Report, are either recent acquisitions made by the Company during the reporting period, or are projects that have been commissioned / undergoing commissioning during the reporting period. These projects and units will be covered, from the reporting period, when they start operations. Note: No artisanal and small-scale mining operations take place either on or adjacent to any of our Company’s mining sites. All mining operations present adjacent to our mines in Goa and Karnataka are run by major mining companies. Shareholding Pattern Table 3: Shareholding Pattern as on 31 March 2012* Shareholders Percentage Holding Promoters 55.13% Institutional Investors 30.53% Private Corporate Bodies 2.03% Indian Public 11.85% Non Resident Indian 0.24% Other 0.23% * No government holding As on 31 March 2012, paid-up capital was Rs. 869,101,423.  Sesa Goa Limited Awards Sesa was awarded with the following prestigious awards during the year 2011-12: • Sesa was conferred with the award for Consistent Liquidity Management among Large Companies at the Best CFO Awards 2012 given by Business Today. (March 2012) • Sesa’s Mining Division received the CSR Excellence Award and Met Coke Division won the Environment Award, while the Pig Iron Division, Met Coke Division and Shipbuilding Division won safety awards. Green Triangle Society (GTS), Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) and Ideaz Unlimited promoted CSR and Environment awards, while Inspectorate of Factories and Boilers, Goa, and Green Triangle Society promoted safety awards. (May 2011) • Asia’s Best Employer Brand Award: Sesa won an award for ‘Best Practices in Talent Management’ hosted by Employer Branding Institute, World HRD Congress, and Stars of the Industry Group, with CMO Asia as Strategic Partner. (July 2011) • Sesa’s Pig Iron Division and Metallurgical Coke Division were awarded “Silver Certificate of Merit – India Manufacturing Excellence Awards 2011”, presented by The Economic Times in partnership with Frost & Sullivan. (November 2011) • Codli Mines, Sonshi Mines, Pig Iron and Metallurgical Coke Divisions received a Certificate of Merit from the British Safety Council. (March 2012) Mr. S.L. Bajaj conferred an award at the Best CFO Awards 2012 given by Business Today  Sustainability Report 2012 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT maintain a sustainable supply of mineral resources to society. In order to do this, the Company continues to emphasise on more advanced exploration techniques, and in turn improved understanding of ore deposits, leading to additions to resources & reserves, and positively impacting longevity of sustainable operations. 3. The third approach is sustainability of the organisation (existence), with a constant endeavour to grow, organically and inorganically, to continue to deliver a strong and consistent stakeholder value. Sustainable Practices Sesa is committed to sustainable development, which focuses on maintaining a pre-eminent position in health, safety and environment practices, and in contributing to the development of communities where it operates. Health and safety is a priority at Sesa. While our health, safety and environment systems are certified for ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001: 2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, at a majority of our units* , many units have also been certified for 5S workplace management and housekeeping system. Mr. P. K. Mukherjee, M.D. During the year, Sesa has been certified for SA 8000 for most I am pleased to present the seventh edition of Sesa Goa’s Sustainof its units*, on a standalone basis making us the first iron ore ability Report. There are two fundamental, existential, inescapable company in the world to achieve this. SA 8000, as one of the truths of any mining business. world’s first auditable social certification standards for decent By its very nature, mining is an extractive process and has a baworkplaces, based on conventions of the ILO, UN and other sic impact on ecology. Mining operations involve extraction and locally applicable laws, brings in further improved impetus to the processing of natural resources and this process can impact the sustainable implementation of basic human rights ensuring decent environment in many ways and, therefore, have significant sustainworkplaces. ability challenges. However, dissimilar to other industries, there is Our safety performance has been improving over the years. In 2011no choice on the location of the operations, which are determined 12, Sesa’s overall Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) reduced by geology and more often than not discovered by painstaking exfrom 0.86 in 2010-11 to 0.81 per million manhours worked. I am ploration and reconnaissance work. also happy to report that the pig iron division (PID) maintained its Secondly, mineral resources are finite and, due to their non-renewzero-accident record for the last two years and our shipbuilding able nature, pose a challenge in terms of their exploitation, condivision achieved a zero-accident record for 2011-12. During the sumption and host of other related issues. year, despite the Company’s best efforts to achieve zero accidents, unfortunately, we suffered a fatality at our Colomba mine to an To add to the diverse ways of affecting the environment in the unusual incident. An investigation was conducted and mitigation extraction of these resources, the non-renewable nature of the mechanisms have been put in place. resource itself underscores the pervasive need for “sustainability” in the management outlook in a responsible mining company. With this in our mind, sustainability remains at the core of our “CDP India 200 Report, 2011, has ranked business strategy. We are steadily integrating sustainability into our policies and standards, risk management, strategy and Sesa 7th in the Carbon Disclosure Leaderbusiness planning. ship Index in India.” Sustainability at Sesa is a three-fold philosophy: Sesa’s responsibility towards environment does not end with 1. Conducting mining and business operations in a sustainable operating the mine; it extends much after the mine site is closed. It manner, which itself is a three-pronged activity; ensuring the ensures regeneration of the very earth that has been mined, helps health and safety of all involved in the process; ensuring that sustain biodiversity and addresses the needs of local communities, the above mentioned impacts of mining operations on the particularly on the ecology front. In the long term, the goal is to surrounding environment are at the benchmarked minimum; return the land as close to its original state as possible. Long before and establishing the efforts / laying the path for the restoration environment consciousness became de rigueur for the corporate of the environment to near to its original state, once mining world, Sesa had commenced initiatives to preserve and protect operations have ceased in those areas. the environment. Our exhausted mining pit has been rehabilitated and reforested and operates as a rainwater harvesting facility. We 2. The second approach to sustainable operations is on the have also initiated “Back to Farming” – an Agriculture Rejuvenation resource front, where Sesa lays strong emphasis on resource Project aimed at reviving paddy fields in the proximity to mining exploration. Despite exploration for mineral resources areas in collaboration with zonal agriculture departments and becoming more challenging geologically, it is necessary to farmers’ groups. * Please refer to table of business units and certifications, listed earlier in the report.  Sesa Goa Limited As part of its climate change initiatives, the Company measures generation leaders to drive the future growth of the organisation and reviews its impact on the environment by mapping its carbon with sustainable practices. footprint periodically. The Company’s Amona plants utilise waste heat recovery based power plants, which have capacity to This year we introduced Connect, an Employee Engagement Survey. generate 60 MW of electricity. The plants are registered with the We are pleased to have received a strong response with 83% of our UNFCCC generating CERs. About 101,129 CERs have been accrued employees taking part in the survey. The survey, which provides an during 2011-12. opportunity to employees in a participative building of the work environment and work culture, will now be an annual feature and Since few years, Sesa has been disclosing its carbon emissions, and will form the foundation of our people strategy. strategies to minimise GHG emissions, through Carbon Disclosure reporting. The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), a UK-based Sesa continues to focus on providing employment opportunities independent not-forprofit organisation, in its CDP India 200 to local population and Sesa is the single largest employer in Goa, Report, 2011, has ranked Sesa 7th among the top 10 companies in after the state government. In our Goan operations, more than 85% the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index in India. of our employees are of Goan origin. Sesa has a long-term comprehensive approach to corporate social Our people initiatives have extended beyond capacity building responsibility. This is achieved through stakeholder engagement within the organisation to the local community. In furtherance to and consultation process, socio-economic baseline studies and the other CSR initiatives on the education front, we have partnered need assessments, and partnering with like-minded organisations, with the Department of Education and the Goa Engineering College including government agencies, NGOs, local communities and at Farmagudi, Goa, to start a graduate programme in mining Panchayat bodies in the implementation of development projects. engineering (BE). A steady supply of quality mining engineers is a Our community development work, through the Sesa Community fundamental need for sustainable mining industry in the country. It Development Foundation, Mineral Foundation of Goa and other will also give an opportunity to Diploma mining engineers to get a specific need-based initiatives, continues to focus on social graduate degree. projects in line with our overall sustainability objectives. Our development initiatives have impacted about 4 lakh lives in and around the areas in which we operate. The details of our key CSR initiatives are elaborated further in the community section, two of “Pig Iron Division maintained its zerowhich are mentioned below: accident record for the last two years” • Paediatric Neuro Rehabilitation Centre in Goa has developed facilities to treat disabled in association with Goa Medical College & Paediatric Neuro Development Clinic, Mumbai. The centre has treated nearly 700 patients since its establishment in 2010. Regenerating Resources • Sesa currently runs 10 community medical centres and 2 mobile Our commitment and drive for sustainable growth was underscored health units making timely basic healthcare available to the by our strong performance on resource addition. Primarily, I wish needy. to present an argument for exploration resource augmentation as a sustainable initiative. At a superficial glance, sustainability Sesa Technical School and Sesa Football Academy, the two and mineral resource development appear to be in conflict. As pioneering efforts of the Company towards local youth resources are finite and mining depletes them, it is often argued development, under the aegis of the Sesa Community that continuing to mine will eventually exhaust the available supply Development Foundation, continue to excel in their respective of minerals. This perspective ignores the dynamics of mineral fields of vocational education and football training. supplies. A few factors make the benefits of mining much more sustainable than they appear to be. Since 1994, Sesa Technical School has provided the industry with 778 (up to 31 March 2012) technically trained youth in six different Firstly, through the process of exploration and development, vocational trades. The school has been achieving 100% results all mining organisations continually revive, supplement, or sustain throughout and the alumni of the school are placed with reputed their reserves. At any point of time, current reserves only represent industrial houses in Goa. In 2011, Sesa also started a second a small portion of the mineral resources in the earth’s crust. technical school in Digas, Panchwadi, to cater to the growing Exploration and development lead to the discovery and proving demand and needs of youth in South Goa. of previously unknown mineral deposits, or additional reserves at existing mines or known deposits. Further, technological Since 1999, Sesa Football Academy, with an aim to nurture the improvements in exploration increase the discovery rate of mineral talent in Goa’s youth, has given the country over 93 talented deposits and reduce costs besides enabling more scientific mining young footballers, who are currently a part of some of the top with reducing waste to be left behind in future. Looking from a professional football teams in our country. Few of Sesa’s alumni different angle, it helps in ‘conservation’ of national resources. have gone on to represent the Indian national team in select international tournaments. Exploration, which is the pillar of strength for our growth strategy added 68 million tonnes of additional resources during the year, Over the past two years, the Company has strengthened its various about 5 times what we have extracted during the year. Sesa’s people initiatives with focussed interventions in continuous exploration team through their sterling efforts have added over learning & development, leadership development and behavioural 250 million tonnes of fresh resources over the last 4 years, drilling training. Initiatives such as Gen-Next Operational Leadership more than 200,000 meters. As on 31 March 2012, the Company’s Development (GOLD) programme, Accelerated Competency total reserves and resources in India were at 374 million tonnes. Tracking and Up-gradation (ACT UP), Management Development Programmes, etc., are aimed at creating the pool of next  Sustainability Report 2012 Unearthing the Future Sesa also embarked on expansions of pig iron and met coke facilities, along with a sinter plant and the associated power plant. In all respects, 2011-12 was a mixed bag for the Company. During the The enhanced pig iron capacity of 625 ktpa will make Sesa the year, the iron ore industry in India as a whole, and our Company, largest low-phosphorous pig iron producer in the country and the was gripped in a seemingly ceaseless national debate on mining addition of the sinter plant will give us the ability to utilise iron ore practices. The Indian iron ore mining industry was severely fines, giving Sesa a strong cost advantage. impacted by events related to regulation, policy, social activism and other contextual concerns, which have also impacted our Company. In closing At the Company, this spilt into other aspects of the business and business segments. Despite all round best efforts put in by teams, Sesa remains committed to sustainable development. As the Company’s performance has been under pressure as compared evidenced, despite the period of industry uncertainty, Sesa has to the last year. endeavoured to maintain its focus on both the financial and nonfinancial aspects of sustainability. We understand that care for our On the operational front, the Company, as the whole Indian mining people, neighbours and the environment is critical to our business. industry, faced significant challenges. Our team worked tirelessly to With its efforts to consolidate, diversify and de-risk its business, the mitigate any potential impact, to ensure the continuity of operations Company continues to focus on sustaining its business operations and to reassure our stakeholders; responding proactively to all and delivery of stakeholder value. agencies. In the current environment, the company enhanced its level of engagement with stakeholders during the year, to reinforce Despite the complexities, mining has the proven potential for and reiterate responsible mining practices that are followed by our creating value for the society as a whole and it is possible to do Company. so, as Sesa continues to do, in a manner which is economically, socially, and environmentally sustainable. Mining has been a On the other hand, it was a milestone year as the Company made significant contributor to the global economy, founding the basis key strides towards becoming a diversified global resource major. of the industrial revolution and has played a significant role in the Significant acquisitions, like a major offshore iron ore asset, a makeover of the economies of Britain, Australia, Canada, Brazil substantial investment in oil & gas, and an eco-friendly powerand United States among others. The global mining industry forms generation facility for domestic consumption, spur the Company to the backbone of agriculture, household appliances, automotive, becoming a resource company with a global footprint. The planned airline, manufacturing and even information technology industry merger of Sterlite Industries (India) Limited, along with other enhancing the standard of living for people across the world. Often associated mergers, will diversify the business, enabling large scale not recognised by the community at large, we remain humbled and operations, creating opportunities for organic growth, and thereby ever conscious of the responsibility on our shoulders in building a ensuring a sustainable delivery of consistent and higher stakeholder better future for the coming generations. value. As evidenced in earlier reports, Sesa has always believed in The announcement of merger with Sterlite Industries (India) responsible mining and continues to mine in ways that minimise Limited, coupled with the integration of varied commodity negative impact of operations. This reports also sets out a businesses, copper, zinc and aluminium, herald a diversified natural comprehensive and balanced account of our activities and approach resources company with a global footprint. The proposed Sesa to the above mentioned and many other sustainability challenges, Sterlite will become one of the largest diversified Companies in the endeavours and initiatives of the Company. world. At Sesa, we aim to inculcate and build a culture of continuous improvement. We constantly seek to understand, strategize and execute proactive and need-based sustainability initiatives. We have “Since 1994, Sesa Technical School has implemented a system of multi-tiered system of periodic internal and external reviews, and are aligning ourselves to the umbrella provided the industry with 778 technically philosophy of the Vedanta sustainability governance framework. trained youth in six different vocational Reviews, interactions with stakeholders and various other feedback mechanisms yield sustainability development improvement trades” plans, specifically, for each of our operations, divisions, units or businesses. With each year, we look forward to improving our reporting on these areas, improving results, newer targets and fresher initiatives. Taking the Company’s iron ore business truly global, Sesa’s acquisition of 51% stake in Western Cluster Limited in Liberia has We look forward to your feedback on this report (which is published a potential iron ore resource of over 1 billion tonnes. Western every year voluntarily) or any other aspect of our sustainability Cluster Project presents an excellent opportunity for developing performance. a large integrated mining operation and establishes our presence in the upcoming iron ore hub in West Africa. The Company has P. K. Mukherjee successfully completed the aeromagnetic survey in Liberia and Managing Director exploratory drilling is in full swing. During the year, Sesa Goa Limited, along with its subsidiary, Sesa Resources Limited, acquired 20% of the share capital of Cairn India Limited. Cairn India is a unique oil and gas exploration and production platform with the second largest oil reserves in India.  Sesa Goa Limited 7 FEATURES OF OUR 7TH REPORT 1. What is this report about? change from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report. This is the 7th sustainability report of Sesa Goa Limited (Sesa), an organisational report that discloses our economic, environmental, Note: For 2009-10, data reported is only for SGL’s operations, not SMCL and social and governance performance. Through this sustainability SRL. For 2010-11, data mining division has been revised (as compared to the SD report, Sesa aims to present its activities, issues and practices of report 2010-11) and reported to include SMCL and SRL. For 2011-12, data was the past year, while sharing its plans for the future. Sustainable collected in the aggregate for the mining division. development is an integral part of our business practices, longterm strategy and overall ethos and we have attempted through 5. How have we made this report as transparent as possible? this report to reflect our triple bottom-line approach. While creating this report, the guiding principle was to be as clear and The quantity and quality of information reported indicates the transparent as possible. This report will give you a fair idea of our transparency of the report. The report is based on the GRI 3.1 activities. Guidelines and GRI’s Mining Supplement, and we report on all relevant core and additional indicators. The data points reported cover economic, environmental and social performance indicators 2. What period does the report cover? as per the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. In addition to this, the report also Our sustainability reports are published annually. This report follows United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles and the covers the fiscal year 2011-2012 and is the 7th report in the series. National Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) formulated by the Ministry of Sesa published its first sustainability report in the year 2005-06. Corporate Affairs in India. Specific reference to each indicator is indexed in the GRI Content Index and the NVG Guidelines Index, which are located at the end of the current report. 3. Which units does the report cover? This report covers all our Indian operations, including Goa and 6. How have we made this report relevant to all our stakeholders? Karnataka, where we have 100% operational control. The table in the previous chapter on “About Sesa” indicates the units and The report is organised into broad dimensions of the Company’s divisions that are covered in this report. It covers the following sustainability performance and the content is based on the companies, including subsidiaries and their units. concerns voiced by our stakeholders, both internal and external. We follow a structured process to collect inputs for our report. Our • Sesa Goa Limited stakeholder and materiality sections outline critical issues, as well Iron Ore Division, Goa as our focus areas for the following years. Iron Ore Division, Karnataka River Fleet and Shipping Office, Goa 7. How have we ensured the trustworthiness of the report? Shipbuilding Division, Goa Pig Iron Division, Amona, Goa In continuation of our previous reports, this year too, we have Metallurgical Coke Division, Navelim, Goa subjected our report to an independent, third party verification, • Sesa Resources Limited ensuring creditability and improving acceptance. We have engaged • Sesa Mining Corporation Limited Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) to independently audit and assure the The report does not cover the recently acquired majority stake report. The scope of DNV’s assurance engagement includes the in iron ore assets in Liberia, which are in the project stage. It also verification of the content, focus, and quality of the information does not cover the recently acquired power business, Goa Energy presented in the report, covering the Economic, Environmental and Private Limited, (GEPL) in Goa. Sesa has acquired 20% stake in Social information for the period of April 2011 to March 2012. Cairn India Limited during the year and as those operations are completely separate, this report does not include or disclose any Sesa has submitted this report in compliance and confirming to the data pertaining to Cairn India Limited. GRI requirements of the Application level A+. For the convenience of the readers of this report, we have provided the Report Application Level Table at the end of the report. 4. What are the methods used for the data measurement and calculations? In addition, DNV has reviewed our direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data for the reporting period of 2011-12 and The data presented has been recorded and reported by various has provided a verification statement. departments within the organisation for the period of 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012. The data and figures in the report are actual Sesa has followed and incorporated almost all the principles numbers based on the methodology and standard management on National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and systems followed by our Health, Safety, Environment & Corporate Economic Responsibilities of Business as laid by the Ministry Social Responsibility (HSEC) and other departments, in line with of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, while drafting the industry practices. Our performance is reported on a year-on-year Sustainability Development Report for the year 2011-12. basis (YoY), comparing the current year’s performance against the previous year, and therefore, targets are not reported where they are not specified. During 2011-12, Sesa has integrated all its mining operations into one single division of mining and hence, from this report onwards, the data for subsidiaries, Sesa Resources Limited (SRL) and Sesa Mining Corporation Limited (SMCL), will not be reported separately. Apart from this, there has been no significant  Sustainability Report 2012 STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE Despite a challenging regulatory environment, Sesa continues on Highlights its journey to be a diversified mining major with the acquisition of Western Cluster mines in Liberia and the proposed merger of Sesa • Revenue generated is Rs. 9,057 crores –Sterlite. The expansion of the Pig Iron plant is another feather in • Dividend of Rs. 4 per share including interim dividend of Rs. our cap. 2 per share • Strategic investments: Acquisition of 20% stake in Cairn India Limited, 51% in Western Cluster Limited and 100% of Goa Energy Private Limited • Iron ore sales volumes were at 16 million tonnes, despite significant external challenges • Exploration success: Net addition of 68 million tonnes of reserves and resources, taking the total R&R to 374 million tonnes (excluding Liberia) • Profit after Tax of Rs. 2,696 crores, including additional income as share of PAT from associate company, Cairn India Limited, from 8 December 2011  Sesa Goa Limited OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Sustainable development is a key part of our strategy and overall ethos. It reflects in the way we operate and represents a core commitment of our management and employees. In its approach to sustainable mining, Sesa has been focusing on four core areas: Occupational Health And Safety Nurturing People The health and safety of our people is of utmost priority for Sesa. Our employees are our most valued assets and we constantly The Company continues to take a proactive role in providing strive to provide all of them a challenging and rewarding work employees a safe working environment through engendering environment. From creating avenues to sustain and enhance responsibility, providing training, and implementing and performance, to providing continuous learning opportunities, monitoring the best safety and environmental practices and empowering and engaging employees, our HR teams across all locations. at units put practices and procedures in place for a happy workforce. Sustainability Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities With the help of our dedicated HSEC team, we have been Sesa firmly believes that sustainability of its operations trying to minimise the impact our operations have on the is only possible in tandem with community development. environment. From energy efficiency initiatives, reducing our The Company, through its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) carbon footprint, to the latest land reclamation technologies, team, interacts with the community on a continuous basis, etc., we continuously strive to champion best practices in all engaging stakeholders to understand their needs, identifying our environmental initiatives. solutions, formulating plans, and implementing community development initiatives. In consideration of the precautionary principle, we are developing a more robust risk assessment and sustainability development framework by incorporating issues relevant to all stakeholders and the business. We recognise the importance of such a framework in our approach to sustainable mining. As a step towards achieving a robust framework, we are in the process of developing policies and procedures in line with IFC guidelines aligned with Vedanta Sustainability Governance System to address overall sustainability issues. Read more details about our environmental management plan and mitigation initiatives in our Environment section. Sesa also has embarked on evaluating the impact of these community initiatives, which will further reinforce its commitment to the development of these communities. Standards And Management Systems We translate our commitment towards sustainable mining into Workplace Standards action by adhering to the highest standards and setting-up robust systems in each of the above focus areas. We were the first iron In 2011, Sesa Goa Limited was certified for SA 8000, an international ore company in the world to be certified for ISO 14001 in 1996, and social accountability standard for improving workplace standards. we are the first iron ore company in the world to be certified for The standard is based on a number of existing international SA 8000 in 2011. human rights’ standards including the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Convention on the Rights Please refer to the table in the chapter on “About Sesa” to see which of the Child. Sesa underwent an assessment of its practices, and specific units and operations are certified for the various standards Bureau Veritas, the international certifying agency for the Social for quality, environment, safety and social accountability. Accountability 8000 Standard (SA 8000), has certified Sesa. The certifications issued on 23 November 2011, for a period of Environment Management System three years, have been awarded for complying with the best management practices in the workplace, based on global norms Sesa has a well-developed Environmental Management System related to social impact at the workplace, as laid down by ILO and (EMS), which helps manage operations’ compliance requirements, other human rights bodies. The parameters of the standard include control environmental issues and identify mitigation strategies. practices related to child labour, forced labour, health and safety, All our existing operations, excepting the new acquisitions of discrimination, remuneration, working hours, etc. The certification GEPL, the expansion projects, the project site in Liberia and the has been awarded to the units of Sesa Goa Limited, including the south mines of Sesa Resources Limited, are certified for ISO 14001. mining divisions of Goa and Karnataka, Corporate Office in Goa, Pig Iron Division, Met Coke Division and Shipbuilding Division. Sesa Occupational Health and Safety Management Goa Resources Limited (SRL) and Sesa Mining Corporation Limited System (SMCL) are currently not covered in this phase. Most of our units* have been certified for OHSAS 18001, an international occupational health and safety management system specification. The system has helped us in managing and mitigating risks related to occupational health and safety, thus ensuring a safer workplace for our employees. * Please refer to table of business units and certifications, listed earlier in the report.  Sustainability Report 2012 OUR STAKEHOLDERS STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE Organisations can become sustainable by engaging and addressing the critical concerns of their stakeholders. To ascertain our most important stakeholders, we use a formal prioritising process wherein we map them on the basis of those who are directly impacted by the Company’s operations and those who impact our business. Based on the prioritisation mapping, our key stakeholders are: shareholders, employees, government / regulatory authorities, suppliers, customers, NGOs and community. Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder and Frequency Mode Key Sustainability Initiatives by the Company Significance Concerns Shareholders: Annually / Need AGM / 1) Profitability and Announcing and publishing quarterly results of Owners, based Communication growth the company through websites and newspapers Providers 2) Governance for (national & regional) of capital sustainability Posting information related to shareholding pattern, compliance with corporate governance norms, etc., on the company’s website Publishing and distribution of annual reports Sesa Goa’s website is a comprehensive source of information on our portfolio of business, social responsibility activities and environment, occupational health and safety performance: a. The entire Report and Accounts, as well as quarterly and half-yearly financial results, are now available in downloadable formats under the section ‘Investors Relations’; b. The ‘News & Media’ section provides press releases from the company and relevant press clippings; c. Clarifications as and when provided to institutional investors and analysts, including presentations (if any), are also posted on the company’s websites Shareholders / Investor The committee reviews investor-related issues Grievance Committee and recommends measures to improve investor services. Government: As and when Regular meetings 1. Regulatory 1. Proactively and periodically fulfilling all Regulatory Bodies required and structured 2. Compliances and formalities and procedures. and Policy Makers communication on key community interest 2. Compliance with applicable laws, conditions of parameters clearances / consents / licences / permits etc. 3. Environmental a. Economic; pollution 3. Technologies implemented to reduce GHG b. Environment, 4. Clean technology emissions and CERs accrued health and safety; 4. Participation in emissions trade in domestic c. Social issues; and market d. Regulatory trends Employees: Periodically Communication, Health and safety 1. Organising EHS, behavioural and technical Main resource Workshops & Training training programmes. to undertake 2. Periodic health check-ups sustainable Union & workmen 1. Conducting awareness programmes. development 2. Navjyoti for workmen wellness also extended to initiatives their family Employee grooming & GOLD initiative helps in creating a talent pool of development successors to operational leadership positions through multiple interventions Guidance to fresh Mentorship programme guides new recruits recruits to ensure their smooth on-boarding and acclimatisation to our organisation culture Employment 1. Sesa Technical School (STS) pass outs are opportunities to Locals employed. 2. Sesa partnered with the Government of Goa to start a Degree course in Mining Engineering  Sesa Goa Limited Stakeholder Engagement contd... Stakeholder and Frequency Mode Key Sustainability Initiatives by the Company Significance Concerns Employees: Periodically Idea Mela Employee participation Implemented 302 ideas of the 600 feasible ideas, Main resource in improving business which collected in Idea Mela. Cost savings amount to undertake operations to Rs. 2.5 crores after implementing these ideas. sustainable Surveys Attracting and retaining Connect an employee engagement survey development talent measures employee satisfaction across diverse initiatives parameters Participation in Benchmarking & Participation in global employee engagement external studies Improvisation studyHewitt Best Companies to Work and Great Places to Work, to receive unbiased independent feedback, which helps formulate action plans for further improvement Grievance Redressal Employee Rights 1. Established a Code of Conduct Committee 2. Publishing Staff Handbook 3. Grievance Redressal Policy Trade Union 1. 51% of employees are covered under collective bargaining. 2. Periodic meetings have ensured smooth functioning and zero incidences of strikes & lockouts Community Periodically Surveys through our Community Welfare & 1. Need based interventions in the areas of Need Based CSR Team, NGOs Relations Education, Health, Infrastructure development, women and youth empowerment through livelihood projects. 2. Sesa Technical School for employability of local youth in mining sector. 3. Contribution to Mineral Foundation of Goa (MFG) Meetings with Community Engagement 1. Conducting public awareness programmes on community & Communication EHS for communities. representatives 2. Periodic engagement with village panchayats through BDC & FGDs Community grievance Mulgaon village people affected due to breach of redressal bund due to heavy downpour; were all reimbursed for their damages, water pipeline was restored, bund was repaired Community Periodically Need-based Land availability & 1. Reclamation of mined out lands, e.g.; Need Based discussions/written Management Sanquelim. communications; 2. Planning & seeking approval for all other Biodiversity Management plans for other mines. 3. Obtaining necessary clearances. Transportation of iron 1. Widening of roads. ore by road 2. Cleaning of roads to reduce dust pollution from ore transport. 3. Supporting government initiativesrailway corridor, studies to understand impacts of mining Mine Closure & Exit Plan 1. Creating livelihood opportunities training SHG women in income generation activities, Back to Farming, Gerbera Cultivation. 2. Systematic land reclamation Suppliers: Periodically Formal communication Policies & Practices 1. Supplier’s code of conduct. Providers of through letters & related to Suppliers 2. Issuance of letters as a formal communication contract labour, online web updates on emphasising on human rights following SA 8000 machinery, and policies and practices certification. consumables 3. e-Procurement Customers: Periodically Surveys Customer satisfaction, 1. Customer Satisfaction Surveys. Source of Need Based product quality 2. Test Certificates issued to customers for each revenues and product consignment delivered. future growth 3. Monthly operational review meetings and management review meetings to improve customer experience  Sustainability Report 2012 Materiality STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE A materiality determination exercise was conducted to identify the most material issues to Sesa, adhering to the principles of GRI. The issues were identified by following the below steps: Organisation Perspective • Assessment of existing systems & 1. Organisational Perspective: Assessment of the Company’s existing initiatives policies and systems, business performance – global industry • Business performance & global outlook and challenges, examining the Company’s initiatives in outlook sustainability aspects as defined by GRI namely environmental, social, labour and people practices. Mining sector related benchmarks and frameworks like International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) were also taken into consideration. Stakeholder Identification • Stakeholder engagement 2. Stakeholder Engagement: An independent study with multiple • Local community interaction levels of interactions was conducted with key stakeholder groups to gain their perspective on sustainability related issues. It included interviews with senior leaders of the company, discussions with internal employees, union representatives, Materiality Assessment and interactions with external stakeholders including local • Prioritisation of issues community groups, NGOs, and other partners of the company. • Significance for stakeholders Perspectives were also gauged from existing internal stakeholder • Impact on organisation feedback processes like customer satisfaction surveys, vendor meets, and employee engagement mechanisms as well as the Carbon Disclosure Report. Based on these interactions and assessment, 17 material issues were identified. These issues were then discussed in a pan-department materiality assessment session, based on which the first 7 were identified to be priorities. Self Help Group Meeting at Amona, Goa  Sesa Goa Limited Materiality Matrix High Community Local Employment Engagement Opportunity Biodiversity Community Transport Welfare Attraction & Mine Closure Retention of Importance to Stakeholders Workforce Human Rights Regulatory Compliance Priorities Labour Rights Employee Health & Safety Compensation & Benefits Land R&R Availability Water Management Low Public Advocacy Product Adequately Addressed Impact of Company Performance Needs Focus Workforce & Safety Environment & Product Community • Local Employment Opportunities • Attraction & Retention of Workforce • Transportation of Iron Ore: Issues related to spillage, noise • Public Advocacy and dust pollution and safety issues related to speeding and • Human Rights overloading • Labour Rights & Relations • Regulatory Compliances & Laws • Health & Safety • Community Engagement • Resettlement & Rehabilitation (R&R) • Community Welfare & Relations • Water Management • Mine Closure & Exit Plan (Indirect impact on social aspect) • Employee Compensation & Benefits • Land Availability and Management • Product Responsibility • Biodiversity All our material issues have been addressed in this report in the ensuing sections on people, environment and community.  Sustainability Report 2012 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE Sesa aims to be one of the leading global diversified mining majors, and to be an employer of choice, driven by its operational excellence and world-class assets, through a resolute commitment to the highest standards of safety and sustainable mining. Our effort towards sustained growth is well demonstrated by our expansion, resource additions and exploration capabilities that eventually add value to our business, as well as our stakeholders. Products and Business Segments The below charts reflect the share of individual business segment in Sesa’s consolidated performance. Chart 1 Segment Profits Chart 2 External Revenues 1.5% 0.5% 9% 2% 98% 89% Iron Ore Pig Iron Met Coke Iron Ore Pig Iron Met Coke Table 4 : Production in each Business Segment Production 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Iron Ore (mt*) 19.2 18.8 13.8 Pig Iron (kt) 280 276 249 Met Coke (kt) 262 263 257 * mt million tonnes in dry metric tonnes Iron Ore Indian steel industry, there is a growing emphasis on domestic iron ore sales. Sesa’s share of domestic total iron ore sales has increased This is Sesa’s core business segment, which contributed to 89% of from 10% in 2010-11 to 19% in 2011-12. Similarly, the share of Japan and consolidated external revenues and 98% of segment profits in 2011Korea has marginally increased from 10% to 11%. 12. The Company has a niche positioning with cost competitive iron ore mines that are relatively closer to ports, with part of the Pig Iron distance covered by waterways to support global seaborne iron ore trade. The Company’s Pig Iron Division commenced its operations in 1992, and was the first to introduce low phosphorous foundry grade pig Table 5 : Sesa’s Iron Ore Market – Geographic Spread iron in India. The PID facility consists of two blast furnaces; each having a working volume of 173 m3. 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 China 85% 77% 69% PID contributed 9% of total external revenues in 2011-12 and its India – Domestic 6% 10% 19% share in segment profits was 1.5%. The business focuses mainly on Japan & Korea 7% 10% 11% the domestic Indian market, especially foundries and steel mills in Europe 2% 2% 1% western and southern India. It has also extended its reach in the exports market to the Middle East and South East Asia. Others 1% With the imminent commissioning of the third blast furnace of During the year, we produced 13.8 million tonnes of iron ore 450 m3 capacity, Sesa’s PID would be the largest producer of low and sold 16 million tonnes. Of this, we sold 2.7 million tonnes phosphorous pig iron in India with an installed capacity of 0.625 from Karnataka including 0.9 million tonnes through the courtmtpa. PID produces several grades of pig iron, including basic, directed e-auctions of inventory. As compared to last year the foundry and spheroidal (nodular) grades that cater to steel mills sales and production volume declined mainly on account of and foundries in India and abroad. PID also produces slag as a byexternal challenges such as the ban on mining in Karnataka since product, which is sold to the cement industry. The demand for August 2011 and logistics constraints in Goa, which impacted our pig iron fluctuated throughout 2011-12. Further, it was severely production and sales volumes in 2011-12. Although we launched impacted by irregular supply of high-grade iron ore from Karnataka, several internal operational initiatives to mitigate these impacts, due to the Karnataka mining ban since August 2011. However, PID we are in the process of expanding existing roads and establishing operated its blast furnaces throughout the year with the support of exclusive road corridors in Goa to reduce logistical bottlenecks. Company’s own iron ore operations and high priced Karnataka ore While China remains the predominant geography, we are focusing inventory purchased through e-auction and catered to the needs on developing other markets. With the growth in the domestic of valuable customers. Overall, production reduced by 10% from 276,117 tonnes in 2010-11 to 248,729 tonnes in 2011-12.  Sesa Goa Limited PID adheres to the best standards of quality, environment, health urbanisation and infrastructure needs. Urbanisation has been the and safety, with an exemplary record of two-years of zero-accident driver for economic and social transformation in China, and this operations. It is certified to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 is expected to be a feature of the overall economy, as it moves systems for quality, environment and safety respectively, through beyond the Eastern regions of China. a third party certification agency, Bureau Veritas Certification (India) Pvt. Ltd. The PID’s R&D activities have resulted in World Steel Association (WSA) forecasts that global apparent steel reduction in operating costs, improvement of product quality and use will increase by 3.6% to 1,422 mt in 2012, following growth of development of new products for downstream industries. It has 5.6% in 2011. In 2013, it is forecast that world steel demand will grow developed special grades of pig iron to cater to the fast-growing further by 4.5% to around 1,486 mt. niche market of ductile iron castings in India. As per WSA estimates, China’s apparent steel use in 2011 increased by 6.2% with 2012 & 2013 steel demand forecast to maintain a 4% Met Coke growth rate, bringing China’s apparent steel use to 648.8 mt in 2012 and 674.8 mt in 2013. In 2012, India’s steel use is forecast to The Company’s Met Coke Division is operated as an independent grow by 6.9% to reach 72.5 mt. In 2013, the growth rate is forecast business unit. The MCD at Amona produces a range of coke to accelerate to 9.4% on the back of urbanisation and surging fractions from over 70 mm for foundries, 20 mm to 60 mm for infrastructure investment. blast furnaces, and 6 mm to 25 mm for the ferrous alloy industries. The product is mainly low-ash coke. The principal input, low-ash The global steel output in 2011 increased to 1.5 billion tonnes from coking coal – both hard and semi soft coking coals – is imported 1.4 billion tonnes in 2010 and the global seaborne iron ore trade and to ensure stable raw material supply, Sesa enters into longincreased from 986 mt in 2010 to 1,090 mt in 2011 (an increase of term procurement contracts. Coking coals of different types are 11%). carefully blended with precision controls to produce the desired high-quality low-ash met coke, using the cost-effective eco-friendly proprietary Sesa Energy Recovery Coke Making Technology. Indian Context This process produces high quality met coke and has the lowest India is considered the next China in terms of its consumption pollution levels among comparable technologies. of commodities, given its growing population and needs for development and infrastructure. To reach China’s current MCD is primarily a backward integration initiative to support the consumption levels, India’s metal demand will have to increase pig iron business, with 62% of its sales to the Pig Iron Division, at 15% per annum for more than two decades. India’s per capita and the balance is sold externally. During the year 2011-12, MCD apparent steel consumption at 51 kg remains significantly lower contributed 2% of total external revenues and its share in segment than China’s 454 kg per capita consumption and South Korea’s profits was 0.5%. 1,082 kg per capita. Further, the current levels of urbanisation are There was moderate growth in production and sales volumes. at a low 29%, almost half that of China. A continued healthy longerHowever, external sales revenue increased significantly due to term demand appears to be an increasingly likely scenario. increase in global prices of met coke. Financial Performance • Sales volume (internal & external) was at 251,264 tonnes in 2011-12. In 2011-12, Sesa’s operating profit was Rs. 3,501 crores. Amidst • External sales revenues increased by 24% to Rs. 200 crores in the tough operating conditions significantly impacting the iron 2011-12. ore business, Sesa delivered a PAT of Rs. 2,696 crores, including • Profits before interest, tax, dividends and other non-recurring additional income of Rs. 588 crores as share of PAT from associate or non-allocable incomes for the met coke business decreased company, Cairn India Limited, from 8 December 2011. from Rs. 89 crores in 2010-11 to Rs. 16 crores in 2011-12. During the year, Sesa made strategic investments into a 20% stake in Sesa has developed a technology for non-recovery coke making, Cairn India Limited at Rs. 13,075 crores, 51% stake in Western Cluster which is environment-friendly, characterised by low capital and Limited at an acquisition cost of Rs. 411 crores and 100% stake in operating costs, high levels of energy recovery, and has the GEPL at Rs. 104 crores. capability to produce high quality metallurgical coke. We have received a European and an Indian patent for this technology. In addition, we have introduced a German technology for Indirect Economic Impact densification of coal charge, employing vibro-compaction for producing stable coal cake with bulk density. MCD has also The mining industry has played an important role in the economic set up a state-of-the-art coal carbonisation laboratory for coal development of the state of Goa. It has created employment characterisation and evaluation of coke quality. opportunities for many qualified individuals directly, and also other avenues for employment in logistics and ore transportation for both skilled and unskilled labour. As the predominant market for Market Outlook our products is exports, our operations generate valuable foreign exchange for the country. Sesa is one of the largest taxpayers in Global Scenario the country, having contributed Rs. 3,500 crores to the exchequer in terms of taxes, duties and royalties paid in 2011-12. In this China continues to remain the major driver of metals demand and process, Sesa indirectly contributes to the overall socio-economic higher prices, as the country consumed large quantities of metals development of the country. for its internal infrastructure and manufacturing needs. As it moves from being a significantly export-driven economy to a domestic Sesa has a long-term comprehensive approach to corporate social consumption economy, the metals demand is expected to decline responsibility. This is achieved through stakeholder engagement from current levels to relatively sustainable levels, propped up by and consultation, socio-economic baseline studies and need  Sustainability Report 2012 Economic Value Added STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE Table 6 : Economic Value Generated & Distributed (Rs. in Crore) Direct Economic Value Generated (A) 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Net turnover (net of ocean freight) Iron Ore 5,170 8,384 7,380 Metallurgical coke* 144 155 210 Pig Iron* 596 737 780 Energy 2 Other Income** 419 533 819 Total 6,329 9,809 9,211 Economic Value Distributed (B) Cost of materials, goods and services 2,209 2,773 2,187 Personnel expenses 169 207 268 Interest Charges 52 87 433 Taxes and royalties 1,213 2,448 3,518 Dividends 270 304 174 Community Contributions 18 25 31 Total 3,931 5,843 6,612 Economic value added (A-B) 2,398 3,965 2,599 * Includes amount of excise duty ** Includes income from investment and profit / loss on sales of investment assessments, and partnering with like-minded organisations, Table 7 : Mining Closure Provisions as on 31 March 2012 (in Rs. Crores) including government agencies, NGOs, local communities and panchayat bodies in the implementation of developmental Nature of obligation 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 projects. Opening carrying amount 2.5 2.7 3.5 Additional provisions 0.2 0.8 Community development initiatives continue to be implemented made during the year through Sesa Community Development Foundation (SCDF), which Amounts used during the runs the Sesa Technical School (STS) and Sesa Football Academy year (SFA). STS has become a leading vocational training institute in Unused amounts reversed Goa and has a reputation of identifying and nurturing potential during the year excellence of young Goans. Growth is something which we aim in everything we do; with this same philosophy our technical school Closing carrying amount 2.7 3.5 3.5 started the second STS in South Goa at Panchwadi during the reporting period, to meet the growing needs of the communities around our operations. Even our SFA has two campuses: the Sanquelim Academy continues to deliver high quality young footballers and the new Sirsaim Academy is focused on developing a team of young senior players. The Sanquelim Academy has graduated six batches of 93 trainees in total, and some of them have even represented the Indian national team in many national and international tournaments. Sesa has partnered with the Department of Education and the Goa Engineering College at Farmagudi, Goa to start a graduate programme in mining engineering (BE), targeted to meet the critical need for mining engineers in the country. To further gauge the impact of our activities, an impact assessment is currently underway. The Community section of this report provides additional information about specific programmes and the number of beneficiaries. Mining Closure Provisions Sesa is committed to the systematic rehabilitation and restoration of the environment and land, both during the life of the mine and after the closure of the mines. All its operations have a plan that takes into account various reclamation and rehabilitation activities such as land backfill, afforestation, and specific biodiversity plantations.  Sesa Goa Limited RISKS AND MITIGATION Regulatory Concerns acquisition cost of Rs. 411 crores and 100% stake in GEPL at Rs. 104 crores. The Indian iron ore industry is in a continual state of flux, grappling with ever-changing dynamics on multiple fronts. Firstly, the industry as a whole is facing increased challenges with social Sesa Sterlite Merger licensing as a result of the competition for resources, especially Sesa announced the intended merger of Sterlite Industries (India) land. With current mineral prices moderated reasonably, but still Limited. This merger will foster the creation of one of the world’s at levels higher than historical past, there is an increased social largest diversified natural resources companies and the merged pressure on extractive industries to share more benefits with entity will have exposure to zinc-lead-silver, iron ore, oil & gas, society for earning and retaining their ‘Social License to Operate’. copper, aluminium and commercial power with assets located Finally, as the regulatory regime across industries undergoes in India, Australia, Liberia, South Africa, Namibia, Ireland and Sri modifications, the mining industry in particular is facing increasing Lanka. challenges (including corrective actions to tackle misuse / illegal operations). Goa Energy Private Limited Karnataka Operations Sesa acquired 100% shares of Goa Energy Private Limited (GEPL) for an enterprise value of Rs. 104 crores (including working capital of On 26 August 2011, the Honourable Supreme Court of India ordered Rs. 6 crores approx.) on a cash-free debt-free basis. GEPL owns and a ban on iron ore mining operations in Karnataka. The Court also operates a 30 MW waste heat recovery power plant in Goa, which ordered the sale of existing inventory by e-auction through a utilises the waste heat and gases from Sesa’s metallurgical coke Government appointed agency. As a consequence of this ban, making and pig iron facilities. the mining operations of Sesa’s unit in Karnataka were stopped. Following the submission of the Central Empowered Committee report to the Supreme Court in February 2012, the Company Expansion Projects expects a resolution in this matter in the near term. The Company Sesa is in the final stages of commissioning its expansion project continues to take all legal measures to protect its interests in this for the pig iron and met coke manufacturing facilities. With the matter. commissioning of the 450 m3 blast furnaces and 2 batteries of 36 coke ovens each, the Company’s overall pig iron production Goa Operations capacity increases to 625 ktpa and met coke production to 560 ktpa. The project also comprises 800 ktpa sintering facility that The Ministry of Mines, Government of India, constituted the Shah would enable the PID to partially meet its iron ore requirement Commission for inquiry into aspects of compliances for iron ore with sintered iron ore fines, resulting in significant cost savings and mining across India. Sesa was subjected to investigations by the increasing efficiencies. Shah Commission and has provided all the requisite information to the Commission during their visit to Goa. Demystifying Risks Export Duty As with any enterprise, Sesa too faces several risks. Our risk mitigation process constitutes a formal process of identification During the year, Sesa was adversely affected by a significant of inherent risks and root causes related to various aspects of increase in the export duty on iron ore. The duty rates on both our Company (its processes and the environment) and identifying lumps and fines, which were at 15% and 5% respectively, were actions to reduce these risks. A thorough and intensive enterprise increased to 20% earlier during the previous year and then from risk management process involves identification and monitoring 20% to 30% effective 30 December 2011. of mitigating factors and evaluating the residual risk after action plans are implemented. The senior management and the Board of MMDR Act Directors are involved in monitoring the progress on these action The Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Bill has been plans. Further, audits, incident investigations, and routine reporting proposed to replace the existing Mines and Minerals (Development provide management with information to monitor performance on and Regulation) Act, 1957. The bill proposes a number of changes risk mitigation. Some broad risks are detailed below. to mining regulations, including the introduction of auction for allocation of leases, and a proposed imposition of additional cost Market Risks in terms of social contribution equivalent to the royalty (currently Sesa exports over 81% of its iron ore production. Being a player in 10% ad valorem). Levies of export duties, social contribution levies, the global seaborne iron ore market, our business is exposed to royalties, etc., continue to pose significant cost challenges to the adversities in demand and supply. Moreover, with 69% (as against iron ore mining industry, affecting its competitiveness on the 77% in the previous year) of sales being exported to China, any global front. slowdown in that economy can affect the Company’s business. There are two mitigating factors. First, Sesa’s share of total Chinese iron Growth ore imports is small and there continues to be various opportunities in China for Sesa to increase its market presence. Second, Sesa’s Despite regulatory and market concerns, Sesa continues to focus low operations cost also acts as a significant assurance of its ability its business strategy to fulfil its vision of being amongst the top to ride out short-term adverse market conditions. four mining companies globally. During the reporting period, Sesa made strategic investments with a 20% stake in Cairn India Limited Sesa continues to work towards diversifying its customer mix. In at Rs. 13,075 crores, 51% stake in Western Cluster Limited at an terms of our geographic market spread, in the past few years, we  Sustainability Report 2012 have been continuously reducing our exports to China. The iron Health and Safety Risks STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE ore industry is highly concentrated with the top three producers accounting for more than 70% of the global seaborne iron ore trade. We place special focus on EHS-related risks and managing them Such scale provides these players with a significant ability to affect because of the industry in which we operate. In an extractive competition, and pose a potential threat to Sesa’s exports. We industry, health and safety are of paramount importance, and our continue to focus on building relationships with major customers safety and health programmes focus on reducing this risk. Most of and geographically diversifying our customer base. our units are OHSAS 18001 certified. Commodity Price Risks Environment and Biodiversity Risks Sesa’s revenue and earnings are dependent on prevailing iron ore Mining is a process of extracting and processing mineral resources and pig iron prices, which are determined by the supply–demand and by its very nature, has an impact on the environment. We take scenario and raw materials prices. Commodity prices may fluctuate utmost care in ensuring compliance with related regulations. We widely for all products affecting revenue and earnings. We strive also adhere to regulations stipulated by the Pollution Control Board to maintain our operational costs at globally competitive levels in and have measures in place to prevent pollution due to spillages, order to sustain through the commodity price cycles. overburdens and runoffs. Further, we also invest in a long-tenure restoration programme to restore land to pre-mining levels. In Regulatory Risks order to protect biodiversity, we have in place many biodiversity plans. Last year, a bund collapsed in Mulgao during the monsoon Sesa has exposure to the regulatory uncertainties facing the mining due to heavy and incessant rains concentrated over a short period sector in India. In the last few years, our Company has been exposed of time. This embankment collapse led to the flooding of adjacent to several changes in the regulatory environment, including increase fields and affected the crops of farmers in the periphery. We took in export duty on iron ore to 30% for iron ore lumps and fines during care of the situation and have put mitigation measures in place. the year. Periodically, non-tariff restrictions, export ban, mining ban, etc., are applied to various ores, similar to the one in vogue in 2011-12 in Karnataka. Environmental regulation policies also remain Transport and Logistics Risks unclear and prone to changes or changes in interpretation. Case-toDust, noise and congestion are some of the concerns arising out case administration of such regulations leads to uncertainty and risk of ore transportation by trucks carrying ore from the mines to in mining activities. Cap and Trade schemes, if made mandatory, will the jetties. They cause discomfort to the community, and also result in increased operating costs. affect the efficiency of our operations. Congestion on roads and restrictions on timings for movement of trucks cause delays in Sesa’s Liberia operations are exposed to the regulatory regime transportation of the ore. This also leads to storage of ore in the in Liberia. While the execution of the Mineral Development mine, which creates a bottleneck for production. We are working Agreement with the Government of Liberia provides stability, with the Government of Goa to mitigate these risks through the especially with respect to the fiscal regime, Sesa remains exposed construction of mining corridors. For additional details, please see to regulatory changes in Liberia and to delays in requisite approvals the brief on transportation in the ensuing sections of the report. for the project. Operational Risks Currency Risks With a majority of its iron ore being exported, Sesa’s revenues are Our Company is exposed to the risks of delays in obtaining final primarily quoted in US dollars. This exposes us to foreign exchange government clearances for increasing our current production fluctuation risks, particularly in relation to the US dollar. capacities. Besides, delays in allocation of new mineral leases or changes in the policy on allocation of such leases in favour of captive steel companies could affect our future plans. Our operations Climate Change Risks are also exposed to a number of factors which are outside our Global warming is an increasing risk for us since a large part of control, such as unusual or unexpected geological features, ground our operations are concentrated in Goa, which is located on the conditions, climatic conditions such as flooding, interruptions to western coast of India, and, as such, are vulnerable to rising sea power supplies, congestion at logistics facilities, industrial action or levels and adverse weather. Our management committee assesses disputes, environmental hazards, technical failures, fires, explosions physical risks to our various facilities and develops detailed plans and other incidents at a mine, processing plant, or related facility. for minimising impact of such risks. Emergency preparedness training has been provided to employees to deal with such extreme Project Execution Risks physical calamities. Our aggressive growth plan is contingent upon the successful completion of investments in several developmental projects, Managing Community Expectations including investments in the underlying infrastructure to support the logistics of ore extraction. These new investments require The sustainability of an organisation is not possible without the project management skills, and have exposure to project execution in-tandem progress of the community and this is a firm belief risks. Our projects are exposed to technical uncertainties, delays at Sesa. Our dedicated CSR department continuously engages in delivery of machinery and equipment, delays in erection and with our stakeholders, assesses needs comprehensively and construction, delays in acquisition of land, escalations in costs, focuses on initiatives that benefit the community. We undertake etc. We rely on our strong project execution and extensive mining various interventions related to healthcare, education & training, experience to assess and mitigate identified project risks. livelihood, agriculture and infrastructure development. We continue to proactively address the concerns of the community and also respond transparently to all agencies that seek to know more about our Company, its activities or their impact on society.  Sesa Goa Limited CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Sesa is committed to executing sustainable business practices and creating long-term value for all its stakeholders. To pursue this objective, we remain steadfast in our value systems that incorporate integrity, transparency and fairness across all our business activities. Sesa has a robust governance framework. Our approach is to Governance entrust authority and accountability to business managers, who have the optimal skills and information to respond to business The organisational structure and governance framework ensure challenges and opportunities. Our business strategy, policy a strong system of authority and accountability to operational and performance standards are set by the Board and Executive management, within the purview of the business strategy, policy Committee, and are aligned with international best practices and guidelines and standards laid down by the Board of Directors. standards. The executive team constituting the operational (divisions and units) management and other corporate functions ensures that Our auditing and assurance processes ensure that our business Company’s sustainability development standards are maintained principles and standards are being upheld at each operational level and operations are aligned to these standards. and project. We also aim to facilitate the sharing of good practices across the Vedanta group companies and provide examples of best practices from outside our organisation. Board of Directors We continue to focus on our commitments towards the As on 31 March 2012, the Company had six Directors on its Board, development of the community where we operate. We have of which two are Executive Directors and four are Non-Executive adopted best practices towards preserving the environment Directors. Mr. A. K. Rai, Executive Director, retired w.e.f. 01 August, and adherence to the highest safety standards remains a focus 2011. Mr. P. G. Kakodkar, Non Executive Independent Director, area across all operations. Our value systems are based on the resigned w.e.f. 25 October 2011. All four Non-Executive Directors foundation of fair and ethical practices in all our dealings with are independent. Eight Board meetings were held during 2011-12 stakeholders, including customers, vendors, contractors, suppliers and the gap between two meetings did not exceed four months. and all others who are part of our business value chain. The Board periodically reviews compliance reports of all laws The Board is responsible for Sesa’s stand on public policy lobbying applicable to the Company. Steps are taken by the Company to and donations to political parties. Our senior management team rectify instances of non-compliance, if any. During 2011-12, Sesa did looks after the business operations and we have a structured not have any material pecuniary relationship or transactions with process in place to evaluate their performance. All senior Non-Executive Directors. members have performance scorecards in place at the beginning Table 8 : Board of Directors of the year. Scorecards focus on financial as well as customer and sustainability perspectives. Performance is reviewed half-yearly on Name of the Director Category these parameters. Mr. Kuldip K Kaura Independent Non-Executive Mr. Gurudas D Kamat Independent Non-Executive Code of Conduct Mr. Jagdish P Singh Independent Non-Executive Mr. Ashok Kini Independent Non-Executive Sesa has adopted a Code of Conduct for Executive and NonMr. Amit Pradhan Executive Executive Directors, Senior Management Personnel and other (Whole-time Director) executives of the Company. The Code of Conduct covers aspects like Mr. Prasun K Mukherjee Executive conflict of interest, human rights, bribery, insider trading, whistle(Managing Director) blowing, gifts, confidentiality, etc. All our employees are required to reiterate their adherence to the Company’s Code of Conduct annually. We have received confirmations from the executive and non-executive directors, as well as senior management personnel, Governance Structure regarding compliance of the code during the year under review. Structured multi-tier internal business reviews along with our We target 100% employee awareness through classroom-based Management Assurance Systems (MAS) function, which oversees training. Regular communication from senior management is also the internal audit process carried out by reputed third-party sent to all employees, informing them about our Code of Conduct auditors, ensure that business performance is assessed, monitored and the implications of having any vested interest in Company for improvement and our business and sustainable development operations. policies and guidelines are followed across the organisation. All Directors and senior management are committed to the The structured internal review process consists of the following Company’s Code of Conduct, compliance to which is periodically committees, other than the statutory committees for works, safety reviewed. Additional information can be found in our Annual and welfare. Report, which is also available on our Company website at http:// • Executive Committee (at the Vedanta group level) www.sesagoa.com/attachments/article/115/sesa goa ar 2012_web. • Business Management Group pdf. • Operations Review Committee • Compliance Committee The Code of Conduct is at http://www.sesagoa.com/images/ • Sustainability Core Committee stories/sesagoa/pdf/codeofbusiness conductandethics.pdf. The Company also endeavours to constantly upgrade its own knowledge and processes in reference to the best-in-class practices around the world.  Sustainability Report 2012 Board of Directors STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE Remuneration Disclosures At Sesa, remuneration is linked to sustainability performance. The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors reviews Subsidiary Companies the performance of the Company and all its operations on the dimensions of safety, business, financial and other sustainable The revised Clause 49 defines a “material non-listed Indian development parameters. This is used as the basis for setting subsidiary” as an unlisted subsidiary, incorporated in India, whose the annual performance payments and incentives for the senior turnover or net worth (i.e. paid-up capital and free reserves) management. The variable performance system for executives exceeds 20% of the consolidated turnover or net worth respectively, is linked to company and unit performance on profits, safety of the listed holding company and its subsidiaries in the immediately performance and other key drivers of performance. Safety preceding accounting year. As per this definition, none of the performance also is a factor applied to individual performance in subsidiaries of Sesa Goa Limited, viz. Sesa Resources Limited and the evaluation and reward of final incentive. Sesa Mining Corporation Limited, are material non-listed Indian subsidiaries. Governance Committees Materially Significant Related Party Transactions The details of various committees constituted at the level of The Board has received disclosures from key managerial personnel the Board of Directors of the Company, for various aspects of relating to material financial and commercial transactions where governance of the Company are listed in the corporate governance they and / or their relatives have personal interests. section of the Company’s Annual Report for the year 2011-12. Transactions with related parties are disclosed in note no. 45 of the Financial Statements in the Annual Report. In the opinion of the Board, the transactions during 2011-12 between Sesa Goa Limited and its subsidiaries, Sesa Resources Limited, Sesa Mining Corporation Limited and Goa Energy Private Limited, have been done at arm’s length.  Sesa Goa Limited Directors’ Profile Mr. Kuldip K. Kaura is a Non-Executive Mr. Gurudas D. Kamat is a Non-Executive Mr. Jagdish P. Singh is a distinguished Director of Sesa. Mr. Kaura retired as independent Director of Sesa. civil servant with over 38 years of the Chief Executive Officer of Vedanta in executive experience in key positions in September 2008 and was appointed as Mr. Kamat retired as Chief Justice of the the Union and State Government. Director of Sesa on 30 October, 2007. Gujarat High Court in January 1997. He is engaged in judicial work relating to He is an alumnus of Harvard University, He holds a Bachelor of Engineering arbitration and conciliation. Mr. Kamat where he attended the Kennedy School (Hons) in Mechanical Engineering from was appointed as Director of Sesa on 23 of Government as a Mason Fellow. He Birla Institute of Technology & Science, December, 2005. also holds a Masters degree from the Pilani in 1968. University of Allahabad. He has over 47 years of experience in the Prior to his appointment as Director field of legal practice and judiciary, having Mr. Singh has occupied varied positions and Chief Executive Officer of Vedanta practiced in Mumbai as well as in Goa in in his career, such as district and in March 2005, Mr. Kaura was Chief various branches of law. Mr. Kamat was divisional administrator, later working Operating Officer of Vedanta Resources prosecutor for the Government of Goa as Chief Executive and Chairman of the plc. and Managing Director of Sterlite from 1967 to 1969. Board of numerous corporate bodies. Industries (I) Ltd. During his tenure with the Vedanta Group, Mr. Kaura was also From 1980 onwards, Mr. Kamat was an He was responsible for turning around the Managing Director of Hindustan Zinc advocate for the Customs and Central several State and Central corporations Limited from April 2002 to March 2004. Excise Departments of the Government engaged in Industrial and Services of India. He was a member of the senate activities such as Tourism, Infrastructure, Mr. Kaura is currently Chief Executive and faculty of law of Mumbai University Cooperative Finance, Mining and Officer and Managing Director of ACC from 1978 to 1980. Mr. Kamat was Minerals Exploration. He initiated Limited. Before joining the Vedanta appointed as a judge of the Bombay High measures in amendments in Labour group, Mr. Kaura served at ABB India for Court on 29 November, 1983. Laws. He shaped the new National 18 years and was the Managing Director Mineral Policy in 2008 and piloted its and Country Manager from 1998 to passage. 2001. He has served as a member of the National Council of Confederation of He is widely travelled internationally, Indian Industries and is office bearer of having led delegations to multilateral such professional bodies. bodies and conventions to participate in global conferences, workshops, seminars and conventions. He has conducted bilateral and country-specific discussions to further joint economic activities with South Africa, Australia and Indonesia.  Sustainability Report 2012 STRATEGY & GOVERNANCE Mr. Ashok Kini is a Non-Executive Mr. Amit Pradhan is a Whole Time Mr. Prasun K. Mukherjee is the Managing independent Director of Sesa. He holds Director of Sesa, currently responsible Director of Sesa since April 2006. a Postgraduate from Madras Christian for the Group’s value addition business College, Chennai. including Steel, Pig Iron, Met Coke and Mr. Mukherjee holds a Bachelor of Power. Commerce (Hons) degree from Kolkata He retired as MD of State Bank of India in University. He is a fellow member of the December 2005, after serving the Bank Mr. Pradhan joined Sesa in January Institute of Chartered Accountants of for 38 years. He was responsible for the 1990 as Manager Purchase. He holds a India and an associate member of the Bank’s IT plans, from concept and RFP Postgraduate in M.Sc. (Physics) from the Institute of Cost and Works Accountants to execution and vendor management, Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi. of India. domestic distribution, retail business, consumer banking, marketing/brand Mr. Pradhan was appointed as Director He has around 33 years of experience in management, etc. of Sesa on 01 July, 2000. He has 34 finance, accounts, costing & taxation, years of experience in materials/ legal and general management. He is currently on the Board of IndusInd project management with a stint in Bank Limited, Gulf Oil Corporation Business Development. Mr. Pradhan Mr. Mukherjee was rated as one of India’s Limited, UTI Asset Management was appointed as Whole Time Director Best Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) in the Company and Financial Inclusion of the Company effective from 01 May, year 2005 by Business Today magazine Network & Operations Limited. 2006. He was also distinguished and and in 2009, Business World magazine listed by the International Who’s Who declared Mr. Mukherjee as India’s most Professionals in 2007. ‘Value’able CEO.  Sesa Goa Limited Compliance Financial Assistance Sesa has complied with all the requirements of regulatory During the year, the Company has availed an excise duty savings authorities. No penalties or strictures were imposed on it by the of Rs. 0.43 crores on indigenous purchases of capital goods under stock exchanges or SEBI or any statutory authority on any matter the continuing Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme during the related to the capital market during the last three years. year. The Company has not received any other government subsidy, tax break, duty drawback, government benefits, etc., during the On 23 October 2009, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs of the reporting period. Neither the Central Government nor any State Government of India ordered SFIO to investigate the affairs of Sesa Governments are shareholders in the Company. and its then subsidiary, SIL (which has since been amalgamated with Sesa with effect from 14 February 2011). During the year, SFIO had submitted its report on the investigation into Sesa’s affairs Means of Communication pursuant to section 235 of the Indian Companies Act, in which it All financial disclosures are available on the Company’s website made certain allegations, and recommended, inter alia, action www.sesagoa.com. Sesa has formal and informal meetings with against the directors of Sesa during 2001-2008. media and institutional investors. Authorised persons of Sesa also In response to this report received by the Company on 26 May 2011, respond to queries telephonically and by letters. A Management Sesa filed representations to the Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Discussion and Analysis statement is a part of the Company’s Affairs, with a copy to SFIO, explaining in detail Sesa’s position Annual Report. Sesa has a common grievance cell for all shareholder on the allegations in the SFIO report and denying the allegations grievances. For each of its policies Sesa has a grievance redressal made therein. No further communication has been received till process in place including supplier code of conduct and human date. rights. The quarterly, half-yearly and annual results are published in the Contributions to Political Parties Economic Times, Mumbai edition and an English and Konkani/ Marathi daily newspaper in Goa. The results, along with official During the reporting period, Sesa has made contributions to news releases, are also posted on the Company’s website. various political parties. The details of the same are reported transparently in the Annual Report of the Company. The donations made by Sesa to political parties during the year 2011-12 are detailed on page 92 in our Annual Report.  Sustainability Report 2012 ETHICS & HUMAN RIGHTS As part of our ongoing journey of sustainable mining, we believe Highlights in pushing the envelope when it comes to developing responsible practices. Our SA 8000 certification is a big part of this journey. We • The first iron ore company in the world to be SA 8000 are now looking at extending these practices to our suppliers as well. certified The first step was the creation of a supplier code of conduct. • Creation of a Supplier Code of Conduct  Sesa Goa Limited ETHICS For any business, it only makes sound business sense to ensure that its conduct is right and is cognisant of the rights of others. Our conduct, integrity and behaviour, in all interactions with our stakeholders, enhance and strengthen our relationships and our respect, for the interests of these stakeholders, ensures sustainability of relations over a longer period. Sesa is focussed on operating with utmost transparency in all Table 9: Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s antidealings, as possible, which is also reflected in all its reporting. corruption policies and procedures Sesa continues to lay emphasis on improving its performance on human rights, reflected in this year’s endeavour to achieve and No. Employee Category Employees Percentage standardise workplace conditions through certification of SA Trained 8000. 1 Board / Senior 46 100% Management* 2 Executive 1,245 78% Business Conduct 3 Non-executives 3,342 Not covered The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governs all employees presently of Sesa. This code contains general guidelines for conducting the 4 Trainees 63 100% business of the Company consistent with the highest standards Board members and senior management include whole-time directors & of business ethics. As stated in the policy, the code requires a executives with general managerial responsibilities in the organisation. higher standard than what is required as per commercial practice or applicable laws, rules or regulations. The code adheres to the following guidelines: Whistle Blower Policy • Zero tolerance in ensuring strict adherence to local and international laws and regulations, also including the Amongst the other components of the code, we also have a formal Company’s ethical standards Whistle Blower and Anti-corruption policy. The Company’s Whistle • Ensuring all business transactions of the Company are fully Blower Policy outlines procedures and policies to deal with any and fairly recorded complaint relating to fraud and other financial irregularities. • Regular monitoring of ethical conduct and ensuring that systems are in place and accessible to all employees and Insider Trading Policy others to report potential violations In addition to the regular conduct and misconduct rules, the As per the SEBI (Prevention of Insider Trading) Regulation Act, code also covers other aspects of business performance and 1992, Sesa has an Insider Trading Policy, which all the designated individual behaviour, including compliance with the law of the employees are required to abide by. Any designated employee land, human rights and work environment, bribery and corruption, who trades in securities or communicates any information for conflicts of interests, disclosures, and other related aspects. An trading in securities, in contravention of this code of conduct may effective compliance system is in place to ensure and monitor the be penalised and appropriate action taken by the Company which maintenance of these standards. The Company also has a formal may include termination of services, suspension, ineligibility for Compliance Committee and designated Compliance Officer to future participation in employee stock option plans, or other such ensure monitoring of the same. appropriate action. All employees are trained on the Code of Conduct and ethics policies. All new employees, as a part of the induction process, need to be aware, read, appraise themselves and formally acknowledge that they will adhere to these policies when they join us. Significant contractors and workmen are also included in anti-corruption training. Bribery and Corruption As an emergent global company, it behoves us to have strong anticorruption policies in place. As a part of the Vedanta group, the UK Bribery Act of 2010 is applicable to us. All our business units were taken into consideration for assessing risks related to corruption. All executives of the Company have been briefed on the Company guidelines against bribery and corruption and all executives are signatories to these guidelines, having read and understood them as a part of their conduct rules. During the reporting period, no substantiated incidents of corruption have been reported. * In data tables across this report, wherever it is mentioned as Board / Senior Management, it refers to whole-time directors of the Company and executives who have general managerial responsibilities in the organisation.  Sustainability Report 2012 HUMAN RIGHTS Organisations cannot be sustainable, and no sustainability strategy is complete, without taking human rights into consideration across all aspects of their operations. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, Sesa has Table 10: Formal Training to Employees on Organisation’s Policies voluntarily made a commitment to guarantee basic human rights & Procedures Related to Human Rights Issues according to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Recognising the significance of management of Human Rights and Category Employees Employees Total % its impacts on the stakeholders, Sesa has developed a formal Human Trained Training Trained Rights policy in line with the Vedanta Sustainability Governance Hours system and the same is under implementation. For new projects, it Board / Senior 46 21 16 4% is being implemented from the commencement of operations and Management ETHICS & HUMAN RIGHTS for existing projects, its applicability is being reviewed. Executive 1,308 552 3,610 42% In accordance with the provisions of the policy, we ensure that Non-executives 3,342 502 2,848 15% our employees receive fair and reasonable remuneration and fair Total 4,696 1,056 6,474 22% working conditions. The Company neither employs nor encourages forced, bonded or child labour and conducts proper checks and audits to ensure that our contractors follow our example. In the Grievance Redressal course of the SA 8000 audits conducted, no operations have been We have an official Grievance Redressal Policy to expedite the identified as a source of significant risk for child labour or forced resolution of grievances of employees. The policy covers all labour. None of our operations are adjacent to indigenous people employees and staff (executives) working at various units. As per and as such, no rights have been violated. the policy, grievances must be reported within a month orally to the aggrieved person’s superior. If unresolved within a week, the Currently, there is no process to either include human rights issue gets escalated to the department head or Unit HR head. If screening or a mandatory human rights clause in significant still unresolved, the issue is escalated to the Grievance Redressal contracts agreements and investments. Having just incorporated Committee. During the reporting period, no incidences on a formal policy on Human Rights, we are working on a process grievances related to Human Rights have been reported. and plan to translate the policy into an effective action plan that will cover significant aspects of human rights in the day-to-day operations including major investments and our stakeholders. Employee Representation As per the Liberian legal requirements, we included a mandatory human rights clause in our investment agreement on the purchase 51% of our employees (2,403 out of 4,696) are covered by collective of our 51% stake in Western Cluster Limited. bargaining agreements. All the non-executive employees of Sesa are represented by independent trade unions. The Company does not prevent any employee from exercising the right to freedom of Human Rights Training association or collective bargaining. Sesa abides by Section 9A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, wherein a minimum notice period Employees are provided training on significant aspects of human of 21 days is required before any operational change is effected by rights as a part of the overall training plan of the Company. SA 8000 the Company. Health and safety policies are also covered under awareness training has been conducted throughout the Company the collective bargaining contracts. There have been no incidents and plans are underway to conduct training sessions for contractors of strikes and lockouts exceeding a week during the reporting also. period. Security is an important requirement at our sites and we have outsourced security to a third party vendor. Of the 980 security personnel, 7 are on our rolls and they have all been trained in the organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. These security personnel support us on a daily basis to ensure the smooth flow of operations in the mines and production units. Sesa will continue to train its own and contractual security personnel on organisation’s policies and procedures, and training on human rights aspects concerning its operations will be a focus area.  Sesa Goa Limited SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER RELATIONS Sesa believes that suppliers influence a large portion of our daily business operations. Our requirements are met through OCMs, OEMs, transporters, maintenance contractors and general traders – a diverse group of people that constitute our supplier base. All raw materials, equipment and spares are procured from Contractors who have deployed workmen at our sites have been indigenous manufacturers; metallurgical coal (with low ash audited under SA 8000 certification. We ensure that our contract content) and specialised machinery are imported from offshore labourers do not face any violation of human rights. Contractual suppliers. Competent Indian contractors carry out construction labour age is verified and documents maintained to prevent and other services. Besides our own iron ore mines in Goa and employment of child labour. We have not noticed any curtailment Karnataka, we also operate mines in Goa, which are third party of freedom of collective bargaining at our suppliers. leases, and ore produced in these third party mines is purchased. Payments to suppliers for iron ore, goods and services are made as Sesa has introduced a new e-procurement system that encourages per agreed terms and conditions. greater transparency and provides decision support for our suppliers and us. We train our buyers through a dummy auction Table 11: Value of Imports on CIF Basis (in Rs. Crore) process to familiarise them with the portal. Plans are in place to develop a Supplier Relationship Management system as well. Particulars 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Raw Materials 344 510 697 Components and Spare Parts 17 21 17 Capital Goods 22 155 85 E-Procurement Total 383 685 799 As an ethical practice, we do encourage that all segments of society Objective have the opportunity to participate by demonstrating support for To implement an e-sourcing module that selects the best small, disadvantaged and minority-owned businesses. Following mix of suppliers, products and services while minimising the SA 8000 certification, there has been greater emphasis on cost, improving quality, reducing supply risks and reducing human rights and with this perspective, Sesa has issued formal sourcing cycle time. In line with the vision to be a leading iron letters to the regular supplier base. We conducted an awareness ore producer and to ensure sustainability of operations, it is session to update suppliers about our Supplier’s Code of Conduct; necessary to optimise costs. Raw material is a major contributor the signing of which is mandatory before any purchase order is to operational costs. It is imperative to procure material at issued. the right price, quality and time. In order to create a real-time system to assess suppliers, products and services, to help Suppliers and Procurement decision-making, Sesa launched the e-procurement system. Emptoris (an IBM Company) was selected to implement the Our suppliers are a crucial part of our business operations. We e-Auction module. segregate them based on frequency, costing, etc., as A, B and C Suppliers: Benefits of e-Sourcing A. Raw material suppliers (mostly mine owners) This online auction model streamlines the procurement B. Suppliers of spares and consumables (OCMs and OEMs), service process. Instead of meeting and negotiating with vendors and maintenance providers and transporters and suppliers over several days and then agreeing on a price, C. General suppliers and traders there is a limited time period during which suppliers log in A & B categories are our critical suppliers as it is necessary to and provide their bid value. At the end of the auction, all maintain a sustainable supply chain for sustainable operations. Our participating suppliers receive reports on whether they are procurement processes also reinforce our commitment to human successful and, if not, the reason for it. All suppliers are trained rights, related to minimum wages and child / forced labour, ethical on the module before the auction takes place. behaviour to mention a few. We have a formal Supplier Code of Conduct that requires suppliers to stringently follow norms on Our suppliers have welcomed the efficiency and transparency child labour and forced labour, amongst other norms. As on 31 of the auction process. Some of the benefits of the new March 2012, 18.3% of suppliers’ contracts had the code included in system include reduction in costs, reduced supplier risk, their agreements. optimal allocations in spend categories, and stimulating efficiencies across the sourcing process. We now complete our In addition to the Supplier Code of Conduct, we also have plans negotiations with fewer resources and in less time. to conduct awareness sessions for our major suppliers. One such awareness session, attended by our 10 major suppliers, was Conclusion conducted at our Head Office in August 2011. We also plan to conduct formal supplier audits in the near future. Sourcing now consumes half the resources and is twice as fast. Our suppliers are happy with a fairer, more transparent and Our employees are sensitised to report any human rights streamlined process. violation when visiting supplier locations. We have also started the practice of asking for written undertakings from suppliers on various clauses of SA 8000. So far, there have been no cases of discontinuation of contracts.  Sustainability Report 2012 NURTURING PEOPLE Our growth is inextricably tied to our employees’ health and Highlights satisfaction at work. Over the reporting period, several initiatives were taken to ensure that our employees grow along with us. The • 4,696 employees, including 1354 executives, 654 professionals results of our employee engagement survey, “Connect”, will drive from diverse educational backgrounds future engagement initiatives. Professional growth is another • 83% participation in our employee engagement survey, aspect we take seriously. Our training hours have doubled this year “Connect” and our people receive more opportunities to interact with senior • 67 Gen-Next leaders in the GOLD program management. Our safety record has improved as well this year. • 110 stars of business identified • 96,208 hours of training • Over 20 hours of training per employee • 15.6% of women in the executive category • Our LTIFR has improved from .86 in 2010-11 to .81 in 2011-12  Sesa Goa Limited OUR PEOPLE “Sesa Goa Limited is committed to pursue the best management practices for its employees. We are pleased with being the first iron ore mining company in the world to be certified SA 8000. The management and employees of Sesa Goa will strive harder to perform even better on the parameters set by the standard.” – Mr. P K Mukherjee, MD, Sesa Goa Limited The lifeblood of any organisation is its people; at Sesa, our and interaction between managers, workers and supervisors, we employees are our key assets. We strive hard to provide them with hope to limit accidents from taking place. a healthy and safe working environment by incorporating the best employee practices, policies and standards. To be a world-class Human Resource Management employer, the Company’s focus is on key strategic initiatives: The Company’s Human Resources department is entrusted with the • Recruiting best in class implementation of HR policies and achieving business objectives. • Identifying and nurturing the right talent The core team operates from the Corporate Office in Goa, while unit • Encouraging and motivating future leaders HR Teams handle the responsibilities at the respective operational • Individual development units. • Providing a stimulating and challenging workplace Health and safety continues to be a focus area as we take measures to eliminate hazards at the workplace. Through regular training Table 12: Break-up of Employees Category 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Male Female Male Female Male Female Board / Senior Management 23 1 32 1 45 1 Executive 952 128 1,129 186 1,096 212 Non-executives 2,879 27 3,390 23 3,318 24 Total 3,854 156 4,551 210 4,459 237 4,010 4,761 4,696 As on 31 March 2012, the workforce at Sesa, in all its units and Continuous learning is an integral part of the development process operations, constituted 4,696 permanent employees and 5410 at Sesa. During 2011-12, a total of 96,208 man-hours of training contractual workforce. (The contractual figure is a simple average were provided to all employees, from senior management to nonof monthly contract workmen attendance in all units.) Sesa does executives. not currently assess the gender break up for contract employees, The Gen-next Operational Leadership Development (GOLD) as the number of female employees is very low. However, we programme, launched in 2009-10 to develop operational leaders, plan to start capturing this information from the next reporting continued to be in focus during the year. Since inception, 67 period. operational leaders have participated in the GOLD programme During the year, Sesa has stepped up its employee engagement in two waves, each lasting 7 months. The programme has been initiatives. The biggest change has been our Employee successful, both in identifying successors for critical operational Engagement Survey, called Connect, which will be an annual fixture leadership positions and also accelerating the development of henceforth. We hope that by eliciting our employees’ opinions and several managers. This year, in the second wave, 27 employees incorporating them into our HR practices, we will build a stronger were identified as Gen-Next Leaders. culture where everyone is driven by the goal to make Sesa a worldclass organisation. We hoped that by identifying the strengths of Recruitment our organisation and the areas of improvement, we would be able Sesa’s mission is to be an organisation with best-in-class people and to retain and motivate our employees, improve productivity and a performance-driven culture by attracting and retaining quality profitability of the organisation. The survey was a great success manpower. A strong recruitment philosophy and on-boarding with an 83% response rate in 2011-12. The results were shared with process is crucial for attracting and retaining the best talent from all employees and based on the outcome, several organisational across the world. At Sesa, this objective is achieved with a fair development initiatives were introduced and existing systems and transparent recruitment process, supported by a focussed were modified. induction programme, followed by a continuous learning and As we continue to grow, we continue to infuse young talent into development process the organisation and assimilating this talent into the organisation Sesa encourages diversity in its people profile, while being focussed becomes an imperative. New recruits undergo a structured on hiring local talent. Our management team is a diverse group induction programme followed by an orientation specific to the of people with differing cultural affiliations, qualifications and units where they are posted. To improve the engagement of our backgrounds. While we recruit our management and graduate young trainees (Graduate Engineer Trainees and Management engineer trainees from across the best institutes in the country, Trainees), we are reinventing our induction process to incorporate all other officer trainees and operational trainees (ITI graduates) a good mix of classroom and field training. Further, special are recruited from within Goa. We visit all reputed educational initiatives, like interaction with the CEO, named Coffee and institutes within Goa to source this fresh talent. During the year, Conversations with MD, and a modified mentoring scheme, we have also participated in job fairs. Also, in order to enhance the have been introduced to foster interaction between senior competence of local talent and thereby improve their suitability to management and new trainees.  Sustainability Report 2012 meet industry manpower needs, Sesa engages with the community to conduct various skills development activities. This year, we welcomed 277 new employees into our organisation. Table 13: New Employee Hiring & Turnover 2011-12 Grade Hiring Turnover Age (yrs) Gender Age Gender < 30 30 50 >50 M F < 30 30 50 >50 M F BSc Trainees 61 42 19 8 5 3 Below M9 Grade 70 10 77 3 M9 3 2 5 M8 5 1 1 5 Graduate Engineer Trainees 24 21 3 20 17 3 Management Trainees 6 6 M7 57 49 8 M6 15 2 10 7 M5 3 2 5 M5 3 2 1 M4 5 1 5 1 M3 3 2 5 M2 1 1 M1 1 1 P 1 Total 244 29 4 224 53 28 22 6 277 277 28 28 Local Hiring Sesa’s recruitment policy ensures attraction of the right mix of attitude, aptitude, knowledge and skills, experience and demographics. For this, the policy lays down specific guidelines on qualifications, academic performance, background, job specifications, etc. Selection NURTURING PEOPLE processes and procedures ensure fairness in the recruitment process, equal opportunity to all aspirants and the selection of meritorious and deserving candidates. Sesa operates in more than one geographical location and the management team comprises individuals from different backgrounds, cultures and regions, ensuring the right mix of strategic talent, operational leadership and requisite experience. The Company adopts a clear and unambiguous policy of meritocracy, which provides equal opportunities to people from all backgrounds and capabilities. Sesa focuses on hiring capable, qualified, and meritorious candidates from local and surrounding areas. Our senior management hiring policy is based on merit and often encourages transfers from within Vedanta group companies. During the reporting period, the total number of senior management personnel hired was three (non-local). To aid local hiring, we focus on ensuring that talent in the local area is equipped with the requisite skills and knowledge through various community development efforts. Sesa, along with Government of Goa, has started a Degree course of Mining Engineering at the existing campus of Goa Engineering College. Women Employees and backgrounds. Our HR Policy clearly states that the Company is an equal opportunity employer and all employees will be treated Sesa has a target to achieve 20% women employees in the with respect and dignity, and judged solely on their performance organisation, and the HR team is working towards achieving this irrespective of their race, religion, caste, gender, age, disability, HIV goal. Women currently constitute 15.6% of the executive category, / AIDS status or any other characteristic. up from 11.7% over the last two years. We offer equal roles and responsibilities to our women employees and do not discriminate Table 15: Composition of Governance bodies (As on 31 March 2012) on the basis of gender. The ratio of basic salary of men to women in all staff categories across all locations is 1:1. Governance Age From Minority From NonBodies Group Group Minority Group Table 14: Distribution of Employees by Age Group <30 30-50 >50 Male Female Male Female years years Years Age Group Male Female Overall Board of 0 0 6 0 0 6 0 <30 1,515 179 1,694 Directors 30-50 2,238 43 2,281 >50 706 15 721 In addition to the above, Sesa has various governance bodies Total 4,459 237 4,696 such as Business Management Group, Compliance Committee, Operations Review Committee, Management Review Committee Diversity and Equal Opportunity (for IMS), Sustainability Core Group, Sexual Harassment Complaints Committee, etc., which look into various specific aspects of business Diversity is the lynchpin of innovation. To achieve our goal of being and governance performance. Composition of these governance the fourth largest iron ore mining company in the world, and to bodies and breakdown of employees will be reported in subsequent be a world-class enterprise with a high performance culture, it is reporting periods. important to have a workforce that is diverse in its skills, outlook  Sesa Goa Limited No incidence of discrimination has occurred during the reporting period. As of now, Sesa does not have a specific policy in place to hire people with disabilities, due to the nature of the industry in which it operates. We do not discriminate on pay, and our minimum wages either meet, or are higher than, the statutory requirements. During the reporting year, 5 cases of sexual harassment of female employees were reported and were substantiated. The Company has taken appropriate action and all the cases have been resolved. Employee Turnover At Sesa, we track our employee turnover in the following ways: • Total Attrition: all separations, which includes separations due to resignations, terminations or retirements • Voluntary Attrition: all separations by employee choice, such as resignations • Forced Attrition: all separations for reasons of noncompliance, disciplinary action or terminations Exploration team working on the geophysical modelling at Codi, Goa During the year 2011-12, a total of 207 employees (15%) left the organisation, by resignation, termination or retirement. A new programme for workmen wellness called ‘Navjyoti’ was started this year, involving spouses and focussed on creating a Table 16: Employee Attrition by Gender and Age “Winning Family”. The programme tackles issues like alcoholism, which are faced by family members at home. Sessions were held at Year Total Total Male Female < 30 30 – >50 the iron ore division at Codli, Amona, Bicholim and the shipbuilding Employees Attrition yrs 50 yrs yrs division at Sirsaim. 2009-10 81 7.3% 70 11 49 21 11 Due to regulatory circumstances, our Karnataka operations have 2010-11 106 7.8% 96 10 59 36 11 witnessed a lean productive phase during the year. During this 2011-12 207 15.2% 183 24 154 30 23 period, we focussed on training and cross-skilling our employees. We also conduct re-training programmes to support employees During the year, there was an increase in employee attrition due to who are retiring, and in some cases, employees leaving due to the turnover among the younger engineers and officers, who had other reasons. Over the course of the reporting period, over 96,000 joined the Company in the last two years. hours of training were imparted to employees at Sesa. Training Employee Retention and Engagement Regular, relevant and timely training is essential for employees to High employee turnover is costly for any organisation both in terms exercise their skills and perform efficiently. We have a systematic of time and loss of productivity. Hence it is important to retain approach to training, with the annual training plan based on talented employees by motivating them and providing them a training needs identified in the various appraisal and assessment challenging job environment. processes. The annual training calendar ensures employees get an opportunity to plan and undergo necessary training. Enhancing In order to improve employee engagement at Sesa this year, we the skillsets and knowledge of our employees is important to embarked on a survey called ‘Connect’, which will henceforth be ensure that the performance of the company keeps pace with the an annual feature. The survey measures employee engagement exponential growth of Sesa. The training hours have been doubled across many facets including, and not limited to, training, growth and that budget increased by 1.5 times over the last reporting year. opportunities, facilities, benefits, etc. Our goal is to improve our On an average, our employees received 20.76 hours of training satisfaction score year on year through a number of measures, during the reporting period. small and big. In order to validate these assessments, Sesa also participates regularly in global employee engagement studies, such We have introduced an improved mentorship programme to as Hewitt Best Companies to Work and Great Places to Work, to guide new recruits and ensure their smooth on-boarding and receive independent feedback, which helps formulate action plans acclimatisation to our organisation culture. Our GOLD initiative for further improvement. helps identify and create a talent pool of successors to operational leadership positions and ensures planned development of star To further enhance engagement and interaction of younger performers through multiple interventions, including challenging employees with senior management, we have started events projects and assignments. like Coffee and Conversation with MD, where young trainees and engineers get an opportunity to interact with the CEO and Table 17: Training Provided understand the organisational context from a direct perspective. During the year, we also launched a series of personality-based Employee No. of Personnel No. of Hours of Training training programmes, such as Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) Category Male Female Male Female workshops. Board / Senior 45 1 1,232 0 Management In order to maintain a cohesive culture in the organisation, in line Executive 1,096 212 36,920 6,096 with the growing organisation strength, Sesa has sponsored and supported the formation of Sesa Sports Club, a forum managed Non-executives 3,318 24 51,960 0 and sustained voluntarily by employees, which conducts various Total 4,459 237 90,112 6,096 sports and other co-curricular activities. Sports tournaments offer 4,696 96,208 an excellent opportunity to encourage and engage employees.  Sustainability Report 2012 During the year, events conducted, such as the Women’s Cricket Championship, garnered great participation and appreciation from employees. They also partake in social and cultural events and celebrations with fervour. To promote a culture of employees Business Excellence wishing each other on joyous occasions, we have introduced birthday reminders. During the reporting period, we have continued to focus on Total Quality Management implementation with multiple Our talent management practices have also been recognised initiatives that drive quality and business excellence. The Sesa by external agencies; at the Asia’s Best Employer Brand Awards Youth Club and Quality Circles are new initiatives that were ceremony held in Singapore on 22 July 2011 Sesa won an award for its implemented. The Idea Mela Programme that we started in the best practices in Talent Management. These awards are presented previous period continues to grow with several ideas already to individuals and organisations that have been exemplary role models and leaders, and have demonstrated excellence in their implemented during this reporting period. practices. Idea Mela Equity-based award plans, called Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIP) Idea Mela was conducted in December 2010 to strengthen of the parent group, Vedanta, are also offered by the Company to the employee suggestion management system and fast-track recognise key, high-performing employees. the process of collecting suggestions from employees. A day was selected and declared as Idea Mela Day to collect ideas related to productivity improvement, cost reduction, safety / Performance Appraisals environment performance improvement, quality improvement, Appraisals are a great tool to appreciate employees’ performance, employee welfare, etc., from employees. The event was a great address their concerns and provide them with the required support success with 5,000 ideas received from 2,000 employees. Of to improve performance. Sesa strives to ensure a high performance these, 600 ideas were found to be feasible for implementation. work culture and all employees of the executive category undergo Employees were also rewarded with prizes for the most creative a formal, open and transparent appraisal process, which includes idea, highest number of ideas submitted by an individual, and self-appraisal and employee feedback as a critical component. the highest number of ideas from a department. These awards Employees undergoing training and probation are also appraised to motivated employees to implement these ideas at a faster pace. assess their level of performance during these stages. Currently, NURTURING PEOPLE non-executives (workmen) of the Company are not assessed Business heads and the senior management team appreciated through a formal open performance review mechanism. the concept and allocated adequate resources to implement feasible ideas. With a specific focus on fast-tracking high Table 18: Performance Feedback – Executives 2011-12 priority ideas, we could implement 302 ideas out of 600 feasible ideas during 2011-12. The estimated cost savings from the Male Female Total implementation of these ideas would be around Rs. 2.5 crores. Total Number of Employees 1,141 213 1,354 Total Number of Employees 1,048 172 1,220 We currently have an online portal called Idea Map to manage our receiving regular performance idea system from collection to implementation. Ideas can now appraisals be collected and evaluated at a business unit level, campaigns Percentage 91.85% 80.75% 90.10% can be started for specific focus areas, and a committee can be selected to evaluate these ideas. The portal was started in Employee Benefits November 2011 and is currently being piloted in Sesa. Plans are currently underway to promote the tool within the Company, A comprehensive employee benefits package plays an important role in the recruitment and retention of the best talent. Over the both in the offices as well as in the mines through special kiosks. past few years, we have endeavoured to streamline and ensure uniformity in benefits to our full-time employees across various Quality Circles units and subsidiaries. We kicked off the Quality Circle initiative in the Pig Iron Division (PID) in 2011 with an objective of providing a platform The following table indicates the coverage of organisation’s defined for employees to join hands and be a part of our overall benefit plan and obligations, and shows the contributions made by improvement journey. Quality Circles are self-managed teams the Company towards various funds and the expenses made by the made up of about eight volunteers who identify and solve workCompany towards welfare expenses of the employees. related problems using structured problem-solving methods. Table 19: Payroll and Contribution to Benefit Plan (in Rs. crores) This process enhances involvement and inculcates a sense of ownership and belonging among employees. Currently, there 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 are about 20 Quality Circles registered in the PID. Number of Employees (Nos) 4,010 4,761 4,696 Salaries, Wages, Bonus and 147 172 219 Sesa Youth Club Allowances Contributions to Funds 11 18 27.44 Sesa Youth Club was inaugurated on 22 October 2011 as a (PF, Gratuity, Annuity) forum that provides a platform for the young and energetic Staff Welfare Expenses 10.60 17.27 21.66 youth of Sesa to utilise their ideas and energy for organisation Total 168.86 207.08 268.43 development, while helping them network with fun-filled activities. As of now, 100 voluntary members have registered Note: As opposed to the previous years’ reports, the table indicates all for this movement. Members will work on various themes of employees on its roll and not just workmen. process improvements and support Company-wide quality improvements.  Sesa Goa Limited Apart from regular benefits, Sesa provides retirement schemes medical grounds, if needed, for a short period. As with any other to support the future of its retiring employees. The Company paid leave, availing this leave does not impact position or work role administers these funds through duly constituted and approved of the employee. In 2011-12, six women employees availed maternity trusts, except the Family Pension Fund, to which contributions leave, and all have resumed at the same position. As a part of its are made through the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation. medical benefits policy, Sesa reimburses / covers the expenses of Full-time employees of the Company are a part of benefit plans, hospitalisation and expenses incurred for the birth of the first two where the contributions fall under certain statutory / fiduciary children. arrangements, such as the Provident Fund, Family Pension Fund As part of the contractual obligations of any work order, it is and Superannuation Fund, in the case of executives. Employees mandatory for contractors to comply, in all respects, with the also contribute to their provident and pension fund, equal to provisions of all statutes, rules and regulations applicable to the the contribution made by the Company, while annuity fund contractor and / or to the contractor’s employees, including but contributions are made only by the Company. The coverage of not limited to, Minimum Wages Act, ESI Act, PF Act, Bonus Act and, the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations is detailed and in particular, the Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act, reported in the Annual Report of the Company for 2011-12 on page 1970 and the Rules made thereunder, Factories Act, Workmen’s 134. Compensation Act, Payment of Wages Act and Contract Labour Sesa has a comprehensive medical benefits programme, in (Regulation) Act. As per labour welfare legislations, the contractor / which the Company reimburses all medical expenses, including tenderer should have a separate code number under the Provident hospitalisation, to full-time employees. In some cases, Sesa insures Fund and ESI schemes and such number should be furnished within the employees and families for their medical and hospitalisation seven days from the date of awarding the contract. The contractor requirements. Moreover, an employee is also eligible to avail should also comply with the Contract Labour (R&A) Act and must requisite paid leave for recuperation and recovery. All permanent be eligible to obtain a license from the authority. The minimum employees are covered under Personal Accident Insurance for a wages paid by the Company are at par with the industry and are minimum Rs. 7.5 lakhs. These benefits do not accrue to contract higher than those prescribed by the Government. There were no employees. incidents of delay in payment of wages during the reporting period. The current salary at entry level is Rs. 211.54 per day. Women employees have a provision to avail maternity leave of three months, as per law, which can be further extended on Amona team celebrating a victory in an inter-unit cricket tournament  Sustainability Report 2012 HEALTH AND SAFETY We are committed to providing an accident-free and safe working environment to our employees, contractors and the communities in which we operate. This is an integral part of our business philosophy and is laid down in our health and safety policies, standards and working procedures. We have a well-established and comprehensive Safety, Health, Environment and Quality Policy that underlines our commitment to create a healthy, hygienic and injury-free workplace. This year, Sesa Resources Limited (SRL) achieved the OHSAS 18001 certification (except the smaller operations in Colomba and Curpem mines, where the process is underway). Safety is a collectively achieved state of well-being and we audits were conducted under the unsafe condition elimination encourage participation of every individual employee in programme, which included audits of conveyor belts, ladders, contributing to ideation, implementation and monitoring of safe welding machines, air receivers, gas cylinders, lifting tools and and healthy practices at the workplace. Safety is a priority at Sesa tackles. Compliance to audit observations is regularly monitored and safety training is a primary and integral part of our operations. for improvement. No injuries related to the women workforce were Our entire workforce is represented in formal joint managementreported during the reporting period. The absenteeism rates were worker health and safety committees that help monitor safety at 1.94%, calculated based on sick leaves totalling 33,500.5 days. the work place. Emphasis on safe production processes is laid down in our formal agreements with employee unions. These formal Despite our best efforts, we suffered one fatality this year. A agreements also include provisions for proactive and remedial care, security guard at our Colomba mine met with an unfortunate including benefits such as medical and accident cover. accident involving a DG set radiator fan. A department enquiry revealed that the incident occurred due to lack of administrative control and wearing loose clothes while working near moving Zero Accident Mindset equipment. Learning from the incident and to prevent such or other incidents from occurring, we have implemented necessary control Our Company continues to undertake initiatives that drive home mechanisms. At the location, the DG set has been replaced with the importance of having a safety-oriented mind-set at work. The an acoustic enclosure. All DG sets at other locations were checked PID has remained accident-free for the last two years and our SBD for compliance with requisite proper guards on all machines. remained accident-free during the reporting period. All around our Security personnel were trained on general safety, illumination NURTURING PEOPLE units, posters and signs advocate the necessity of safety measures. was improved and proper housekeeping is ensured near moving Behaviour-based safety training conducted by Sesa to build a safety machinery. In 2011-12, Sesa’s overall Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate culture in the organisation reinforces safety behaviour and its (LTIFR) reduced from 0.86 in 2010-11 to 0.81 per million man hours need. In the mining division, we conduct simulator driving training worked. for drivers to enhance skills and inculcate safe practices. Various Table 20: Safety Performance Area Frequency Severity Index (FSI) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Number of Lost Time Injury Accidents (LTIFR) (LTIA) 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Mining 0.782 0.594 0.477 1.23 1.02 0.79 17 19 19 PID 1.648 0 0 0.95 0 0 2 0 0 MCD 0 0 0.243 0 0 1.64 0 0 2 Note: From 2011-12, LTIFR & FSI is calculated as per ICMM definitions Occupational Health For us, sustainability implies ensuring employees follow sustainable practices in their personal lives too. This means taking care of their health, practicing safety, and maintaining a healthy work-life balance. At Sesa, we have introduced several initiatives that help employees achieve this balance. To improve awareness on stress and health, we have initiated programmes like the Employee Assistance Programme that provides counselling for employees and their immediate families to resolve interpersonal issues; Employee Counselling for mental wellbeing; and yoga and meditation sessions to help employees de-stress. Table 21: Total Medical Examinations Table 22: Statutory Medical Examinations Type 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Area 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Executives 116 417 327 Mining 810 1,429 829 Non Executives (Periodic 309 982 600 PID 189 189 186 Medical Examination) MCD 79 69 73  Sesa Goa Limited All our units are equipped to provide medical consultation Over the course of the reporting period, we conducted several and examination facilities. Well-equipped consultation rooms education and training, counselling and prevention / risk control are located at each of our units, with basic facilities such as sessions to assist workforce members, their families and community examination table, weighing scale, height chart, apparatus to members regarding serious diseases. These sessions covered check blood pressure, glucometers for random sugar tests, and diseases and issues such as AIDS / HIV, diabetes, hypertension, employees’ health records are maintained at the unit. Doctors’ vector-borne diseases like malaria and dengue, tuberculosis, visits are scheduled to ensure employees across all locations substance abuse, waterborne diseases, respiratory diseases, and shifts get an opportunity to consult these doctors for their infectious diseases, etc. Apart from these, awareness sessions on issues. Sesa also provides cashless hospitalisation facility to all its nutrition and anaemia, hygiene, RCH camps, tobacco usage, quality employees and families. Health weeks are observed during which of life, ergonomics, stress management and health & fitness for health check-ups and quizzes are conducted, along with talks by women employees were also conducted. eminent doctors on ailments such as diabetes, computer vision syndrome, awareness campaign on the dangers of drinking and Since most of the units of Sesa are OHSAS 18001 certified, we have driving, etc. adopted a reporting system based on OHSAS 18001, for recording and reporting all occupational accidents and diseases in the To encourage employees to maintain a healthy lifestyle, some Units as per the provisions of The Factories Act, 1948, The Mines sports facilities (badminton courts & table tennis tables) and Act, 1952, and Goa Factory Rules. All injuries are also reported in gymnasiums are provided at various accommodations. Senior the prescribed format with information on department, section, management employees are also provided with a benefit to enrol nature of injury, time and date of accident, probable cause and in health clubs to keep healthy and fit. Various sports events unfit period. During the reporting period, no cases of occupational like Sesa Kreeda and other sports tournaments are regularly diseases were detected. organised. Behaviour Based Safety Training Objective Impact A proactive approach to influence people to inculcate safe work The programme has helped workers improve the way they notice habits, and help them follow safe work practices on the job. and observe unsafe conditions and acts, which has led to an increase in reporting and correcting these conditions. Description Most accidents at the workplace occur due to unsafe behaviour of employees. Traditional methods of safety management focus on the working environment and a safe system of work, and do not adequately focus on controlling unsafe behaviour of employees. Focussing on this “human factor” is essential to avoid accidents. To address this critical issue, we have commenced a series of training programmes on behaviour-based safety named ‘Suraksha Jagruti’, covering contract as well as company employees. Employees were explained how ‘attitude’ leads to safe or unsafe behaviour, which governs safe / unsafe execution of work. The ABC analysis, i.e., Activators / Antecedents of unsafe Behaviour and the Consequence of the behaviour was elucidated with examples. In the first phase (FY 2011-12), training has been imparted to around 800 staff and workmen from different locations.  Sustainability Report 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP As a part of the extractive industry, the very nature of the mining industry poses an enormous challenge – exhausting natural resources. Highlights And, with growing demand outstripping the availability of resources, it is imperative to replenish and regenerate these resources. Being • Our new Tele-presence system helps reduce business travel a responsible company, Sesa recognises the need for sustainable • Our energy saving initiatives resulted in a total savings of mining and follows practices and processes that minimise the negative 674.76 GJ impacts of our operations on the environment. We continuously look • Implemented several Green IT initiatives like server for new technologies to improve our extraction and land reclamation virtualisation and data centre restructuring efforts. • GHG verification was done for the first time this year  Sesa Goa Limited REGENERATING RESOURCES “Sesa remains committed to sustainable development, which focuses on maintaining a pre-eminent position in health, safety and environment practices, and in contributing to the development of communities where it operates.” – Mr. P. K. Mukherjee, MD Mining and the environment have a symbiotic relationship and ANML, Chitradurga, Karnataka operations have been stopped as Sesa is committed to achieve a harmonious balance between per a Supreme Court directive for closure of all iron ore mining profitability and environmental management. With robust systems operations in the state of Karnataka. and a full-fledged environment management team to plan, implement and monitor environment management programmes, we continuously seek to mine in environmentally responsible and Energy cleaner ways through: As we continue to expand, our consumption of energy increases • Use of technology and the latest software to develop a as well. We strive to balance this desire for growth with the need ‘minimal impact mining plan’ for energy conservation. As part of our focus on sustainable • Choosing an optimal plan for extraction and waste mining, we endeavour to reduce inefficiencies whereever possible. minimisation We understand that energy efficiency can help us preserve the • Stressing on the aspect of land reclamation while developing environment and limit climate change, while also serving as a the mine significant source of cost savings. Our focus is on reducing our The focus of the environment management team is to put in overall energy consumption through a range of initiatives. We have place an effective system that ensures the regeneration of the established and implemented clear objectives under environment mined resources, and implementing the best practices for mines management systems for energy conservation. The set energy closure and environmental rehabilitation. We have 5 focus areas conservation targets are 3% to 5% at all locations. This year our for environmental management – Energy, Water, Land, Air and overall energy consumption decreased due to the temporary Waste. closure of our mines in Karnataka. Sesa’s Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) department & the Management Review Committee frame the policy and guidelines on HSE; they also review the effectiveness of the system periodically. Today, we have a well-defined policy in Safety, Health, Environment & Quality (“SHEQ”) for Energy all our operating units. The committee guides our sustainable development endeavour, sets annual targets and monitors progress in line with our HSE and social policies with a clear focus on integrating HSE aspects in the decision-making process. Most of our operations are certified for ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS Waste Water 18001. Land reclamation and rehabilitation of mined-out areas is a Focus major part of our environmental efforts. Through the constant Areas integration of new technologies, like the use of geo-textiles and nutrient-inducing plants, we aim to revitalise soil before planting trees that are indigenous to the region. Water conservation, biodiversity, making land cultivable, reducing waste and emissions, and optimising energy consumption are just some of our other initiatives to minimise our impact on the environment and the Air Land community. During the reporting period, we received around twenty complaints and show cause notices under environmental laws; however, these complaints have been resolved / responded satisfactorily. Table 23: Specific Energy Consumption Consumption Mining PID MCD 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Direct Energy (GJ) 16,45,207 21,05,254 19,33,460 27,660 23,012 30,298 19,065 17,894 19,511 Direct Sp. Energy (GJ/T) 0.091 0.1 0.140 0.099 0.083 0.122 0.076 0.069 0.076 Indirect Energy (GJ) 1,01,946 1,21,332 1,36,785 1,28,561 1,33,855 1,35,207 15,967 17,580 17,523 Indirect Sp. Energy (GJ/T) 0.006 0.006 0.01 0.46 0.485 0.544 0.064 0.067 0.068 Total Energy (GJ) 17,47,153 22,26,586 20,70,245 1,56,221 1,56,867 1,65,605 35,032 35,474 37,034 Total Sp. Energy (GJ/T) 0.105 0.106 0.15 0.56 0.568 0.666 0.139 0.136 0.144 Note: Sp. Energy is the energy consumed per unit of product  Sustainability Report 2012 Energy Saving Initiatives Over the last few years, we have been actively eliminating Environmental Impact Reduction inefficiencies and reducing our energy consumption. During 10-11, we initiated specific projects for the same and reported through Technology cumulative energy savings. Some more projects were started in 2011-12. Through a combination of process changes, improved Technology can be a great enabler for sustainable mining. A technology, and behavioural change, we were able to reduce our Command and Control system is live at our mine in Bicholim. This energy consumption and achieve a total savings of 674.76 GJ for the ingenious system makes it possible for us to control all our field year 2011-12. Sesa was able to save energy through the following equipment from a central point. Geological software systems initiatives as shown in the table below. help us optimise our extraction process, thereby helping us minimise our environmental impact. Table 24: Energy Savings Off the mining fields, we focus our efforts on saving energy and reducing waste. Our IT department has focused on making GJ itself energy efficient. Over the last year, we have switched our Reduction in compressed air consumption 370 computer monitors from CRTs to TFTs. Our data centres have VFD installation to jetty pump 155 become greener as we have upgraded our servers to rackInstallation of voltage transformer for high 111 mountable versions, which are managed by a central screen. mast tower The data centres at our Head Office and our Data Recovery Site CB-2 conversion to star mode operation 5 at Navi Mumbai have received ISO 27,000 certifications. We are Lighting audit 4 now implementing server virtualisation. In addition to this, we Installation of LED lighting fixtures, 5 Star AC, 30 also have plans to implement a Business Continuity Plan in the Solar Street Lights coming year. TOTAL 675 With the aim of reducing business travel especially by Air, we The proposal to create a wind energy plant in Karnataka is currently invested in installing a tele-presence system, using it to conduct under consideration. A feasibility study has been conducted and we meetings between executives. While we have not calculated are currently evaluating our options. the emissions and energy consumption reduced due to this, we are happy to report that 618 hours of meetings were conducted Attempting to reduce the total energy consumption, we encourage using tele-presence. all our operations to implement energy saving initiatives through use of energy-efficient or renewable energy based products. For To save paper, we have introduced systems like automated example, by phasing out old welding transformers, our Ship Building workflows for common approvals, emailing soft copies of Unit decreased its energy consumption marginally. The total energy payslips, etc. Our e-procurement system has simplified our used through these renewable energy initiatives is less than 1% of vendor management system and to bolster this, we have also total energy consumption, though small it is still a significant step instituted e-payments. We currently do not have systems in forward for the company. place to measure the reduction in energy consumption and paper usage. Water ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Mining is a water-intensive activity and we recognise the social, economical and environmental impact of water. To combat the growing global scarcity of water, Sesa has developed a water Table 25: Water Consumption management policy and procedure in line with the Vedanta Sustainability Governance system and the same is under Total Withdrawn & Consumed (kL) implementation. Aiming to become more efficient in water usage Unit 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 and conservation, we have carried out assessment of our water Mining 1,49,39,392 1,54,31,417 1,85,56,795 footprint across all our operations and reported in CDP Water for PID 5,55,220 5,52,974 5,06,875 the year 2011-12. MCD 2,10,296 2,03,268 2,04,937 After the ore is extracted, some of it needs to be washed with water to remove impurities and increase iron ore concentration. Table 26: Specific Water Consumption This process is called beneficiation. Care needs to be taken that this water is not released without being treated. As part of our focus on Specific Consumption (kL/MT) sustainable mining, we make sure that we keep a check on our water Unit 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 consumption, and at Sesa, we achieve this by harvesting rainwater Mining 0.898 0.732 1.348 in mine pits. This water is then used for beneficiation, spraying on PID 1.986 2.002 2.038 the roads for dust suppression, watering plants that are growing MCD 0.837 0.779 0.799 on reclaimed land, etc. Water after beneficiation is sent to settling ponds and is used again. On an average, our mining division, uses 19 million m3 of water in a year. At our major operations of Codli and Bicholim we have beneficiation plants that recycle and reuse water. The water recycled or reused at these two mines combined amounts to 87,82,276 cubic metres (47% of total water used).  Sesa Goa Limited In Karnataka, ground water is used to meet partial requirements. Land And Bio-Diversity We have tried to supplement this by collecting rainwater in ponds during the monsoon. Since no water bodies near our operations At Sesa, we try our best to set an example of maintaining biohave been impacted, no significant effect of withdrawal of ground diversity. Our reclaimed mine at Sanquelim is an example of our water is seen. ongoing effort to recreate the biodiversity of the area to the extent possible. We believe in systematically reclaiming mined-out areas. We have a zero-discharge policy and there is no discharge outside At all our mines, reclamation efforts happen concurrently with our operations, except during the monsoon. We are trying to limit mining activities. There has not been any new resettlement activity this further, with pipes to re-route rain water and boulder walls in the reporting period, as no new land was explored or mined. to prevent run-offs. By employing these practices, we maintain a balance between what is needed for our business and what is Our mines in Goa are not located in any ecologically sensitive good for the environment. areas, and our PID and MCD facilities are situated in an industrial belt. Some of our mines are located close to wildlife sanctuaries. Effluent Discharge All necessary forest clearances / permissions have been obtained to continue with operations and there is no significant impact While we try to maintain a zero discharge policy, during the on biodiversity. No species, listed in the IUCN Red List species or monsoons, effluents, mostly suspended solids from the mining national conservation list species, are found in and around our areas operations, are generated due to dump run-off. Before this of operation. A list of flora and fauna around mining operations run-off water joins any water bodies, we ensure that norms are / buffer zones is obtained from the local forest department and met as per statutory and regulatory requirements. The run-off necessary measures implemented as required. water / effluents are monitored regularly and are well within the prescribed limits of Fe (0.1-0.39 mg/L) and TSS (3-44 mg/L), as per Sesa has developed a biodiversity policy and procedure in line with statutory conditions. the Vedanta Sustainability Governance system and the same is under implementation. For new projects, it is being implemented from the beginning and for existing projects, its applicability is being reviewed. At the Sanquelim group of mines, a Biodiversity Management Plan has been approved and implemented. At Codli, Mareta Sodo and Botvadeacho Dongor mines, the biodiversity management plans are awaiting forest department approval. Table 27: Proximity of Operational Sites to High Biodiversity Value Areas Name of operating sites Land used for operational activities (Ha) Operating site High biodiversity value areas Government Private Land Forest Land size (in Ha) near operating site Land Curpem mine 13 135 148 Colomba mine 34 64 98 Codli – Gurmel 99 16 115 Bhagawan Mahaveer Wildlife Codli – Gadia Sodo 62 38 100 Sanctuary Codli – Gurmel MV Sodo 71 13 84 Gaotona Dusrifall 22 19 41 A. Narrain mine 164 164 Forms part of Niruthadi reserve forest Sanquelim mine 203 203 Surla Sonshi mine 152 76 25 253 Mareta Sodo mine 26 26 Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary Gaval Sonshi mine 62 62 Botvadeacho Dongor 24 24 Bicholim mine 6 473 479 No eco-sensitive zone Orasso Dongor mine 99 99 Note: The above numbers have been rounded off to the nearest hectare Biodiversity offsets have been used for habitat protection and restoration. At ANML, Karnataka, in consultation with forest department, a wildlife protection area of 19 Ha has been created to compensate forest area used for mining. In Sanquelim, by working with a forest consultant and local forest department, 105 Ha of mined area has been reclaimed. Table 28: Amount of Land Disturbed or Rehabilitated FY 2011-12 (Ha) Disturbed and not yet rehabilitated (opening balance) 976 Newly disturbed within the reporting period 26 Newly rehabilitated within the reporting period to the agreed end use 8 Disturbed and not yet rehabilitated (closing balance) (D=A+B-C) 994  Sustainability Report 2012 Potential of Regeneration India is the second richest country in bamboo genetic resources • Inadequate trained manpower after China. These two countries together have more than half the • Inadequate infrastructure for large scale harvesting in the event total bamboo resources globally. With the increasing population of gregarious flowering pressure, natural stands of bamboo are being overexploited for fuel wood and furniture. Solution ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP With the objective of promoting Bamboo cultivation as a resource Keeping in view the immense potential of bamboo, an attempt and enterprise, Sesa has developed a Bamboo Setum (a garden of was made to develop a bamboo setum in association with the Goa Bamboos) in our reclaimed mine of Sanquelim. State Forest Department to collect various species of bamboo from different parts of India. Experts like Mr. A. C. Lakshmana Objective (Retd. IFS) and renowned botanist Dr. H. B. Naithani supported the project by providing us with various planting material and To create a resource centre of bamboo mother plants from where identification of the same. Some planting material was collected people can get planting material and propagation methods for from the Forest Research Institute, Dehradun. growing bamboo on a commercial scale. Around 30 different species of bamboo are planted in the bamboo Business Case setum developed in our reclaimed mine at Sanquelim. Each plant is provided with an identification board with details like its botanical The world market for bamboo is valued at US$ 10 billion, of which name, use, habitat in which it grows, propagation methods, etc. China’s share alone is to the tune of 50%. Market for bamboo is In the long run, it will become a resource centre consisting of expected to reach about US$ 20 billion by 2015. The size of the mother plants from where people can get planting material for domestic bamboo industry is estimated to be about Rs. 6505 growing bamboo on a commercial scale. This is in addition to the crores, which may grow to Rs. 26,000 crores by 2015. While it can bamboo pavilion that was described in last year’s report. be grown like any other commercial crop by tilling the land, the domestic bamboo sector is faced with many constraints, such as: • Lack of scientific methods for propagation and cultivation • Lack of post harvest treatment and technology for product development  Sesa Goa Limited Air CO2 Emissions and Reduction Initiatives We have been participating regularly in the Carbon Disclosure Project. (Our report is available online at www.cdproject.net). During the year, Sesa was ranked 7th in the CDP India 200 Report, 2011. Climate change can have a severe and direct impact on our operations. We undertake various initiatives to reduce our carbon footprint, which are spread across various functions and activities of the organisation; our tele-presence described before, is one such initiative. In the past, we were successful in achieving this through our ‘waste heat recovery based power plant project’ with UNFCCC. Apart from internal initiatives to reduce carbon, we also take part in emissions trade through domestic markets and GHG abatement projects. 1,01,129 CERs have been accrued during 2011-12, as compared to 1,00,438 last year, but these credits are yet to be sold. Table 29: GHG Emissions GHG Emissions Mining PID MCD (TCO2E) 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Scope 1 61,657 73,566 77,060 3,90,120 3,94,088 3,62,330 1,88,001 2,46,015 2,32,139 Scope 2 23,774 36,135 34,572 26,628 27,244 30,227 3,302 3,577 3,920 Scope 3 54,316 74,500 59,304 1,358 1,405 1,903 1,021 965 1,130 Table 30: Co2 Emissions CO2 Emissions Mining PID MCD 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Scope 1 / Direct 0.004 0.004 0.006 1.396 1.427 1.457 0.748 0.943 0.905 Scope 2 / Indirect 0.001 0.002 0.003 0.095 0.099 0.122 0.013 0.014 0.015 Scope 3 / Other Indirect 0.003 0.004 0.004 0.005 0.005 0.008 0.004 0.004 0.004 Air Emissions and Ambient Air Quality Maintaining good ambient air quality is as important as conserving water. Our mines, unlike manufacturing units, are not a significant source of SOx and NOx, and these levels are well within the limits. (The SOx and NOx emissions from HEMM source has not been calculated.) Our Pig Iron and Met Coke divisions in Amona monitor these levels and they have been found to be within the prescribed limits, and are reported to the State Pollution Control Board. Annual average figures of Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM) are well within the prescribed National Ambient Air Quality standards, with PID reporting 0.1563 tonnes and MCD levels being 5.93. Ambient Air Quality for our mines, in terms of RSPM, at Karnataka and Goa states has been well within the prescribed limits. Air pollution from mining usually is in the form of dust. We ensure to minimise this through various dust suppression mechanisms like regularly wetting the roads within and surrounding the mines, washing the wheel base of trucks carrying ore, preventing overburden and covering the ore with tarpaulin during transport, using truck mounted sweeping machines to clear dust from the roads and covering our dumps. We also use fuel efficient machinery and schedule regular maintenance for them. Ozone Depleting Substance As part of its process to manage ozone-depleting substances, Sesa adopted a policy on ODS which entails purchasing equipment free from CFCs, halons and MCFs. As envisaged last year, we have started measuring data on refilling substances for our Met Coke and Mining divisions. Table 31: Ozone Depleting Substances Unit* Ozone Depleting Quantity In MT Ozone Depleting CFC Equivalent For Sources Of Emission / Area Of Usage Substance Potential The Year 2011-12 MCD R 22 0.04 0.05 0.002 Mobile car ACs & office installation ACs Mining Division R134 0.56 0 0 HEMM refrigerants/office installation ACs * Data for PID will be reported from next year onwards. Waste Waste generation is a part of mining operations and we endeavour to minimise its impact on our surroundings. As part of our regular operations, we produce mainly non-hazardous wastes. Wastes like overburden, tailings, slag and other waste from plants are collected, stored and disposed off appropriately. None of the hazardous waste falling under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII is transported, imported, exported or treated at any of Sesa’s operations. At each stage of operation like mining, beneficiation, metal extraction and coke making, we try to follow the ‘4R’ waste strategy model: reduce, recycle, reuse and reclaim. As part of our focus on sustainable mining, we use exploration software to arrive at the most economical  Sustainability Report 2012 scale, to extract maximum resources while reducing waste. To minimise tailing pond volumes, we have added Wet High Intensity Magnetic Separation (WHIMS) units to the beneficiation plant. Rainwater is harvested in mining pits and used for beneficiation. This water is then collected in settling ponds and reused. Once the ore is mined, we reclaim the land by covering dumps with geo-textiles to reduce soil erosion and grow plants to increase enrichment. We are currently in the process of studying the e-waste (Management and Handling) Rules 2011 introduced by the Government of India, and setting up the mechanisms to report on the compliance by 2013. The following table reports the waste generated during the reporting period. Generated waste gets disposed in a sequential manner, in batches, whenever a substantial quantity of waste is accumulated, ensuring all regulatory requirements are met. Table 32: Wastes Generated in Mining Division Type of Waste Unit 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Disposal Method Hazardous Waste Used Oil* kL 417 308 319 Sold to authorised recyclers Oil Soaked Cotton MT NR^ NR^ 8 Incinerated in Met Coke ovens Waste Paint Tins Nos. NR^ NR^ 2550 Sold to authorised vendors Non Hazardous Solid Waste Overburden Mt 32.4 50.9 47.3 Dump management Tailings Mt 3.8 4.3 10.8 Tailing ponds Rubbish Scrap MT 29 4607 47 Sold to Vendors MS Scrap MT 824 1824 1,473 Sold to Vendors Canteen Waste MT 16 51 22 Vermicomposting; generated compost is utilised ^ Not Reported * Used oil for Mining Division is in kL for 09-10 and 10-11 while for 11-12, it is in metric tonnes Table 33: Wastes Generated in Met Coke Division Type of Waste Unit 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Disposal Method Hazardous Waste Used / Spent Oil* Litres 840 1,290 1,290 Sold to authorised recyclers Oil Soaked Cotton Waste Kg NR^ NR^ 350 Incinerated in Coke Ovens Used / Discarded Paint Tins Nos. NR ^ NR^ 216 Sold to authorised recyclers Non Hazardous Solid Waste ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Rubbish Scrap MT NR^ NR^ 33 Municipal solid waste Metallic Scrap MT 211 200 242 Sold to scrap vendors Canteen Waste Kg NR^ NR^ 3,600 Disposed in pits Wood Scrap MT NR^ NR^ 65 Municipal solid waste ^ Not Reported * Used oil for Mining Division is in kL for 09-10 and 10-11 while for 11-12, it is in metric tonnes Table 34: Wastes Generated in Pig Iron Division Type of Waste Unit 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Disposal Method Hazardous Waste Used / Spent Oil* Litres 4,991 1,935 2,958 Sold to authorised recyclers Oil Soaked Cotton Waste Kg NR^ NR^ 725 Incinerated in Coke Ovens of MCD Used / Discarded Paint Tins Nos. NR^ NR^ 497 Sold to authorised recyclers Non Hazardous Solid Waste Rubbish Scrap MT NR^ NR^ 10 Sold to scrap vendors Metallic Scrap MT 91 1017 414 Sold to scrap vendors Canteen waste Kg NR^ NR^ 3,003 Disposed in the vermicomposting unit ^ Not Reported * Used oil for Mining Division is in kL for 09-10 and 10-11 while for 11-12, it is in metric tonnes  Sesa Goa Limited Managing Overflows and Run-Offs Table 35: Oil Spills Despite our precautions, last year a bund was breached in Mulgaon Spillage 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 village due to incessant rains. The run-off washed into the fields Instances – nos. 171 118 43 of the farmers in the area. We repaired the damage caused due Oil spilled – litres 8,359 6,120 14,665 to the incident by de-silting the entire affected plantation area. A broken pipeline was repaired and drinking water supply was restored. The affected parties were suitably compensated for the Environmental Investments damage. While this incident was not a breach of compliance, we The following table indicates the amount of investment made by implemented several mechanisms to prevent this from recurring the Company towards various environmental initiatives during and we have been accorded clearance for mining the Mulgaon the reporting period. The investments would include prevention lease again. Some of the mitigation measures put in place include and control measures like dust suppression, water / waste water the construction of a boulder wall around the plantation to management and dump management. prevent the silt from washing into the fields below and de-silting existing settling ponds. Table 36: Environmental Expenditure (In Rs. crores) Spillage Unit Expenditure Toxic oil spills can cause grave damage to the environment. To Mining 13.82 prevent this, Sesa has adopted measures like impervious flooring MCD 0.35 and dyke walls while constructing storage facilities for hazardous PID 1.56 substances. Our environment management team conducts periodic audits to ensure that all precautionary measures are being followed. During the last year, no serious leakages occurred of oil or any other hazardous substance. However, there were 43 spillages of oil, of which 9 were significant instances, i.e., >500 litres of spillage (Category 1 minor). However, the number of instances has reduced by 64%. Mitigation Measures for Monsoon To prevent incidents like the one in Mulgaon from recurring, we Maintain Settling Ponds have been following mitigation measures. Some of them are The settling ponds will be de-silted regularly. Proper overflow new, while some have already been practiced earlier. arrangement will be done at all the settling ponds by installing Prevent Erosion of Dumps metal pipes with pump installation. Laterite pitching along with cementing will be done to strengthen the bund around the Rainwater can wash away mud from the dumps and cause the settling pond and prevent a total wash-off from the sides. Apart silting of settling ponds. To prevent this, in critical areas, dumps from this, there are plans to install a Pit Water Monitoring System are first covered with geotextiles and later on, sown with grass with video analytics that can raise an alarm when the water level seeds. Dumps that have high clay content are covered with in the pits rises beyond a threshold level. Alert messages will be silpaulin, a multi-layered, UV stabilised plastic film-like material, sent to mobiles and an additional pump will be commissioned which is waterproof. automatically based on the alert message by the Integrated Command and Control Centre. Managing Water Drainage To limit the amount of soil erosion during the rains, metal ERW pipelines of 600 mm diameter will be laid on the dumps to properly channelise water from the top of dumps to large trenches dug along the perimeter of the dump. These trenches lead to large settling ponds. High quality reinforced concrete pipes (Hume pipes) carry the water across paths. The discharge points will be concretised to form proper drains.  Sustainability Report 2012 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY For our mining division, materials used are lubricants for heavy earth moving machinery (HEMM) operations, steel for structural fabrication, paints and explosives for breaking hard strata. Our shipbuilding unit uses steel and paint. Our pig iron division uses iron ore, met coke and fluxes as raw materials. This iron ore is supplied partly from the mining division and the balance is purchased from the open market. Sesa’s met coke division supplies coke. Fluxes are purchased from outside sources. The Company makes continuous efforts to bring down specific coke consumption. The met coke division uses imported low ash coal as the major raw material. Material Stewardship As a mining company, our products are seldom used as they are, and they usually form the basic raw materials or intermediates for the manufacture of other products. Our principal products are iron ore, pig iron and metallurgical coke. Some of our products form raw materials for other divisions of the Company. All our products are 100% recyclable and reusable. We do not have processes to reuse industrial waste as raw material, but we do have processes in place to use tailings as a source of iron ore in some cases. Table 37: Material Consumption and Specific Consumption for Sesa Divisions Materials MT / Year UoM 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Material Consumption – Mining Steel MT 1,236 3,829 51,805 Explosives MT 202 171 349 Lubricants MT 1,879 400 2,132 Paint (Mining + SBD) MT 52.62 68 77 Specific Consumption (per Ton) Mining Steel MT/Tonnes 0.000074 0.000233 0.003764 Explosives MT/Tonnes 0.000012 0.00001 0.000025 Lubricants MT/Tonnes 0.000113 0.000024 0.000155 Paint MT/Tonnes 0.0000032 0.0000041 0.0000056 Material Consumption – Pig Iron Coke MT 1,73,897 1,72,382 1,59,938 Iron ore + Pellets MT 4,21,983 4,18,520 3,89,087 Limestone MT 33,106 33,545 37,625 Dolomite MT 24,525 24,663 26,361 Fe. Mn. MT 272 599.66875 206 Coke rate MT/Tonnes 0.622 0.624 0.643 Specific Consumption (per Ton) – Pig Iron Coke MT 0.62 0.62 0.64 Iron ore + Pellets MT 1.51 1.51 1.56 Limestone MT 0.12 0.12 0.15 Dolomite MT 0.088 0.089 0.106 Fe. Mn. MT 0.000973 0.002171 0.000828 Material Consumption – Met Coke Coal MT 3,38,352 3,39,683 3,35,555 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Coke breeze MT 9,704 8,056 5,251 Fuel used in oven + CGDP KL 0 0 0 Coal Tar Pitch MT 0 0 0 Specific Consumption (per Ton) – Met Coke Coal MT 1.35 1.3 1.31 Coke breeze MT 0.03861 0.030866 0.020467 Fuel KL 0 0 0 Coal Tar Pitch MT 0 0 0 Note: For 2009-10 and 2010-11, data figures of mining division do not include SRL and SMCL, while figures of mining division for 2011-12 include SRL and SMCL. Since consumers never directly use our products, it is difficult to predict their direct impact on the environment or on customers’ health. To better understand the impact of our products on the environment, we have initiated a life cycle assessment (LCA), which is currently underway. The results of the study are expected to be revealed at the end of 2012. Based on the outcome of the assessment, Sesa will embark on a materials stewardship programme to improve the processes and products. The nature of our products obviates the need for packaging materials. The Test Certificates given to our customers comprise information on physical dimensions and chemical compositions of the products being sold to them. We adhere to all applicable laws for all our exported goods, while catering to our overseas customer base. We have not encountered any copyrights issues. Our products do not require advertising on the scale required by other consumer goods, as we do not manufacture products that would require such levels of marketing or advertising exposure. Our operations are such that we do not need to collect any data from customers that may have privacy considerations. During the reporting year, Sesa was not subjected to any legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, or monopoly practices. There have been no instances of non-compliance with laws related to the use of the Company’s products and services, and there were no monetary or any other penalties levied upon us during the reporting period.  Sesa Goa Limited Promotion and Marketing Table 40: Met Coke Customer Satisfaction (Rating out of 10) Communication Parameter 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Sesa’s products do not require any form of advertising unlike Quality 9.20 8.93 8.87 consumer goods. However, the Company follows all applicable Delivery 9.60 9.25 9.15 laws for exporting its product (iron ore) to external customers. Responsiveness 9.80 9.07 8.96 Sesa, through traffic signage, media coverage of our activities and Professionalism* NR NR 9.00 advertisements on important environment days, message boards, Overall 9.53 9.08 9.15 etc., maintains brand visibility across our facilities, displaying our * Customer satisfaction survey formats were changed in 11-12 to include the CSR activities along with our branding. additional parameter of professionalism. Customer Satisfaction Transport Periodic customer satisfaction surveys are conducted every year with the focus on Product, Services and Customers. Efforts are Iron ore is transported from the mines to loading points by trucks made to capture customer perception on what they liked and covered with tarpaulins to ensure there is no spillage or dust disliked about our contract performance. Feedback received on a generation. In case of pig iron and met coke, by the nature of the scale of 1 to 10 points is evaluated vis-à-vis the intensity percentage, product, there is no significant generation of dust from the product to calculate the customer satisfaction index. Minimum acceptable during transportation. Transportation emerged as a material issue percentage to be achieved for any customer satisfaction index is during our discussions with stakeholders; specifically the dust, 80%. noise and congestion caused by the trucks. Increased constraints on transportation have affected our operations as well. To combat these, Sesa is in the process of working with the government Table 38: Iron Ore Customer Satisfaction (Rating out of 10) on a dedicated transport corridor that bypasses residential Parameter 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 locations and eases congestion. Further, the Company has, by its own initiative and in partnership with other like-minded mining Quality 9.15 9.39 8.85 companies, conducted a widening and de-bottlenecking exercise of Performance 9.08 9.21 8.83 certain routes. This is in addition to the Goa Government’s initiative Services 8.85 9.16 8.92 to create a dedicated mining corridor accessible to all mining Relationship 9.00 9.54 9.15 companies. Dust suppression mechanisms have been employed Overall 8.73 9.26 8.82 wherever possible. The Ministry of Environment and Forests, in association with the Table 39: Pig Iron Customer Satisfaction (Rating out of 10) Government of Goa, has commissioned the Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad to carry out a carrying capacity study to understand the Parameter 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 overall impact of mining on existing infrastructure. This study will Quality 9.74 9.14 9.36 also include transportation-related issues. The study is currently Delivery 9.26 9.11 9.38 in progress. Once the report is submitted, Sesa will strive to Responsiveness 9.53 9.08 9.24 implement recommendations relevant to our operations. Professionalism* NR NR 9.34 Overall 9.51 9.11 9.34 * Customer satisfaction survey formats were changed in 11-12 to include the additional parameter of professionalism. Customer satisfaction surveys are conducted twice in a calendar year, based on supplies from January to June and July to December. If this performance on any parameter comes below the target of 80% or if customers have indicated this personally, then the Marketing Head or Head of Marketing internally investigates the cause for such performance and initiates suitable corrective action. Customer satisfaction and other details are discussed in the monthly operational review meetings and management review meetings. Analysis of the customer feedback surveys on iron ore pointed to improvement measures, such as improvement in quality control of the final product and removal of contaminants from the final product prepared for our customers. Based on this, the marketing team along with the operations team undertook a TQM project on reducing boulders / contaminants from Sesa cargo which led to improvement in customer satisfaction. In order to compare ourselves with our competitors, we have also asked our customers to rate us vis-à-vis our competitors on all the parameters measured in internal feedback form. Iron ore post Beneficiation process at Codli, Goa  Sustainability Report 2012 EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Mining by its very nature is an activity that has a limited lifespan. It is also a major source of employment. Reconciling this dichotomy Highlights plays a large part of our community efforts. By focusing on improving employability of the youth who live in our local communities as well • Paediatric Neuro Rehabilitation Centre providing over 700 as by providing educational opportunities for children, we are helping patients with highly skilled and specialised services ranging secure their future. from detection and intervention to management of children suffering from developmental issues • Manthan & Vedanta Computer Education Programme helps in behavioural development, interest in education and increased knowledge of computers & systems amongst school going children • Hi-tech commercial farming like gerbera plantation and Systematic Rice Intensification programmes help locals develop alternate means of income & sustainable livelihood • Distribution of biomass gas stove to over 2,349 families in Chitradurga district, Karnataka; could save cooking time and fuel as well, also reduce indoor air pollution  Sesa Goa Limited REACHING OUT TO COMMUNITY Sesa believes that corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a long-term involvement of the Company in the socio-economic development of mining areas. The community is one of Sesa’s key stakeholders and hence, its participation in the lives of the people who are impacted by its presence and operations is of paramount importance. Most of Sesa’s CSR activities are focussed around its operations in Goa and Karnataka. Sesa’s dedicated CSR team plans and budgets its annual Instrument Mechanic or Diesel Mechanic, and secure placement activities based on continuous engagement and consultation with various industries. STS conducts campus placements every with community members, socio-economic baseline studies and year, with organisations returning every year to enrol students. need-assessments. Sesa has, over the years, partnered with other like-minded agencies, such as government bodies, NGOs, local communities and representative bodies (village panchayats), to implement its community development projects. Table 41: Community Investment (in Rs. crores) CSR Areas 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Sustainable 0.8 2.2 3.8 Livelihood Donation* 4.1 4.0 0.6 Education 0.9 1.7 1.7 Health 1.3 1.7 2.4 Infrastructure 2.7 4.8 8.6 SCDF 3.5 3.3 5.3 Sesa Technical School, Sanquelim Goa MFG 4.1 6.3 5.7 Other socio0.9 2.8 economic works Sesa Football Academy (SFA) Total 17.4 24.8 31 SFA is located at Sanquelim and Sirsaim in Goa. It was established * Does not include donations to political parties with an aim to nurture the talent in Goa’s young footballers. The SFA at Sanquelim, established in 1999, currently trains 36 boys. Once in Sesa aspires to see sustainable growth of the community through two years, boys in the age group of 14 to 16 years are selected on its initiatives and this is primarily achieved through targeted and merit and are provided with professional football training, as well need-based interventions. In order to gauge the impact of its as a formal education. The alumni of this academy play for some CSR activities of the past 5 years, Sesa has conducted an impact of the top teams in our country, with some having gone on to assessment study with TNS. The results of the study are currently represent the Indian national team in select tournaments. under review and based on this a course of action will be decided. Key findings of the survey and Sesa’s action plan based on it will be Over the last two years, SFA’s Sirsaim Academy team has been reported in the 2013 sustainability report. Sesa’s CSR initiatives are an active participant in the Goa Professional League, besides implemented through the following three channels: participating in the 2nd division of the I-League, Governor’s Cup and • Sesa Community Development Foundation (SCDF) various other tournaments. • Need-based interventions • Mineral Foundation of Goa (MFG) Need-Based Interventions Sesa’s various interventions, in the areas of health, education, Sesa Community Development Foundation agriculture, livelihood and infrastructure, are undertaken in a SCDF is a registered body under the Societies Registration Act, highly structured and process-driven approach. These programmes established in the year 1998. Its main focus is to empower youth are evolved based on the community’s needs identified through through vocational technical education and sports. Under SCDF, consultative and intense stakeholder engagement and as revealed Sesa runs the following two institutes: in baseline studies. In the implementation of these initiatives, Sesa has not received any complaints relating to land use or customary Sesa Technical Schools (STS) rights of local communities. The Sesa Private Industrial Training Institutes at Virdi, Sanquelim and Digas, Panchwadi, provide vocational technical training to Education youth residing in and around the operations of the Company, Sesa continues to focus on the overall development of students enabling them to earn a living. The campus at Sanquelim, which for their brighter future. In the implementation of education was started in 1993, is affiliated to the National Council of projects, students, teachers and parents are involved. Wherever Vocational Training, New Delhi, through the Directorate General required, and possible, Parent Teacher Associations (PTA), Village of Employment & Training (DGET), Government of India, in the Panchayats, Government Education Departments and NGOs are Ministry of Labour, New Delhi. The campus at Digas was started engaged for effective implementation and ownership. last year to cater specifically to the aspirations of the local youth around the South Goa operations. Students of the institutes specialise in the vocational trades of Machinist, Fitter, Electrician,  Sustainability Report 2012 Activity Summary of the Activity Result / Outcome Department of Mining Sesa partnered with the Government of Goa (GoG) Every year, 40 students will be enrolled and will avail Engineering at Goa to start a Degree course in Mining Engineering at an opportunity to graduate in Mining Engineering. Engineering College, the existing campus of Goa Engineering College. This initiative will generate the necessary talent pool Farmagudi to meet the shortfall of mining engineers. Scholarships Sesa Dnyanjyoti Shishyavritti is a scholarship 670 students from 57 schools were awarded scheme intended at encouraging and motivating scholarships of Rs. 2,500 & Rs. 3,500, for high school students of classes 5 to 8 to be competitive, and higher secondary school students respectively, to achieve first class scores and perform well along with a memento and certificate. academically. Vedanta Computer VCEP, collaborating with Sarva Siksha Abhiyaan The programme has been implemented in 395 and Education Programme of Directorate of Education, GoG, aims to provide 2,000 schools in Goa and Karnataka respectively, (VCEP) quality education by incorporating CAL (Computer benefitting approximately 359,250 students. Sesa Aided Learning) in teaching and learning, provided academic e-content, supporting software increasing enrolments, reducing dropouts and and computer books to schools. improving passing out. Manthan Manthan is a school-based intervention for The project covers 15 schools, benefits 4,489 people promotion of adolescent health and education. It is and is run through NGOs, Sangath and Sai Life Care. based on WHO’s Global School Health Initiative, to increase the number of Health Promoting Schools. Mid-day Meal Scheme Mid-day meals are provided at schools to SSC In the last two years, it has benefited 237 students. students, who stay for evening classes conducted to improve concentration levels among students. This is to improve attendance and arrest absenteeism in extra classes. Bal Melava Sesa celebrated Children’s Day by organising The winners of competitions were awarded prizes festival programmes for primary school children. and certificates. Over 1,000 students from 118 schools Various talent show competitions and fun games participated enthusiastically in these competitions. were organised on the occasion. Evening Study Centres Evening Study Centres, called Abhyasika, provide 14 such evening centres are running at different students personalised guidance for completing locations and more than 300 students are their homework, and a supportive atmosphere benefitting. Initiation of 26 more such centres in 13 for those with learning difficulties or lacking study villages is in the pipeline. skills. Child-Friendly Learning To support primary education and to make learning These kits were distributed to 91 primary schools, easy for children, teaching and learning kits have benefitting more than 4,000 students in Bicholim been developed with the help of primary school Taluka. teachers. Nurturing Scientific Educational / science exhibition Over 300 types of science and art models were Temperament created and exhibited by, and benefitted, 4,000 students from 49 schools Nature club activities which involve educational Various competitions, poster making, essay writing, tours, nature trails, celebration of Energy quizzes, were organised, which created awareness Conservation Day, Environment Day, Safety Week, among students on global issues and promoted Wildlife Conservation Week, etc. hidden talents. Health Access to basic healthcare is a primary necessity of every human being. Sesa extends its support to address basic health needs of the community by creating healthcare facilities at the doorstep and promoting the overall health status of people across its areas of operation. Healthcare programmes constitute need-driven (requests from stakeholders) and proactive initiatives by the Company towards critical health issues. An important focus is contribution to achievement under the United Nation’s Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of promoting maternal, child health and eradication of diseases. EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Short-term objective: To meet day-to-day basic health needs of the community Long-term objective: To create a facility that is easily accessible to the community  Sesa Goa Limited Activity Summary of the Activity Result / Outcome Community Medical Sesa operates, in association with NGOs, 10 community Under this initiative, benefits extend to 15 villages Centres & Mobile Health medical centres and 2 mobile health units, each with and in the year 2011-12, 59,370 people availed these Units a doctor and 2 nurses, offering free consultation and facilities. medication to nearby villages. Primary Health Centre The PHC has a 5-bed in-patient treatment facility Since inception, 73,698 OPD cases, 1,220 indoor (PHC) on PPP mode and facilities for treating out-patients, conducting patients, 83 institutional deliveries and 11,291 institutional deliveries and minor operations, laboratory laboratory tests have been attended to, at the testing and 24x7 emergency services. Medication and PHC. treatment are provided free of cost. Anaemia Detection & Sesa, along with the Directorate of Health Services, This campaign benefited 3,000 women and a Treatment Campaign GoG, conducted an Anaemia Detection & Treatment similar campaign in Dharbandora village, wherein 3 Campaign for women (in the reproductive age group), of detection camps were held, covered 811 women. Kirlapal-Dabal, Amona, Navelim, Sonshi, Soliye, Pissurlem, Cudnem and Advalpal. Eye Check-up & Cataract Drishti project created mass awareness and provided free The campaign was held in 14 villages, reaching Treatment eye check-up and treatment, cataract operations and out to over 3,000 people; 3,053 were provided spectacles, where necessary, to people in nearby villages. spectacles and 230 were detected for cataract. Balwadi Children Nutritional supplement is provided monthly and regular 426 children from 40 balwadi centres in 7 Nutritional health checks are conducted to monitor. Based on panchayats benefitted from this programme. Improvement body weight (BMI), malnourished and under-nourished Programme children are provided protein supplements. Blood Donation Camp On World AIDS Day, Sesa organised blood donation 175 employees donated blood. Sesa formed a Red on World AIDS Day camps along with Goa State AIDS Control Society Ribbon Club, Mayem, partnering with GSACS and (GSACS). Sesa also conducted an awareness programme Nehru Yuva Kendra to spread HIV awareness. on HIV AIDS for migrant labourers and truckers. Vision for Tomorrow In collaboration with an NGO, Mukta Optics, who visited Those with defects were provided spectacles. This all schools around the operational areas, Sesa conducted project benefitted approximately 12,000 children a programme to screen eyes and provide spectacles to from 45 schools. school children. Tobacco Control Awareness sessions using films, quizzes and posters, Programme impact was by preand post-training Advocacy Programme were conducted in North Goa schools to discourage and tests, which showed improvement in awareness highlight harmful effects of tobacco use. from 40% to 80%. 10 schools and 984 students benefitted from this. Dental Health Camps Sesa partnered with Goa Dental College & Hospital, GoG, The programme is in progress and out of the in this campaign. A team of 6 doctors and 3 paramedical targeted 45 high schools, 11 were covered in staff in a mobile dental van visits schools to conduct 2011-12. This has benefitted approximately 2000 check-ups and treatment. students. Paediatric Health Camps Sesa conducted paediatric health check-up and treatment These camps covered 23 primary schools, camps for students at primary schools and Anganwadi benefitting 769 children. centres, providing free medicines and counselling parents on health care measures. Medical Staff at Primary Health Centre, Raisuan, Orissa  Sustainability Report 2012 Back to Farming – Agriculture Rejuvenation Paediatric Neuro Project Rehabilitation Centre The project ‘Back to Farming‘ is an ongoing initiative to revive paddy fields and assist the farming community of Goa. Sesa identified various paddy fields left uncultivated for various reasons, such as The Paediatric Neuro Rehabilitation Centre is a state-of-thelow returns, unavailability of manpower or agricultural equipment, art paediatric treatment centre and the first such centre in or due to the inclination of younger generations towards white Goa. The project envisions going beyond the special needs of collar jobs. The CSR team approached the farming community, children to tap their unlimited potential and enable them to directly or through stakeholder meetings, to provide support for lead successful lives in mainstream society. Sesa started this revival of the fields. Sesa’s aim was to promote traditional means project, in association with Goa Medical College, Bambolim, to bring sustainable livelihood to the people around its operational and Paediatric Neuro Development Clinic, Mumbai to promote areas. positive changes by developing a highly specific plan of care for The first initiative was to bring 9 hectares of land under cultivation a wide variety of children who require skilled care. The project involving 70 farmers in Wagona. In subsequent years, many more was inaugurated on 23 January 2010. joined to bring more than 113 Ha of land under rice cultivation in This is an exclusive paediatric centre, with a team of Wagona, Kalsai, Bandol in South Goa and Cudnem, Amona, Maina, committed professionals guided by a neurodevelopment (NDT) Navelim in North Goa. Some farmers also took up vegetable occupational therapist, providing patients with highly skilled and cultivation during the rabi season. The Back to Farming project specialised services ranging from detection and intervention to covers 5 villages and has motivated about 320 farmers to bring management of children suffering from developmental issues. barren land into cultivation with supply of seeds, fertilisers, The following professional services are provided at this centre: irrigation facilities, power tillers and manure for de-silting, etc. 1. Occupational therapy Hi-tech Commercial Farming – Gerbera Cultivation 2. Physiotherapy There is a great demand for ornamental flowers like gerberas and 3. Speech and language therapy orchids in Goa, which is primarily fuelled by the Goan hospitality 4. Psychological services sector. However, most of these flowers are sourced from nearby 5. Special education states. The CSR team identified an opportunity to encourage local 6. Orthotics farmers to cultivate gerberas, thereby providing them income generation opportunities. Sesa collaborated with the Department Beyond this, the centre also provides services like developmental of Agriculture, Government of Goa, for hi-tech commercial farming intervention in NICU, early detection and intervention (0-3 years), in gerbera cultivation, also known as the Polyhouse project. Sesa therapeutic intervention (0-15 years), specific remediation for supported four farmers by financing them and setting up four handwriting, fine motor skill remediation, etc. Patients are polyhouse units at Wade-Sanguem, Dhulai-Dharbandora, Tiskprovided free treatment on two days in a week, Wednesdays Usgaon and Valpoi. Around 500-700 flowers are harvested from and Saturdays. On an average, 55 patients visit the centre on each site. The cost of a single flower is Rs. 5, enabling farmers to these days and 40 patients on other days. Till date, more than earn a daily income ranging around Rs. 2,500 – 3,500 or a monthly 700 patients have been treated at this centre. income of Rs. 90,000 per polyhouse. Youth Empowerment Projects have been launched to promote alternate livelihood and empower youth with skills required for sustenance. Local youth have been provided with training to equip them with skills such as driving, computer operating, etc. In association with Maruti Sustainable Livelihood Driving School, Sesa conducted driving courses for 60 youth, who enrolled for the training from Netravali and Rivona villages. Sesa Mining is a major source of income to the local community also provides professional computer courses to youth from Sonshi inhabiting the mining belts. Sesa believes that, as mining activities village, such as diploma in computer teaching, financial accounting, have a finite life span, it is necessary to create competence in the computer engineering, etc. community to engage in other forms of livelihood, over a period of time. This philosophy also forms the basis of our exit strategy. Women Empowerment Sesa has encouraged agriculture, watershed and women enterprise development as alternate options of income generation in the The woman is the pillar of strength in every family and her role in community. society cannot be undermined. Sesa aspires to empower women in the local community with skill sets that would enable them to EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES The CSR team has engaged expert agencies to create awareness, expand their horizons and also provide additional income. Based on mobilise the community and help establish alternate means of the requests and needs, various training programmes are organised livelihood. Sesa works jointly with various farmer associations, to encourage women SHGs to build their capacity in catering, paper / watershed bodies, such as Amona Panlot Sangh, Betki Khandola leaf plate making, beautician services, tailoring, masala making, etc. Panlot Sangh and other farmers’ clubs. Sesa has also engaged The CSR team has engaged CDPR to organise these SHGs, motivate, the Centre for Development Planning & Research (CDPR), Pune train and conduct exposure visits to income-generating enterprises. to conduct income generation programmes for women Self Help After training, efforts are on to set up enterprises and establish Groups (SHGs). market linkages that will fetch them a sustainable income.  Sesa Goa Limited Systematic Rice Intensification (SRI) SRI is a technique of rice cultivation originating from Bangladesh. yield from her field was 60 kg of paddy, but now, under the SRI It enables farmers to cultivate rice in high lands and in the nonmethod, the same piece of her land yielded 110 kg of paddy. She monsoon season, when or where there is a scarcity of water. has become an ardent advocate of the SRI method and motivates It requires less seeds, manure water and labour, but ensures other farmers to adopt SRI, citing her own example. double the yield in normal fields. The SRI method not only increases production; it also increases Sesa started with the orientation of farmers, providing them the productivity of: technical knowhow by organising a talk by Mr. Mayekar, ZAO • Water: Since yield is double or more with only half as much (Zonal Agriculture Officer), Sanguem. He described the concept, water required in traditional farming, the productivity of process and technique of cultivating rice using the SRI method. water is greatly increased He guided them on selecting seeds, preparing the nursery, transplantation, weeding and adding manure. • Land: As the yield is double or more, compared to the The CSR team then identified interested farmers and helped traditional method of paddy cultivation them prepare the nursery as explained. After preparing it, the The above project was taken up as a Pilot Project and will be land was prepared for final sowing by proper ploughing and replicated at other locations. The happy farmers, who are tilling. The saplings prepared in the nursery were transplanted motivated to cultivate paddy on their agricultural land using the to the main field under the guidance of the ZAO and his team. SRI method, bear testimony to the success of the project. Sesa is After the transplantation, regular weeding was done and after committed to extending the initial support required to popularise 90 days, the crop was harvested. The difference in yield was this method and bring about positive change to farmers’ lives visible, as traditionally-grown crop has 40-70 tillers, while the SRI by helping them increase their yield and realise the dream of method crop had 80 – 130 tillers grow from one single sapling. sustainable farming. Ms. Daya Gaonkar is one of the farmers who benefitted from SRI. She is an active SHG member and Secretary of Ekvat Society (SHG Federation). She is a tenant holding a small plot of land, around 500 square metres. She was one of the farmers who agreed to try the SRI method on 10 square metres of her land. Earlier, the  Sustainability Report 2012 Other Initiatives • Constructed school building for Government primary school in Pisurlem • Repaired bund at Bhaile Shet, Amona benefitting 85 farmers • Laid water pipeline at Bagwada, Pilgaon and Bicholim as a under Amona Panlot Sangh drinking water facility to villagers • Repair of side wall of pond at Ankale, Betki under Betki • Constructed toilets at Lamgaon, Bicholim, Durgamata Hostel Khandola Panlot Sangh benefitting 40 farmers at Netravali in South Goa, Amona • Construction and installation of sluice gate at Gaonkarwada, • Distributed tube light fixtures and focus lamps to 20 village Khandola benefitting 120 farmers panchayats around business areas on the eve of Ganesh • Constructed 115 metre irrigation canal at Kalsai, Kirlapal, Dabal Chaturthi festival village benefitting 40 farmers • Installed outdoor play equipment (see-saw, swing, slide, and • Support provided in the form of power tiller and irrigation merry-go-round) at Government Primary School, Barazan, facilities to farmers committee of Valshi, Bordem benefitting Usgaon and three primary schools in Dharbandora area 82 farmers • Constructed Ganpati Visarjan platform at Daucona Village • De-silting of fields and construction of bund at Surla, benefitting • Installed high mast light tower in Usgao village 75 farmers • Constructed nine houses for underprivileged families in • One-day motivational and training workshop on income Pisurlem and Navelim generation activities was organised through the CDPR at • Developed a children’s park in Khandola village and installed Bicholim, attended by 250 women outdoor play equipment in Betki village • Exposure visits of 36 SHG women to agencies such as Bhagirath • Constructed a road culvert in Navelim Village and compound Gramvikas Pratishthan, Zarap, Sindudurga, Konkan Nisarg wall for Government High School, Navelim Manch Spurti, Kudal, Shri. Warna Bhagini Mandal, Warnanagar, • Constructed community hall in Navelim Village Panchayat Kolhapur, ‘Swayamsiddha’ Dr. V. T. Patil Foundation, Kolhapur • Construction of anganwadi at Fanaswadi, Navelim in Maharashtra • Renovated Government Primary School, Maina, Navelim • Exposure visit of 35 farmers along with Zonal Agriculture Officer • Preservation of natural springs by constructing surrounding to Sirsi, Karnataka, to agencies like Totagarika Cooperative Sales Society (TSS), etc tanks for water storage • Stitching, knitting and embroidery classes conducted for 20 Requirements in schools located in the rural areas are predominantly women in Pisurlem and 18 women in Sonshi, and a catering infrastructural in nature. Lack of adequate school infrastructure course for 20 SHG ladies in Sonshi impacts student interest, teacher motivation, and therefore, performance of the students. Sesa has always been in the forefront in ensuring and supporting the creation of this grass roots level Social Infrastructure infrastructure to support the broader objective of education. A few Infrastructure is the foundation of all progress and development. activities undertaken by Sesa are: Sesa believes that infrastructure forms a part of the basic need to • Construction of schools & anganwadi building build and sustain a community. A few of Sesa’s initiatives towards • Renovating school libraries, laboratories, developing the development of infrastructure in the communities around playgrounds, etc its operations are listed below. Many of the projects undertaken • Provision of drinking water facilities, toilets, etc by Sesa are need-based, stemming out of extensive engagement • Providing books, uniforms, educational material like maps, with stakeholders from the villages and communities around charts, benches, furniture, sports equipment, etc its operations. These projects range from providing primary • Notebooks are provided to 260 schools in 62 villages every amenities for community life, sanitation and other basic necessities, year across the operational areas in Goa and Karnataka supporting interactive communities and networking, providing • Montessori educational aids and play equipment infrastructure for socio-cultural activities, to providing a holistic • Providing office equipment like LCD projectors, photocopiers, environment for children’s development. Sesa has participated etc actively in creating assets and infrastructure to meet long-term needs of the community: EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Back to farming initiative  Sesa Goa Limited Biomass Stove in Chitradurga, Karnataka An estimated 826 million Indians depend on simple cooking contribution towards the procurement of these stoves was fixed, stoves that burn solid fuel, mainly fuel wood or coal. When with the balance to be provided by Sesa. The committee decided households are filled with smoke from inefficient stoves, the to pay 30% per cent of the unit cost with the balance 70% being toxic soot can increase the risks of contracting pneumonia, paid by Sesa. Accordingly, the Company has distributed biomass cataracts and tuberculosis. The community around Sesa’s stoves to 2,349 families under the project till date. Karnataka operations consisted of households depending on Community women expressed that they could save time and fuel these conventional cooking stoves for food. The local CSR team wood by using biomass stoves. As a majority of the women who introduced improved cooking stoves, the biomass stoves, which used these stoves also worked on the farms, the stoves provided generate less smoke and consume less fuel wood; thereby also the added advantage of being used anywhere, inside or outside reducing the carbon footprint of these households. the house, due to them being lightweight and small in size. As a first step, the CSR team introduced these stoves, developed In comparison to traditional stoves, these women also found by Envirofit and IsquareD, two certified agencies, by conducting an improvement in the taste of the food cooked using biomass demonstration programmes in the villages. A majority of the stoves, due to the complete boiling of food items. More than villagers realised the importance of using improved cooking 50% of the women reported lesser darkening of the house and stoves. vessels. They also stated that the overall cleanliness was higher Subsequently, in consultation with village development due to the lower smoke emission from these biomass stoves. committees to ensure responsibility sharing, a beneficiary Contribution To MFG laboratories, etc. These facilities will go a long way in serving the community in the mining belt. Women empowerment programmes Mineral Foundation of Goa is an NGO established in the year 2000 by have been well received by the community. the Goan mining industry, as a corporate non-profit organisation, to address social and environmental issues and improve people’s As an extensive project for comprehensive development of village, lives in the mining belt of Goa. Sesa is the founding member and Sesa partnered with MFG and the Goa Government (in a Public a majority stakeholder of the MFG. Every year, Sesa contributes Private Partnership initiative) in a Gram Nirman project, that was about Rs. 4 per tonne produced to the foundation. implemented in two village Panchayats namely Kirlapal-Dabal and Mayem. Gram Nirman aimed at integrated development of the MFG has specific mandate to work in areas around iron ore mines villages. Key project undertaken were watershed developmentand road transport corridors. Towards this MFG working with Bandharas, irrigation facilities, Anganwadi centres, Village resource partners services in nearly 80 villages distributed in 28 panchayat. centres, Drinking water project etc. MFG projects contribute to one or more of 8 Millennium Development Goals. Over one decade, the foundation has created various assets for the benefits of the general public and educational institutes ranging from bhandharas, bandhs, irrigation channels, crematorium, anganwadi, classrooms, toilets, libraries,  Sustainability Report 2012 ASSURANCE Way Forward Strategy & Governance Community • Implement Vedanta Sustainability Governance System, aligned • Continue partnering with credible NGO’s to implement with IFC standards high impact CSR initiatives • Ensure compliance with applicable legal requirements and strive • Implement CSR initiatives aligned with MDG’s – thrust on for beyond compliance health, education, employability, sustainable livelihood etc Environment Safety • Aggressively pursue pollution prevention, energy conservation and waste reduction in our business operations • Drive safety culture and implement behavioural based safety systems /practices to achieve the goal of “zero • Benchmark and implement best in class environmental practices harm” Health • Implement new health initiate Screening of all employees for Diabetes EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES  Sesa Goa Limited GRI G3.1 CONTENT INDEX Application Level: A+ Assured By DNV STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Indicator Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part not reported, reason and by when it will be reported 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Fully 7 organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully 20,21 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully Cover page 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully 17,18 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including Fully 4,5,23 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully 76 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, Fully 4,5 and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 4,5 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Fully 17,18 sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 4,5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully 4,5 regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 6 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Fully 10 information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 10 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully 10 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Fully 76 contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 10 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Fully 10 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Fully 10 of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Fully 10 facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully 10 calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Fully 10 information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Fully 10 the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.  Sustainability Report 2012 Indicator Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part not reported, reason and by when it will be reported 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Fully 58 Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Fully 10 external assurance for the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Fully Annual committees under the highest governance body Report: 44-52 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Fully Annual body is also an executive officer. Report: 44 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Fully Annual state the number and gender of members of the highest Report: 3233 governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Fully Annual provide recommendations or direction to the highest Report: 50 governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of Fully Annual the highest governance body, senior managers, and Report: 48-49 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Fully Annual ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Report: 45 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, Fully Annual and expertise of the members of the highest Report: 3233 governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Fully Inside cover codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, page, 22 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully Annual overseeing the organization’s identification and Report: 4748 management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Fully 22,23 body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Fully 12 approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Fully 10 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Fully 74 associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully 13 16  Sesa Goa Limited Indicator Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part not reported, reason and by when it will be reported 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Fully 13 16 with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Fully 13 16 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Fully 13 16 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Fully 17 19 Aspects Economic performance Fully 17 19 Market presence Fully 17 19 Indirect economic impacts Fully 19 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Fully 39 48 Aspects Materials Fully 47 48 Energy Fully 40 41 Water Fully 41 42 Biodiversity Fully 42 43 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 44 46 Products and services Fully 17 18 Compliance Fully 40,47,48 Transport Fully 48 Overall Fully 46 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Fully 31 38 Aspects Employment Fully 32 36 Labor/management relations Fully 29 Occupational health and safety Fully 37 38 Training and education Fully 34 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully 33 34 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully 33 34 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Fully 28 30 Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully 29 30 Non-discrimination Fully 34 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully 29 Child labor Fully 29 30 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully 29 30 Security practices Fully 29 Indigenous rights Fully 29 Assessment Fully 29 30 Remediation Fully 29 30 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Fully 50 56 Aspects Local communities Fully 50 56 Corruption Fully 28 Public policy Fully 22 Anti-competitive behaviour Fully 47 Compliance Fully 47 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Fully 47 48  Sustainability Report 2012 Indicator Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part not reported, reason and by when it will be reported Aspects Customer health and safety Fully 47 48 Product and service labelling Fully 47 48 Marketing communications Fully 47 48 Customer privacy Fully 47 48 Compliance Fully 47 48 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Fully 19 including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Fully 21,40 for the organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan Fully 35 obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Fully 26 government. Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Fully 34 compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyFully 30 based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Fully 33 management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Fully 50 56 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Fully 18 19 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully 47 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Fully 47 materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully 40 41 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully 40 41 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Fully 40 41 improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Fully 40 41 energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Fully 40 41 reductions achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 41 42 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of Fully 41 42 water.  Sesa Goa Limited Indicator Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part not reported, reason and by when it will be reported EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Fully 41 42 reused. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Fully 42 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Fully 42 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for Fully 42 production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully 42 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Fully 42 managing impacts on biodiversity. MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as Fully 42 requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Fully 42 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Fully 44 weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Fully 44 weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Fully 44 reductions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Partially 44 Pig Iron Division Data will be reported from next year EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Fully 44 and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully 42 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully 44,45 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges Fully 45,46 and their associated risks. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully 46 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Fully 44 waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Fully 42 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Partially 47,48 LCA study currently underway products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Fully 47,48 materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Fully 40 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.  Sustainability Report 2012 Indicator Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part not reported, reason and by when it will be reported Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Partially 48 A transport study is currently products and other goods and materials used for the underway. Data will be organization’s operations, and transporting members of reported in 2014 the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Fully 46 investments by type. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Fully 32 contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and Partially 33,34 Data Reported now. employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Fully 35,36 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, Fully 36 by gender. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Fully 29 bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Fully 29 operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week’s Fully 29 duration, by country. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal Fully 37 joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Fully 37 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and riskFully 37 control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Fully 37 with trade unions. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Fully 34 gender, and by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Fully 34 that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Fully 35 and career development reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Fully 33 employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Fully 33 men by employee category, by significant locations of operation.  Sesa Goa Limited Indicator Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part not reported, reason and by when it will be reported Social: Human Rights Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Partially 29 Human Rights agreements and contracts that include clauses Screening not covered. While incorporating human rights concerns, or that have our SA8000 Certification undergone human rights screening. covers some of the parameters of Human Rights, we are yet to incorporate human rights screening into our investment process. This will be done by 2013. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and Partially 30 Human Rights other business partners that have undergone human Screening not covered. rights screening, and actions taken. Supplier Code of Conduct put in place. No monitoring or audit mechansim is in place yet to verify adherence to the code. This will be done by 2013. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Fully 29 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Fully 34 corrective actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in Partially 29,30 which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor Suppliers partially covered. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Partially 29,30 Supplier Code of Conduct put significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures in place. No monitoring or taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child audit mechansim is in place labor. yet to verify adherence to the Forced and compulsory labor code. This will be done by 2013 HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Partially 29,30 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Fully 29 organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent Fully 29 to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communities. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights Fully 29 of indigenous people and actions taken. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have Fully 12 been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments.  Sustainability Report 2012 Indicator Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part not reported, reason and by when it will be reported Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, Fully 29 addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Social: Society Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Fully 50 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating Fully 50 to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used Fully 50 to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. Artisanal and smallscale mining MM8 Number (and percentage) or company operating sites Fully 5 where artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. Resettlement MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of Fully 42 households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. Closure planning MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure Fully 19 plans. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative Partially 40 48 TNS impact assessment survey impacts on local communities. is currently underway. Will be SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in Partially 40 48,5056 published by 2012 operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed Fully 28 for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiFully 28 corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully 28 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Fully 22 development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Fully 26 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Fully 47 48 behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Fully 47 48 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.  Sesa Goa Limited Indicator Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part not reported, reason and by when it will be reported Social: Product Responsibility Materials Stewardship MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials Partially 47 48 LCA study currently underway. stewardship. To be reported in 2013 Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Fully 47 48 products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully 47 48 regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by Fully 47 48 procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully 47 48 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Fully 47 48 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and Fully 47 48 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully 47 48 regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Not Not As per the nature of our breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer Applicable industry we do not need to data. handle propriety information/ data of our customers Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Fully 47 48 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.  Sustainability Report 2012 UNGC & NVG GUIDELINES The Ten Principles United Nations Global Compact Principles Statement Page No. Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 29,30 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 29,30 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 29,30 collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 29,30 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 29,30 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 34 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 12 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 40 48 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 40 48 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 28 National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental, & Economic Responsibilities of Business Principles Statement Principle 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability Principle 2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability through their life cycle Principle 3 Businesses should promote the well being of all employees Principle 4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised Principle 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights Principle 6 Businesses should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment Principle 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner Principle 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development Principle 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner  Sesa Goa Limited NVG REPORT APPLICATION TABLE NVG Report Application Table A Part A of the report includes basic information and data about the operations of the business entity so that the reading of the report becomes more contextual and comparable with other similarly placed businesses. It may be written in a free format incorporating at least the following: Sub Aspects Page No. Part A-1 Basic information about Name Cover page the business Nature of ownership 4,5 Details of the people in top management 23 Location of its operations national and international 4,5 Products and services offered 17,18 Markets served 17,18 Economic and Financial Sales 19 Data Net profit 19 Tax paid 19 Total assets 19 Market capitalisation 5 Number of employees 32 A2 Management’s Commitment Statement to the ESG Guidelines 12 Priorities in terms of Principle and Core Elements 15,16 Reporting Period/Cycle 10 Whether the report is based on this framework or any other framework 10 Any Significant Risk that the business would like its stakeholders to know 20,21 Any Goals and Targets that were set by the top management for improving their performance during the 2,57 Reporting Period B Part B of the report incorporates the basic parameters on which the business may report their performance. Efforts have been made to keep the reporting simple keeping in view the fact that this framework is equally applicable to the small businesses as well. The report may be prepared in a free format with the basic performance indicators being included in the same. In case the business entity has chosen not to adopt or report on any of the Principles, the same may be stated along with, if possible, the reasons for not doing so. Sub Principle Core elements Page No. Part B-1 Principle 1 – Ethics, Governance structure of the business, including committees under the Board Annual Report Transparency and responsible for organizational oversight. In case no committee is constituted, Page 44-52 Accountability then the details of the individual responsible for the oversight Mandate and composition (including number of independent members and/ Annual Report or non-executive members) of such committee with the number of oversight Page 3233 review meetings held. State whether the person/committee head responsible for oversight review is Annual Report independent from the executive authority or not. If yes, how. Page 44 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Annual Report direction to the Board/ Chief Executive. Page 50 Processes in place for the Board/ Chief Executive to ensure conflicts of interest Annual Report are avoided. Page 45 Internally developed statement on Ethics, Codes of Conduct and details of the 2,22,28 process followed to ensure that the same are followed Frequency with which the Board/ Chief Executive assess BR performance. 22,23 Principle 2 – Products Statement on the use of recyclable raw materials used 47 Life Cycle Sustainability Statement on use of energy-efficient technologies, designs and manufacturing/ 40,41 service-delivery processes Statement on copyrights issues in case of the products that involve use of Not Applicable traditional knowledge and geographical indicators Statement on use of sustainable practices used in the value chain 30  Sustainability Report 2012 Sub Principle Core elements Page No. Part B-1 Principle 3 – Employees’ Total number of employees with percentage of employees that are engaged 32 well-being through contractors Statement on non-discriminatory employment policy of the business entity 34 Percentage of employees who are women 32 Number of persons with disabilities hired 34 Amount of the least monthly wage paid to any skilled and unskilled employee 36 Number of training and skill up-gradation programmes organized during the 34 reporting period for skilled and unskilled employees Number of incidents of delay in payment of wages during the reporting period 36 Number of grievances submitted by the employees 29 Principle 4 – Stakeholder Statement on the process of identification of stakeholders and engaging with 13 16 Engagement them Statement on significant issues on which formal dialogue has been undertaken 13 16 with any of the stakeholder groups Principle 5 – Human Statement on the policy of the business entity on observance of human rights 29 Rights in their operation Statement on complaints of human rights violations filed during the reporting 29 period Principle 6 – Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 47 Environment Total energy consumed by the business entity for its operations 40,41 Statement on use of energy saving processes and the total energy saved due to 40,41 use of such processes Use of renewable energy as percentage of total energy consumption 40,41 Total water consumed and the percentage of water that is recycled and reused 41,42 Statement on quantum of emissions of greenhouse gases and efforts made to 44 reduce the same Statement on discharge of water and effluents indicating the treatment done 42 before discharge and the destination of disposal Details of efforts made for reconstruction of bio-diversity 42 Principle 7 – Policy Statement on significant policy advocacy efforts undertaken with details of the 22 Advocacy platforms used Principle 8 – Inclusive Details of community investment and development work undertaken indicating 50 Growth the financial resources deployed and the impact of this work with a longer term perspective Details of innovative practices, products and services that particularly enhance 50 56 access and allocation of resources to the poor and the marginalized groups of the society Principle 9 – Customer Statement on whether the labelling of their products has adequate information 47,48 Value regarding product-related customer health and safety, method of use and disposal, product and process standards observed Details of the customer complaints on safety, labelling and safe disposal of the 47,48 products received during the reporting period Sub Aspects Page No. Part C Part C of the report incorporates two important aspects on BR reporting. Part C-1 is a disclosure on by the business entity on any negative consequences of its operations on the social, environmental and economic fronts. The objective is to encourage the business to report on this aspect in a transparent manner so that it can channelize its efforts to mitigate the same. Part C-2 is aimed at encouraging the business to continuously improve its performance in the area of BR. C1 • Brief Report on any material/significant negative consequences of the operations of the business entity 40 48 C2 • Brief on Goals and Social 2,57 Targets in the area of Environmental 2,57 social, environmental Economic 2,57 and economic responsibilities that the business entity has set for itself for the next Reporting Period  Sesa Goa Limited ASSURANCE STATEMENT OF DNV INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Introduction Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has been commissioned by the management of Sesa Goa Limited (‘Sesa Goa’ or ‘the Company’) to carry out an assurance engagement on the Company’s Sustainable Development Report 2012 (‘the Report’) in its printed and electronic format. This assurance engagement focused on verification of qualitative and quantitative information provided in the Report, and underlying management and reporting processes. The engagement was carried out against DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting (VeriSustain) including verification of application level and adherence to principles of the Global Reporting Initiative 2011 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (GRI G3.1). This assurance statement is aimed at the readers of the Report. The company is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of information within the Report. DNV’s responsibility in performing this work is to the management of Sesa Goa only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and authentic. DNV disclaims any liability or responsibility to a third party for decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based on this assurance statement. Scope of Assurance The scope of DNV’s assurance engagement, as agreed upon with Sesa Goa included the verification of the content, focus and quality of the information presented in the Report, covering the Economic, Environment and Social information over the period 1st April 2011 to 31st March 2012. In particular, this assurance engagement included: • Review of the policies, initiatives, practices and performance described in the Report as well as references made in the Report to the annual report; • Review of the Report against the requirements of VeriSustain with a moderate level of assurance; • Evaluation of the adherence to the principles set out in the GRI G3.1 and confirmation of the Sesa Goa’s declared Application Level; • Review and assessment of the processes and tools for collecting, aggregating and reporting qualitative data inside the Report. • Verification of the reliability of information and performance data as set forth in GRI G3.1 and presented in the Report; • Verification of economic indicators in the Report, based on data from audited financial statements; • Our engagement did not include formal assessment of the adequacy or effectiveness of Company’s strategy or management of Sustainability related issues. The reporting boundary is as set out in the Report and during the assurance we did not come across limitations to the scope of assurance engagement. The Company has mapped its sustainability reporting against the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVG guidelines) developed by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles. DNV has not verified the company’s compliance to the NVG guidelines and UNGC Principles as it was not part of the scope of the work. Verification Methodology This engagement was carried out during May to October 2012, by a multidisciplinary DNV team of qualified and experienced sustainability report assurance professionals. The Report has been evaluated against the principles of Materiality, Completeness Neutrality, Reliability, Responsiveness and Stakeholder Inclusiveness, as set out in ‘VeriSustain’, and the GRI G3.1. As part of our verification we visited the Head office at Panjim, Goa, and Mining operations at Bicholim & Codli Mines at Goa and Pig Iron production plant at Amona, Goa, India. During the assurance engagement, DNV has taken a risk-based approach, meaning that we concentrated our verification efforts more on the issues of high material relevance to Sesa Goa’s business and stakeholders. As part of the engagement we have challenged the sustainabilityrelated statements and assertions made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls. For example, we have: • examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available to DNV by Sesa Goa; • conducted interaction senior management and other key executives of the Company, including data owners and decision-makers from different functions and site locations of the Company at Goa India; • performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data included in the Report; • reviewed the data management processes for completeness and reliability. This including assessments of methods, practices, tools and competence used in collection, aggregation and reporting of data as it is transferred and managed at different levels of the organisation; • reviewed the process of acquiring information and economic-financial data from the audited Annual report of the company.  Sustainability Report 2012 Conclusions In DNV’s opinion, based on the work carried out, the Report is a fair representation of the Company’s sustainability-related strategies, management systems and performance. The Report, along with the referenced information in the annual report, meets the general content and quality requirements of the GRI G3.1, and DNV confirms that the GRI requirements for Application Level ‘A+’ have been met. We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: Stakeholder Inclusiveness: Acceptable. The Company demonstrates continual engagement with key stakeholders through various channels and the material issues emerging from the stakeholder engagement are collected and prioritised based on inputs from stakeholders, and the results are fairly reflected in the Report. The company is committed to further improving its stakeholder engagement process to capture the material issues. Materiality: Good. The methodology of materiality determination used for management of sustainability performance management and reporting uses the organisational and stakeholder perspectives to arrive at key material issues. Responsiveness: Good. The Company has responded to the identified key material issues and stakeholder concerns through its policies and management systems, and this is fairly reflected in the Report. Completeness: Acceptable. The Report provides disclosures in response to key GRI G3.1 disclosure requirements including the sector supplement; the partial disclosures are denoted in the GRI content index and the Company acknowledges the need for continuous improvement and is committed to improving the reporting scope and boundary. Neutrality: Good. The information contained in the Report is presented in a neutral tone. Overall the Report is transparent in discussing the challenges faced by the Company and brings out the road map for improved governance and performance. Reliability: Acceptable. The Report contains data that is both measured and estimated, and this is explained to the reader. The manual errors and inaccuracies related to data aggregation of social and environmental indicators identified for various sites visited by DNV have been corrected. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported back to the management of Sesa Goa, however, these do not affect our conclusions on the Report, and they are indeed generally consistent with the management objectives already in place: • materiality determination process may be validated with specific inputs for each business area to bring out material issues that reflect short, medium and long term impacts and the process needs to identify emerging issues in the mining sector and develop performance metrics for material issues to enable benchmarking with sector peers; • stakeholder engagement process may be formalised and structured, whereby sustainability inputs from a range of stakeholders are systematically incorporated in developing the long term sustainability strategy of the Company; • implementation of systematic internal review and auditing of internal data management system will help further improve the reporting process by increasing the reliability of reported data; • the reporting boundary may be progressively expanded to Sesa Goa’s operations outside India. DNV’s Independence DNV states its independence and impartiality with regards to this engagement. DNV confirms that throughout the reporting period there were no services provided which could impair our independence and objectivity. DNV also maintained complete impartiality towards people interviewed during the assignment. For Det Norske Veritas AS, Vadakepatth Nandkumar Antonio Astone Project Manager Reviewer National Head-Sustainability & Business Excellence Services Global Manager, Corporate Responsibility Services Det Norske Veritas AS, India Det Norske Veritas AS, Italy. 1st November 2012, Bangalore, India.  Sesa Goa Limited GHG VERIFICATION BY DNV VERIFICATION STATEMENT Introduction Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has been commissioned by the management of Sesa Goa Limited, India (‘Sesa Goa’ or ‘the Company’) to carry out a limited assurance engagement of its Greenhouse Gas Inventory (‘the GHG Inventory’) covering the period 1st April 2011 to 31st March 2012. The Company is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of information within the report. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of the Company only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and true. DNV disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based on this verification statement. Scope of Assurance The scope of work agreed upon with the Company includes the following: • verification of data and information related to the company’s GHG Inventory covering the period 1st April 2011 to 31st March 2012; • sample site visits to one of the mines and one production facility at Goa, to verify the company’s internal protocols, processes, and controls related to the collection and collation of the GHG Inventory data. The verification was carried out between May and October 2012. Independence DNV did not provide any services to the Company during the reporting period that could conflict with the independence of our work. DNV was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the report except for this verification statement. Verification Methodology The verification was conducted by DNV using the principles of ISO 14064-3 (2006) and the WRI/WBCSD protocol. DNV took a risk-based approach to decide the sites to be visited and the material sources of GHG emissions. We have examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available to DNV by the Company. As part of the verification process we: • obtained an understanding of the systems used to generate, aggregate and report GHG emission data at the site and group level; • gained an understanding of the GHG data management system and tested the completeness, accuracy and reliability of the data. Conclusions On the basis of our verification methodology, nothing has come to our attention that would cause us not to believe that the GHG assertion as below is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of the GHG data and information: Source GHG Emission (Tons) Scope 1 Process Emissions and other Direct Emissions 671529 Scope 2 Purchased Electricity 68719 Scope 3 Down Stream Transportation and Employee commute 62337 Total GHG Emission (tons) 802585  Sustainability Report 2012 Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported back to the management of the Company. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the report, and they are indeed generally consistent with the management objectives already in place. • Reliability of the systems and processes related to data management can be further strengthened through a structured internal review process. • Completeness of Scope 3 emissions can further be enhanced by including the business travel and inbound and out bound logistics. For Det Norske Veritas AS Signed: Vadakepatth Nandkumar Lead Verifier, National Head – Sustainability & Business Excellence, Det Norske Veritas AS, India Bangalore, India. 25th October, 2012  Sesa Goa Limited MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS Sesa Goa is an active member of various trade associations at local and national levels. Below is a list of the various organisations that Sesa Goa has an annual membership with • Sesa Goa Limited 1. FICCI 2. ASSOCHAM (Associate Membership) 3. Confederation of Indian Industry (WR) 4. Federation of Indian Mineral Industries 5. Employers Federation of India 6. All India Organisation of Employers 7. Confederation of Exports Units 8. Computer Society of India 9. Global Compact Network India 10. National Safety Council 11. British Safety Council 12. The Baltic Exchange Corporate Membership 13. Goa Chamber of Commerce & Industry 14. Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association 15. Goa Mining Association 16. Goa Management Association 17. The International Centre, Goa 18. Eastern Zone Mining Association • Sesa Resources Limited 1. Goa Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 2. National Safety Council 3. The Marmagao Stevedores Association • Sesa Resources Limited Mining Corporation Limited 1. Goa Chamber Of Commerce & Industry  Sustainability Report 2012 GLOSSARY ABC Antecedents/Activators, Behaviour & Consequences kL / t Kilo Litre Per Tonne AC Air Conditioning kt Kilo Tonne ACT UP Accelerated Competency Tracking &Up-gradation ktpa Kilo Tonnes Per Annum AGM Annual General Meeting LCA Life Cycle Assessment ANML A Narrain Mines Limited, Chitradurga LCD Liquid Crystal Display ASSOCHAM Associated Chambers Of Commerce And Industry Of India LTIA Lost Time Injury Accidents AVP Associate Vice President LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate BSc Bachelor of Science LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan BDC Block Development Council MSc Master of Science BE Bachelor of Engineering MAS Management Assurance Systems BF Blast Furnace MBTI Myers Briggs Type Indicator BMI Body Mass Index MCD Met Coke Division CAL Computer Aided Learning MCF Methyl Chloroform CB-2 Circuit Breaker – 2 MD Managing Director CDLI Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index MDG Millennium Development Goals CDP Carbon Disclosure Project Met Coke Metallurgical Coke CDPR Centre For Development Planning & Research MFG Mineral Foundation Of Goa CEO Chief Executive Officer mg / L Milligram / Litre CER Certified Emission Reductions mm Millimetre CFC ChloroFluoro Carbon MMDR Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation CFO Chief Financial Officer mt Million Tonnes CIF Cost Insurance & Freight MT Metric Tonne CII Confederation Of Indian Industry mtpa Million Tonnes Per Annum CIL Cairn India Limited MW Mega Watt CMO Chief Marketing Officer NDT Neurodevelopment Treatment CO2 Carbon Dioxide NGO Non-Governmental Organisation COO Chief Operating Officer NICU Neonatal Intensive Care Unit CRT Cathode Ray Tube NOX Oxides Of Nitrogen CSR Corporate Social Responsibility NVG National Voluntary Guidelines DG Diesel Generator OCM Original Component Manufacturer DGET Directorate General of Employment &Training ODS Ozone Depleting Substances DNV Det Norske Veritas (Auditing & Assurance Agency) OEM Original Equipment Manufacturers Dy. Deputy OHSAS Occupational Health And Safety Assessment Series EHS Environment, Health & Safety OPD Out Patient Department EMS Environment Management System PAT Profit After Tax ERW Electric Resistance Welded PF Provident Fund ESI Employees’ State Insurance PHC Primary Health Centre Fe Iron (Ferrous) PID Pig Iron Division FGD Focus Group Discussion PPP Public Private Partnership FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry PTA Parent Teachers Association FIMI Federation of Indian Mineral Industries R&R Reserves & Resources FSI Frequency Severity Index RCH Reproductive & Child Health FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange RFP Request for Proposal FY Financial Year RSPM Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter GCCI Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry SA 8000 Social Accountability 8000 GEPL Goa Energy Private Limited SBD Shipbuilding Division GHG Green House Gas SCDF Sesa Community Development Foundation GJ Giga Joules SD Sustainability Development GJ / t Giga Joules Per Tonne SEBI Securities and Exchange Board Of India GMOEA Goa Mineral Ore Exporters‘ Association SFA Sesa Football Academy GoG Government of Goa SFIO Serious Fraud Investigation Office GOLD Gen-Next Operational Leadership Development SGL Sesa Goa Limited GRI Global Reporting Initiative SHEQ Safety, Health, Environment and Quality GSACS Goa State AIDS Control Society SHG Self Help Group GTS Green Triangle Society SIL Sesa Industries Limited Ha Hectare SMCL Sesa Mining Corporation Limited HEMM Heavy Earth Moving Machinery SPM Suspended Particulate Matter HIV/AIDS Human Immuno-deficiency Virus / Acquired Immuno-deficiency SRI Systematic Rice Intensification Syndrome SRL Sesa Resources Limited HR Human Resources STS Sesa Technical School HRD Human Resource Development TFT Thin Film Transistor HSE Health, Safety & Environment TSS Total Suspended Solids HSEC Health, Safety, Environment And Corporate Social Responsibility UAE United Arab Emirates ICMM International Council on Mining & Metals UN United Nations IFC International Finance Corporation UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention On Climate Change ILO International Labour Organisation UNGC United Nations Global Compact IMS Integrated Management Systems UV Ultraviolet ISO International Organisation Of Standardization VCEP Vedanta Computer Education Programme IT Information Technology VFD Variable Frequency Drive ITI Industrial Training Institute WHIMS Wet High Intensity Magnetic Separation IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural WHO World Health Organisation Resources WSA World Steel Association kg Kilogram YoY Year-on-Year kL Kilo Litres ZAO Zonal Agriculture Officer  Sesa Goa Limited FEEDBACK We welcome feedback on any aspect of our performance or sustainability reporting. You can send in your feedback, by way of general comments in an email to sesa.cc@vedanta.co.in, or by post to the address below, or by contacting: Company Address Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Ghor, 20 EDC Complex, Patto, Panaji, Goa 403 001 India. Tel.: +91-832-2460600 www.sesagoa.com Health, Safety and Environment Mahesh K Patil Associate Vice President +91-832-6713710 mahesh.patil@vedanta.co.in Krishna V Kulkarni Associate General Manager – Environment +91-832-6713712 krishna.kulkarni@vedanta.co.in Corporate Communication R Krishna Gopal Associate Vice President +91-832-6713880 rk.gopal@vedanta.co.in  Sustainability Report 2012 In our continual efforts to limit the use of paper, we have printed this report in limited number only, and on eco-friendly paper. We continue to publish our report online for the convenience of all stakeholders concerned. www.sesagoa.com  Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Ghor, 20 EDC Complex, Patto, Panaji, Goa 403 001. India. Tel.: +91 832 2460 600 www.sesagoa.com 
