ANNUAL REPORT 2011 COP SEEYOU COMPANY ADDRESS: Iraq‐ BAGHDAD‐ AL‐KARRADAH Mobile: 00964‐ 07903‐724‐162 Iraq‐Missan –Halfaya Petroleum Camp Mobile: 00692‐7999‐49341 Jordan – Amman – Shmeisani Email:‐international_seeyou@yahoo.com P: BOX: 10002 Karradah – BAGHDAD OUR COMMITMENT? AND WHY? Our first annual Communication on Progress describe Our philosophy it is for support the work of international organization to development the situation and understanding of Iraqi people and brought them to democracy This is starting from inside ourselves, by joining our company To UNGC from 2009,and through the implementation rules inside our company and commitment with Ten principle of UN, as well as our intent for supplying the financial support and logistic with UNGC local network SeeYou International Company has signed the United Nations Global Compact, and Is promoting the 10 Principles through its commitments And actions and its stakeholder relationships. We are also committed to share this information With our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication SeeYou commitment and support the intent of The UN Global Compact to encourage companies to embrace, support and enact, Joining, to applicable set of core values in the Areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti‐corruption: Human Rights Labor • Principle 1: • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should Association and the effective recognition of the right to support and respect Collective bargaining; the Protection of • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and internationally Compulsory labor; proclaimed human • Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; rights; • Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of • Principle 2: Make Employment and occupation sure that they are not complicit in human Rights abuses. Anti-Corruption Environment • Principle 10: Businesses should work against • Principle 7: Businesses corruption in all its forms, including extortion and should support a recautionary bribery. approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; • Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies HOTELS , Baghdad 2011 Improve the standard of living by providing job opportunities Our goods imported are subject to quality checks by international companies to check the quality control to prevent tampering and corruption Improvement the environment for Keep the healthy by using qualified people condition materials do the purpose Time schedule to prevent time waste Get new Jobs opportunities and commitment with safety rules human rights Making requital to encourage efficiently workers Different Kinds of schools, with USAID to support the Education progress for People keep the rights, as well as through support civilian organization by supplying them necessary of works Provide best environment for people to teaching and learning Supplying the laboratories with all necessary to keep pupils in touch with all facilities Assessment risks, Opportunities, goals, strategies, and policies Our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment we have set up a code of conduct, published on our safety plan and our activity hazard analysis and HSSE Management System depend on our works with international petroleum Companies (PetroChina International and GazProm Russian Company , USAID, KELLOGG BROWN & ROOT, INC. etc…) with different clients And insurance all our works with (DBA) Defense base Act Health and environment and Human rights and Anti corruption and how our company develops and refines goals and metrics specific to its operating context to meet its goals STATEMENT OF SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICY 1‐Based on hazard evaluations (conducted by supervisors), employers shall select, and have each affected employee use, PPE that will protect the employee from hazards. 2‐Employers shall communicate PPE decisions to each affected employee and select PPE that properly fits each affected employee. 3‐Employees shall use all PPE that may be required to maintain their exposure within acceptable limits. 4‐Employees shall be physically able and medically determined qualified to use the personal protective and safety equipment that may be required in their job duties. 5‐Employers shall ensure users of personal protective and safety equipment are trained to know the following: when PPE, and what types of PPE are necessary; how to properly don, doff, adjust, and wear PPE; limitations of the PPE; and proper care, inspection, testing, maintenance, useful life, storage, and disposal of the PPE. a‐Each affected employee shall demonstrate an understanding of this training and the ability to use PPE properly before being allowed to perform work requiring the use of PPE. b‐When the employer has reason to believe that any affected employee who has been trained does not have the understanding and skill required for the use of the PPE, the employer shall assure the employee receives the necessary retraining to acquire the appropriate skills. c‐The employer shall verify that each affected employee has received and understood the required training by a written certification that identifies the name of each employee trained, the date(s) of the training, and the subjects taught. 6‐A copy of the manufacturer's use, inspection, testing, and maintenance instructions shall be maintained with the personal protective and safety equipment. 7‐Personal protective and safety equipment shall be tested, inspected, and maintained in serviceable and sanitary condition as recommended by the manufacturer. 8‐When employees provide their own equipment, the employer is responsible for assuring its adequacy in protecting against the hazard and its state of repair. 9‐Protective footwear, such as rubber boots, protective covers, ice cramp‐ons, and safety‐ toed boots, shall be worn by all persons exposed to hazards to the feet (including, but not limited to, puncture, slipping, electrical, or chemical hazards) HSSE Management System Elements and Expectations 1. Leadership and Accountability Effective health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) management relies on the commitment of all SEE YOU personnel to achieve excellent performance. Leaders within SEE YOU operating groups are expected to champion the HSSE management system. These people are held accountable for personally leading the effort by demonstrating behaviors that are supportive of our HSSE objectives, by clearly defining HSSE roles and responsibilities, by providing needed resources, and by measuring, reviewing and continuously improving our HSSE performance. Expectations Business is conducted throughout all SEE YOU operations in accordance with the SEE YOU HSSE Policy. SEE YOU leaders regularly engage the workforce in clear, two‐way communications, and model positive HSSE behaviors by personal example both on and off the job. Opportunities are sought to reinforce and reward group and individual positive HSSE behaviors. HSSE considerations are taken into account during strategy development, planning and decision‐ making processes. Roles and responsibilities are defined and clearly communicated for management of HSSE issues and leaders stress the need for active involvement of all personnel. Adequate resources are allocated to meet HSSE management system requirements. Specific, measurable and realistic HSSE performance goals and objectives are established. HSSE performance is assessed against those objectives, based on feedback from line management, peers and others in the Business Unit. The HSSE management system is implemented and supported throughout the organization. Sharing of best practices learned inside and outside the company is promoted 2. Regulatory Compliance and Corporate Standards Achieving compliance with regulations, standards, guidelines and internal policies is vital to our business success. Effective processes exist to help identify, understand and communicate throughout the organization all applicable requirements. All facilities are operated and maintained to ensure safe, secure, and environmentally sound performance while adhering to all regulatory requirements. SEE YOU corporate standards are developed and implemented as needed to establish common HSSE practices across all business units. Expectations All applicable regulatory requirements are met or surpassed and operational integrity is maintained through documented operational, maintenance, inspection and integrity management systems. Where local regulatory requirements are absent or inadequate, standards are set that protect people and the environment. Voluntary program participation is supported where it enhances HSSE performance or community relations. Critical Standards and procedures are provided as interpretation for some of the most common risks, implementing lessons learned and translation of key corporate expectations into common practice. In joint ventures and partnerships where SEE YOU is not the operator and has a major ownership interest, we will encourage the implementation of similar HSSE management systems. Systems are in place and responsibilities are assigned to identify, interpret, communicate and operate within applicable regulatory requirements, including permit approval, monitoring and reporting requirements, recordkeeping and other legally binding HSSE requirements. Key operating parameters are established and regularly monitored. The workforce understands their roles and responsibilities to maintain operations within these parameters. Clearly defined start‐up, operating, maintenance and shutdown procedures are in place with designated authorities identified (e.g., safe work permits, hand‐over, equipment and process isolation, etc.) Reliability and availability of protective systems are maintained by appropriate testing and maintenance programs, including management of temporary disarming or deactivation. Energy efficiency and resource conservation opportunities are identified and acted upon throughout the operational life of facilities. HSSE impacts associated with operations, including storage and use of hazardous chemicals, generation of waste, emissions, noise, releases to surface and groundwater, and energy uses are minimized to the extent practicable. Comprehensive waste management programs are in place to ensure that wastes are minimized, re‐ used, recycled or properly disposed of. Abandonment, remediation, reclamation and restoration programs are used as needed to minimize land‐based impacts associated with our businesses. 3. Contractor and Supplier Management A cooperative effort between SEE YOU and its suppliers and contractors promotes safe working and environmentally sound conditions, attitudes and behaviors. SEE YOU uses only competent suppliers and contractors who are properly trained, appropriately equipped, effectively supervised and comply with all applicable industry regulations, standards and policies. We work together with these groups to ensure that our HSSE Expectations are aligned, and we monitor their performance to ensure that our HSSE Expectations are met. Expectations Pre‐qualification and retention criteria are established for work performed by contractors, suppliers and others. Contractors are expected to have approved and audited basic safety programs that meet or exceed industry standards and protocols. SEE YOU company will communicate the HSSE requirements to contractors and suppliers in any solicitation for bid or request for proposal. SEE YOU business units must require that contractors and suppliers follow all regulatory and SEE YOU HSSE requirements as a part of the written contract or purchase order, including documentation. Hazards and risks associated with contractor and procurement activities in our businesses are identified, managed and communicated. All independent contractors coming to work for SEE YOU complete a basic orientation which meets business unit and minimum industry standards. SEE YOU business units will require documentation that the contractor’s employees have the proper qualifications and training, in advance of the work being performed. SEE YOU business units require that all contractors develop HSSE reporting procedures to address incidents, statistics, emissions, releases and inventory data required by SEE YOU. 4. Incident Analysis and Prevention HSSE incidents are reported, investigated and analyzed to prevent recurrence and improve our performance. Our investigations focus on root causes and/or system failures. Corrective actions and preventative measures are utilized to reduce future injuries and losses. The value of the investigation data is enhanced by sharing the results with a wide audience. Expectations All health, safety, technical integrity and environmental incidents are openly reported, investigated, analyzed and documented. Security incidents are managed on a need‐to know basis. Near miss reporting is encouraged and positively recognized as a means of preventing incidents and improving HSSE performance. All incidents undergo root cause analysis so that systems, procedures and behaviors can be corrected to eliminate or minimize the likelihood of recurrence. Incident investigations are documented and corrective actions closed‐out. Information gathered from incident investigations is analyzed to identify broad trends and develop preventive actions. Key lessons learned from investigations are shared across the organization and, when appropriate, with industry contacts. 5. Communications and Stakeholder Awareness Effective internal and external communication performed appropriately and consistently over time promotes a solid understanding of our HSSE expectations and performance. We value the importance of community awareness and actively engage in dialogue with various stakeholders to maintain public confidence in the integrity of our operations our commitment to HSSE excellence. Expectations Open and meaningful communications are established and maintained with personnel, regulatory agencies, public organizations and communities regarding the health, safety and environmental aspects of our business. Assessments of new project developments include a review of HSSE impacts on local communities, and issues raised are communicated and integrated into the business case. Communication systems are in place to ensure we take responsibility for our operations and act in a timely fashion in responding to community concerns and issues. HSSE impacts of any divestment or decommissioning on the local community are reviewed and communicated as necessary. 6. Engineering Controls New facilities and modifications to existing facilities are designed, constructed and commissioned using recognized standards, procedures and management systems to ensure HSSE performance expectations are achievable throughout their operational life. Acquisitions are reviewed for potential HSSE issues and impacts. Expectations Baseline technical, environmental and safety data are collected before the development of any significantly sized new operation, facility, or major modification. Facilities are designed and constructed using technology which balances costs and benefits to manage technical risk and minimize or eliminate emissions, discharges, releases and other environmental impacts. Project management systems and procedures addressing technical integrity and HSSE accountabilities are documented and well understood. Design, procurement and construction standards are formally approved by the designated technical / engineering authority. Operational, maintenance and HSSE expertise are integrated early in the project / design stage and collectively complete and approve a Management of Change review. Experience from previous projects and current operations is applied. Deviations from design standards are identified and managed within the business unit, with the reasons documented and retained. Quality assurance and inspection systems are in place to ensure that facilities meet design and procurement specifications, that construction is in accordance with approved standards, and that equipment replacement or modification maintains operations integrity. Documented pre‐and post‐startup reviews are carried out for all newly installed or modified equipment to confirm that construction is in accordance with design, all required verification testing is complete and acceptable, and all recommendations / deviations are closed and approved by the designated technical authority. Anti-Corruption Bribery and Corruption Our company working with different parties under rules considers Any commission, advantage, gift, gratuity, reward or bribe given, promised or offered by or on behalf of the Company Determine as criminal liability which may be thereby incurred, Subject the Contractor to the cancellation of this and all other contracts General Conditions General Conditions (FIDIC_1987) (Iraqi‐Law) Implementation Our HSSE management system plan reaching for the rights of employees we are now entitled to healthy insurance. and Making requital to encourage efficiently workers, making periodical training for workers about the necessary of safety issue, trying to improvement the behavior of our employees, And awarding certificate letter and finical award for successors As well as, encourage our partners to commitment with regulations and rules through the communication channels Measurement of outcomes Finance IF we talking about audit company annually our company submitted the settlement, to the TAX office GCT, through the accounting office to measurement the finance and all details of projects execution through one year If there is any weakness in the company's accounts, the auditor of the company the legal notice the company's management mistakes It is also the other sides are reviewed on regular basis the company’s accounts, sometimes in a surprise audit expenses It is also within the policy of the company's selection of people dedicated to the work of procurement to prevent the manipulation, bribery and corruption It is also within the company's policy to establish training courses for staff on a regular basis and computational It is also within the company's policy formation of specialized committees on the subject of procurement to audit the prices of materials used in steel work Support of UNGC The first meeting in Iraqi community Selection of steering community
