About This Report Purpose of the Report With this second sustainability report, Mirae Asset Securities reassesses its performance in sustainability management and reaffirms its future role as a leading financial institution. Through annual publication of this report, the Company demonstrates its commitment to transparent disclosure of its activities and performance in sustainability management in the economy, society, and environment. This report strengthens communication with stakeholders, and thus contributes to the development of mutually-beneficially relationships with them and to the sustainable growth of society as whole. Scope and Period of the Report All descriptions of corporate activity in this report follows the Company's fiscal year from April 1 to March 31. Data for general affairs and social responsibility follow the calender year. For exceptional cases of significant qualitative performance, this report includes activities before 2011 or from the first half of 2012. So that readers can compare performance across years, the report includes data from 2009 and 2010, as well. This report primarily utilizes data collected at headquarters and branch offices. Since Mirae Asset Securities is part of the Mirae Asset Financial Group, Group-level activities conducted in cooperation with other subsidiaries and the Group itself, such as those conducted for CSR, are also included in this report. Basic data was also collected from overseas branches and subsidiaries. The Company will expand the scope of information in future reports. Reporting Standards This report is produced in conformity with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and the GRI Financial Service Sector Supplement(FSSS). Indexes of the Company’s performance as related to specific requirements in the Guidelines are presented in the GRI Index in the appendix section of this report. Standards of Verification of content and data was performed by an independent agency as thirdCredibility party assurance of the trustworthiness of disclosed information and the production process. The independent agency granted assurance that the Company fulfills the criteria for level A+ of the GRI Application. This report presents the results of this assessment in the appendix section. Contents 02 About this Report 04 CEO’s Message Sustainability 08 About Mirae Asset Securities 11 Corporate Governance 13 Risk Management 15 Sustainability Management at Mirae Asset Securities 17 Communication with Stakeholders 20 Stakeholder Value Maximization Business & 24 Business Competitiveness of Mirae Asset Securities Service 30 Special Feature 32 CS Management of Mirae Asset Securities Cooperation 40 Transparent Management 43 Great Work Place Programs Social 52 Green Management Responsibility 55 Corporate Social Responsibility 60 Special Feature Appendix 62 Sustainability Performance 68 GRI Index 72 Independent Assurance Statement on Sustainability Management 74 ISO 26000 Index 76 UNGC Principle 77 Glossary 78 Awards 79 Publication of the Sustainability Report of Mirae Asset Securities CEO’s Message Cho, Woong Kee(left) Byun, Jae Sang(right) 4 To our valued stakeholders Allow me to take this opportunity to convey heart-felt gratitude to you for your unwavering interest in Mirae Asset Securities, and for all your encouragement. In 2011, Mirae Asset Securities continued to focus on customer satisfaction as a participant in society that creates economic value and as a team of experts in global wealth management. Despite the lingering economic uncertainties caused by the European sovereign-debt crisis and lower growth rates in emerging markets such as China, the Company led the market in 2011 by introducing market-leading products such as Korea’s first smart phone services for stock trading and the Monthly Income Global Bond Trust. As a result of these new products, the assets under our management grew by 3.2 trillion won compared to the previous year. During the same period, retirement pension assets also reached 2.9 trillion won. Through cooperation with other subsidiaries of the Mirae Asset Financial Group, the Company also took a leading role in developing a sense of warm capitalism, a movement in corporate ethics that emphasizes the role of corporations in social justice and responsibility. As an example, the Company provides scholarships for students in financial difficulty, allowing them to focus on their studies. It also cooperates with social welfare facilities to provide a range of support for children from socially-marginalized groups. Dear stakeholders, The future requires us to seek both qualitative and quantitative growth. To meet this requirement, Mirae Asset Securities actively continues to comply with the globally accepted principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and with global standards such as ISO26000. Beginning with this report, the Company now also discloses the activities and results of its sustainability management each year. The Company continues to seek opportunities for mutually-beneficial growth with regional communities through active investment in eco-friendly businesses and through a variety of financial education programs. On behalf of everyone at Mirae Asset Securities, I look forward to your steadfast support and continuing encouragement as we participate even further in sustainable growth for all of humanity. Thank you. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Jul. 2011 Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd. CEO Cho, Woong Kee Byun, Jae Sang 5 Sustainability 08 About Mirae Asset Securities 11 Corporate Governance 13 Risk Management 15 Sustainability Management at Mirae Asset Securities 17 Communication with Stakeholders 21 Stakeholder Value Maximization Ranked first by the ERISS’s 2012 Securities Industry Sustainability Index in environmental performance category Achieved Korea securities’ highest yields in 2011 and 2012 in DC-type retirement pension Received the Korea IB Award by the Korea Economic Daily and Yonhap Infomax in the IPO category S u s t a i n a b i l i t y About Mirae Asset Securities Company Profile Since it was founded in 1999, Mirae Asset Securities has led the growth of the Korean securities industry. With expertise in emerging markets, the members of the Mirae Asset Securities team pursue constant innovation and customer-focused management, upholding their reputation as a representative securities firm for Korea. Mirae Asset Securities continues to develop into an investment powerhouse in global financial markets as it invests in promising businesses with high growth potential. Company Profile based on Mar. 2012 Corporate name Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd CEO Cho, Woong Kee Byun, Jae Sang Date found December 2, 1999 East Tower, Mirae Asset CENTER1. 67, Suha-dong, Jung-gu, Seoul, Headquarters Korea(100-210) Wealth management, brokerage, investment banking, retirement Major businesses pensions, overseas businesses Fiscal year ended The end of March No. of employees 2,165 (2,104 full-time positions and 61 fixed-term positions) No. of branches * 99 No. of subsidiaries ** 59 * Number of branches includes domestic branches only ** Number of subsidiaries includes all subsidiaries of Mirae Asset Securities Milestones Brief History and Achievements 1999 Mirae Asset Securities founded 2000 Product sales exceeding 1 trillion won the fastest growth in Korean history 2001 Korea’s first wrap accounts sold 2002 Employee Stock Ownership Plan(ESOP) introduced 2003 Bancassurance business launched 2004 HTS service provided through an outside web portal, Daum, for the first time in the industry 2005 Mirae Asset Investment Banking & Wealth Management Hong Kong Office launched 2006 Korea’s first retirement pension seminars held 2007 Mirae Asset Securities(Vietnam) and Beijing office launched 2008 Mirae Asset Securities subsidiaries launched in the UK and US, and Mirae Asset SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Investment Consulting launched in Shanghai 2009 Mirae Included in Dow Jones Sustainability Index(DJSI) Korea 2010 Mirae Asset Securities Brazil opened The industry’s first Android Phone and iPhone trading services launched 2011 Managed pension plan assets reach 1 trillion won 2012 Mirae Asset Partners 7th Private Equities acquired Acushnet Company, owner of leading golf brands Titleist and FootJoy 8 SUSTAINABILIT Y business & ser v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility About Mirae Asset Securities Introduction of Main Subsidiaries of Mirae Asset Financial Group Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Financial Group Global Investments Securities Life Insurance Capital Wealth Financial Equity Life Insurance Management Consulting Investment Corporate Finance Fixed Income Variable Insurance Banking Services Alternative Brokerage Retirement Investments Services Pensions Retirement Pensions Domestic Organizations of Mirae Asset Securities General Meeting of Shareholders Board Of Directors Standing Audit Committee Member CEO CEO Compliance CRO Officer Corporate RM1 Corporate RM2 Investment Fixed Income · Management Korea Research Audit Department Wholesale Unit Retail Unit Unit Unit Banking Unit Derivatives Center Service Unit Center Retirement Pension Derivative Securities Equity Derivatives ManDerivative Securities Client Asset ManImprovement Division Division agement Division Division agement Division Overseas Subsidiaries and Branches CHINA CHINA KOREA Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities Mirae Asset Investment Consulting Beijing Representative Securities (Shanghai) Office UK Mirae Asset Securities (UK) USA Mirae Asset Securities HK (USA) Mirae Asset Securities (HK) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 VIETNAM Mirae Asset Securities (Vietnam) Mirae Asset Securities Hanoi Branch BRAZIL Mirae Asset Securities (Brazil) 9 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y About Mirae Asset Securities Value Structure The Company sums up its business philosophy as follows: “We value our people and embrace the future with an open mind.” It emphasizes four core values in its operaof Mirae Asset tions, thereby contributing to the prosperity of all people. Securities As emerging market experts with a global perspective, we pursue Vision excellence in investment management to help our client achieve their long-term objectives. Business We value our people and embrace the future with an open mind. philosophy 1. Clients first: Our clients' success is our success. We will nurture long-term relationships by helping our clients build wealth for life with proven investment strategies. 2. Objectivity: We assess opportunity impartially. Our independence helps ensure our decisions are aligned with the needs of our clients. Core values 3. Team play: We grow through respect for each individual and a belief in team spirit. We aim to create an ethical meritocracy in which talent is rewarded and opportunity is equally available to all. 4. Citizenship: Profoundly aware of our responsibilities as good corporate citizens, we give back to the communities that nurture us and pledge to continue to support a range of community initiatives. Vision Literally, the vision of the Company represents its utmost goal and the direction to reach it. Through the vision statement of “As emerging market experts with a global perspective, we pursue excellence in investment management to help our client achieve their long-term objectives”, the Company clearly addresses its commitment on the maximization of customer values based on its identity as an emerging market expert. Business Philosophy The Company’s business philosophy is a primary principle and guideline for its overall business activities. The phrase of “We value our people and embrace the future with an open mind” conveys the Company’s focus on the long-term vision, which goes beyond short-sighted benefits and boundaries limited by any values and purposes. In so doing, the Company fully understands the importance of human resources. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Core Values Core values are the Company’s business creeds and standards to inculcate its business philosophy amongst its employees. The four core values of Mirae Asset Securities are closely connected with its stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, partner companies, the government, employees, regional communities, and nextgeneration human resources. 10 SUSTAINABILIT Y business & ser v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility Corporate Governance BOD Composition BOD Composition and Status and Roles The Company ensures the independence and transparency of its board of directors (BOD) and BOD committees in ways that protect and enhance the rights of stakeholders. As the highest decision-making body apart from the general shareholders’ meeting, the BOD makes all major business decisions in a transparent process, as stipulated in related regulations and the Articles of Incorporation, thereby aiming for long-term growth. In compliance with related regulation promulgated in 2010, the Company defines the qualifications and reasons for disqualification of nominees for non-standing director, limitations on tenure of non-standing directors, evaluations and disclosure of performance of non-standing directors, and restriction on performance fees for nonstanding directors. BOD Committees based on Jun. 2012 Name Postion Term Cho, Woong Kee CEO 2yr Byun, Jae Sang CEO 2yr Lee, Gwang Seob Standing Audit Committee Member 2yr An, Seok Gyo Senior Non-Standing Director 1yr Non-Standing Director Sin, Jin Young 1yr Audit Committee Member Kim, Jeong Tak Non-Standing Director 1yr Non-Standing Director Noh, Hee Jin 1yr Chairman of Audit Committee Kim, Woo Pyung Non-Standing Director 2yr Nomination of Non-standing Directors In observance with the amended commercial law of April 15, 2012, the Non-standing Director Recommendation Committee consists of two non-standing directors and a standing director. Following nomination by the committee, the non-standing directors are appointed at the general shareholders’ meeting; candidates are experts in a wide range of fields, including financing, economics, management, legal, accounting, and journalism. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 In addition, Mirae Asset Securities follows guidelines for the appointment of senior outside directors. Under these guidelines, the primary role of a designated nonstanding director is to consider reports on the Company’s business performance as submitted by top management, including the BOD chairman, and to share these reports with other non-standing directors, thereby ensuring their understanding of the current status of management. 11 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Corporate Governance Board Committees Within the BOD, five committees, including the Audit Committee, the Management Committee, the Non-standing Director Recommendation Committee, the Compensation Committee, and the Risk Management Committee, provide their expertise to contribute to the efficiency of BOD decision-making processes. Each committee has its own role in assisting BOD operations. Committee Roles Board of Directors ▶ Preventing Conflicts of Interest Non-standing Director Audit Committee Management ComReward Risk Management Recommendation Abiding by the guidelines of the mittee Committee Committee Committee Articles of Incorporation, directors •Audit Committee •Management •establishes •enacts overall •Non-standing who have business interests with Committee performance guidelines for risk assesses overall Director the company are not allowed to exbusiness and deliberates compensation management Recommendation ercise voting rights. accounting and resolves guidelines for •takes authority and Committee practices, as well managementmanagement and responsibility for nominates as board members’ related issues as assesses and supervision candidates for nonperformance of delegated by the deliberates on the standing director duties. BOD. appropriateness of guidelines •measures levels of fulfillment in the performance compensation system BOD Performance Evaluation and Reward In compliance with related regulation ‘Guideline for invest and finance company compensation system’ as enacted in January 2010, the Compensation Committee is authorized to and responsible for assessment and deliberation on the design, fulfillment, and appropriateness of compensation systems for top management. Every year, the results of these assessments are disclosed through the Korea Financial Investment Association, and limits on board members’ salaries are determined at the general shareholders’ meeting. Standing directors receive basic annual salaries according to rank, and additional incentives are linked to business results. For nonstanding directors, incentives are not linked with business results, thus ensuring that they remain independent from management. Minority Shareholder Rights As members of an employee stock ownership association, the Company’s employSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ees exercise voting rights at general shareholders’ meetings. As of the end of 2011, 13.57% of all employees participated in the association, thus comprising 0.95% of total shares issued. To protect the voting rights of minority shareholders, the Company has implemented a written absentee ballot system. Abiding by related regulations, minority shareholders have a right to convene shareholders’ meetings by submitting the purpose of such meetings to the BOD. 12 SUSTAINABILIT Y business & ser v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility Risk Management Risk Management Mirae Asset Securities is streamlining its management processes, guidelines, organizations, and systems to control all potential risks that may occur during the course System of business operations, thereby achieving stable revenue creation, a sound financial structure, and long-term growth. Risk Management System Risk Management Processes By providing countermeasures for risk factors in expected returns, the Company systematically and proactively assesses a full range of risk factors in diverse business areas and continuously monitors and controls such risks. Risk Management Processes and Systems Process Details Management Systems The Company establishes a process early warning system, product to identify risks proactively, classify 1 Identification them appropriately, and control them risk checks, basket of bonds and corporate paper effectively. To measure identified risks promptly internal professional teams, Measurement and precisely, the Company utilizes an credit review system, 2 and advanced system and hires experts with integrated risk management evaluation doctoral degrees. system Through a special system, the Company identification of acceptable risk Monitoring measures daily risks and monitors limits, monitoring of indicators, 3 and control operational results and profitability in a daily collection of risks in timely manner. subsidiaries daily/monthly/as-needed Occasionally, written results are reported reports, analysis reports, 4 Reporting to the Risk Management Committee. reports to the Financial Supervisory Service evaluation of the The Company conducts regular appropriateness of standards evaluations of risk management used in risk measurement and 5 Revision methods and systems, and resolves the adjustment of acceptable issues arising from these risk limits for risk, assessment of management procedures. task fulfillment for risk factors SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Risk Management Guidelines Mirae Asset Securities observes a comprehensive set of guidelines in risk management. These range from the highest-level of risk management policy to general guidelines by task and risk factor. The Company also provides other guidelines for specific risk factors in corporate due diligence, derivatives, and project financing for real estate. 13 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Risk Management Risk Management Organizations and Roles Organization of risk management systems Board of Directors Risk Management Committee CEO Hong Kong Risk Investment Financial product Trust business Management Accessment sub-committee sub-committee CRO Committee sub-committee Vietnam Risk Management Committee Brazil Risk Management Risk Management replaced with Hong Kong Risk Committee Division Management Committee Risk Management Investment Review Team Team Roles of Risk Management Organizations Organizations Roles • the highest decision-making body in risk management Board of Directors • delegates the authority and responsibility of overall risk management guidelines and supervision to the Risk Management Committee Risk Management • consists of two non-standing directors Committee •s upervises company-wide risk management and enhances internal control systems •s  ub-committees for financial products, trust businesses, and investment appraisals • assist the Company in prompt decision-making for various business opportunities and in-depth risk management through expertise across a range of fields Risk management •f  inancial product sub-committee approves and deliberates on financial products sold to indisub-committees vidual investors • investment appraisal sub-committee approves and deliberates on risks in investment banking services such as M&As • trust business sub-committee approves and deliberates on risks in trust businesses CRO and risk •c  arries out decisions of the committees and sub-committees. management • measures, manages, and controls a range of risks through a company-wide risk management division system ▶ Risk Management Committee Risk Management Committee Activities Meetings Held Through the Risk Management Committee and its relevant sub-committees, Mirae 15 (Unit: Times) Asset Securities proactively manages risk factors. Each year, Risk Management Committee convenes a minimum of nine and a maximum of 15 times. Relevant sub-comSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 10 mittees are also convened for prompt and professional decision-making, thereby pro9 viding preemptive countermeasures for potential risks. Major agenda in the meetings of the committee and sub-committee include the amendment of risk management guidelines, changes in the limits of risk tolerance, the provision of countermeasures for reported risks exceeding the acceptable limits, principal investment projects, and fund sales. Proceedings of the sub-committees are reported to the Risk Management Committee, followed by reports to the BOD. 2009 2010 2011 14 SUSTAINABILIT Y business & ser v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility Sustainability Management at Mirae Asset Securities Framework for Along with its outstanding financial performance, which greatly contributes to the growth of Korea’s securities industry, Mirae Asset Securities fulfills its responsibilities Sustainability in social and environmental areas, thus defining its status as a global corporate citizen Management that contributes to the sustainable growth of all of humanity. Strategies for Sustainability Management Mirae Asset Securities has clearly declared its commitment to sustainability management, and it has promulgated its strategies and action plans for its sustainability management, thus boosting efficiency. The Company has also reorganized the role of its previous environmental, social and governance (ESG) activities in managing performance and enhancing its capabilities for sustainability management. Strategies for Sustainability Management Major issues Business & Service Cooperation Social Responsibility •strengthen corporate value by diversifying •maximize human resource value •enhance countermeasures for Action plans business areas •develop ethical corporate culture environmental risks •maximize customer satisfaction •reinforce corporate citizenship activities •establish strategic brand management •hold employee satisfaction surveys •appoint a manager responsible for systems •conduct internal ombudsman program environmental management •secure new growth engines including •manage ethical and compliance risks •implement environmental impact reduction Detailed retirement pensions efficiently program action plans •strengthen overseas business •develop and invest in new products related •provide customer-focused services to green financing and renewable energy •enhance CSR activities •publish Corporate Citizenship White Book Roadmap for Sustainability Management In the introduction phase, Mirae Asset Securities established a firm base for full-scale sustainability management by promulgating its strategies and by completing the formation of special units for sustainability management. Based on these strategies and units, the Company strives for balanced growth in all ESG areas. The Company pursues sizable growth while seeking opportunities to fulfill its longterm commitments and observe principles as a true leader in the area of sustainability management. Roadmap for Sustainability Management SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Phase 1 ( ~ 2013) Phase 2 (2013 ~ 2015) Phase 3 (2015 ~ ) Introduction Maturity Global take-off •implementation of sustainability •Esystem for management of ESG issues •sustainability management reflecting management system •advanced integrated risk management company-wide business plans •organization of sustainability management system •performance evaluation system •publication of sustainability report •participation in global initiatives and socially •securing of global market competence responsible investment 15 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Sustainability Management at Mirae Asset Securities Plans for Implementation of Sustainability Management Mirea Asset Securities continues to optimize its sustainability management strategies through detailed action plans for specific management tasks. In addition to invigorated IR and Customer Relationship Management(CRM) activities for investors and customers, the Company continually enhances its communication with other stakeholders. Through participation in global initiatives such as Dow Jones Sustainability Index(DJSI) and UN Global Compact(UNGC), it also expands into sustainability management areas based on its leadership in securities businesses. Major Performance for Sustainability Management Coping with Outside Evaluations Today, the scope of criteria to evaluate a company’s performance has expanded to include both financial results and non-financial performance. Thus, Mirae Asset Securities built the system to prevent risk and monitors its corporate actions. In particular, the Company gathers general data on external institutions conducting evaluations, as well as their specific criteria and requirements. It also monitors levels of fulfillment of key criteria set by external evaluating institutions. Major Initiatives for Sustainability Management Mirae Asset Securities fully observes the ten principles in human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption of UNGC. As part of the UNGC Korea Network, the company also participates in policy and academic exchanges with other organizations. Furthermore, it actively cooperates in the Carbon Disclosure CDP to cope with environmental issues such as climate changes. Sustainability Management Performance Inclusion in DJSI Korea For three consecutive years since 2009, Mirae Asset Securities has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Korea. The index is used in the assessment of the economic, social and environmental performance of corporations around the world. Ranked Third in a Sustainability Evaluation SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 In the sustainability index for Korean securities companies published in May 2012 by the Economic Research Institute for a Sustainable Society(ERISS), Mirae Asset Securities ranked third for the third consecutive year. Scores for the Company’s environmental and social performance have risen constantly for the past three years. The Company’s environmental performance reached the top in 2012. 16 SUSTAINABILIT Y business & ser v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility Communication with Stakeholders The Stakeholders Definition of Stakeholders of Mirae Asset To improve its understanding of stakeholder interests and expectations, and to reflect those interests in its corporate value, the Company categorizes stakeholders into Securities seven groups. While preparing this report, it conducted in-depth interviews with each of these stakeholder groups, collecting their suggestions and reflecting them in this report as much as possible. For the future, it will continue to listen more actively to the opinions of stakeholders through a variety of communication channels. Categories Definitions Shareholders and Investors Communication channels Through their trust in the Company, shareholders provide economic capital to create added corporate value Cu of sto Cu ies s er ua l co me sto IR conferences, domestic and an rtn mut rp or rs a me mp pa ate re overseas non-deal road shows, Co ss ugh va sou rs er ine thro rtn general shareholders’ meetings, anlue rc us Th as es f nual reports, operation reviews, other Pa re b ed s a for m ed Vil ey p se the or th disclosures nie are nge niz lag ar rv y u e pa ga ir e, tici ice se en m hips xch a or the cu pat s th han co s e in ars to sto e eC c er ion m its m th ro om em rtn lat se y vis s e Pa e re s, r ca r p ug ll c re h t pa ent os all pan rte ny e c m ua en se he te nta A ’s wh nc , Co adq re e rs tio cco nfe hem h ns un ,a t Co by t nd Regula r repo rams, chang e prog ms, ra Mirae Asset nized rt by sup s, conferen eas ex rship prog condu er viso ces org Overs r y bo dome stic sc hola l expe rience Securities cted b y supe dies, sur ve aations cultura r visor ys global The Go y bodie Gener The g s vernm the ers of overn Future re lead tential to ent ment re futu o industr ensure tions a ave a high p y and s fair c genera h rs suppo ompe Future onomy and stakeholde s, rts bu ti siness tion in the n ec jor vey Korea become ma Co m llecti n sur als, activit ma anage on of o cti prais nal ies isfa p r in o m o ffic ent pinion e sat nnel a s, inte net The ea sem s, a loye ers o in a r in tra n p y re com Comp d reg inars sset Em ular p al sem pan sha mu any ion a al b t the reg ation a Com w ho team c , s niti p es romo ran che edu dicals ber y as a cer of so tes io em n s per t m ompa SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ns a n for cial an ware c a nifi f the C sus d e nes s ig o Reg tain n s abl vironm in reg are oals ion eg ees g row ental onal i loy e the al C ees p th con Em realiz om loy m uni and E mp ties 17 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Communication with Stakeholders Materiality Test Mirae Asset Securities conducted a materiality test and selected major issues to be addressed in this report, thereby demonstrating its responsibility in issues of interest to stakeholders. The materiality test included the GRI Guidelines, media analysis, the Company’s own key performance indicators(KPI), and stakeholder interviews. The Company selected major issues according to their effects on the Company’s business activities and the level of stakeholder interest. Testing Process • Abiding by external guidelines, including GRI Guidelines, ISO 26000, and the DJSI Questionnaire, the Company measured Assessing Major the relevance of the external materiality test for outside External Issues stakeholders • The Company reviewed 532 news articles from 38 domestic and overseas media outlets • The Company collected the opinions of other stakeholders Assessing Major • The Company analyzed the kpi of each division Internal Issues • The Company performed additional materiality tests on other internal stakeholders • Issue matrix was formed by mapping major internal and exIssue Mapping ternal issues Selection of Major • The Company selected major issues representing both higher Issues to Report and lower levels of stakeholder interests and their effects on business operations • The selected issues were applied to create the main structure Application of of this report SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Issues in The Report • In addition of major issues deserving a higher level of attention, the Company also selected other issues of less interest as targets for intensive management 18 SUSTAINABILIT Y business & ser v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility Communication with Stakeholders Results of the Materiality Test Based on the results of the materiality test, this report not only includes major issues of higher importance, but also covers other issues less interest. Abiding by its investment philosophy, which focuses on principles, it continues to address minor issues, as well. The Company selected six major issues and seven minor issues for intensive management, thereby giving equivalent weight to both categories. Brand value improvement Social Concern Economic performance Risk management guidelines Anti-corruption and ethical management Performance-based compensation Social contribution Sustainability management system Mutually-beneficial relationship L abor-management relationship with partner companies improvement External communication E mployee welfare and benefits  orporate C Job creation Communication with employees governance Human rights protection and diversity promotion Development and investment in Green finance Eco-friendly management systems Management of Energy-savings for greenhouse gas environmentally friendly emissions workplaces Business Impact Major Issues to Report Pages in Indicators Details report Brand value improvement brand strategies, management of brands and major services, awards, etc. 29-31 Economic performance value distributed by stakeholder, key financial performance indicators, etc. 21 Risk management guidelines risk management guidelines and processes, etc. 13,14 Major Issues Anti-corruption and ethical compliance and ethical management systems, ethics education, ethical management 40-42 management programs, etc. Performance-based compensation performance evaluation and compensation, etc. 46 Sustainability management systems sustainability management strategies and plans, participation in initiatives, etc. 15,16 External communication communication channels, closer relationship with stakeholders, etc. 17 Job creation nurturing the future generations, job matching programs for graduates, etc. 37,43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Corporate governance appointment of directors, the BOD activities, roles and activities of committees, etc. 11-12 Intensive ManageGreen financial product development participation in global initiatives for green growth, sustainable product and services 52-54 ment and investment development, etc. Required Eco-friendly management system climate change response, internal environmentally friendly management system, KPIs, etc. 52 Issues Energy-savings for environmentally company-wide green campaigns, greenhouse gas reduction activities, etc. 52 friendly working places Management of greenhouse gas collection of greenhouse gas emission volume, relevant data management, etc. 54 emission 19 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Stakeholder Value Maximization IR Activities Maximization of Stakeholder Value As a pivotal player in the Korean securities industry with years of experience and competitiveness, Mirae Asset Securities enhances its corporate value with wellbalanced investment portfolio strategies. It makes effort to maximize the returns of shareholders and investors abiding by its investment principles. ▶ Ownership Structure based on Mar. 2012 Investment Principles Total number of shares issued: 41,892,229 shares 1. Mirae Asset identifies the sustainable competitiveness of companies. 2. Mirae Asset invests with a long term perspective. 60.6% 39.4% 3. Mirae Asset assesses investment risks with expected return. 39.8% 20.8% 37.0% 4. Mirae Asset values a team-based approach in decision-making. Domestic Overseas Mirae Asset Mirae Asset firmly adheres to these core investment principles. institutional investors Capital investors 1.5% Mirae Asset Life Insurance 0.9% Key Strengths of Mirae Asset Securities ESOP Distinctive Sound financial competitiveness performance Leading management and corporate Outstanding governance growth Sound capital adequacy and Sold liquidity ▶ Credit Ratings In April 2008, Mirae Asset SecuriDistinctive • lead absolute return-type product markets through unrivaled product design ties earned AAfrom Korea Ratings, competitiveness • invest in future growth businesses including retirement pensions and overseas upgrading from A+ in April 2007. businesses As of the end of fiscal year 2011, Mirae Asset Securities maintained Sound financial • maintain optimized and stable revenue structure performance • keep balance between the portions of wealth management and brokerage which AAdue to its stable profitability and are currently higher and lower compared to competitors, respectively sound financial structure. AAOutstanding • foster long-term and indirect investment through installment funds growth • provide effective alternative investment sources by developing various financial SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 products including monthly payment government bond investment trust and real A+ estate funds A Sound capital • maintain strong capital adequacy, higher than 448 % of net capital ratio adequacy and • keep the weight of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment assets Sold liquidity at less than 58 % of total assets Leading management • Park, Hyeon Joo, a chairman of Mirae Asset Financial Group, provide supervision and the two CEOs maximize the synergy through cooperation and corporate • guarantee the independence of the BOD and sophisticated BOD members 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 governance 20 SUSTAINABILIT Y business & ser v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility Stakeholder Value Maximization Stakeholder Value Key Financial Performance Distribution An innovator of business models, Mirae Asset Securities has steadily grown as a leader in wealth management – a pioneer of mutual funds in Korea. The Company maximizes its shareholder value through well-balanced portfolio strategies utilizing a wide array of investment tools. Since 2011, the Company has adopted K-IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) in its financial reporting and has clearly disclosed financial statements including financial results from all of its subsidiaries. Returns on Shareholder Value based on Mar. 2012 Classification Unit 2009 2010 2011 Common stock net income billions of won 168 165 111 Total dividends billions of won 31 31 31 Cash dividends per share won 750 750 750 Cash payout ratio % 18.4 21.7 19.9 Net income per share won 4,087 3,933 2,704 Value Distributed by Stakeholder Mirae Asset Securities shares profits generated from its business operations fairly with inside and outside stakeholders, fulfilling its economic responsibility in doing so. In 2011, the Company recorded 2,243 billion won in operating revenue and distributed that amount to its stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, employees, partner companies, regional communities, and the government through various methods. It will continue to share its value with these diverse stakeholders, thereby contributing to their sustainable growth. Economic Value Distribution (Unit: billions of won) Operating revenues 2,243.1 Operating expenses 2,120.4 Employees 243.2 Regional communities/NGOs 3.7 Building owners 25.9 Mass media 16.4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Other operating expenses 7.9 Depreciation cost 16.6 Operating income 122.7 Government 40.0 Shareholders 20.6 Net income 103.7 Internal reserves 83.1 21 Business & Service 24 Business Competitiveness of Mirae Asset Securities 30 Special Feature 32 CS Management of Mirae Asset Securities Direction As a leader in the Korean securities industry, Mirae Asset is creating a brand for the global market through a business portfolio that is ahead of its time and a focus on customer-oriented management. Achievement • named the best brand for consumers in 2012 • won a special award in the mobile trading category at the Asia HTS Awards in 2011 • received a first-place ranking two consecutive years from the Financial Supervisory Service for complaint prevention and resolution in 2010, 2011 Goals & Commitment • development of new growth engines focusing on retirement pensions and overseas operations • expansion of products and services for the sustainability sector B u s i n e ss & S e r v i c e Business Competitiveness of Mirae Asset Securities Major Businesses Wealth management Brokerage Mirae Asset Securities plays an esAs one of its primary services, Mirae sential role in the development of Asset's brokerage aims to increase Korean capital markets through longits customers’ asset growth. The term and indirect investment tools, Company is also expanding its online including installment funds. It also services to provide convenient serprovides customers with effective vice to its customers in all areas. It investment opportunities through a has appointed a special team to provariety of financial products, includvide clients with systematic tools for ing offshore funds and stock wraps, equity investments, thereby making global bonds, and real estate funds. its brokerage services more active. Major Performance Major Performance •WM Center1 and a WM Gangnam •M-Stock opened as a leading Mobile Financial Center opened for VIP Trading System(MTS) service customers •Team launched for VIP consultations on equity investments Business Direction Mirae Asset Securities has become a representative securities company in domestic capital markets through its innovative business models. From a long-term perand Goal spective, it has also selected and nurtured growth engines for continued sustainable growth. Business goal Maximizing shareholder value by maximizing shareholder profits Retirement pensions VIP Overseas businesses • create a premium • Expansion of safe • enhance emerging brand utilizing assets and strategic market businesses New growth DC-model portfolio products • reinforce brokerage engines wraps • Stronger PB and wealth • strengthen services through management infrastructure and WM Centers services, and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 quality fee-based IB businesses Major Wealth Interest Investment Brokerage businesses management Income banking 24 SUSTAINABILITY busin e ss & s e r v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility Business Competitiveness of Mirae Asset Securities Investment banking Retirement pension Overseas businesses In addition to its traditional investAs it aims to become a comprehenMirae Asset Securities has six ment banking businesses, Mirae sive pension asset management overseas subsidiaries and one repAsset Securities invests in promiscompany, the Company is focusing resentitive office in Hong Kong, ing domestic and overseas compaon retirement pension markets, inBrazil, Vietnam, US, UK, and China. nies with high growth potential and cluding model portfolio wraps which The overseas subsidiaries provide stability. These investments utilize a require the expertise of wealth manresearch, brokerage, wealth manvariety of tools, including the SPACs, agement professionals and high-end agement, investment advisory, and PEFs, mezzanine funds, and project consultation services of experts on investment banking services to the financing funds. retirement plans. world-wide investors. Major Performance Major Performance Major Performance •Received the Korea Economic •Ranked top position among •Mirae Asset Securities (Brazil) Daily's Korea IB Award in the IPO securities companies in yields launched in 2010 category from retirement pension Major Business Retirement Pension Reserve (Unit: trillions of won) IB Revenue (Unit: billions of won) Performance 1.7 12 1.1 6 5.4 0.5 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Total AUM Brokerage Revenue (Unit: billions of won) (Unit: billions of won) 49.8 42.6 45.4 36.7 42.4 36.5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 25 B u s i n e ss & S e r v i c e Business Competitiveness of Mirae Asset Securities Development of The Company develops products and services that fulfill the needs of both customers and communities alike, thereby raising its status as a leading sustainable company in Sustainable Products every economic, social, and environmental respect. In respect to the environment, and Services the Company provides green products that respond to climate change, one of the most important issues in the world today. In addition, it is developing special products to address current social issues, such as the growth of Korea’s aging population. As it keeps ahead of customer demands, the Company is developing products that fulfill their expectations and that keep pace with external changes. Environmentally Friendly Products In line with rising global awareness of climate change, Mirae Asset Securities actively participates in “Low Carbon, Green Growth” initiatives by introducing a range of environmentally friendly financial products and services. Financial Assistance for Green Businesses The Company provides a range of products that invest in undervalued smalland medium-sized green businesses developing renewable and clean energy technoloGreen index funds gies for greenhouse gas reduction and carbon neutrality. Investment in Green Growth Index Funds The Company identifies and develops investment products for businesses with green-index funds listed on the Korea Stock Exchange and engaged in renewable energy and energy savings. Development of Socially-responsible Products To fulfill its corporate social responsibility and customer needs, Mirae Asset Securities develops products that emphasize social responsibility and corporate governance. Corporate Governance The Company understands the importance of corporate governance as a part of socially-responsible investment. Accordingly, it develops products that actively participate in the exercise of ownership rights in order to improve undervalued factors in the businesses in which it invests, thereby increasing their corporate value. Products for Retirement Plans To cope with the rising aged population, the Company is focusing on the development of special products for retirement plans, and, thus, it aims to become a comprehensive pension asset management company. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Employees taking an educational program for retirement pension Nurturing Future Generations Beyond the expectation of higher yields from fund investment, the Company also offers children a variety of education materials and activities to help them understand finance, particularly installment investment methods. 26 SUSTAINABILITY busin e ss & s e r v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility Business Competitiveness of Mirae Asset Securities Strengthening To address the rapid changes in the financial environment, Mirae Asset Securities is strengthening its relationships with domestic and overseas business partners. The of Domestic and Company has signed several strategic MOUs with its partners to enhance its global Overseas Partnerships competitiveness and its value to customers and investors. Global Partnership to Upgrade Global IB Services On March 2, 2011, Mirae Asset Securities signed a strategic alliance and distribution contract with Winton Capital Management, a global independent asset management company to bolster its global IB competitiveness and global network. Through this contract, the Company offers customers the Winton Futures Fund, which has been named best hedge fund of the last ten years by Hedge Fund Review for two years in a row. In so doing, it is also upgrading its industry-leading hedge fund management infrastructure, database, and follow-up services. Signing the strategic alliance contract with Winton Capital Management Partnership to Share Growth with Other Domestic Corporations On June 30, 2011, Mirae Asset Securities signed a business partnership with the Korea Medium Industries Association to create mutually-beneficial positions in education, community sharing, program development, and financial services, while also fostering the growth of medium-sized businesses. The business agreement will gradually extend into more strategic business areas, including corporate finance, wealth management for VIP customers, and retirement pensions. Likewise, the Company is developing mutually-beneficial relationships with these corporations through additional special programs, thus acknowledging corporations’ significant roles in the Cooperation with the Korea Medium nation’s economic development. Industries Association Stakeholder Interview (Juhn, Jeremy manager of Allianz Global Investors) I think that Mirae Asset Securities is the wealth management industry’s role model, demonstrating great leadership in sustainability management as it offers a variety of seminars on investment, charity and cultural events, state-of-the-art online customer SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 support, and education for future generations. Particularly, through its development and sales of SRI funds and other supports for eco-friendly businesses, Mirae Asset Securities makes greatly positive effects on the industry-wide sustainable future. Mirae Asset Securities and Allianz Global Investors have jointly developed products in sustainability areas. I suggest that both companies should promptly and timely response to the social needs in order to keep the close relationship between them, as well as contributing the well-beings of customers and communities, and creating values for their other stakeholders including corporate clients. To cope with rising competitions in the markets, the Company should expand the scope of its services for existing and potential customers further. 27 B u s i n e ss & S e r v i c e Business Competitiveness of Mirae Asset Securities Synergy Creation Through the synergy created with other subsidiaries of the Group, Mirae Asset Securities expands its global presence and develops products. Based on the hand-on expewithin the Group riences and knowledge collected by the asset management affiliates, the Company makes forays into the global markets smoothly. For the development of products, the Company openly communicates with the asset management affiliates and other related financial institutions to maximize the synergy effects with them. Infrastructure Secured for Overseas Expansion Group-wide overseas expansion strategies emphasize that “Asset management comes first, securities services come later.” With this guiding principle, the Group’s asset management affiliates first establish a presence in overseas markets, developing reliable brand images prior to the full entrance of Mirae Asset Securities. This unique strategy enables the Group to minimize risk factors and maximize success rates in overseas expansion by allowing the Company to make forays into such regions smoothly based on the business data and networks collected by the asset management affiliates. Following on its rapid, successful entrance into the Brazilian The founding ceremony of Mirae Asset market since 2010, the Company seeks additional opportunities to fulfill the expectaSecurities (Brazil) tions of stakeholders as a proven expert in emerging markets. Global Network through Overseas Subsidiaries Mirae Asset Securities Headquarters USA Vietnam Brazil UK China HK • research • stock broker• wealth man• research • research • research Employees of Mirae Asset Securities (HK, Vietnam) visiting Korea • Brokerage age agement • Brokerage • investment • Brokerage • corporate • bond broker• home broker• corporate advisory • IB visits age age visits • IPOs • IPOs • stock and • M&As • wealth manbond brokeragement age • IB Joint Development of Financial Products In the designing and introduction phases of its products, Mirae Asset Securities holds a number of meetings with asset management companies. To offer customers the proper investment tools and techniques, the Company and the asset management SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 companies jointly select financial products by monitoring macroeconomic tendencies as well as trends and changes in financial markets. The Company maintains close cooperation with its asset management companies through constant customer service, including post-sales services for financial products, asset management reports, and performance management of financial products in the international financial climate. 28 SUSTAINABILITY busin e ss & s e r v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility Business Competitiveness of Mirae Asset Securities Brand Value In order to enhance customer value by offering premium services, Mirae Asset Securities participates in Group-wide brand standardization strategies, while simultaneManagement ously implementing specialized development strategies amid changing capital market conditions in Korea and abroad. Branding Strategies Branding strategy is one of the important drivers in achieving this vision. As a pioneer ▶ A Slogan of Mirae Asset Securities in Korean capital markets, Mirae Asset Securities has established leading brands in various wealth management fields with an innovative mindset and unparalleled professionalism. Furthermore, to enhance its brand image based on existing brand equity, the ComThe Company has changed its pany focuses on three key areas, including retirement, VIP wealth management, and slogan from “Wealth Management social contribution. Among these, the Company concentrates on developing leadingExperts” to “Global Wealth edge products to meet the rising demand for retiree wealth management services, Management Experts , thus communicating its long-term goal thus becoming a forerunner in this market. of becoming a global investment powerhouse. Brand positioning strategies Become a forerunner in Convey VIP Promote CSR retirement plans brand images activities • emphasize the monthly•link special products •expand scholarship and payment feature, a brand and services for VIP CSR activities, including keyword customers to the Mirae the Mirae Asset 1% • emphasize stable-type Asset Oblige Club Hope-Sharing Movement products The Company measures its brand identity through regular brand surveys. In the results of various outside brand surveys, Mirae Asset Securities recorded high scores for all criteria, especially market leadership, investment insight, global talent, and expertise in asset management. The Company continues to upgrade its brand positioning by offering its unique asset management services for VIP customers, including Mirae Asset Oblige Club and Mirae Asset Family Office. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 29 B u s i n e ss & S e r v i c e Speci al Feature Major Brands of Mirae Asset Securities • Mirae Asset Oblige Club Mirae Asset Oblige Club is a premium asset management brand for VIP customers featuring comprehensive wealth management services and retirement plans. Through this brand, the Company also endeavors to keep its promises with customers through exclusive financial services for VIP customers. Unlike other asset management services that focus on service quality, the Mirae Asset Oblige Club concentrates on maintaining the highest reputation in its services based on the Company’s undisputed leadership in asset management. Services of Mirae Asset Oblige Club While most financial companies focus on maintaining the wealth and honor of their customers, Wealth Management Mirae Asset offers comprehensive, premium wealth management services above and beyond these values and tailored to the needs of each customer, including investment consultation, investment data, follow-up consultations, and wealth-transfer services. The Company’s advisory service thus focuses on creating consistent, lasting partnerships with Advisory Services customers to help them reach their long-term financial goals. To do so, it provides them with professional advice from experts in real estate, taxation, and legal affairs. Mirae Asset Securities offers its customers opportunities for leisure and culture that meet their Culture high expectations, including educational programs for their children and other services for their families. Through its lifestyle care services, the Company provides a variety of services to upgrade the Life Style Care lifestyles of its customers. The services include health cares, birthday celebration, and travels. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Mirae Asset Securities offers family office services for CEO clients and their families. These serFamily Office vices not only assist clients in their personal asset management, but also offer management consultation to assist them in business. 30 SUSTAINABILITY busin e ss & s e r v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility • Mirae Asset Family Office Family Office services originated in the U.S. as private wealth management advisory firms that served ultra-high net-worth investors in the 19th century. Today, the concept is to offer prestige wealth management services for ultra-affluent families. The Family Office services of Mirae Asset Securities provides VVIP customers with exclusive management services for affluent individual assets or their businesses through three unique management strategies: PB services with special The Company offers multi-faceted PB services with teams specialized in various fields teams Management system with The Company manages Family Office services with systematic, thorough planning for a wide range of annual thorough planning regular services, including individual asset management, cultural events, and corporate management Comprehensive financial It offers corporate CEOs comprehensive consultations on business management services for corporate CEOs Introduction of Family Office Services Family Office Services Private Service Corporate Service Business Business Investment Advisory Concierge Welfare Consulting Management • market and • total financial • family concierge • corporate • corporate asset • retirement economic plans • community management management pension and forecasts • inheritance and services strategies • corporate plans • investment family business • custody services • M&As and IPOs real estate • investment strategies succession • future generation • capital increases management advisory • portfolio • legal advice services and funding • tax and • Education and management • taxes • charitable giving • HR consultation accounting training • private equity • real estate • retirement services • cultural services funds pensions • corporate legal • affiliated services • overseas services investment • labor management • Service Organizations The services are organized into sales channels, operating units, and advisory bodies. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Branches and WM Centers Understands real needs of each customers through close relationship with them. Oversees all family office services, including information collection for customer needs through branches and WM Service centers centers; requires advisory bodies to consult on advisory, research, investment banking, and management services. Analyze detailed reports from centers on customer needs; provide integrated management solutions and Advisory bodies consultation directly to customers. 31 B u s i n e ss & S e r v i c e CS Management of Mirae Asset Securities Customer Mirae Asset Securities recognizes the importance of customers in its success. Accordingly, it conducts integrated, efficient CS management systems and activities. Satisfaction The Company reflects its communication with customers in its business activities. Management System Furthermore, it enhances its customer value by providing a customer information protection system. CS Management System As it meets rising competition in products and services, the Company is aware of the importance of how the customer experiences its products as a distinctive point apart from rivals, and it strives to keep its promise to meet customer expectations. It makes every effort to manage the quality of its products and services to earn the respect of customers. CS Management System ▶Ethical Management for Customers Provide consistent, Reflect customer In-depth design of integrated experience feedback customer experience Because the employees of Mirae • reflect the results of Basic • mystery shopping • instruct branch clerks on CS Asset Securities fully understand CS Etiquette, a mandatory programs assessment results the significant role of customers in employee education • customer satisfaction • provide a platform the Company’s success, they think program, in daily operation scores reflected in for sharing customer and act from the customer's point of •continue CS activities performance evaluation consultation skills view. Abiding by legal requirements through the CS and through reasonable methods, management system employees place the highest prior• embed CS programs at ity on creating profit for customers. headquarters • conduct events to inculcate CS concepts in corporate culture Keeping promises with customers by providing differentiated experiences The Results of the Mystery Shopping Program ▶Results of the mystery shopping Mirae Asset Securities was recognized as an outstanding security company for its participation program to identify mis-selling in the mystery shopping program organized by the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) in August (Unit: Points) 2011. The mystery-shopper method was utilized by outside researchers or FSS employees behaving as regular customers at branches to assess levels of fulfillment by branch employees. The FSS 91.67 held the program to promote healthy fund sales processes and to protect investor rights. 91.45 91.50 Criteria Details 90.90 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Understanding investor Analysis and explanation of investor information and investment style / Distribuinformation and investtion and introduction of documents confirming assessment results / Selection ment style(30 points) of proper funds / The introduction of unsuitable products Usage of investment manuals / Introduction of investment goals, assets, and Obligations in product strategies / Explanation of investment risks and fees for investors and funds / descriptions(60 points) Confirmation of investors’ opinions on fund resales, understanding of products / Follow-up services / Distribution of investment manuals Evaluations of branch Qualification of sales personnel / Signs at branch windows / Usage of data / 2011 2011 2011 2011 environments(10 points) Management of promotional materials 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 32 SUSTAINABILITY busin e ss & s e r v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility CS Management of Mirae Asset Securities Protection of Customer Information ▶Securities systems by information Promoting Awareness of Information Protection channel Corporations today face rising concern over the leaking of personal information. Users Customer anxiety over information leakage may be a factor in customer complaints. Therefore, all employees at Mirae Asset Securities are required to complete a seKeyboard security curity education course. The Company also employs stable security systems for all Vaccine, firewall Prevention of memory workflows, from customers, Internet, and other services, to intranet, 24 hours a day, hacking 365 days a year, an information protection team provides security services to prevent Anti-reversing potential incidents. One-time password entry (OTP) Information Protection Major Performance Telecommunications(Internet) Since it introduced the industry’s first information protection team in March 2008, the Company has constantly improved its methods for data protection, including the Password locks enactment and amendment of security guidelines, assessments to find system vulnerabilities, and establishment, execution, and deliberation of protection plans. As a result, on November 2010, the Company earned the ISO27001, the international best-practice standard for the Information Security Management System (ISMS). Security Services Through strict screening processes in 11 securities and 133 controlling areas, the Blockage of DDoS ISO27001 accredits companies with best-in-class information protection practices, attacks including prevention and the response to attempts at hacking and incidents of leaking Intrusion prevention of important corporate and personal information. systems (IPS) Intrusion detection systems (IDS) Web application firewall (WAF) Internal system Server access control Database access control Logging and audit trails NMS, SMS, ESM ISO 27001 Certification Mirae Asset Securities Control Tower Stakeholder Interview (Yoon, Sung Keun a customer at Samsung station Branch) My satisfaction with Mirae Assets and Securities is generally high. I am particularly amazed by its development capabilities for SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 domestic and overseas investment products, the variety of investment seminars, and the prompt, courteous treatment delivered by employees. My expectations for the Company are rising due to its employees’ precise, in-depth knowledge of the products in which I am interested. Because of their honesty, as well, they even feel confident recommending the products of competitors if they cannot offer what I am seeking. Mirae has developed a loyal customer base, and this has happened because its employees actively recommend highly optimized products and proactively manage risks in the investment portfolio. Furthermore, I think that the Company has accurately identified key CS tasks through collection of opinions of stakeholders and the third persons as preparing this sustainability report. 33 B u s i n e ss & S e r v i c e CS Management of Mirae Asset Securities Customer Customer-oriented Services Satisfaction Investment Seminars Programs The Company conducts a variety of seminars to provide customers with market information and optimized investment strategies. Branches and asset managers hold presentations to help customers understand recently introduced products and stock market trends, and each branch holds nation-wide wealth management seminars. During its stock market and investment seminars, the Company provides video conferences between VIP customers and analysts at overseas subsidiaries. To build closer relationships with customers, it also offers cultural events, including private concerts, tea ceremony classes, and lectures on health. M-Stock, Smart Financing M-Stock is Mirae Asset Securities' smart phone trading application. It provides the same quick, convenient stock trading services as the home trading system. Its intuitive interface allows users to access a variety of information on one screen. It also offers convenient trading procedures through the use of tabbed browsing, convenient account-to-account transfer services, and balance inquiries for many of Mirae's financial products, such as CMAs. The application boasts other user-friendly features, including an engaging stock list with HTS and voice-search capabilities. In recognition of this software, the Company won a special award in the mobile trading category at the Asia HTS Awards organized by the Asia Economic Daily. Growth of smart phone trading Proportion of smart phone trading volume M-Stock launched volume to total online brokerage volume (Unit: billions of won) (Unit: %) Total mobile trading volume Smartphone trading volume 62 59 21.39 13 4.35 9 A screenshot of home trading system 5 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 ✽mobile contract has begun in Jan. 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Competitive Trading System The home trading system of Mirae Asset Securities allows users to choose trading services from a wide array of applications tailored to their situations and purposes. The applications include Maps Plus for wealth management, F1 for Stock/ELW, F.O.X Plus for Futures/Options, Web Plus for web trading, and Mini Plus for widget trading. The Company is also positioning itself as a leader in global stock trading by extending the scope of target countries to include the USA, HK, and Japan. 34 SUSTAINABILITY busin e ss & s e r v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility CS Management of Mirae Asset Securities Customer Communication Expanded VOC Program ▶Collection and treatment of VOC data To prevent customer complaints, the Company conducts pre-meetings with customers who may have potential complaints, and it makes efforts to identify potential Number Number complaints about its services as early as possible. It also implements an integrated Year of VOCs of VOCs VOC system to gather customer opinions and suggestions through several communicollected resolved cations channels, including its homepage, branches, and customer service centers. It 2010 14,663 14,518 utilizes these data in performance evaluations and feedback to customers. 2011 10,164 10,288 VOC process VOC registration VOC compilation VOC treatment VOC improvement VOC application (Step 1) (Step 2) (Step 3) (Step 4) (Step 5) ▶A Compliment from a Customer • collection • classification • VOC treatment • Study of causes • reflection on • registration • research • issues recorded of VOCs management Yesterday, I visited Boramae branch • analysis in database • Study of quality activities to open an account for ELS. Since it • customer of response to • prevention of was my first transaction with Mirae feedback VOCs VOC factors Asset Securities, I decided to visit • VOCs operating • sharing of VOC an offline branch. committee data I would like to convey my gratitude and satisfaction on the treatment and services I received from the branch clerk. Despite the small Social Networking (Facebook / Blogging / me2day / Twitter) amount of my transaction and the amount of time the transaction The Company provides customers with a range of training and financial information required, from detailed product dethrough several social networking services such as blogs, Facebook and Twitter pagscriptions to recommendation of other products, the clerk maintained es, and a me2day account. his courtesy from beginning to end. I took his courtesy for granted, but Honorary Branch Managers I have never been as nicely in my experiences with other companies. To encourage employees to listen more closely to the voices of customers, the ComI appreciate all the clerk did for me. pany conducts an honorary branch manager program. These honorary branch manA customer at Boramae branch agers are selected VIP customers who have reputations as regional leaders. They work to seek opportunities for the Company to grow, in a capacity similar to branch managers or advisors. Appointed honorary branch managers enjoy comprehensive premium advisory services, which are provided by special advisory teams, in wealth management, real estate, taxation, and legal advice. The children of these managers ▶SNS links also have the opportunity to join special education programs depending on their age. Facebook https://www.facebook.com/ miraeassetmstock Named a Top-rated Company in Complaint Prevention SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Naver blog http://www.mstockblog.com In results from an Financial Supervisory Service(FSS) survey on complaints occurring me2day at domestic financial institutions, the Company was included among the companies http://me2day.net/miraeassetm rated in the first rank. The FSS determines these ratings, ranging from first to fifth, Twitter based on the number of complaints, corporate efforts to resolve the complaints, total http://twitter.com/mstock_ebiz volume of assets, and number of customers. The Company has maintained this top rank for the last two consecutive years. 35 B u s i n e ss & S e r v i c e CS Management of Mirae Asset Securities CS Improvement Activities Nurturing CS Managers ▶National Customer Satisfaction Index(NCSI) More than once a year, the Company holds group education programs for CS managers at branches. It also reviews the CS activities of branches and supports them finanMirae Asset Securities ranked seccially every quarter based on monthly operation reports submitted by CS managers. ond in the financial sector in the At the end of each year, the Company rewards outstanding CS managers who score 2011 National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI), compiled by the Korea higher on their service evaluations. Productivity Center. This achievement was mainly attributed to the Branch Service Evaluation Company’s innovative services, which guarantee high returns based Every quarter, Mirae Asset Securities assesses the level of service at branches by on CMAs. The level of customer gathering results from the monitoring of standards for treatment of customers and satisfaction moderately improved in 2011 compared to the previous year. CS surveys at all branches. The Company rewards outstanding branches, but also assists underperforming branches in the improvement of services through a one-onone mentoring system. ▶NCSI Results Post-sales Services Mirae Asset Securities (Unit: points) Highest rated financial services company In December 2008, the Company introduced an industry-leading customer rights protection program that requires feasibility tests and product descriptions for higher 70 71 72 73 levels of customer satisfaction for the first domestically. CS audio Broadcasting The Company’s CS audio broadcasting service shares examples of cases where customer satisfaction has been achieved with workplaces and business meetings. This broadcast is one of several ways that the Company turns its employees into top-caliber personnel armed with distinctive business skills. Under the title Good Morning, 2010 2011 Mirae Asset, four different topics are covered in one 10-minute broadcast each week. Cultural Marketing Mirae Asset Securities encourages customers to participate spontaneously and to experience art and theater. In addition to sponsoring art contests, it exhibits works of art at Mirae Asset Center, which allows the visiting public to enjoy them. In one lounge of the building, visitors are able to enjoy scenic views of nearby landmarks such as Namsan Park, as well as cultural events. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 36 SUSTAINABILITY busin e ss & s e r v i c e c ooperation so c ial responsibility CS Management of Mirae Asset Securities Nurturing Future Generations Next-generation CEO Courses In 2010, the Company launched a series of next-generation CEO courses, the first such program among securities companies. The courses are designed to help university students develop their talents and management skills as potential future CEOs. The courses include four-week internships, where participants gain real field experience, and visits to overseas subsidiaries. The courses cover a variety of topics including CEO leadership, personality, economics and finance, and global values. Next-generation CEO courses Overseas training for future leaders Topics Details conversations with the CEO, simulations on management strategies, Leadership development leadership styles, analysis, network management Personality humanities, arts Economic and financial understanding the financial industry, corporate finances and cash-flow knowledge analysis Global values Visits to overseas subsidiaries, global cultural experience Economics Education for Children The Company jointly conducts an economics education program for children with Mirae Asset Global Investment, thereby acknowledging children as the nation’s future. The Company seeks the latest methods in educating young learners, with exciting presentations that combine fun activities with learning. The program covers basic economic topics, with lessons in household finances and consumption, corporations and production, three units on basic economics, and savings and investment. Since 2010, the Company has also held educational tours of libraries and schools around the nation. In March 2011, it began conducting educational programs for children that also involved the parents. Stakeholder Interview (Kim, Kyung Lim economics major, Yonsei University) As a student of Mirae Asset Securities' scholarship program, I have participated in the Company's CSR activities along with SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 employees. In addition to CSR activities, Mirae Asset Securities conducts a variety of programs for university students, such as investment contests and internship programs. These programs, which are held every year, have earned public recognition. The Company should receive more feedback from participants in every program and should reflect that feedback the next time courses are offered. Other programs, such as LG Global Challengers and JobKorea's Global Frontiers are also held every year and have expanded over time, making them the most desirable programs for students. Such programs have significantly helped these companies promote themselves. Mirae Asset Securities also needs to develop long-lasting, representative programs to attract students. 37 Cooperation 40 Transparent Management 43 Great Work Place Programs Direction By considering its employees to be its most important assets and the source of its competitiveness, Mirae Asset Securities inculcates ethics and transparency into its corporate culture, and provides a variety of welfare programs to assist them in maintaining higher competence and stable lives. Achievement • received an award for outstanding compliance from the Korea Exchange in 2012 • expanded employee welfare benefits for educational assistance and family events and celebrations Goals & Commitment • cultivation of ethical awareness among employees through education • extension of communication channels with employees c o o p e r a t i o n Transparent Management Implementing an For Mirae Asset Securities, the compliance system is not merely a passive device for control, and its regulations do not merely include standards and processes. Rather, ethics management it is an active system that helps employees put the Company's four core values into system practice in daily operations. Institutionalized Ethics Management Ethics management and compliance Ethics management has become a key factor in a company's success, and financial institutions such as securities companies therefore focus on compliance as a starting point for ethics management. To address the rising demand for compliance, including observance of regulations and internal controls, Mirae Asset Securities transformed its internal control unit from a team to a division in July 2008. A compliance officer was appointed under the CEO in February 2009 to ensure that officer's independence. Furthermore, the Company has established an internal control system through consultations with outside professional firms and through its own development. Compliance system Implementation of internal Deliberation on compliance in control systems daily operations •Effective internal control Investor rights •Inspection, surveys, and systems protection previews Company and Cooperation and support with employee rights Compliance and ethics supervisory bodies protection education •Fulfillment of requirements of •Inculcation of compliance in supervisory bodies corporate culture Organization of Compliance management Compliance Officer Board of Directors As the highest ranking supervisor for ethics compliance, the compliance officer es▶Phased Compliance Activities tablishes the goals and objectives of ethics CEO Audit Committee management. The compliance officer also Phase Details provides strategic and effective direction to 1st Phase achieve those goals and objectives. Produce and disComplience Officer tribute compliance • once per year Compliance Department guide books by department The Compliance Department assists the Compliance Legal Support Department Team compliance officer by conducting ethics 2nd Phase management programs and by establishing SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Divisional educa• as needed plans for ethics education. tion Headquarter Compliance Unit Legal Compliance • group education Compliance Managers Sales Office Manager System sessions held Compliance managers (CMs) assigned to deCompliance Unit 3rd Phase once per year Working Level partments have been designated as ethical Group and periodic • Intensive education programs held Team management officers to monitor the compliperiodically, as ance of employees and to hold education Sales Office needed sessions in ethics. 40 SUSTAINABILITY business & ser v i c e c o o p e r ati o n so c ial responsibility Transparent Management Inculcating Ethics In October 2000, Mirae Asset Securities promulgated the code of ethics earlier than its competitors, followed by the codes of conduct enacted for higher standards in throughout the ethics management. It continues to make efforts to enhance its ethics management Management and ethics awareness of its employees further. Nurturing Employee Awareness of Ethics ▶ Internal Compliance Management Ethics Management Pledge System By April of each year, Mirae Asset Securities requires all employees to sign a pledge Management System Date to practice ethics management, to observe related laws, and to help embed ethics Operation Risk Jan. 2009 management practices in the corporate culture. All new recruits are also asked to Management System agree to the compliance pledge. Anti-money Laundering Feb. 2009 System Internal Accounting Compliance Observation Sep. 2006 Management System Each morning, all employees have a monthly compliance popup on their computer New Sales Process Mar. 2009 monitors. They may review this list to remind themselves of how to implement comIntegrated Voice of pliance in their daily operations. Customer Management Nov. 2009 System Fair-trade Compliance Program Compliance Plaza Jan. 2012 Due to rising concern over unfair trading practices, which may lead to key risk factors, the Company employs an autonomous system for employees to monitor fairness in their own trading. The Company has delegated a compliance officer to oversee the company-wide fair-trade practices. It also distributes manuals on self-monitoring at each workplace, and periodically updates these manuals through Company intranet, providing employees with the most current developments in fair-trade practices. Compliance popup window Ethics Education The Company annually holds online education sessions for employees on ethics and the prevention of money-laundering. It also conducts compliance education programs tailored to each division, thereby promoting employee awareness of ethics at worksites, and it provides tools for self-monitoring. Each year since 2008, all employees of Mirae Asset Securities have been required to complete online education sessions in ethics management, compliance, and prevention of money-laundering, thereby emphasizing the importance of ethics in daily operations. A screenshot of Compliance Plaza Fair-trade checklist SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 41 c o o p e r a t i o n Transparent Management Ethics Management in Partner Companies Integrity Pledge Each new contract with a partner company includes an integrity clause or requires a separate integrity pledge. When entering into any contract with a partner company, Mirae Asset Securities requires members of both parties to agree to a pledge of integrity, either as a clause within the contract or as a separate document. By doing so, it prevents both companies from using their positions to offer or accept any money, valuables, entertainment, or extraordinary gifts. Bribery In its internal control guidelines, the Company prohibits all officers and employees from giving or accepting any payment other than the contracted amount in transactions with partner companies or their employees, whether in the form of money, valuable goods, entertainment, or other extraordinary gifts. Letter to Partner Companies The Company sends letters to partner companies that sign more than two contracts within a year to encourage them to abide by their ethics obligations. Thus, the Company clearly states to its partner companies that continued trading depends greatly on their fulfillment of the principles of ethics management. Government Relations Meeting Tax Obligations Along with value creation from business operations, Mirae Asset Securities meets all national and local tax obligations. It also fulfills its legal obligations in fair-trade practices, prevention of mis-selling, and transparent disclosure of management performance. Compliance Awards Date Awards and Recognition Organizer Recognized as an outstanding company in fund sales as a Financial Supervisory Aug. 2010 result of its mystery shopper program Service Received a Prime Minister’s Citation for excellence in the Korea Financial IntelNov. 2010 prevention of money-laundering ligence Unit Financial Supervisory Apr. 2011 Won first place in complaint prevention and resolution SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Service Receiving the award for outstanding compliance Recognized as an outstanding company in fund sales as a Financial Supervisory Oct. 2011 result of its mystery shopper program Service Jan. 2012 Received an award for outstanding compliance Korea Exchange Financial Supervisory Apr. 2012 Won first place in complaint prevention and resolution Service 42 SUSTAINABILITY business & ser v i c e c o o p e r ati o n so c ial responsibility Great Work Place Programs Recruiting Talented The Right People for Mirae Asset Securities Individuals The Company's business philosophy states, “We value our people and embrace the future with an open mind”. Through a systematic HR management system, Mirae Asset Securities ensures transparency in the recruitment, development, evaluation, and compensation of employees, who are the most important assets and source of competitiveness. Customer-focused Individuals Mirae Asset Securities recruits people who consider the customers to be their top priority, and who develop their expertise to achieve the greatest profit for their customers and themselves. Creative, Intelligent Individuals It recruits people who possess the wisdom to innovate, and who approach problems from multiple points of view, and who apply the results of their thinking in the workplace. Ethical Individuals It recruits people who remain uncompromising in their integrity and soundness of mind, and who are reliable to customers as well as the Company. Risk-aware Individuals It recruits people who make decisions based on insight and flexible thinking, and who adapt quickly to change in their environment in order to control risks actively and precisely. Linking Talent Discovers and Internship Program Open Investment Competitions In 2012, the Company expanded the channels for its open investment competitions to include smart phones. Through M-Stock, a smart phone stock trading application, the competition targeted domestic and overseas university students. The open competition provided the Company with opportunities to identify talented personnel, and it provided winning students with the opportunity to join the Company’s internship program following interviews. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Essay Competition Outstanding students receiving awards from the Company’s various open competitions are offered the opportunity join the Company’s internship programs. Five winners of the Company’s essay competition, on the topic of asset allocation strategies, will be selected to enroll in the 2012 summer financial internship program, where they will gain first-hand experience working alongside professionals in their desired Summer internship program fields. 43 c o o p e r a t i o n Great Work Place Programs Efforts on Creating Nurturing Professionals Great Work Place HR Development Through its HR development system, Mirae Asset Securities helps its employees develop as professionals in the global wealth-management industry, and thus creates additional customer value. For example, the Asset Management Academy is tailored to the level of participants, thereby enabling the Company to develop its most talented employees in several aspects of professional growth, including knowledge, personal values, and emotion. The Company regards knowledge, in particular, as an essential asset that ensures its growth as a global player equipped with expertise in financial markets, products, and customers. Personal values are also important assets, as they enable talented personnel to share the CEO’s management philosophy, corporate culture, and core values. Emotion is a significant asset that enables employees to release their creative energies and expand their intellectual capacities. Wealth Management Professionals Creating Customer Value Knowldge Attitude Value Expanding Knowledge Enhancing Emotional Internalizing Value Assets Assets Assets Expertise in markets, prodPositive energy from trust, Stakes in corporate ucts, and customers enthusiasm, challenge, and culture, core values, and devotion the CEO’s management philosophy ▶Traning Expense Summery Others (Unit: millions of won) Major Education Courses Overseas training Outsourced training Internal training Training fee per person Position-specific Job Skill Leadership Training General Education 360 Training Courses Courses Courses Courses 241 106 186 • Introductory Courses • Work Smart, an • Early Morning • Corporate Culture 746 238 69 for New and ExperiIntensive Program Lecture Program 856 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 286 enced Recruits for New Recruits • Courses for Team • Book Meeting Program 3,543 • Newly Promoted • Asset Management and Branch Manag• Self-directed Learning 3,316 2,951 Employees Academy ers Program • Newly Appointed • WM Master Course • An Internal Pool of Executives • AM Plus Special Lecturers Lectures • Management Courses for Executives •O  utsourced Educa2.22 1.85 1.92 tion Programs • Certificates and Licenses 2009 2010 2011 44 SUSTAINABILITY business & ser v i c e c o o p e r ati o n so c ial responsibility Great Work Place Programs Position-specific Training Courses Introductory Courses for New and Experienced Recruits Mirae Asset Securities holds introductory courses for both new and experienced recruits. With two weeks of camp training and three months of on-the-job training at branches, courses for new recruits focus on their understanding of the Company’s history and vision, corporate culture and core values. The goal of these courses is to develop positive energy through trust, enthusiasm, and challenge. For more experienced recruits, the Company also conducts courses on core values, competencies, and culture, along with a self-development program that develops the asset of personal value through team activities. Newly Promoted Employees Mirae Asset Securities provides education programs for all newly promoted employees. Among these is Nomad, a forum similar to the TED conferences. Launched in 2012 as a professional development program for middle managers, Nomad presents a series of conversations with leaders from a range of fields in its subsidiaries. Newly Appointed Executives Mirae Asset Securities holds special education sessions for all newly appointed executives. In 2012, the sessions were organized by Mirae Asset Securities in cooperaTraing for newly promoted employees tion with the Graduate School of Business at Seoul National University and focused on helping subsidiaries develop business philosophies and strategies. It also fostered high-caliber leaders possessing multiple human assets, including knowledge, personal values, and emotion. Job Skill Courses Work Smart, an Intensive Program for New Recruits For one year following completion of introductory courses and on-the-job training, the Company provides new recruits with Work Smart courses, which enable participants to develop knowledge of market conditions and to learn about basic attitudes toward office work, teamwork, and communication. The Company also provides participants with courses on global economics, helping to transform them into experts on this new-growth field. Asset Management Academy All employees participate in a phased education program on asset management that helps them become global professionals in the field. Lectures are presented mainly by experts chosen within the company. In addition to high-quality, advanced financial information, the program covers other fields, including culture and humanities, thereby nurturing well-rounded, talented leaders for the future. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 FRESH BASIC JUNIOR SENIOR Asset Management Academy •Introductory course for •Basic financial •Advanced financial •Connection with univerordinary employees knowledge of products, knowledge of markets, sities in finance, culture, •Basic financial knowlmarkets, and customers products, and taxation and humanities edge of products, marthrough case studies for wealth management kets, and customers professionals 45 c o o p e r a t i o n Great Work Place Programs WM Master Course The Company has launched a special course to provide exclusive, professional wealth management services to high-net-worth individuals, a market sector whose asset volume accounts for 60% of Korea’s total customer assets. These services include three modules: investment methods, approaches to advising, and investment culture. A small number of elite wealth managers are selected for this six-month, 180-hour intensive program. Through case studies and group-based operations, the course enables participants to improve their consultation skills in the field. Following completion of the course, all participants receive further, quarterly education sessions. As they continue through these courses, they become top-tier professional wealth managers and consultants. AM Plus Special Lectures To augment the AM Academy, Mirae Asset Securities conducts a series of intensive training sessions in VIP marketing called AM Plus, held periodically and covering topics that reflect the needs of participants. There have been 578 participants and 13 sessions since the first session was held in May 2011. Leadership Training Courses Early Morning Lectures Each month, the top managers of the Company gather for a breakfast lecture to discuss a topic that contributes to their assets in knowledge, emotions, and personal values. Related books are distributed prior to each lecture to encourage participation by top management. The lectures thus promote a culture of learning and provide participants with a platform for communication. Courses for Team and Branch Managers Early Morning Lectures Mirae Asset Securities holds leadership programs to improve the organizational capabilities of team and branch managers. In preparation for these courses, the Company analyzes management patterns and designs sessions according to type of manager. The programs focus on effective and open-minded communications with other employees. General Education Courses Corporate Culture Program The corporate culture program trains employees to seek growth opportunities for the Company in compliance the CEO’s point of view. The program is held once per year Leadership Program and allows employees to exchange ideas and experiences. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 46 SUSTAINABILITY business & ser v i c e c o o p e r ati o n so c ial responsibility Great Work Place Programs Book Meeting Program The Company conducts an online reading program through which employees can discuss and recommend books and exchange ideas for business development with colleagues and Company executives, including the vice chairman. Thus, employees develop an understanding of corporate culture, management strategies, and direction. Self-directed Learning Program The self-directed learning program is a unique overseas training opportunity that alReading Program lows participants to select topics and locations. The main objective is to help participants develop their abilities according to their own styles and at their own pace. The program also provides participants with the opportunity to develop more competitive global attitudes, and ultimately to take pride in the Company. The program is offered to 15 employees each year. An Internal Pool of Lecturers With expertise in a variety of fields, internal lecturers convey the Company’s vision and strategies to employees. As mentors, they assist employees in strengthening their professional skills and lead the Company's efforts at innovation. As members of the Company's education network, they disseminate corporate strategies to each Attending SAS Forum for self-directed learning program business unit, and through their close ties to work sites, they greatly enhance the core competencies of the Company. Management Courses for Executives The Company offers its executives the opportunity to develop their management insight and knowledge through an executive management education program, through which executives attend selected management courses at Korea’s major business schools, with all expenses paid by Mirae Asset Securities. These courses have been completed by 41 executives since 2004. Outsourced Education Programs Mirae Asset Securities also outsources a few of its intensive programs to experts who can greatly enhance capabilities at divisional and branch levels. There are two types of outsourced programs: general training courses, which help employees understand specific duties, and academic education courses, which are outsourced to domestic graduate schools or similar educational institutions. Certificates and Licenses As part of its support for employee self development, the Company provides assistance to employees earning professional certifications, particularly certifications required for specific positions and duties, by paying all expenses for courses and applications. It also provides financial assistance to employees applied to optional SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 certification programs for other duties after they pass admission exams. 47 c o o p e r a t i o n Great Work Place Programs Fair Evaluation and Performance Management Processes Compensation Performance Management System The Company continues to develop and improve its performance-based personnel management system to motivate employees to make the most of their abilities in their duties. Performance management covers a wide range of personnel management areas, including compensation, education, and promotion. Evaluations of employee performance are conducted twice a year and involve three steps: self-assessment, followed by two rounds of assessment by evaluators. The results of evaluations are used in the criteria for short-term compensation through basic salaries and incentives, as well as for long-term compensation such as promotion, transfer, education, and training programs, encouraging them to improve their ▶ Rational Compensation System performance. Mirae Asset Securities conducts Mirae Asset Competency and Mirae Asset Securities Securities annual salary system to determine Performance Evaluation fair compensation based on individVision Deployment ual performance and capabilities. To Job description encourage employees to strive for Mission Job analysis Transference excellence, it rewards them accordStrategies Job competency Higher salaries ing to their performance and shares Core values excess earnings with them as orgaObjectives Promotions Leadership nizational incentives based on the Action plans Promotion plans overall performance of the Company and its management. People Development Program Through its People Development Program(PDP), the Company approaches human resources by developing management objectives through continual communication between teams and individuals, or between the evaluator and the person evaluated, during performance assessments of both the Company and individuals. Every six months, the program proceeds through four phases, including individual goal-setting, periodic mid-term assessments, year-end assessments, and feedback to assessment. This process helps both teams and individuals understand management objectives more fully, and employees develop professionally. PDP Process Evaluation period: six months exchange and individual PDP process mid-term assessment final evaluation individual feedback determination of goals individual determination individual mid-term individual evaluation individual identification of of goals assessment (excluding competency) strengths and weaknesses SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 periodic Partial Evaluation review Employees Periodic communication partial communications revision (Head of division) (assessment of revision (Check of individual of the individual plans) of goals plans) goal Evaluation results approved by division head Division/ Check Check the individual Input of individual evaluation Individual meetings with Evaluators Team based individual fulfillment of the goal and (Performance and capability) employees KPI sharing goal feedback for improvement 48 SUSTAINABILITY business & ser v i c e c o o p e r ati o n so c ial responsibility Great Work Place Programs Employee Supports Support for Employee Welfare Programs Mirae Asset Securities assists its employees in developing stable lives through a variety of support in housing, leisure, and family health, thereby creating a great workplace in which employees can take pride. The Company grants housing loans, assists ▶ Support for occasions under Korean with tuitions and medical expenses, offers vacation condominiums, and provides fitcustom (Unit: millons of won) ness centers. 327 280 280 Welfare system Classification Details Leisure condominium, fitness centers leaves before and after baby birth, paid leave of absence, financial Maternity leaves supports 2009 2010 2011 Housing assistance housing loans, accident relief Medical assistance medical expenses supports, health exams ▶ Educational support for tuition fee (Unit: millons of won) Educational assistance children’s tuitions 306 Korean ceremonies and gifts and personal leave, according to Korean custom occasions Family events and celebrations anniversaries, holidays, school entrance and graduation menstrual leave, maternity and paternity leave, annual paid vacation, 178 Legal welfare four major types of insurance 144 2009 2010 2011 Redress for Grievances In compliance with related regulations and its guidelines of the Labor-Management Council, the Company conducts a program to address employee grievances. As part of efforts to improve the employee efficiency and to create an excellent workplace, the Company takes seriously its responsibility to collect and resolve all problems that employees may encounter at work. Grievance relief officers are appointed for employees and management to improve the work environment and resolve personal labor problems. By establishing and maintaining communication channels, the Company also identifies and addresses labor issues objectively and pragmatically. An interview with a stakeholder (Lee, Dong Hwa Mirae Asset Securities E-biz team) To establish a happier workplace where employees can feel proud, Mirae Asset Securities conducts on-the-job training sesSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 sions, provides a performance-based compensation system, and offers many employee benefits. Although a large number of employees are currently covered by this system of benefits, I think it is necessary to continue narrowing the gap between what the Company thinks and how its employees really feel about the level of benefits. Mirae Asset Securities also needs to focus further on earning customer trust and conducting more CSR activities to turn itself into a leader in sustainability management. Thus, everyone at Mirae Asset Securities put our investment principles into practice in our daily operations, and strive to fulfill our social responsibilities as good corporate citizens. I believe that these activities will continue to have a great effect on the performance of management, as well. 49 Social Responsibility 52 Green Management 55 Corporate Social Responsibility 60 Special Feature Direction As it addresses global climate change, Mirae Asset Securities has become a leader in developing and investing in eco-friendly products. It also continues to focus its interests on society and the environment to support more diverse age groups and communities. Achievement • Established eco-friendly management system • named urban-rural exchange of the year by the Ministry for Food, Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Goals & Commitment • assessment and management of environment-related performance • reactivation of CSR activities related to its major businesses and capabilities s o c i a l r e sp o n s i b i l i t y Green Management Low-carbon, Recent environmental guidelines require the financial sector to move beyond passive responses to regulations and policies and to participate more actively in addressing Green-growth climate change, taking a leadership role. System As the financial industry begins emphasizing environmental initiatives such as the Emission Trading Scheme and green financing, Mirae Asset Securities considers green management to be one of its social obligations. To meet the increasing market demand for such products and services, it has established a green-management system that accomplishes energy-savings and greenhouse-gas reduction, and that offers more environmentally friendly management practices in general. This system will also drive the Company's green financing activities. Green Management System Green Management Energy usage and greenhouse gas Green workplace through resource Active green financing services System emission management system savings systematic management and employee eco-awareness and leadership in revitalizing Direction reduction of greenhouse gases active resource savings green financial markets • management of energy and • appointment of an officer to lead • introduction of SRIs and green funds environment indicators green management ahead of other companies Specific Strategic • active participation in government • resource-saving campaigns at offices • investment in renewable energy and Tasks policies on climate change for paper and water conservation green businesses • continuing participation in carbon • environmental education programs for disclosure project employees Systematic Environmental Performance Management Management of environmental performance has conventionally focused on manufacturing, but it has now extended to the financial sector. Although its own operations has little impact on the environment compared to other types of companies such as manufacturers, Mirae Asset Securities actively conducts a variety of activities to reduce energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions through quantitative performance management, and to minimize environmental impact from its daily operations. The Company is expanding the coverage of its environmental performance management from headquarters to all branches. It is planning to implement a disclosure system for the results of this management. As part it implements a systematic riskcontrol system, It will soon begin proactive monitoring that will further minimize the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 effects of potential environmental risks. 52 SUSTAINABILITY business & ser v i c e c ooperation s o c ial r e s p o nsibility Green Management Energy usage and management of greenhouse gas emissions To participate in government projects to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse ▶ E lectrical Power Consumption by Branch gas emissions, Mirae Asset Securities has published its own plans to save energy. Headquarters (Unit: MwH) Since 2008, the Company has measure and controlled energy usage and greenhouse Branches gas emissions at its headquarters and more than 100 branches. It uses electricity as Customer service centers its main energy source, and since these plans were first implemented, electricity IT centers consumption has shown a downward trend. Although the Company is not required by regulations to do so, it voluntarily controls greenhouse gas emissions and energy 2,930 2,963 consumption to an appropriate level, and it is planning to manage its data on energy 7,365 consumption as required in environmental regulations, thereby also building confi7,617 2,447 dence among its stakeholders. 6,863 Energy-savings and Greenhouse Gas Reduction 1,386 1,264 Mirae Asset Securities controls greenhouse gas emissions to levels specified in 1,858 1,118 304 Scope 2 and 3. For the past three years, greenhouse gas emissions have decreased, 2009 2010 2011 except for an increase that may have occurred due to difficulties in data collection as the Company was moving headquarters in 2011. The Company also conducts a variety of campaigns to encourage employees to reduce their energy consumption, ▶G  reenhouse Gas Emissions including turning off lights after office hours, controlling usage of seasonal electrical Indirect emissions(Scope 2) (Unit: tCO2) Other indirect emissions(Scope 3) equipment such as cooling and heating systems, and minimizing elevator usage. It is also replacing halogen spotlights, exterior signboards, and advertising boards with 6,533 6,353 LED elements, thereby saving additional energy. 4,704 Resource-saving Activities Mirae Asset Securities makes every effort to conserve resources, including the reduction of water usage. The Company uses tap water from public waterworks, but it 1,728 does not use water from recycled sources such as underground water. It also mini1,116 mizes its impact on climate by reducing consumption of paper and disposable prod592 2009 2010 2011 ucts and by increasing the use of recycled paper. Wastewater and Waste Material Management The Company disposes of all wastewater at Seoul’s main sewage treatment plant. It disposes of other waste materials through outsourced companies. To minimize daily waste and its environmental effects, the Company thoroughly separates recyclable waste. Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 As one of global projects in response to climate change, the Carbon Disclosure Project is a voluntary initiative participated by the world’s leading financial and investment institutions. Currently, more than 2,500 corporations around the world disclose data on their carbon emissions in surveys as requested by the project. Mirae Asset Securities has joined the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) as a signatory, demonstrating that it is a responsible member of the financial sector. Each year, it has disclosed information on carbon emissions in order to play a greater role in addressing climate change. 53 s o c i a l r e sp o n s i b i l i t y Green Management Green Financing Abiding by the Green Growth policies of the Korean government, the financial industry participates in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and programs to manand Revitalization of age energy-saving objectives, and it has made concerted effort to create business opGreen Industries portunities in eco-friendly fields. Mirae Asset Securities also observes all regulations and guidelines, and seeks additional opportunities in green business, and conducts activities that contribute to the Green Growth initiative. Financial Products for Green Growth According to results in recent environmental, social, and governance (ESG) surveys, interest in social responsible investment (SRI) funds, which include green-growth industries in their portfolios, has risen sharply in the investment industry. Interest has increased particularly since the 2011 Japan earthquake and the introduction of the Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS) program. In 2009, Mirae Asset Securities introduced the industry’s first financial products that consider carbon emission rights to be underlying assets. The Company has also introduced additional financial products that invest in green businesses and projects. Investment in Eco-friendly Businesses As it participates in the government’s policy on revitalizing eco-friendly businesses, the Company actively invests in green industries both directly and indirectly. Through precise value reviews, the Company assists undervalued green businesses in obtaining capital increases or making initial public offerings. It also directly invests in other businesses that develop green technologies. The Company continues to invest direct or indirect investment in green businesses in response to climate change, thereby helping to invigorate green industries. An Example of Green Industry Investment SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 In April 2012, in cooperation with the Korea District Heating Corporation, the Company raised 14 million won to help a Korean cement manufacturer construct a power plant with a capacity of 40Mw for wastewater withdrawal and treatment. From this plant, the Company expects to gain 291,000 Mwh of electrical power per year. The electrical power is generated from steam, which is collected from cement production exhaust. Completion of the plant is expected by September 2014, thereby greatly reducing energy consumption and improving air quality in the surrounding area. 54 SUSTAINABILITY business & ser v i c e c ooperation s o c ial r e s p o nsibility Corporate Social Responsibility CSR System Mirae Asset Securities has considered social responsibility to be one of its core values since its inception. As part of Mirae Asset Financial Group, the Group conducts Established many CSR activities, thereby continuously return much of the profit generated in its business activities to society, and assisting disadvantage members of the community though voluntary charity. Direction of Social Contribution The Group’s major CSR activities focus on three areas: nurturing future leaders, social welfare and the culture of sharing. The Group has selected these areas based on its major capabilities and business concerns as a financial group and according to its long-term corporate objectives. To this end, the Group conducts the development of its human resources under the motto, “We will be a hope for future generations.” With this guiding principle, the Group continues to nurture top-caliber talent as one of its key CSR activities. Three Key Areas of CSR Nurturing Future Leaders Social welfare Culture of sharing Supporting social welfare proNurturing future generations Cooperating with stakeholders grams for socially-marginalized through scholarship programs in donations and charity activigroups ties Organization of CSR Activities Through organic cooperation between the Group’s CSR Department and CSR teams in each subsidiary, the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation, established at the same time as the Group, plays an essential role in Group-wide CSR activities. The Group’s CSR Department sets the main CSR agenda and identifies new targets for its social contribution programs. According to the business characteristics of each subsidiary, the CSR teams determine their own areas for CSR. In cooperation with the Mirae Asset Investment Education Research Center, the Retirement Pension Research Center, and Mirae Asset Media, these teams also assist in providing financial data for financially-marginalized groups through consultation, investor education, and children's economics education. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Mirae Asset Investment Education Research Center The Group’s Mirae Asset CSR Office Park Hyeon Joo Foundation Retirement Pension Research Center CSR teams in each Mirae Asset subsidiary Education Foundation Mirae Asset Media 55 s o c i a l r e sp o n s i b i l i t y Corporate Social Responsibility Nurturing Future The goal of ‘Nurturing Future Leaders’ is, as its motto states, to foster the hope of the future generations. This motto is representative of CSR activities at Mirae Asset Leaders Financial Group. Mirae Asset Financial Group introduced its Hope emblem in February 2011 to convey its commitment to becoming a source of hope for younger generations by nurturing their dreams. The image depicts a mature tree with the heads of fountain pens as the leaves, symbolizing society's wishes for the academic achievement of the younger generations. The logotypes under the tree also illustrate the commitment of Mirae Asset Financial Group to becoming a strong founda▶ No. of Global Exchange Participants tion for the hope of future generations. The emblem’s three colors(Unit: persons) -orange, green, and yellow green--represent the diversity of society's hopes and dreams. No. of Phase No. of schools students 1st 27 100 Global Exchange Scholarship Program 2nd 33 247 Each academic semester since 2008, Mirae Asset Group has offered college students 3rd 32 150 the opportunity to broaden their academic abilities and increase their understanding 4th 41 300 of cultures around the world through the Global Exchange Student Scholarship Pro5th 51 350 gram. Selected students complete courses as exchange students in developed countries such as the USA and the UK, as well as in emerging nations such as China. The 6th 42 400 program primarily focuses on supporting financially unstable students by providing 7th 28 170 them with six months to a year of tuition, air fare, and living expenses. 8th 40 250 9 36 100 Domestic Scholarship Programs th Total 2067 Since 2000, Mirae Asset Group has provided higher education opportunities for students in financial need through several scholarship programs. Students are selected ▶N  umber of Domestic Scholarship based on recommendations from their universities. Awardees receive a year of tuition Participants (Unit: persons) and become part of the Group's core human resources, thus contributing to the nation’s global competitiveness. As of April 2012, scholarships were awarded to 2,036 Year Participants university students. 2009 520 2010 500 Global Investor Scholarship Program 2011 300 Mirae Asset Group also offers a Global Investor Scholarships to nurture globally tal* Data of recent three years ented investment experts, thereby contributing to the development of Korean financial markets. Participants receive by USD 50,000 per year for tuition and living expenses. During vacations, they also participate in the Group’s other internship programs in order to improve their understanding of the global financial environment through SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 authentic field experience. Between 2006 and 2011, the program's 105 awardees attended world-renowned universities, including Harvard, Stanford, MIT, Oxford, and Columbia. Presentation of certificates for Mirae's Global Exchange Scholarship 56 SUSTAINABILITY business & ser v i c e c ooperation s o c ial r e s p o nsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Social Welfare Through the cooperation with social welfare facilities, Mirae Asset Group conducts a wide range of charity programs for socially-marginalized groups, including underprivileged children and teenagers. The programs include supports for youth groups with disabilities and teachers working in children's centers. Renovating Study Centers The Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation provides assistance to deteriorating regional children's centers for the renovation of study areas, thus encouraging children to use the areas. Each autumn, the foundation renovates these rooms and installs cooling and heating systems. The foundation also plans to conduct teaching workshops at regional children's centers. Supporting School Uniform Expenses Since 2009, the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation has provided school uniforms for children of single-parent, skipped-generation, and lower-income families. With the cooperation of NGOs, the foundation has provided school uniforms. It has also supported 270 children of lower-income families under recommendation from regional childcare centers and welfare centers throughout Korea. ‘Hope Board’ Camp for Teenagers Economic education for instructors at During summer and winter breaks, Mirae Asset Group holds ’Hope Board‘ camps for regional children's centers teenagers who struggle under academic stress, difficulties with peers, or family problems. Through the camp, it provides these youth groups with guidance in planning for the future and developing confidence. Book Café of Hope Since 2003, the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation has conducted the Book Café of Hope to provide books and renovations for local children's centers and study rooms. Through the program, it repairs damaged books, remodels furniture and interiors, and provides PDPs, white boards, and book management programs. In 2011, the number of regional children's centers supported by the program expanded to 20. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Children at the Book Café of Hope 57 s o c i a l r e sp o n s i b i l i t y Corporate Social Responsibility Global Cultural Experience Since 2007, the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation has offered a four-day global cultural experience program in Shanghai to the children of lower-income families and teachers working with them in children's centers. Two sessions were held in 2011, with 207 children participating from 30 regional children's centers. Skipped-generation Family Camp Since 2009, Mirae Asset Group has conducted special camps for children being Participants in the Global Cultural Experience raised by their grandparents--members of skipped-generation families. Each May, on Program Children's Day and Parent Day, a camp is held on the island of Jeju, where these families can enjoy the famous scenery and tourist attractions. In 2011, children and grandparents from 124 skipped-generation families, representing 25 local children's centers, participated in the camps. Support for Underprivileged Children Since 2000, Mirae Asset Group has signed agreements with district offices and social welfare centers to provide financial support for underprivileged children. During vacations since 2009, it has also provided free meals for underfed children. In 2011, nearly 1,300 children participated. The Rehabilitation of Disabled The Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation has assisted in the physcial and mental rehabilitation of the disabled since 2008. The foundation provides support for medical expenses and equipment at selected facilities and welfare centers around Korea, Signing an agreement to provide meals to following completion of a screening process. In 2010, support was granted to 15 underfed children facilities. Stakeholder Interview (Min, Byung Sun, representative for Habitat Korea) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Since 2008, Mirae Asset Group has put sharing and love into practice by participating in Habitat Korea's Houses of Hope project, and have offered scholarship opportunities to many students in need. I think the Group stands apart from others in its professional, knowledge-based CSR activities, which include a variety of high-end financial education programs from the Investment Education Research Center, the Retirement Pension Research Center, and Mirae Asset Media. To become a true leader in CSR, the Group needs to develop and sustain CSR programs aimed at adults, a major target group for financial investment. I think the Group’s CSR activities will be more fruitful if it develops special products for families in an era when society may be losing its sense of family, and when family finance is becoming increasingly unstable. 58 SUSTAINABILITY business & ser v i c e c ooperation s o c ial r e s p o nsibility Corporate Social Responsibility The Culture of To develop a corporate culture that values sharing, the Mirae Asset Volunteer Corp, a social service organization within Mirae Asset Financial Group, conducts volunteer Sharing programs at social welfare facilities, facilities for the disabled, and children's study centers. These volunteer programs cooperate with each other on many of these projects. ‘We Love You’ Program The Group also administers a matching-grant donation program called ‘We Love You,’ through which it doubles amounts collected from employees and the public. Participants may select one of the Group's CSR program to receive their donations. Campaign status is updated on the Company’s homepage. Donations are categorized as recurring, single, or urgent. Recurring and single donations are presented to welfare programs for children, the aged, and the disabled. Urgent donations raised in limited Sharing 1% of employee salaries periods are used to respond to immediate needs. Free Delivery of Coal The Group began a program to deliver free coal in 2008. In 2011, some 200 empl oyees of Mirae Asset Group participated delivery to senior citizens living alone and to low-income families. The program is hold in many places whereby the coal is carried and sent to the people who is in need by the volunteers one by one. Employees participate in the coal delivery program One Company, One Village Sisterhood In a program called One Company, One Village, Mirae Asset Securities has signed community sisterhood agreements with several fishing villages in remote areas along the Korean coast. On the Korean Parents' Day in 2011, the Company held a festival for senior citizens in one of these villages. It also collected five tons of waste and abandoned fishing lines and nets from the shoreline near the village. As a result, the Company was named the urban-rural exchange of the year by the Ministry for Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Korean Parents' Day Sharing National Holidays Each year during national holidays, Mirae Asset Financial Group holds several events for socially-marginalized citizens. For two weeks following the 2011 Lunar New Year, the Group presented traditional Korean rice cake soup--one of the hallmarks of the holiday--at 135 social welfare facilities nationwide, including a soup kitchen in front SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 of Seoul Station. In addition to company employees working with the Mirae Asset Volunteer Corp, students in the Group’s scholarship programs also participated in these events. Sharing national holidays 59 s o c i a l r e sp o n s i b i l i t y Speci al Feature The CSR Activities of Mirae Asset Financial Group ● The Concert of Hope In January 2012, the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation held an event called the Mirae Asset Concert of Hope, inviting 250 children from culturally marginalized groups participating in local children's centers. This concert of classical music was held at the Company’s headquarters. The musicians in the concert donated half of their performance fees to the foundation. The foundation will continue to expand the scope of participants’ experience of classical music through further concerts, through which children may learn about basic concert etiquette and develop an appreciation for music. The Concert of Hope ● Scholarship Students in Overseas Volunteer Projects In January 2012, the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation welcomed 30 students participating in its scholarship program into its first overseas volunteer project, held in Bandung, Indonesia. The students also served as cultural diplomats to Bandung, presenting traditional Korean culture and the contemporary phenomenon known as the Korean wave. They participated in a project to remodel old elementary schools and build houses. This project was the first step in a new program serving socially marginalized people overseas. Further projects are being planned, helping participants Overseas volunteers of scholarship students develop a new understanding of what it means to be a global leader. ● An Essay Competition for Scholarship Students In Autumn 2011, Mirae Asset Group conducted an essay competition for 4,000 students in the Group’s internship programs. Participants wrote on the topic of dreams, challenges, and enthusiasm. A collection of essays SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 entered in the contest was published under the title of The Youth of Korea Talk about the Future. The book presents the true stories of students who have overcome many challenges through wisdom and courage. The winners of the contest joined the Group’s volunteer project in Bandung. A book of stories of scholarship students published 60 Sustainability Report 2012 Appendix 62 Sustainability Performance 68 GRI Index 72 Independent Assurance Statement on Sustainability Management 74 ISO 26000 76 UNGC Principle 77 Glossary 78 Awards 79 Publication of the Sustainability Report of Mirae Asset Securities App e n d i x Sustainability Management Performance Economic Performance (Unit: millions of won) Statements of 2010 2011 Comprehensive Income Operating revenue 1,485,982 2,243,081 Operating expense 1,323,607 2,120,339 K-IFRS (based on Operating profit 162,376 122,743 consolidated financial Non-operating revenue 20,541 17,630 statement) Non-operating expense 4,807 5,645 Gain on equity method 512 9,722 Gain on disposition of stocks on equity method 11,880 (690) Net income before income tax expense 190,501 143,760 Income tax expense 45,540 40,027 Net income 144,961 103,732 Other comprehensive income 9,262 24,859 Total comprehensive income 154,223 128,591 (Unit: millions of won) Statements of 2010 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 139,732 205,033 Financial Position Financial assets at fair value through P/L 6,917,981 8,233,818 K-IFRS (based on Securities available for sale 467,090 753,846 consolidated financial Loans and receivables 4,061,398 4,608,002 statement) Investments in ASJV 17,440 121,803 Real estate investment 552,023 548,771 Tangible fixed assets 17,192 19,209 Intangible assets 34,561 33,708 Other assets 49,295 65,442 Tax assets 1,730 23,570 Deferred income tax assets 10,982 Total assets 12,269,424 14,613,202 Financial liabilites at fair value through P/L 2,381,455 4,646,311 Deposits 1,022,107 867,958 Borrowings 4,530,882 5,137,705 Debentures 426,576 398,743 Tax liabilities 10,190 486 Other financial liabilities and other liabilities 1,990,619 1,535,744 Deferred income tax liabilities 16,066 Total liabilities 10,361,828 12,603,014 Stockholder's equity 209,461 209,461 Other paid in capital 786,737 787,969 Retained earnings 867,001 947,293 Others 32,091 48,505 Non-controlling interests 12,307 16,961 Total stockholder's equity 1,907,596 2,010,188 Total liabilities and stockholder's equity 12,269,424 14,613,202 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Total Assets Total Stockholder's Equity Net Income (Unit: billions of won) (Unit: billions of won) (Unit: billions of won) 12,269 1,772 1,889 1,907 168.2 10,279 142.1 144.9 7,896 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 62 Sustainability Management Performance Economic Performance Agenda of BOD Meetings Participation Convened in 2011 No. Date Classification Details of nonstanding directors results of the 12th Risk Management Committee meeting Report results of the 12th fourth-quarter Management Committee meeting the 13th set of management plans Apr. 11 1 100% 2011 approval of drafts for the 12th report of financial statements and Deliberation annual operations review amendment of internal control standards fulfillment of the 12th internal accounting management guidelines results of assessments of fulfillment for the 12th internal accountReport May. 9 ing management guidelines 2 100% 2011 results of the 12th internal audit Deliberation convening of the 12th general shareholders’ meeting appointment of the CEO ranking of candidates for the position of acting CEO May. 13 3 Deliberation amendment and enactment of internal regulations 100% 2011 appointment of BOD committee members appointment of a senior outside director the 13th report on first-quarter management performance Report results of the 13th first-quarter Management Committee meeting Jul. 13 moving headquarters 4 100% 2011 amendment of internal regulations Deliberation the 13th set of limitations on CP issuance extension of tenure for the compliance officer extension of tenure for the fair-trade compliance manager the 13th report on second-quarter management performance Report results of the 13th second-quarter Management Committee Oct. 14 5 meeting 100% 2011 Deliberation amendment of internal accounting guidelines the 13th report on third-quarter management performance Report results of the 13th third-quarter Management Committee meeting Jan. 19 6 amendment of internal regulations 100% 2012 replacement of members of the Risk Management Committee Deliberation special incentives disposition of treasury stocks Report amendment of guidelines on severance pay for top management Feb. 27 approval of the 14th set of limitations on the issuance of derivative 7 80% 2012 linked securities and submission of application Deliberation appointment of the chairman and members of the Risk Management Committee SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Status of BOD Meetings Fiscal year No. of BOD Participation of nonRemarks meetings standing directors 2009 9 100% four ordinary meetings, five extraordinary meetings 2010 8 97% four ordinary meetings, four extraordinary meetings 2011 7 97% four ordinary meetings, three extraordinary meetings 63 App e n d i x Sustainability Management Performance Environmental Performance Scope of Data Collection Data included in this sustainability report is collected from the following sources: •Headquarters: Mirae Asset Building (moved to Mirae Asset Center1 Building in September (based on Calender Year) 2011), Shinsong Center •Sangam IT Center (moved to Yeouido IT Center in 2011) •Seoul Customer Service Center, Sungnam Customer Service Center •Mirae Asset Securities branches nationwide Primary Energy Usage Energy source Unit Workplace 2009 2010 2011 (based on CY) Headquarters 2,930,157 2,962,645 2,446,795 IT center 1,857,946 1,117,594 Electrical power kWh Customer 1,386,168 1,263,829 303,908 service centers Branches 7,364,911 7,616,685 6,862,997 Headquarters 354 463 449 Heating systems Gcal IT center 159 152 Automotive fuel ℓ Company-wide 263,990 497,910 770,943 (gasoline) (unit : tCO2) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Workplace 2009 2010 2011 (based on CY) Headquarters 1,366 1,381 1,141 IT center 866 521 0 Electrical power Customer service 646 589 142 centers Scope2 Branches 3,434 3,551 3,200 Headquarters 152 234 221 Heating systems IT Center 68 76 0 Scope3 Automotive fuel Company-wide 592 1,116 1,728 Other Environmental Data Unit 2009 2010 2011 (Water usage / Waste) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Waste ℓ 190,283 191,168 134,772 (based on CY) Water usage m 3 16,636 16,025 3,115 64 Sustainability Management Performance Social Performance Employee Demography Unit 2010 2011 2012 Number of officers and employees Persons 2,078 2,203 2,165 Number of full-time employees Persons 1,962 2,114 2,014 Number of fixed-term employees Persons 116 89 61 Percentage of fixed-term employees transi% 63.52% 23.28% 11.59% tioning into full-time Employee resignations Persons 411 229 234 Full-time employee resignations Persons 251 183 191 Fixed-term employee resignations Persons 160 46 43 Number of new recruits Persons 97 148 93 New recruits resigning within two years % 2.17% 6.12% 7.47% Number of male employees Persons 1,121 1,193 1,193 Number of female employees Persons 957 1,010 972 Female new recruits % 53.61% 43.24% 52.69% Female managers % 8.33% 13.12% 15.06% Employee Education The HR Development Center of Mirae Asset Securities strategically nurtures top-caliber personnel so that they may share the Company’s management philosophy, vision, and core (based on CY) values, and thus contribute to higher management performance. Classification Unit 2009 2010 2011 Total offline education Hours 68,128 72,345 43,923 Total participants in offline education Persons 4,035 2,939 2,529 Group education per person Hours 17 25 19 Training cost per person millions of won 1.85 2.20 1.92 Internal education expenses millions of won 3.316.00 3,543.20 2,951.00 External education expenses millions of won 285.60 746.40 856.10 Overseas education expenses millions of won 68.46 241.67 238.20 Other education expenses millions of won 186.10 360.27 106.10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 (Unit: millions of won) Self-management and 2009 2010 2011 professional development No. of participants (persons) 4 6 17 programs held at overseas Total actual expenses 27.29 49.93 116.98 businesses (based on CY) 65 App e n d i x Sustainability Management Performance Social Performance Human Rights Protection Abiding by the International Labour Organization's Convention Concerning Prohibition and Immediate Action toward the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour, and require(based on CY) ments in Korea’s Labor Standards Act, Mirae Asset Securities strictly prohibits any form of child labor or compulsory labor. In compliance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement signed in 2003, Mirae Asset SecuriLabor-management ties holds the Labor-management Council consisting of four members of labor unions and Council the management including the CEO. The Labor-management Council convenes every quarter (based on CY) and on demand. The council meetings cover a wide range of topics, including productivities and distribution of returns, as well as recruitment, deployment, education, grievances, working environment, health, and HR management of employees. Mirae Asset Securities fulfills its responsibility to notify the council in a timely manner on important changes in business. No disputes and damages regarding labor were recorded during the production of this sustainability report. Treatment of Grievances The Grievance Committee collects employee complaints and grievances, including issues in care for parents’ illnesses, weekend spouses, and individual health problems, and it reports (based on CY) them to the Company. The Company reflects them in its HR management. Average Salary by Position 2009 2010 2011 Ordinary employees 0.933 0.989 0.972 Assistant managers 1.047 1.016 1.047 Managers 0.987 1.006 1.021 Deputy general managers 1.118 1.030 1.010 General managers 1.039 1.039 1.072 ✽ In case of ordinary people, only open recruitment position were calculated. ✽✽ Divide average salary of male by average salary of female. (Unit: millions of won) Welfare Expense Budgets 2009 2010 2011 Korean ceremonies and occasions 280.20 280.15 302.7 8 Family events and celebrations 214.60 214.62 197.89 Education 144.00 178.12 306.20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Health exams 449.49 406.04 301.74 Medical care 275.00 275.00 184.17 Insurance for medical support 336.00 336.01 348.72 Other insurance 238.29 200.92 208.17 Total 1,938.58 1,890.86 1,849.67 66 Sustainability Management Performance Social Performance (Unit: mllions of won) ‘We Love You’ Program 2009 2010 2011 (Excludes Matching grant) Recurring donations 138.59 209.98 268.11 (based on CY) One-time donations 165.95 394.54 137.45 Total 304.54 604.52 405.56 (Unit: mllions of won) Donations of Mirae Asset Year 2009 2010 2011 Securities Donations 1,307.38 2,510.90 3,721.69 IR Activities and Date Activities / Locations Organizers Achievements Jan. 24-28 2011 Hong Kong / Singapore NDR Deutsche Bank Taurus Investment & Feb 24-25 2011 Domestic NDR Securities HSBC Securities (USA), Mar. 7-18 2011 U.S./Europe NDR(U.S., U.K., France) CLSA Europe Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Investor May. 19-20 2011 Morgan Stanley Summit(Hong Kong) Annual Deutsche Bank Access Asia May. 23-24 2011 Deutsche Bank Conference 2011(Singapore) Jun. 27-28 2011 UBS Korea Conference 2011(Korea) UBS Securities Jul. 21-27 2011 U.S. NDR Deutsche Bank RBS Annual Korea Access 2011(Hong Aug. 17-19 2011 RBS Kong) Korea Exchange, Morgan Oct. 13-14 2011 2011 KRX EXPO(Korea) Stanley Oct. 19-20 2011 Domestic NDR Kium Securities Nov. 11 2011 Domestic NDR Deutsche Bank Nov. 17-18 2011 Japan NDR CLSA Feb. 20-21 2012 Domestic NDR Shinhan Investment Corp. Feb. 27-Mar. 1 2012 Hong Kong / Singapore NDR Deutsche Bank Apr. 23-27 2012 Europe NDR(U.K., France) Hyundai Securities (Unit: times, accumulated data) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Downloads by computer Operating system Downloads Remarks operating system iOS 430,091 iPhone, iPad, trial investment (based on April 2012) smartphone, tablet device, trial Android 324,473 investment Omnia 30,807 smartphone 67 App e n d i x GRI Index Abiding by the G3.1 Guidelines The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines have been developed in response to the increasing numbers of organizations that publish sustainability reports. While following the G3 guidelines promulgated in 2006, the GRI has witnessed the difficulties that organizations have in measuring indicators of social issues. The GRI has also faced challenges encouraging organizations to disclose information on their efforts to diversify, including gender equality. Thus, the GRI introduced the G3.1 guidelines in March 2011 as a result of years of research by working groups covering comprehensive areas in human rights, local communities, and gender issues. In adherence with G3.1 guidelines, Mirae Asset Securities also publishes sustainability reports to play a leading role in sustainability management. ● Fully reported ◑ Partially reported ◯ Not reported Level of GRI Index Description Page disclosure Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization ● 4-5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ◑ 21 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization ● 8 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 24-25 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures ● 8-9 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters ● 8-9 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues 2.5 ● 9, 25 covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 8-9, 11-12 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) ● 8-9, 17, 25 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ● 2 Byun, Jae Sang 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● appointed as the CEO 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● 16, 25, 30, 42 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided ● 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● 2 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● 2 3.4 Contact point for questions ● 81 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 18-19 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance ● 18-19 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness Principle for explanation of scope) ● 2 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to 3.8 ● 2 period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators 3.9 ● 2 and other information in the report Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of 3.10 ● 2 base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report ● 2 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report ● 68-71 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report ● 2 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or 4.1 ● 11-12 organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ● 11-12 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members ● 11 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body ● 17, 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives ● 12 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided ● 10-12 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, 4.7 ● 11-12 environmental, and social topics Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of 4.8 ● 10 their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, 4.9 ● 12 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance ● 12 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 27-30 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses ● 53, 76 68 GRI Index Description Level of GRI Index Page disclosure Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations ● 53 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 17 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 17 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ◑ 17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including 4.17 through its reporting ● 18-19 Economic Disclosure on Management Approach EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 21, 67 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change ● 52-54 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations ○ Significant financial assistance received from government Did not receive EC4 ● financial assistance EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation ◑ 66 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation ● N/A EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation ○ EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement ● 54, 56-60 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ◑ 55 Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 64 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ◑ 64 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 64 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ● 64 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 53 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives ◑ 54 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ● 53 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ○ EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ○ EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ○ EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ○ EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ○ EN13 Habitats protected or restored ○ EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity ○ EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk ○ EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 53 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 53 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 53 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ○ EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ○ EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ○ EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ○ EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ○ Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of EN24 transported waste shipped internationally ○ Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and EN25 runoff ○ EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation ○ EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category ○ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations ○ Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the EN29 workforce ○ EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ○ Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region ◑ 8, 65 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ◑ 65 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations ● 49 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ◑ 66 69 App e n d i x GRI Index Level of GRI Index Description Page disclosure Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements ● 66 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health LA6 and safety programs ● 63 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region ○ Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious LA8 diseases ● 49 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 66 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category ◑ 65 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings ◑ 49 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ◑ 58 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of LA13 ● 11-12, 76 diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ● 66 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ○ Social: Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening ● 42 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken ● 42 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of HR3 ◑ 41 employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken ● 41 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these HR5 ● 66 rights HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor ● 66 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory HR7 ● 66 labor HR8 Percentage of security employee trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations ◑ 41 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken ○ HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. ○ HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. ● 66 Social: Society Disclosure on Management Approach Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, SO1 ○ and exiting SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ● 41-41 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 41 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● 41 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ● 21, 63 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country ● 21, 63 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes ● N/A SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations ● N/A SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities ● N/A SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. ○ Social: Product responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services PR1 ● N/A categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life PR2 ● N/A cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements ● 30-31 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes 30-31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ● PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 31, 36 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship ◑ 36 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and PR7 ● 42-43 sponsorship by type of outcomes PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ● 42 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services ● 42 Financial Services Sector Supplement Disclosure on Management Approach FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines ● 52 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines ◑ 52 70 GRI Index Level of GRI Index Description Page disclosure Financial Services Sector Supplement Disclosure on Management Approach FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions ● 17, 66 FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines ● 41 FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities ● 17 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector ◑ 24-25, 28 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose ● 26 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose ● 26, 54 FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures ● 13-14 FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues ○ FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening ◑ 54, 64 FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. ● 13-14 FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type ○ FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people ● 76 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. ● 34-36 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. ● 37, 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 71 App e n d i x Independent Assurance Statement on Sustainability Management We have performed to provide independent assurance services over selected aspects of Mirae Asset Securities Company’s 2012 Sustainability Report (the “Report’). The management of Mirae Asset Securities Company is responsible for preparing the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited level of assurance engagement on the information presented in the Report and to provide our conclusion. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 (“International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000”), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), and AA1000AS(“AA1000 Assurance Standard”). The extent for a ‘limited level’ of assurance is less than that of a ‘reasonable’ assurance engagement and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided for the Report. An engagement is limited primarily to inquiries of company personnel and review procedures applied to the data Mirae Asset Securities Company provided. The scope of our work was restricted to performance during January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 only. Information relating to the earlier periods has not been subject to our assurance. Our work included the following activities. Interviews with the personnel responsible for aggregation and reporting of the subject data. An evaluation of the design, existence and operation of the systems and methods used to collect and process the subject data. Reviews on the subject data through inquiries and analytical procedures. Visit to the head office for a limited testing of the subject data aggregation and preparation. Verify the subject data that they were correctly reported from appropriate and reasonably balanced sources. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 72 Independent Assurance Statement on Sustainability Management In conclusion, nothing has come to our attention that cause us to believe that the subject data referred to above are not fairly stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting principles of Mirae Asset Securities Company. Mirae Asset Securities Company applies a reporting practice in accordance with the GRI G3.1 reporting principles to engage stakeholders on material aspects related to sustainability management performance. Mirae Asset Securities Company has applied detailed procedures to identify, collect, compile, and validate the data for 2011. Deloitte Anjin LLC Kang, Dong Ho June 26, 2012 Partner SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 73 App e n d i x ISO 26000 Index ISO 26000 Complying with ISO 26000 In November 2010, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) introduced ISO26000, a guideline and standard, consisting of the seven core subjects of social responsibility : organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. As a voluntary international standard, the ISO26000 is not a management system standard, nor intended or appropriate for certification purposes or regulatory or contractual use. Even though ISO26000 does not contain requirements, Mirae Asset Securities is carrying out stakeholder-oriented management and is expanding the scope of its sustainability management based on the standard. Core subject Issue Related activities Page OrganiInside BOD, Audit, Non-standing Director Recommendation, Management, Risk Management, and zational 12 Compensation Committees operated governance Due diligence Audit Committee, Grievance treatment system 12, 49 Human rights risk situHuman rights protection to cultivate a corporate culture that respects employees 41, 76 ations Avoidance of complicity No supports recorded for corporate and organizations that abuse human rights 42, 76 Resolving grievances Grievance treatment system, Labor-management Council 17, 47 Human rights Discrimination and vulnerSexual harassment prevention activities, Compliance with the Equal Employment 41, 76 able groups Opportunity Law, Employment rate of disabled, Prohibitions of child and forced labors Civil and political rights Online community channels, Labor-management council held quarterly 17, 66 Economic, social and Leisure, Maternity leaves, Housing assistance, Educational assistance, Korean ceremonies and occa49 cultural rights sions, Family events and celebrations, Legal welfare, Medical assistance Fundamental principles Compliance with ILO child labor prohibition agreement, Labor Standards Act, and 66 and rights at work Labor-management Council Employment and employStatus of employees, Human rights protection for employees(Gender equality, Diversity, Child and 66 ment relationships forced labor prohibition, Sexual harassment prevention), Cooperative labor-management relationship Conditions of work and Leisure, Maternity leaves, Housing assistance, Educational assistance, Korean ceremonies and occa49 social protection sions, Family events and celebrations, Legal welfare, Medical assistance Labor practices Social dialogue Internal communication channels, Grievance treatment system 17, 49 Health and safety at work Health and medical assistance(welfare and benefit programs) 49 Human development and AM Academy, Reading program, Self-directed learning Program, Internal pool of lecturers, Manage44-47 training in the workplace ment courses for executives Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emission management, Energy-savings and greenhouse gas Prevention of pollution 53 reduction system, Resource consumption management, Waste water and materials management SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Sustainable resource use Paper-savings, recycled paper use, disposable products consumption reduction 53 The environClimate change mitigation Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emission management, Energy-savings and greenhouse gas ment 53 and adaptation reduction system, Resource consumption management, Waste water and materials management Protection of the environment, biodiversity and Green Growth funds operation, direct and indirect investment in eco-friendly businesses 54 restoration of natural habitats 74 ISO 26000 Index Core subject Issue Related activities Page Ethics management system, Compliance Officer, Compliance Department, Integrity Pledge, Bribery Anti-corruption 40-42 prohibition, Letter to partner companies Responsible political Government relations 42, 54 involvement Fair operating practices Fair competition Fair-trade compliance self-monitoring program 41 Promoting social responsiIntegrity Pledge, Bribery prohibition, Letter to partner companies 41-42 bility in the value chain Respect for property rights Not applicable Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and Not applicable fair contractual practices Protecting consumers' Prevention of mis-selling, Investment seminars, Information protection system 33, 36 health and safety Sustainable consumption Sustainability products and services (Eco-friendly and social responsible products development) 26, 54 Consumer Consumer service, sup32, 35, issues port, and complaint and CS management system, VOC system, Prevention of mis-selling 36 dispute resolution Consumer data protection Customer protection secured by strengthen information securities 33 and privacy Access to essential Not applicable services Investment seminars, Children’s economics education programs, Next-generation CEO courses, SNS Education and awareness 34, 37 links including Naver blog, Twitter, Facebook, and me2day. Social welfare, Local communities supports, Financial education, Scholarship, Cultural and Arts supCommunity involvement 55-60 ports Global Exchange Scholarship Program, Domestic scholarship programs, Global Investor Scholarship Education and culture 56 Program Employment creation and Linking talent discovers with internship programs 43 skills development Community involvement Technology development SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 M-Stock service 24 and developand access ment Distribution of value with stakeholders, Charity works (“One Company, One Village” sisterhood, Sharing Wealth and income 21, national holidays, Free delivery of coal, “We Love You” donation program), Social welfare (Support for creation 57-59 free meals for underfed children, Free meals for underfed children, The rehabilitation of disabled) Health Health exam, Medical assistance, Other employee welfare programs 49 Social investment Green Growth funds operation, direct and indirect investment in eco-friendly businesses 26, 54 75 App e n d i x UNGC Principle Enrollment in the UN Global Compact Mirae Asset Securities has enrolled in the UN Global Compact, an initiative seeking to promote responsible global citizenship. The Company complies with 10 universally accepted principles of the Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. In observance of the principles, Mirae Asset Securities continues to respect human rights and basic labor rights, to invest in and develop the products of eco-friendly businesses to cope with the world-wise environmental impacts, and to conduct programs in and reinvigorate monitoring of misconducts as a part of its corporate culture. Detailed actions and performance related to the 10 principles are reported in the pages presented in a table below: Area Principle Related Activities GRI Page 1. Businesses should support and respect HR1 HR2 HR3 the protection of internationally proclaimed HR4 HR5 HR6 human rights; and Compliance with ILO guidelines and 10 principles of the UN Global Compact HR7 HR8 HR9 Human Rights 41, 66, 72 Operation of ethics management education programs 2. make sure that they are not complicit in HR1 HR2 HR8 human rights abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of HR5 association and the effective recognition of Implementation of Labor-management Council 47 A4 LA5 the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and HR7 66, 72 compulsory labour; Labor Compliance with ILO guidelines and 10 principles of the UN Global Compact 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and HR6 72 HR4 6. the elimination of discrimination in Guidelines of gender equality LA2 LA10 41 respect of employment and occupation. LA13 LA14 Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emission management 7. Businesses should support a precautionEnergy-savings and greenhouse gas reduction management 4.11 53 ary approach to environmental challenges; Resources-savings Waste water and materials management EN5 EN6 EN7 Environment 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater Green management EN10 EN14 EN18 52 environmental responsibility; and Environmental performance management EN26 EN27 EN2 EN5 EN6 9. encourage the development and diffusion SRI funds development EN7 EN10 EN18 54 of environmentally friendly technologies. Development and sales of funds invested in green businesses EN26 EN27 Compliance Officer and Compliance Department Cultivation of ethical awareness among employee through ethics management Compliance checklist 10. Businesses should work against corAnti-corrupEthical management and compliance pledge ruption in all its forms, including extortion SO2 SO3 SO4 40-42, 49 tion Integrity pledge and bribery. Prohibitions of giving or accepting money, valuable goods, entertainment, or other extraordinary gifts Letter to partner companies SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 76 Glossary CMA (Cash Management Account) In direct meaning, it means cash account or comprehensive asset management account. It is a financial product which invests money deposited by customers into CP, CD, or government bonds and returns profits to the customers. CP (Commercial Paper) It is a kind of short-term bill, which is issued by good credit-rated companies for the purpose of raising funds for operation of companies. At maturity, principal and interest should be paid in lump sum. CP (Compliance Program) It is an internal compliance system that enables an organization to voluntarily adhere to regulations and guidelines for the fair trading practices. ELW (Equity Linked Warrant) Similar to ELS, it is linked to stock price. It means the right to sell or purchase underlying assets at agreed-upon price. ESG (Environment, Social, Governance) It is a commonly accepted factor involved in socially responsible investment assessments with three main criteria, including environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Founded in 1997 mainly by the Boston-based non-profit CERES and United Nations Environment Programme(UNEP), it is a network-based organization that produces a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework widely used around the world. NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Index) It is an indicator presenting the level of satisfaction of customers, as well as using to measure the corporate performance. It was originally introduced to boost the competitiveness of corporate, industry, and the nation in terms of quality. IPO (Initial Public Offering) The sale of equity shares or other financial instruments by an organization to the public in order to raise funds for business expansion and investment ISO 14001 Enacted by the International Organization for Standardization's Technical Committee 207, it is a part of the ISO 14000 family, which represents the core set of standards used by organizations for designing and implementing an effective environmental management system. ISO27001 It is a globally accepted Information Security Management System(ISMS) standard published by the International Organization for Standardization(ISO) SRI (Social Responsible Investment) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 It is invested primarily in businesses that fulfill their social responsibilities from the perspectives of human rights, environment, labor, and social development. UNGC (UN Global Compact) It is a worldly accepted initiative seeking to promote responsible global citizenship. It covers 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, as well as encouraging participants’ fulfillment of the UN’s agendas such as Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 77 App e n d i x Awards Awards Award Organizer Date Capital market award in the investment product Korea Herald Business May. 2012 categories Korea Options, Swaps, and Mirae Asset Monthly Income ELS named the best Derivatives Association Mar. 2012 derivative product (KOSDA) Association of Compliance 2011 Compliance Award Mar. 2012 Officers (ACOF) Korea IB Award in the IPO category, Korea Economic Daily Jan. 2012 Ceremony of Korea Herald Business Capital Market Award 2012 Korea's Best Brand Awards Forbes Korea Jan. 2012 The 1st HTS Grand Award Asia Business Daily Nov. 2011 Korea Management National Competitiveness Contribution Award Jul. 2011 Evaluation, Seoul Economy Capital market award in the asset management Korea Herald Business Apr. 2011 categories 2010 Advertising Award in the securities category Seoul Economic Daily Oct. 2010 2010 Asia Capital Investment Award in asset Asia Business Daily Oct. 2010 management category Mirae Asset Account named as a hit product in the first eToday Jul. 2010 half of 2010 Korea e-Business Award in the financial service Korea Economic Daily Jun. 2010 category Mirae Asset Account named won Korea Master Brand Korea Master Brand Apr. 2010 Award Committee Outstanding securities company excellent in IPOs in Korea Exchange Feb. 2010 2009 Brand Awards Award Organizer Date 2012 Korea's Best Brand Awards Forbes Korea Jan. 2012 Korea Brand Management Mirae Asset Oblige Club receives Korea's Most Association, Korea Economic Sep. 2011 Trusted Brand award Daily SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Korea Management Evaluation, National Competitiveness Contribution Award Jul. 2011 Seoul Economy Mirae Asset Oblige Club receives Korea Top Brand Korea Management Evaluation, Jul. 2011 Award Seoul Economy Mirae Asset Accounts receives Korea Master Brand Mirae Asset Oblige Club receives Korea's Hankooki.com, Seoul Economy Jun. 2011 Award Most Trusted Brand award 78 P ublication of the Sustainability Report of Mirae Asset Securities Contact East Tower, Mirae Asset CENTER1. 67, Suha-dong, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea(100-210) TEL 02-3774-1349 FAX 02-3774-6705 E-mail sustainability@miraeasset.com Contributors Organizers Strategy & Planning Division Ku, Won Hwoi Kim, Sung Ha Kim, Myoung Joo Task Force for Sustainability Reports Strategy & Planning Division Kim, Jong Kag Park, Joon Yup Kim, Sung Hyun Bae, Kyung Deuk Risk Management Division Cho, Hong Rae Lee, Woo Yong Compliance Division Shin, Sung Cheol Heo, Nam Kyu HR Division Do, Eun Kyo Office of Corporate Social Responsibility Kang, Sang Sin Product Marketing Division Lee, Ha young Online Business Division Park, Keun Ro Seo, Ho bin Cho, Hyunh Mo Management Support Division Lee, Jong Min IT planning Division Kim, Jeom Soo IT Operation Division Baek, Nam Joon WM Business Division Kim, Dong Hoon Koo, Gil mo Park, Susie Cho, Ki Woon Public Relations Department Jang, Se Jin Produced by Mirae Asset Securities Designed by Eco-Frontier East Tower, Mirae Asset CENTER1. 67, Suha-dong, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea(100-210) http://securities.miraeasset.co.kr
