HL Display Corporate Report 2011 with Sustainability Report Content 3 The year in brief 4 HL Display in two minutes 6 Statement from the CEO 8 HL Display’s strategies and goals 10 HL Display’s offering 14 Product development 16 HL Display’s sales work and markets 21 HL Display’s delivery organisation 23 Sustainability Report – HL Display’s employees 29 Financial reporting – Income statement for the Group – Statement of comprehensive income for the Group – Statement of financial position for the Group 30 Risk and sensitivity analysis 31 Corporate governance of HL Display 35 Board of Directors 36 Senior Executives 37 Five year summary This corporate report has been prepared in Swedish and translated into English. In the event 37 Definitions of any discrepancies between the Swedish and 38 History the translation, the former shall have precedence. The year in brief The year in brief • Net sales amounted to MSEK 1,643 (1,617). • Operating profit amounted to MSEK 63 (64) • Profit before tax was MSEK 24 (29). First quarter • Launch of the screen-based sales tool Ad’Pulse . ™ EuroShop, the world’s largest reta il trade fair, was held at the end of • New production facility in Gliwice, Poland. Febr uary. HL Display launched seve ral major product development proje cts. These include 3eBins™, a new disp lay system for loose goods, and Ad’L ™ ite , a solution providing LED lighting for shelves. HL Display’s new products met with a very positive response Second quarter . sed sales tool for Ad’Pulse , a screen-ba ™ par t of HL Display’s new the shelf and ran ge, wa s lau nched­in several­ technology e confirmed­the markets. Customers hav s with quick and theory that small screen ng are an interesting easy message changi ona l shelf talkers –and alternative to traditi y as the natural they perceive HL Displa supplier. Third quarter HL Display’s new production facility­in Poland was officially opened in October. All production of injection-m oulded items which previously took place in Karlskoga was moved to the new unit and the Swedish factory was complet ely shut down at the end of Septem ber. HL Display signed an agreem ent with a distributor in South Africa. Fourth quarter HL Display decided to shift productio n Key ratios new ly from the factory in Falun to the 2011 2010 1) 2009 2008 established facility in the Polish city Net sales for the Group, MSEK 1,643 1,617 1,360 1,536 is of Gliwice. The production transfer d in 201 2. Operating profit, MSEK 63 64 86 130 expected to be com plete Profit before tax, MSEK 24 29 84 136 with a HL Display signed an agreement Profit after tax, MSEK 18 18 58 96 distributor in Brazil. EBITA margin, % 3.9 4.1 6.4 8.5 Equity/assets ratio, % 53.3 50.6 44.5 57.3 2) Average number of employees 1,158 1,102 836 983 1) Pro forma. 2) Excluding PPE, that was consolidated from 31 December, 2009. 3 HL Display in two minutes HL Display in two minutes HL Display is Europe’s leading merchandising company. With a track record stretching back more than 50 years, HL Display is a natural partner in the creation of attractive and selling in-store environments that strengthen the consumer’s shopping experience. Offering Brandman™ – HL Display’s range for Effective delivery organisation HL Display offers products and concepts brand manufacturers With efficient production and logistics, that help customers create attractive and Brandman™ consists of products and HL Display is able to offer its customers­ effective in-store environments. solutions for product placement on the a high level of service and short lead shelf and campaign placement in other times. The majority of the products that Optishop™ – HL Display’s range for the parts of the store. These help customers HL Display sells are manufactured­in food and non-food retail sectors to optimise brand-building and ensure the Company’s own factories and the Optishop™ consists of products and their products have visibility in the store, ambition­is to have production at world solutions for merchandising and in-store resulting­in increased sales. class level in HL Display’s prioritised­ communication. These help customers production­processes. HL Display has to increase sales and reduce costs by five factories­– Falun and Sundsvall creating­a more efficiently functioning (Sweden), Harlow (UK), Gliwice (Poland) Customers store. ritised and Suzhou (China). Deliveries to HL Display has three prio seg me nts – the food customers­are handled through regional customer -foo d ret ail sec tor s, and logistics centres in selected locations Sales per customer segment and non wh ich around the world. brand manufacturers, sold in produce the products rld’s stores. Most of the wo cha ins and brand leading retail ure rs are cus tom ers of manufact HL Display. Retail food 41% Brand manufacturers 24% Retail non-food 14% Shop-fitters 9% Distributors 5% Other 7% 4 HL Display in two minutes Presence in 48 markets HL Display is an internation al company with operations in 48 marke ts around the world. 36 of these marke ts are ser viced by the Company’s own sales companies, while the other 12 are ser viced by selected distribu tors. HL Display’s five largest ma rkets are the United Kingdom, France, Russia, Sweden and Nor way. HL Display has just over 1,1 00 employees and is owned by the publicly listed private-equity compan y Ratos. HL Display’s operations around the world Own sales companies Distributors Factories Logistic centres Australia/ India Slovenia Brazil China (Suzhou) France (Tours) New Zealand Indonesia South Korea Denmark Poland (Gliwice) Hungary (Györ) Austria Latvia/Lithuania Spain Estonia Sweden (Falun, Sundsvall) Poland (Gliwice) Belgium Malaysia Sweden Greece United Kingdom (Harlow) Russia (Moscow) Bulgaria Netherlands Switzerland Iceland Singapore China (Hong Kong) Norway Taiwan Ireland Sweden (Falkenberg) China (Shanghai) Poland Thailand Israel The United Arab Emirates Dubai Romania The Czech Italy (Dubai) Finland Russia Republic Kazakhstan France Serbia Turkey Malta Germany Singapore Ukraine Portugal Hungary Slovakia United Kingdom South Africa 5 Statement from the CEO A positive year with a spirit of change 2011 was a year of clear recovery in the market. For HL Display, this meant that the Company was able to regain some of the sales volumes lost during the financial crisis. I am pleased to say that, this year, we saw Increased uncertainty means more comes from non-food retail. These business starting to come back after the moderate expectations companies operate in the areas of financial crisis of 2009. Our customers­ In 2011, market uncertainty increased commerce that were hit hardest by the are now showing higher activity than significantly at the end of the year, with recession and it is pleasing to see that before, for example in the food retail problems for several EU countries and this business is coming back. sector where we are seeing increased concerns about the future of the euro. In food retail, which is HL Display’s numbers of store renovations and new If this were to result in poorer market largest customer segment, the number concept introductions. It is my perception growth in Europe, it would obviously of store renovations has shown a marked that we have a good market position at have a negative impact on HL Display, increase compared with the previous present and are gaining market share in as a large proportion of our sales are year. There is also widespread interest many of our markets. conducted­in the European market. in changing and renewing stores using In response to this uncertainty, at the attractive merchandising concepts. These Increased sales volume end of the year we drew up contingency­ trends have clearly affected demand for Sales in local currency increased by 8 plans for each region, consisting of the products and solutions we offer. percent compared with 2010. However, about ten action points. These are ready Sales to the brand manufacturers­ translated into Swedish kronor, sales for use if we find ourselves back in a segment were flat during the year. growth was more modest, 2 percent. This situation­of sharply declining volumes, as However, it is important to note that is because the Swedish krona is stronger in 2009. Our original plans are obviously our business in this segment was not against our major export currencies,­such still in place as the main scenario and we particularly­affected during the recesas the euro and sterling, than it was in the hope that we will not have to use these sion. Brand manufacturers continued previous year. This has had an adverse contingency­ plans. to invest in new display solutions for effect on our restated sales figures. their products.­In fact, our sales to this Despite good volume growth during the Positive underlying profitability trend customer segment are currently higher year, we still have some volume to regain Operating profit (EBITA) for 2011 than before the crisis and represent an before we are back at the levels of 2007 amounted­to SEK 64 million, which is a increasing proportion of our total sales. and 2008. As long as we are below these decline of 3 percent compared with the levels, I cannot be completely satisfied. previous year. Earnings were affected Continuing strong growth in Asia by non-recurring costs associated with If we look at sales growth in our different­ changes­to the production structure we regions, I am satisfied with developmade during the year. Costs of moving ments in most regions. Growth in Asia/ production from Karlskoga and Falun to Pacific amounted to 18 percent, which Gliwice in Poland amounted to approx. was according to plan. The South Europe SEK 40 million. At the same time, earnregion also developed positively, with ings were adversely affected by a strong growth of 11 percent. This is largely due Swedish krona, with currency effects to strong sales growth in France, which is amounting to approx. SEK 31 million. our second largest single market. Looking at the results excluding these The North Europe region experienced­ items, I can conclude that the underlying sales growth of 7 percent after a profitability is good. relatively­weak start to the year, while the Middle East/Africa region grew by 8 Non-food retail shows largest percent. We also achieved sales growth increase in sales of 5 percent in the UK, which is a market Looking at sales trends in a little more that is still affected­by the economic detail, I note that the largest increase downturn. The acquisition of PPE has 6 Statement from the CEO played a key role in this growth. By offering­ in our production structure. The new UN Global Compact and we support the broad and competitive­products and production­unit in the Polish city of UN’s fundamental values and principles services, HL Display’s position­in the UK Gliwice was officially opened in October in the areas of human rights, labour, market has strengthened­considerably. 2011 and all production of injectionenvironment­and anti-corruption. In East Europe sales were more or less moulded items previously manufactured flat in 2011, which is primarily the result in Karlskoga has been moved there. We Increased competitiveness of a market environment that continues are proud of this new modern factory, As I mentioned earlier, 2011 was marked to be difficult. which gives us efficient, cost-effective by large-scale changes throughout the production closer to our major markets. Company. I would like to conclude by Contracts in new markets The plant provides a good working saying a big thank you to my colleagues In 2011, we signed contracts with environ­ment for our employees who work in HL Display. The change process external­distributors in South Africa and there and there is potential for extending we are now going through places high Brazil. These are two completely new its capacity to meet future needs. demands on every part of the Company. markets for us. Both are attractive retail The next stage, scheduled for compleIt is extremely heartening to see the markets in which the modern retail sector tion in 2012, will involve all production outstanding­commitment and exemplary is continuously gaining market share. currently carried out at the Falun factory attitude shown by all our employees.­ Although the contracts will have a limited being moved to Gliwice. The move will This is absolutely critical in order for impact for HL Display initially, they may give us broader production expertise in the change process to be conducted in prove to be interesting markets in the Gliwice, while also reducing costs signifia positive spirit and with a successful longer term. cantly. With this relocation of production, outcome. We also ended the cooperation with we gather all the production methods U.S. company Trion Industries during required to meet the needs of the brand the year. Thus, we can now decide for manufacturers in one single plant. This is ourselves how we want to approach the an essential part of our increased focus American markets. on this customer segment which offers good future potential for HL Display. A better HL Display for customers 2011 was a year of major changes for Keen interest in digital HL Display. In fact, we are currently signage products implementing what are perhaps the I am also pleased to confirm that there most comprehensive changes in the has been keen interest in the products­ Company’s history – changes that affect that are part of our new Ad’Pulse™ digital­ most operations within HL Display. signage solution. These are digital­ During the year, we conducted an displays – with or without a touch funcin-depth review of our work processes tion and WiFi/3G connection – on which in connection with the introduction of a messages, images and film material can new business system. In every part of be tailored by the user. When we develour business, we asked ourselves how oped Ad’Pulse™, an important considwe could become more efficient. We eration was that this would not be an IT I have already mentioned that there identified­easily implemented improveproduct, but a sales tool for retailers. is uncertainty about how the market will ments as well as more far-reaching This means that we can offer an item develop in 2012. However, I can say changes. This has resulted in changed of software that can be easily handled that, with the measures implemented in and more efficient business processes by staff in the store. This is also attracrecent years and the changes we initiated­ in most areas of our business. The introtive to HL Display as it introduces a new in 2011, we have clearly increased the duction of these improvements is already business­model which, in addition to competitiveness of our business. A underway and will continue in stages hardware sales, includes licence fees business­that is ready to embrace the during the course of the next two years. for software and a support service. opportunities and challenges that lie The purpose is basically simple. We ahead. shall become more efficient in order to Continuing commitment increase our capacity, reduce our costs to sustainability and – most important – offer faster and At HL Display, we have a strong tradition better service to our customers. of taking responsibility for our impacts, while also operating an economically Nacka Strand, February 2012 New factory in Gliwice, Poland successful business. We engage in In parallel with our business process continuous improvement work associated Gérard Dubuy, review, we also made major changes with these areas. In 2010, we joined the Managing Director and CEO 7 HL Display’s strategies and goals Value-creating work HL Display has a clear focus on creating value for the Company’s various stakeholders. This is reflected in the business concept and mission, as well as in the Company’s core values and financial targets. Mission Strategies Competence – HL Display is an expert Creating an attractive and selling inHL Display employs the following in its field. The Company has in-depth store­environment that strengthens the four main strategies to achieve the knowledge­about its customers’ busiconsumer’s shopping experience. Company’s targets. ness, and offers extensive experience, 1. Focus on three primary customer both as a problem-solver and a supplier Business concept segments – food retail, non-food retail of innovative products and solutions. HL Display’s business concept is to and brand manufacturers. HL Display’s sales force is made up increase its customers’ profitability by 2. Prioritise design and innovation for of talented and qualified employees offering the retail sector and its suppliers­ the purpose of setting new standards.­ who are able to work at all levels in the cost-efficient products and solutions for Product development will be customers’­ organisations. in-store communication and merchancustomer-driven. dising. The focus is on making products 3. Streamline and adapt the organisation Innovation – HL Display anticipates and solutions adaptable to customers’ to market requirements and needs. and utilises change, challenges the specific needs. 4. Strengthen the market position status quo and values entrepreneurship. and product range by means of The Company’s product development Financial goal acquisitions. constantly develops solutions to probHL Display has a clear focus on profitable­ lems – both old and new. HL Display’s growth. Fulfilment of the Company’s Values investment in product development financial­targets will strengthen its leading­ Customer focus – The customers is unparalleled in the sector and the position in the sector and contribute are behind HL Display’s growth and Company’s product range is developed towards a good return for its owners. success. This is why it is only natural for in order to meet customers’ present and HL Display has two main financial targets, the Company to place a clear focus on future needs. one growth target and one profit target. creating­customer value and increased – Annual organic growth of 5-10% profitability for customers. HL Display Quality – HL Display’s organisation – EBITA margin of 12%. is a reliable and committed company, bears the hallmark of professionalism­ with all its efforts aimed at increasing and customers are able to put their customer­satisfaction and establishing trust in the Company. Each delivery strong relationships.­HL Display strives must be a recommendation for a new for direct contact with customers without order. The Company’s commitment to any intermediaries. constant improvement of its business operations and offering creates clear EBITA margin % Growth % customer value, which in turn means satisfied customers and good customer 12 20 19 Goal 12% relationships.­The quality of HL Display’s 10.3 10 15 products­and solutions must be beyond 13 8.5 question. 10 8 8 6.4 5 6 2 0 4.1 3.9 4 -2 -5 Organic growth 2 -10 Goal for organic -11 growth 5-10% 0 -15 Acquisition 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 8 HL Display’s strategies and goals Creating customer value HL Display will continue to be a successful company by constantly becoming a better partner and lay supplier­to its customers. HL Disp creates­customer value thro ugh rs the products and solutions it offe and by having effic ient­ busi ness ­ processes­and working practices. Customer value Products and solutions Business processes Sales Quotation Delivery Customer Customer Order Customer need enquiry need fulfilled HL Display’s products and solutions­help the operations are concentrated on the quotations to production and logistics customers to increase their sales and to elements that create value for customers.­ create short lead times and ensure that have a more efficiently functioning store, The expertise level and experience­of promised delivery dates are honoured. which reduces costs. Innovation, quality­ the sales force ensure that customers and a focus on return on investment receive the best possible help in creating create additional value for customers. attractive in-store environments. Efficient HL Display’s efforts to streamline­ processes in everything­from price 9 HL Display’s offering A market-leading range HL Display offers market-leading products and solutions for retailers and brand manufacturers wishing to create attractive and selling in-store environments. The Optishop™ product family encompasses products and concepts for the food and non-food retail sectors. The Brandman™ product family comprises HL Display’s product range for brand manufacturers. Optishop™ Optishop™ is the collective name for HL Display’s offering for the food and non-food retail sectors. It includes products,­concepts and tailored solutions for merchandising and in-store communication which help customers create attractive and selling in-store environments. This enhances the consumer’s­ In-store communication shopping­experience and helps to HL Display’s products and solutions for increase the store’s profitability by means in-store communication concern two main of increased sales and reduced costs due areas. The first involves supporting­clear to a more efficiently functioning store. overall information in the store (signs on ceilings and in aisles, for example) which Merchandising enables customers to quickly locate HL Display’s merchandising products the products they are looking for. The and solutions fulfil several functions second involves providing customers with in the retail sector. Firstly, they ensure all the information they need to make products are attractively presented to a purchasing­decision exactly where the consumer.­This makes the products the product is. This means providing stand out and encourages purchasing, basic price information, as well as more thereby creating more sales. Secondly, detailed information such as product they ensure orderly merchandising, with campaigns and environmental labelling. maximised use of shelf space, and that New technology creates exciting scope the store functions more efficiently, which for increasing the degree of interactivity results in reduced costs and other advanand the impact of communication on the tages for the store. store shelf. Products ü Merchandising Concepts ü In-store communication Tailored solutions ü 10 HL Display’s offering In the spotlight: Concepts – complete display solutions­that help customers achieve their business goals HL Display has particular exper tise in displaying products in stores. Using this exper tise as a base, HL Display has created­conceptual solutions that help customers resolve problems and achieve defined goals. These may include increasing­ sales within a certain product category, achieving­a more efficiently functioning store or reducing­costs of wastage from retired­products. 11 HL Display’s offering Brandman™ Brandman™ is the collective name for HL Display’s product range for brand In the spotlight: manufacturers. Brandman™ offers Tailored solutions – products,­concepts and tailored solutions­ making customers’ for merchandising in different parts of accessories that provide customers ideas a reality. the store. Attractive displays ensure with relevant product information or that brand manufacturers’ products and With high design expert special solutions that support brand ise and flexible production brands stand out in the store’s large manufacturers’­new product launches. , HL Display is able to off assortment of goods. The ability to er brand manufacturers pro tailor products and solutions to brand Campaign placement ducts and solutions that are manufacturers’­needs and requirements HL Display’s Campaign placement specially adapted to their needs is important. The display of a brand products and solutions enable brand and requirements. Based on must reflect the brand image that has manufacturers to display their goods the customer’s­initial concep been built and support long-term brand elsewhere in the store, rather than just t and requirements­ specificat building. on the shelf. These include, for example, ion, HL Display develops a floor stands that can be placed in aisles solution with an attractive­design Product placement on the shelf or at check-outs to create increased and the right functionality. HL Display’s range for product placement attention and sales in connection with on the shelf meets two important needs campaigns. There are also solutions for of brand manufacturers. The first is cross merchandising, which involves optimal­exploitation of the allocated shelf goods with a close association, such as space in the store. The second is attracsoft drinks and snacks, or brushes and tive presentation of the goods, with the paint, being displayed next to each other aim of tempting the consumer to make to create more sales. a purchase, which will ultimately lead to increased sales. There are also different Products ü Product placement on the shelf Concepts ü Campaign placement Tailored solutions ü 12 HL DISPLAY’S OFFERING New Ad’Pulse™ – new sales tool audio. It is suitable for communicating where the consumer gets help choosing for retailers targeted and up-to-date messages – right the right product by selecting options on Ad’Pulse™ is HL Display’s new digital­ in the consumer’s line of vision. the screen. screen-based sales tool for store Ad’Pulse™ Connected is updated via Common to the Ad’Pulse™ concept is shelves. For the consumer, the solutions­ the Internet rather than via USB. Easythat it supports a multi-channel strategy. enhance the buying experience and to-use software, specially adapted for The content that retail chains produce provide access to updated and interactive use in retail, allows store staff to easily in other contexts, such as pictures and product information. For the store, they update the content of the screens. With commercials, can be used in Ad’Pulse™. represent an easy-to-use sales tool which Ad’Pulse™ Connected, the message can tests have shown to increase sales. be varied quickly, from special offer deals Ad’Pulse™ is available in three models on items on the shelf to key messages­ – Ad’Pulse™ Local, Ad’Pulse™ Connected from the chain and sold advertising and Ad’Pulse™ Touch. space for brand manufacturers. Ad’Pulse™ Local is updated easily via Ad’Pulse™ Touch also has added touch a USB stick and supports all traditional functionality. This is an interactive tool media formats for video, still images and which is excellent for guided selling, 13 Product development From idea to finished product Customer needs Design & visualisation Solution Logistics Production Prototype & testing Focus on design and innovation At HL Display, major emphasis is placed on design and innovation – this is one of the Company’s overall strategies. Working closely with customers, HL Display helps them to realise their ideas and develop solutions that best meet their needs. Customer-driven product development important factor in merchandising soluof sketches or hand-made­­samples,­ is a key concept at HL Display. Product tions and customers are raising their to CAD drawings and subsequent­ development takes place in close coopexpectations in terms of good design. prototypes.­This is a very creative eration with customers and is based on This is particularly true of brand manuphase and involves close dialogue­ HL Display’s unique retail experience facturers. They want the in-store display with customers­in order to guarantee a and knowledge of what customers need of their products to be as attractive as product­appearance that corresponds in their business. This culminates in possible and to support the graphic to their wishes. products­that create clear added value identity­developed for a particular brand. Once an approved prototype is for the customers and the consumers. In simple terms, the development of produced,­the next step in the process these products can be be divided into begins. This involves transferring the Emphasis on design two main processes: from concept to prototypes into finished products, HL Display is an innovative partner to prototype and from prototype to finished a process which includes work on customers throughout the development product. materials,­tooling, quality assurance and process – from initial design proposal HL Display currently has design centres production launch. HL Display’s work to finished product. HL Display attaches in Sweden, France and the UK which in this area is characterised by clear great importance to the design aspect of manage the entire design process – from structure­and control which results in the products. Design is an increasingly the customer’s specification, production short lead times for customers. 14 Product development Exciting products with new technology In addition to customer-driven product development, HL Display also works on the general development of innovative­ new solutions for the retail sector. Solutions based on new technology are examples of this area of work. In recent years, HL Display has been developing­ new products in areas where the Company has not previously been active. These include Power Track™, a flexible­ infrastructure that brings low voltage­ power to shelves, and Ad’Lite™, a solution­ that provides shelves with ambience­ lighting.­During the year, Ad’Lite™ was further developed to allow use of LED lighting, which increases adaptability­ compared to fluorescent tubes that always has a fixed length. The focus on new technology was also expanded in 2011 in the form of Ad’Pulse™, which is a digital screen-based sales tool for store shelves. Ad’Pulse™ is available in different models, both as a standard screen and with touch screen functions. It is also possible to control the screens via WiFi or 3G connection. For the consumer, the solutions enhance the buying experience and provide access to up-to-date and interactive product information.­For the store, they represent­ The design process – from initial design an attractive, easy-to-handle sales tool proposal­to finished product. which tests have shown to increase sales. 15 HL Display’s sales work and markets Local presence creates proximity to customers With operations in 48 markets, HL Display is always close to its customers. This proximity means that HL Display is able to demonstrate its commitment to offer customers a high level of service and prompt help in their efforts to create attractive­and effective in-store environments. HL Display’s sales efforts are charactermanufacturers, have a larger measure implemented in the desired way in all ised by a strong local presence through of global or regional coordination markets. its own sales companies in most of the regarding­the purchasing of products in Company’s markets. At present, 36 HL Display’s area. Customers may, for Creating added value for customers markets are serviced by HL Display’s own example, have regional organisations for HL Display is strongly committed to sales companies, while 12 are serviced markets with similar language, such as continuously strengthening sales efforts by selected distributors. Germany, Switzerland and Austria, or the and improving skills in the sales force. Nordic countries. HL Display has a strong offering to its Global retail solutions HL Display’s business operations are customers in the form of the Company’s The majority of HL Display’s marketing organised to enable these customers­ conceptual solutions – solutions that are and sales work is conducted in the local to be helped at global, regional and designed to create clear added value for markets. The reason is that the majority­ local level, which is one of HL Display’s customers. The concepts are designed of the customers have decentralised strengths. The Company has global and to help increase sales and reduce costs organisations, with purchasing decisions regional account managers to compleby creating a more efficiently functioning­ in HL Display’s area being taken in each ment the local sales organisations in store (by minimising staff required for individual market. This is particularly the the individual markets. With a supplier shelf management, for example). A sales case in the food retail sector, which is that can help them in many markets, force with high expertise and commitment­ HL Display’s largest customer segment. customers benefit from opportunities for can engage in dialogue with customers to With a strong local presence, HL Display improvement of efficiency and economies identify their particular needs and enable is always close to these customers. of scale. It is also easier for customthem to take advantage of the opportuniSome customers, in particular brand ers to ensure that central directives are ties created by HL Display’s concepts. 16 HL Display’s sales work and markets Business operations are divided into six regions HL Display’s operations are geographically divided into six regions: North Europe, South Europe, the UK, East Europe, Asia/Pacific and Middle East/Africa. Each region is headed by an Area Manager with responsibility for both sales and earnings. There are clear similarities between each market have, with few exceptions, the regions of North Europe, South a market share exceeding 50 percent – Europe and the UK, which are classified­ sometimes considerably higher. as mature markets, and between East In mature markets, HL Display’s sales Europe, Asia/Pacific and the Middle to the retailer sector are largely linked East/Africa, which are considered to be to store renovations, which are being emerging markets. carried out continuously. This involves­ implementing­new store concepts or The mature markets – North developing existing ones – in other Europe, South Europe and the UK words, introducing innovation and The regions of North Europe, South creating­stores that are attractive to Europe and the UK share several common consumers. Brand manufacturers, which characteristics. They are characterised supply the products sold in stores, repreby a high degree of consolidation in the sent an important customer­segment in retail sector. This means that large retail mature markets. HL Display is a strong chains dominate many retail segments, partner in the process of creating display with food retailing offering perhaps the solutions for their brands. clearest example. The top five players in 17 HL Display’s sales work and markets cooperation­with brand manufacturers.­ HL Display helps them to produce solutions­that are tailored to their own needs and preferences. Market development HL Display’s market is generally affected by the retail sector’s development, both regionally and globally. When the retail sector shows strong growth, HL Display notices an increase in demand for its products and solutions, and vice versa. According to figures provided by Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union, the average volume of retail trade for 2011 in the EU27 fell by 0.1 percent compared with 2010. The corresponding figure for the Euro area was -0.6 percent. However, the trend differs quite markedly from country to country. Eurostat’s statistics­show clear declines in the Market position volume of retail trade in Greece, Spain HL Display has a strong market position and Portugal, while in other countries, in the regions of North Europe, South such as France, HL Display’s secondEurope and the UK, and the Company largest market, the trend was positive is, with few exceptions, a market leader during the year. in the individual markets. HL Display’s Looking at particular market trends, concept solutions play an important role it was HL Display’s experience that the in the mature markets. The concepts are retail sector, notably food retailing, was designed to help customers by increasing prioritising cost reductions in stores The mature markets sales in a particular product category during 2011, their aim being to reduce Own sales and reducing costs by creating a more both energy costs and staff costs. Region companies Distributors efficiently functioning store and reducing This trend will create opportunities for North Czech Republic Denmark wastage when products are retired. HL Display as a developer of concepts Europe Finland Iceland HL Display has a very strong position that streamline work in the store. Germany Norway in the brand manufacturers segment, HL Display’s sales in local currency Poland particularly in the UK and South Europe were positive in the regions of North Sweden regions. One contributing factor is the Europe (+7%), South Europe (+11%) and Switzerland acquisition of PPE in 2009. PPE focuses the UK (+5%). South Europe’s positive UK United Kingdom Ireland largely on solutions for brand manufacgrowth is mainly attributable to strong South Belgium Greece turers with operations in the UK and sales in France. In this region, HL Display Europe France Italy Netherlands. has noticed pent-up investment demand Netherlands Malta HL Display’s focus on tailored among retailers after the restraint during Spain Portugal solutions­is a vital strength in the the recession. 18 HL Display’s sales work and markets New markets Brazil and South Africa In 2011, HL Disp lay signed agreem Brazil and South ents with distribu Africa, which are tors in Company. two new markets for the Brazil is currently one of the fastest markets in the wo growing retail rld, with many ne Several global re w store openings. tail chains, includ and Walmar t, ha ing Carrefour, Ca ve established th sino South Africa is a emselves in the well-developed re country. increasing share tail market with an of the modern re distributor is also ta il sector. HL Display active in lar ge ne ’s such as Mozamb igh bouring markets ique and Zambia. an exciting step int For HL Display, th o southern Africa. is is Emerging markets Own sales Region companies Distributors East Austria Estonia Emerging markets – East Europe, growth strategy for these chains in the Europe Bulgaria Israel Asia/Pacific and Middle East/ face of reduced scope for growth in the Hungary Kazakhstan Africa domestic market. At the same time, the Latvia/Lithuania The markets in HL Display’s emerging domestic retail chains are growing rapidly Romania Russia regions of East Europe, Asia/Pacific and expanding their operations. Serbia and Middle East/Africa are more fragIn the emerging markets, HL Display’s Slovakia mented than in the mature regions where sales are primarily connected with the Slovenia HL Display operates. The large retail building of new stores, which is taking Turkey Ukraine chains do not have the same dominant place at a rapid pace. Sales are largely position in the markets. The five largest related to providing these stores with all Asia/ Australia Pacific /New Zealand retail companies typically have less than the basic products required for merchanChina (Shanghai 50 percent of the market share and in dising and in-store communication. and Hong Kong) some cases this is as low as 10 percent. India The modern retail sector has a high Market position Indonesia Malaysia rate of growth in many markets, which HL Display has a strong position as Singapore is also reflected in the high rate of new supplier­to the retail sector in the majority South Korea store openings. A major reason for this is of markets in the regions of East Europe Taiwan the rapid expansion of the major internaand Asia/Pacific. HL Display had a relaThailand tional chains, particularly the European tively early presence in these markets, Middle United Arab ones. Geographic expansion into attracand this is a contributing factor to the East/ Emirates Africa tive new markets has been a priority strong market position. The expansion 19 HL Display’s sales work and markets into Eastern Europe dates back to the mid-nineties, while the Company’s Asian expansion began in the early 2000s. When HL Display established its own production in China in 2006, this enabled the Company to increase its price competitiveness in Asia, which in turn contributed to strengthening the market position. HL Display’s work with the retail sector in East Europe and Asia/Pacific consists mainly of standard products for in-store communication and merchandising – in other words the basic products required for new store openings. As markets develop­and become more mature, demand for HL Display’s concept solutions increases. HL Display’s position in the brand manufacturers segment is a little weaker in East Europe and Asia/Pacific than in the mature markets. As HL Display develops­its operations and increases the focus on this segment, this will Europe region (Romania, for example), HL Display’s sales in local currency create good opportunities for strength­ while the trend was positive in other remained positive in the Asia/Pacific ening the Company’s position. markets (Latvia and Lithuania). region during 2011. The region’s growth HL Display is a relatively new player in Many emerging markets in Asia have of 18 percent was boosted by the very the Middle East/Africa region. HL Display recovered quickly after the recession. In strong development in China. Growth has sales in the region to both the brand several countries in the region, notably for the Middle East/Africa region was manufacturers and retail segments. India and China, international and domes8 percent. Sales in the region of East tic retail chains continue to expand. Europe were essentially unchanged in Market development Retail sector growth is also positive in what continues to be a tough market Market development in HL Display’s several markets. In China, for example,­ climate for HL Display. emerging regions differs from region total retail sales of consumer goods to region, and also within the regions in 2011 increased by over 11 percent themselves. Taking East Europe as an compared with 2010. example, many of the countries in the HL Display is beginning to experience region were hit hard by the recession. increasing interest in the Company’s One market that quickly showed signs concept solutions in certain emerging of recovery was Russia, where the retail markets. This trend is most noticeable in sector showed good growth even in markets where the modern retail sector 2010. Figures from Eurostat show that has been expanding for several years the volume of retail trade during 2011 and market maturity has made the most declined in some markets in the East progress, for example in Russia. 20 HL Display’s delivery organisation Efficient operations create customer value HL Display wants to offer its customers short lead times and a high service level by running an efficient business. HL Display’s supply organisation consists of three elements – purchasing, production and logistics – which work together in order that every single customer order is executed quickly and with high quality. Purchasing is one of HL Display’s core values, and HL Display has a wide-ranging purchasing it is crucial that the products delivered operation. It involves not only goods used to customers satisfy HL Display’s quality­ as components in production, but also requirements. The purchasing function finished goods purchased from subconguarantees that suppliers satisfy tractors. HL Display works in a structured HL Display’s quality requirements, and way in the field of purchasing to create also that they satisfy organisational and benefits both for its customers and for environmental requirements. This is done itself. Strategic purchasing, such as raw by means of making all suppliers sign up materials for production, is managed to HL Display’s purchasing policy, which centrally by the purchasing organisation. sets out clearly defined requirements in Purchasing to satisfy the product needs a number of areas. There is also followup of local sales companies is centralised on suppliers in the form of visits by staff with buyers who work at the regional from HL Display. For customers, this logistical centres all around the world. means that they can rest assured in the knowledge that a product from HL Display Guarantees best possible will always be of high quality. conditions and quality The other guiding principle involves The work of the purchasing organisation guaranteeing the best possible terms is led by two guiding principles. Firstly, and conditions for their purchases. This they must guarantee the quality of supplimeans weighing up factors such as price, ers and of products purchased. Quality terms of payment and delivery time. For HL Display’s customers, this means that they enjoy competitive prices and good terms of delivery. Production HL Display’s ambition is to have a production operation that is absolutely world class within its prioritised production processes. The aim is that this will guarantee that HL Display has a cost-efficient range of products for its customers,­ which at the same time satisfies the Company’s requirements for high quality. Production closer to the customers In 2011, HL Display made major changes to the way in which its production is structured. During the year, production started at HL Display’s newly built factory in Gliwice, Poland. The ambition for the factory in Poland is that it will combine a broad production expertise with 21 HL Display’s delivery organisation HL Display’s production Type of production Locations Production methods Standard products Sundsvall, Sweden Extrusion Products which are standard­ Suzhou, China A method that involves molten in nature, such as shelf plastic being forced through a dividers­and datastrips. nozzle. The products are manufactured­in strips which are cooled in a water bath. Injection moulding A production method that involves­ molten plastic being injected into a hollow mould which determines the product’s shape. to it, and they manage purchasing,­ Modified standard products Gliwice, Poland Injection moulding administration,­warehousing and distriStandard products with Falun, Sweden Plastic sheet processing bution for these sales companies. The a certain amount of (will be closed in Printing of plastic sheets which logistics centres also offer services customisation,­such as 2012) in many cases are further that give customers added value, for printing preferences. processed by means of punching. example­assembly or kit packing of goods Customised solutions Harlow, United Multi-material according­to customer preference. Products which are adapted Kingdom Production process adapted to to customers’ requirements production with a high level of The Company has logistics centres and needs, both in terms of customisation and in several in Falkenberg (Sweden), Tours (France), design and material selection different­ materials. Györ (Hungary), Moscow (Russia), Harlow and colour and printing. (UK), Dubai (United Arab Emirates) and Singapore. During the year, HL Display also set up a logistics centre in Gliwice, cost-efficient­production. At the same in efficient, automated production in Poland, providing service to the sales time it is strategically located, close to the areas of extrusion and injectioncompanies in Poland and the Czech many of HL Display’s major markets. moulding. In Gliwice, the Company has an Republic. In 2012, the sales company In 2011, all production of injectionexpanding­factory with several production­ in Germany will also be linked to the moulded products that had previously competences­in a strategic location logistics­centre in Gliwice. been manufactured in Karlskoga was close to major markets. The factory in The logistics centre in Falkenberg moved to Gliwice, and the factory in Harlow is customised to best meet the also serves as a cross-docking point for Karlskoga was closed down. In the needs of brand suppliers for production all products that are shipped from the next stage, all production that currently in a number of different materials such Swedish factories to logistics centres takes place at the factory in Falun will a plastic, wood and metal. The factory around the world. This was previously be moved to Gliwice, which should be in Suzhou is an efficient production performed by an external logistics completed during 2012. facility­that meets the needs of the Asian company. By having this function in-house The factory in Gliwice will be an markets. instead, HL Display is better able to important­element of the extended initiaThe Company has also maintained its follow up on the service level, at the tive in the brand manufacturer customer level of investment in order to guarantee same time reducing costs. segment. By bringing together expertise a continuous rise in productivity. Among in a number of production techniques – other things, two new fully-automated Work to further improve the service level injection moulding, hot-bending, digital injection-moulding lines have been bought Ongoing work with joint business models printing and assembly – HL Display can for the factory in Sundsvall, as well as and the introduction of a new business meet many of the needs of brand manunew, modern, extrusion machines. system will further improve efficiency facturers in one single factory. and the service level in HL Display’s Logistics logistics­chain. One example of this is Improved production structure HL Display’s logistical structure is based the fact that customers will be given It is HL Display’s ambition to have fewer, on regional logistics centres located at much-improved­information about their but more specialised, production facilities strategically selected sites around the order status. Information about an order than before that handle larger volumes world. The purpose of this structure­is will be updated in real time throughout and that are located at the most suitato guarantee a consistent, high level the whole process, from order to delivery. ble places. Having had seven production of service to customers and at the In other words, customers will always be facilities­a few years ago, HL Display will same time to create cost benefits for able to see exactly where their orders are have four facilities at the end of 2012. HL Display. Each logistics centre has in the process. The factory in Sundsvall is specialised­ a number of sales companies linked 22 Sustainability report Sustainability Report Corporate responsibility has long been important to HL Display. The Company has endeavoured­ to reduce its environmental impacts over a period of many years, and its largest production­ facilities­were awarded ISO 14001 certification back in the late 1990s. During its rapid international­expansion­in the 1990s and the early 2000s, the Company made it a priority to communicate­a culture of good business ethics to its subsidiaries. HL Display is a participant in UN Global Compact,­which means the Company actively supports the UN’s fundamental values and principles­in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. star ts as ronmental work HL Display’s envi t development phase uc early as the prod to start while ntal work needs Active environme By making early being developed. the products are uc ts can be sessments, prod environmental as uc ed mo re ef fectively they are prod adapted so that therefore transmore tightly and or can be packed asures that ntly. These are me ported more efficie . HL Display also reducing costs save ener gy while nt of the matewo rks co ns ta nt ly on developme also involves using its products. This rials contained in an d mo re products ls in more alternative materia cycled materials. e propor tion of re and increasing th 23 Sustainability report HL Display’s sustainability programme is incorporated into the Board’s work, and the Board also makes decisions in this area. The sustainability programme has been initiated at Group management level. The work is headed by the Company’s Product Development Director, supported by other members are plastic waste, energy consumption ISO 14001 certification of Group management. Much of the dayand use of plastic raw materials. With Certification under the ISO 14001 envito-day sustainability responsibility lies sales companies and distributors in 48 ronmental management standard is an with the local entities in the Group. The markets around the world, transport is important part of HL Display’s environproduction facilities in particular have a also a source of indirect environmental mental programme. Today, three of the high level of environmental responsibility. impacts. five facilities are ISO 14001 certified. HL Display’s Corporate Responsibility HL Display endeavours to promote a HL Display’s factories in Sundsvall and Policy, which was adopted by the Board high level of awareness about environFalun were certified under ISO 14001 in in early 2010, is the Company’s central mental impacts, not just in its production,­ the late 1990s, while the factory in China policy in this area. There are also other but also in daily business activity at the became ISO 14001 certified in 2010. It is associated policies that govern corporate Company’s offices around the world. HL Display’s aim that the UK factory and responsibility work, including HL Display’s This means collecting and sorting paper, the newly established factory in Poland Code of Conduct, Environmental Policy, packaging material and old electronic will be certified under ISO 14001 in 2013. Work Environment Policy, Purchasing equipment and ensuring they are sent for Policy and the common operational policy recycling. Raw materials for the production facilities. For many years, HL Display has been HL Display’s main raw material is plastic,­ using telephone and video conferences notably PVC. Different plastics account HL Display and the environment as an alternative to travel between for approximately 85 percent of the HL Display has two production facilities offices. The proportion of video conferGroup’s total raw material use. HL Display in Sweden, one in Poland, one in the encing increased during 2011, thereby works to develop methods that allow UK and one in China. HL Display’s main reducing environmental impacts and increased use of recycled materials in the environmental impacts in its production improving efficiency. Company’s products, particularly in datastrips and shelf divider systems. HL Display complies with REACH, the Materials usage metric ton EU’s chemicals legislation, and this is 8,000 taken into account when the Company 7,000 6,896 approves new materials. The Company now requires its raw materials­suppliers­ 6,000 to complete a special declaration­form 5,000 based on the REACH requirements. 4,000 No substances classified as SVHC 3,000 (Substances of Very High Concern) may 2,453 2,000 be used, and the presence of phase1,415 out substances is also checked. 27 1,000 809 665 262 substances were added to the list in 0 PVC PET ABS Polycarbonate Polystyrene Aluminium, 2011 and the list now contains 73 (PC) (PS) steel and wire substances. 24 Sustainability report Chemicals Operations at HL Display’s production facility in Falun are subject to notification­ requirements because of solvent use in the screen-printing process. The solvent is used in the printing ink itself and to wash templates used in the printing process. Total solvent usage at the Falun factory in 2011 was 4,968 (4,998) litres. The use of solvent per template has increased to 0.20 (0.19) litre/template. Plastic and other waste HL Display has been able to replace solvent-based inks with UV inks to a The waste generated at HL Display’s production facilities is for certain extent. Unlike traditional­solventthe most part plastic. HL Display addresses the problem of based inks, UV inks are dried using UV waste in production in two ways. The first is to reduce plastic­ radiation rather than by evaporation­ waste generated in production by fine-tuning the production of the solvents. HL Display has also processes where possible. The seco nd is to recycle plastic invested in a new digital printing line, and other waste as far as possible. which has reduced the use of screen HL Display’s goal is that all waste from production will printing. eventually­be recyclable. Total was te at the Company’s production­facilities in 2011 was 2,724 tonnes, and 91.3 Energy consumption percent of this was recycled. HL Display’s direct electricity consumption in production was 25.8 (24.1) GWh in 2011. Various measures for reducing electricity consumption are being implewater consumption. In 2011, 317,233 mented at all the factories. These range (399,322) cubic metres of water were from heating the factories using waste used at the Group’s production facilities. heat from machinery to installing time relays for lighting. Transport In 2010, HL Display signed an energy HL Display has sales companies on agreement with Vattenfall, which means several continents, which means that that all the Swedish factories and the transport represents a significant logistics centre in Falkenberg will run proportion­of the Company’s environentirely on green electricity, i.e. electricity mental impacts. HL Display engages from renewable sources. third-party suppliers for its transport and Energy consumption Water is used primarily for cooling­ requires these suppliers to have environElectricity “green” (MWh)* 13,532 in certain of HL Display’s production­ mental programmes in place. processes, in particular the cooling­ HL Display also works with its logistics­ Electricity (MWh) 7,132 of extruded plastic products, such suppliers to route inward and outward Gas (MWh) 5,095 as datastrips, in waterbaths. Several transport flows from road transport Oil (m3) 59 of HL Display’s factories use closed to sea and rail transport wherever Water (m3) 317,233 cooling­water systems to minimise possible.­HL Display’s efforts to reduce * Electricity from renewable sources. 25 Sustainability report Waste management, metric ton Packaging Mixed Other safe Total safe Hazardous Total Plastic Metal materials materials waste waste waste Composting – – – 1 – 1 – Re-use in own production 45 – 3 – – 48 – Recycled externally 1,311 273 267 334 – 2,185 4 Recycled for heating – – – 254 – 254 – Deposit 27 – – 1 209 237 5 these emissions also include strateareas. As with environmental issues, different regions then worked to define gies to make its logistics more efficient.­ compliance is primarily monitored by the risks and take preventive measures The Company constantly endeavours HL Display’s representatives visiting at both regional and local level. to increase the number of products suppliers. All employees in managerial or per package and reduce the size of particularly­vulnerable positions currently packages. Zero tolerance towards corruption have to sign HL Display’s code of In 2011, a new logistics centre was In 2011, HL Display conducted a risk conduct, which includes, among other opened in the Polish city of Gliwice. The analysis aimed at identifying the areas things, rules of practice on corruption. purpose of the centre is to improve traffic­ of responsibility where the Company has Similarly, all suppliers have to sign flows and ensure more efficient transthe greatest risks. The analysis revealed­ HL Display’s purchasing policy, which port in Central and Eastern Europe. This that the greatest risks were related to covers corruption issues. should result in reduced costs and fewer corruption.­These risks are primarily HL Display has also introduced environmental impacts from transport. associated with the purchases HL Display procedures­into the purchasing process HL Display introduced a global makes in each local market. The producwhich are designed to reduce the risk company car policy in 2010. The policy, tion facilities are not particularly exposed of malpractice. For example, the person which only allows fuel-efficient diesel to risk, as the counterparties are large who selects a supplier is not the one who engines when cars are replaced, is international suppliers which share places the purchase order. designed to reduce the car fleet’s carbon HL Display’s high standards in the area HL Display had two corruption-related dioxide emissions. of maintaining corruption-free operations. incidents that led to disciplinary action in 2011. Requirements for suppliers Initiatives HL Display requires its suppliers to HL Display has zero tolerance towards Whistleblower function comply with all current environmental corruption, and the Company focused on In 2012, HL Display will introduce a legislation. All new suppliers are required anti-corruption activities in 2011. A CR whistleblower function, which will allow to sign HL Display’s purchasing policy, workshop for all country managers and employees to report malpractice without which defines the Company’s requiredistributors was held during the year. having to worry about reprisals. This ments for its suppliers in this area. Related information material was also covers malpractice related to working Actual conditions at suppliers’ premises produced and presented to local staff by conditions as well as corruption. are observed during site visits. all the country managers. HL Display’s HL Display’s major suppliers are large international producers of plastic raw materials which have their own environmental programmes in place. HL Display and ethics HL Display’s CR Policy defines the fundamental values that will permeate the Company and covers areas such as human rights, working conditions, equality, discrimination and anti-corruption. HL Display’s suppliers are expected to adhere to the same high standards as the Company follows. All suppliers have to sign a purchasing policy containing­ requirements relating to the above 26 Sustainability report HL Display’s employees HL Display’s success is based on targeted work and commitment­from the Company’s employees. The achievement of long-term success requires a properly dimensioned organisation, with employees having the opportunity to develop in their role at the Company. As HL Display is a multicultural company, in the organisation, with the Company’s it goes without saying that all employaccount managers as the first group. ees are given equal opportunities for Using HL Plus 2.0, all employees are development in their professional roles, given well-defined individual targets which promotion and pay growth, regardless are monitored each year in a perforof background, gender, race or age. The mance appraisal. In addition to individCompany also respects employees’ right ual goals, employees also have a longto collective agreements and organisaterm development plan. HL Display has tion into trade unions. also developed training materials for all Number of employees area managers and country managers 700 Skills development to ensure consistent use of HL Plus 2.0 600 HL Display aims to provide employees throughout the organisation. 276 with the opportunity for development and 500 growth in their role at the Company. This New salary model 400 strengthens both the individual employee HL Plus 2.0 also plays a key part in the and the Company’s ability to achieve monitoring of the new salary model which 300 91 its business goals. HL Display’s strong has been introduced for the Company’s 200 391 focus on this area in 2011 included the sales force. Although the new salary 254 100 72 development of HL Plus 2.0, which is a model contains a slightly lower guaran80 new online-based tool for performance teed salary, it has an extended variable­ Sweden Other Europe Asia appraisals and employee development. pay component which can give the The tool is currently being implemented employee significant added value. The Women Men 27 Sustainability report Employee facts 2011 2010 Age distribution Number of employees as of December 31 1,168 1,109 500 Gender structure, % Male 62 64 Female 38 36 400 64 Education level, % University 36 33 19 300 Upper secondary school 38 39 252 Compulsory school 26 28 200 60 143 Investment in Total, MSEK 4 2 4 staff training 100 5 157 1 Per employee, KSEK 4 1 78 12 14 124 132 18 0 Costs related to health 29 47 0 promotion activities Per employee, KSEK 1 2 <20 21-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 >60 Reported serious incidents 2 5 Sweden Other Europe Asia variable component of the employee’s­ key account managers during the year. in partnership with IF Metall (Swedish salary is measured against clearly Both genders were included in the trade union) to help factory workers in defined indicators to be achieved. These initiative­and there was representation Falun obtain a new job. The Company are monitored on a quarterly basis within from all parts of the world in which has carried out a skills inventory for all the framework of HL Plus 2.0. HL Display operates. The aim was factory workers. The results have been The aim of the new salary system is to identify the characteristics of a compiled to produce material that clearly to encourage and reward good work and successful­salesperson at HL Display. describes what skills the individual­ results. There is a direct link between This has resulted in a number of wellemployees possess. This material has individual performance and salary defined characteristics which will now be been distributed to 152 employers in growth. Transition to the new pay model integrated into the process of recruiting the region with the aim of creating new is voluntary. Employees can choose new salespersons to HL Display. opportunities for the employees. whether they want to work under the new pay model or keep the old one. Transfer of skills to Poland Health and Safety One of the main tasks of HL Display’s Health risks at HL Display are mainly Succession planning and skills supply human resources department during associated with production. HL Display’s HL Plus 2.0 is also an important tool in the year was the new recruitment and preventive work is aimed at ensuring safe the process of ensuring long-term succestransfer­of skills associated with the workplaces with a good working environsion planning. This involves discussion transfer of production from Falun to ment. The Company regularly updates of employees’ long-term development, the Polish city of Gliwice. The aim was its safety procedures and examines such as assuming new duties within to ensure a smooth transfer of skills, different risk factors. HL Display has their present role and opportunities for which involved bringing­over Polish staff centrally established processes which taking on new challenges or a managerial for training in the Falun factory. The are designed to provide local managers,­ position. Company was also keen to ensure that mainly at the production facilities, with HL Display is also implementing a production­in Falun was as disruption-free methods for optimal handling of sickness­ structured process for establishing an as possible­until the factory’s­closure. absence. HL Display follows up on all order of succession at management HL Display also wanted to create a bridge serious incidents­leading to hospital­ level. Each manager is surveyed based to new jobs for employees­at the factory visits. 2 (5) serious incidents were on the short-term opportunities for taking in Falun. reported in 2011. No fatal accidents on new positions with more responsibility A training programme has been have occurred. at the Company. initiated,­under which Polish staff receive training in Falun in blocks of three weeks Identifying success factors for at a time. HL Display has also contracted sales personnel eleven key personnel at the Falun factory In order to strengthen recruitment to the who will work on site in Poland during sales organisation, HL Display conducted­ 2012 in order to ensure an effective a personality survey and sales profile for transfer of skills. 17 of the Company’s most successful­ HL Display has also initiated a project 28 financial reporting Income statement and balance sheet Income statement for the Group Statement of financial position for the Group KSEK, 1 January 31 December 2011 2010 KSEK 31-12-2011 31-12-2010 Net sales 1,643,317 1,617,289 Assets Cost of goods/services sold -926,705 -901,507 Intangible assets 1,166,975 1,187,476 Gross profit 716,612 715,782 Property, plant and equipment 226,515 213,627 Participations in associated companies 3,075 3,074 Selling expenses -438,487 -461,045 and joint ventures Administrative expenses -166,859 -147,764 Financial investments – 6,668 Research and development expenses -20,779 -26,232 Non-current receivables 2,329 13,124 Other operating income 10,708 11,435 Deferred tax asset 31,301 14,097 Other operating expenses -38,560 -27,731 Total non-current assets 1,430,195 1,438,066 Operating profit 62,635 64,445 Inventories 177,120 194,936 Financial income 2,163 8,291 Tax assets 12,635 0 Financial expenses -40,576 -43,998 Trade and other receivables 267,392 297,963 Net financial items -38,413 -35,707 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 28,382 35,555 Other current assets 24,000 47,892 Profit before taxes 24,222 28,738 Cash and cash equivalents 163,216 206,309 Total current assets 672,745 782,655 Income tax expense -5,844 -10,538 Net profit for the year 18,378 18,200 Total assets 2,102,940 2,220,721 Attributable to: Equity The parent company’s shareholders 18,378 18,200 Share capital 147 147 Non-controlling interest 0 0 Other capital contributions – 1,141,283 18,378 18,200 Reserves 36,945 -4,816 Retained earnings including net profit for the year 1,085,686 -16,483 Equity attributable to the Statement of comprehensive income parent company’s shareholders 1,122,778 1,120,131 for the Group Non-controlling interest 2,855 Total equity 1,122,778 1,122,986 KSEK, 1 January 31 December 2011 2010 Liabilities Net profit for the year 18,378 18,200 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 535,342 611,881 Other non-current liabilities 11,412 16,935 Other comprehensive income Pension provisions 2,753 4,444 Translation differences on Other provisions 1,783 1,929 translation of foreign operations 1,297 -18,352 Deferred tax liability 19,972 21,943 Net change in fair value of Total non-current liabilities 571,262 657,132 cash flow hedges -11,578 -962 Other comprehensive income Current interest-bearing liabilities 96,711 93,445 for the year -10,281 -19,314 Trade and other payables 130,094 165,193 Tax liabilities 3,775 7,816 Comprehensive income for the year 8,097 -1,114 Other current liabilities 36,678 39,786 Accrued expenses and Comprehensive income for the year prepaid income 141,643 134,363 attributable to: Total current liabilities 408,900 440,603 The parent company’s shareholders 8,097 -1,114 Minority interest – – Total liabilities 980,162 1,097,735 Comprehensive income for the year 8,097 -1,114 Total equity and liabilities 2,102,940 2,220,721 The financial information for 2010 refers to the HL Display Holding Group. The financial information has been restated as if the acquisition of HL Display with related refinancing had instead been made at the beginning of 2010. This means that the presented financial information for 2010 refers to the actual outcome for twelve months for the HL Display Group, with the addition that financial costs have been increased by an extrapolated interest charge. HL Display applies IFRS. This corporate report has not been prepared in accordance with IFRS and has not been reviewed by the auditor. 29 Risk and sensivity analysis Risk and sensivity analysis Raw material sensitivity Currency risk of HL Display’s sales are invoiced in euros, Plastic raw materials accounted for 63 HL Display’s main markets are in the 20 percent in sterling and 12 percent in percent of the Group’s total raw material­ eurozone and the UK. HL Display is Swedish kronor. The remainder is spread purchases. The main raw material, exposed to currency movements, as among the other currencies, led by Russian PVC, accounted for 31 percent of the most production takes place in Sweden, roubles and Norwegian kroner, with 6 Group’s total raw materials costs. The while most invoicing is abroad. Sales percent each. The Swedish krona continued­ supply of standard plastics in 2011 was to subsidiaries are conducted in their to strengthen significantly against rather stable, with a fairly good output local currency in order to concentrate­ HL Display’s main trading currencies in available­throughout the year. However, the Group’s currency exposure to 2011. On average, the Swedish currency the uncertainty­in the Eurozone pushed Sweden, where it is managed by a central strengthened by 5 percent against the producers­to export volumes to more treasury­function. External distributors­ euro, and when entering 2012 it had stable business areas such as Asia, are invoiced in Swedish kronor. The strengthened by 6 percent against the China getting the most of it. Buyers at the currency effects that have an impact on euro. The Swedish krona strengthened on end of the year (Q4) experienced longer the Company’s earnings are transaction average by 6 percent against the pound than usual lead-times. The demand was flows in different currencies (transaction­ sterling. Revenue currency exposure is also rather stable until mid-year, with exposure)­and translation of foreign offset by purchases in the corresponding­ main decision­makers placing orders subsidiaries’ income statements and currencies, in particular the foreign for most plastics but polystyrene. From balance sheets (translation exposure). sales companies’ expenses, but also by July onwards, big market players started purchasing materials with prices regulated destocking in an attempt to lower invenTransaction exposure by currency clauses. HL Display hedges tory values, also anticipating­lower Transaction exposure arises partly from future cash flows in the major currencies. activity for 2012. In order to reduce foreign currency invoicing and partly HL Display’s total currency exposure had a commodity price sensitivity,­HL Display’s from foreign currency purchases or negative effect of SEK 31.1 million on prepurchasing is made using a mix of purchases­for which the price is regutax­profit for 2011 compared with 2010, as contracting and spot pricing. lated by a currency clause. 32 percent illustrated in the table below. Effect of exchange differences on operating profit Sensitivity analysis Effect on net (compared with average rate in 2010, SEK millions) Factor Change earnings, SEK million Net sales -96.9 Net sales 1% volume 7.2 Costs goods/services sold incl. freight 44.7 Decline on largest market -1% -1.1 Distribution costs 18.5 Price of PVC 1% 1.2 Administrative expenses 4.8 Price of PET 1% 0.3 Development costs 0.1 Personnel expenses 1% 5.1 Other operating income/expenses 2.3 Market rate 1 percentage point 0.0 Total effect of exchange differences Depreciation 1% 0.4 on operating profit -31.1 Euro rate 10 öre 2.4 Price of PVC Resin EURO/TONNE Exchange rate EURO/SEK Raw materials and input goods 2011 % 1,500 11.5 11.0 1,300 10.5 1,100 10.0 900 9.5 PVC 31 Semi manufactured articles 12 700 9.0 PET 9 Packaging 8 ABS 5 Aluminium, steel and wire 6 500 8.5 Polycarbonate (PC) 2 Tape 6 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Polystyrene (PS) 2 Other raw materials 5 Other plastic Source: Plastics Information Europe Source: Sveriges Riksbank (Sweden’s central bank) raw materials 14 30 Corporate governance of HL Display How HL Display is managed Owned by Ratos auditor, adopts the income statement, HL Display’s day-to-day business balance sheet and distribution of the operations­are conducted in the operaCompany’s profit, decides on discharge tional subsidiary HL Display AB and its from liability for the Board members and subsidiaries. The sole business of the CEO and fixes Board fees. owner company HL Display Holding AB is the ownership and administration of Board of Directors the wholly-owned subsidiary HL Display HL Display’s Board consists of five AB. HL Display Holding AB is 99 percent AGM-elected members, including CEO owned by HL Intressenter AB, a whollyGérard Dubuy. The Board is composed owned subsidiary in the Ratos Group. of individuals with expertise and experience in the areas of strategy and finance, The general meeting as well as in industry and other matters The general meeting of shareholders is relating­to HL Display’s operations. HL Display’s ultimate decision making The Board has ultimate responsibility­ body and the forum in which the owners for managing the Company’s affairs exercise their formal influence over between the annual general meetings.­ HL Display. The annual general meeting The Board appoints the Managing Director of shareholders (AGM) elects the Board and CEO and makes decisions on matters members and chairman, appoints the concerning the strategic direction of the Ownership of HL Display Ratos AB 100% Management HL Intressenter AB and Board 99% 1% HL Display Holding AB 100% Business Operations HL Display AB and Subsidiaries 31 Corporate governance of HL Display business and the Company’s overall financial planning and development, and organisation. Members of the Board are receive satisfactory decision support appointed by the owner at the annual material for their work. The Chairman is general meeting for a one-year term until also responsible for ensuring that the the end of the following AGM. Board’s work is evaluated every year. The only AGM-elected Board member The Board’s work is regulated by a set who is an employee of HL Display is CEO of specially drawn up rules of procedure.­ Gérard Dubuy. All other AGM-elected The rules of procedure essentially members are independent of the mean that the Board is responsible for Company. Stig Karlsson (Industrial the Company’s strategy and organisaAdvisor to Ratos) and Susanna Campbell tion, as well as the administration of its (Ratos) are not independent of the affairs. The Board regularly assesses­ Company’s owner. the Company’s and the Group’s financial­ Other AGM-elected members – position. Information is reported on Mats-Olof Ljungquist and Lars-Åke Rydh – a monthly basis to allow the Board to are independent of the Company’s owner. perform its duty of evaluation pursuant Further information about the Board to current legislation and good board members can be found on page 35. practice. Work of the Board The Board deals with matters of significant The Chairman of the Board, Stig importance to the Group, which include Karlsson, organises and leads the – Strategy plans. work of the Board. The Chairman is in – Budgets and forecasts. continuous­dialogue with the CEO. He – Acquisitions, sales and closures of is responsible for ensuring that Board companies or operations. members have the information they – Purchases, sales and write-downs of need to monitor the Company’s position, other significant assets. The Board held nine meetings in 2011. The Board normally sets the meeting dates for the coming calendar year at the October Board meeting. Some Board meetings are planned to coincide with interim and annual reports. The Board’s work follows an annual presentation plan with special topics and fixed decisionmaking points. Board meeting agendas normally include the following items: – Review of the previous meeting’s minutes and action list. – CEO’s current status report. – Financial overview. – Reporting from committees. – Any other business. – Approval of policies. HL Display’s long-term strategy is discussed­at one of the Board meetings during the year. In addition, the Board visits one of the Company’s customers on one occasion during the year. At least one Board meeting per year is held at one of HL Display’s locations away from the head office. It is also the expressed wish of the 32 Corporate governance of HL Display Organisational structure in HL Display AB Group Managing Director /CEO Area Area Area Area Area Area Director Manager Manager Manager Manager Manager Manager for North South East Asia/ Middle UK operations Europe Europe Europe Pacific East/Africa Marketing & Business dev. Dir Production Sundsvall Product development Dir. Supply chain Manager Production Purchasing Falun Director Finance Director Production Gliwice IT Manager HR Director Production Production Sales companies and distributors Supply chain Finance/admin Suzhou Harlow Board to invite members of HL Display’s The Remuneration Committee examines management group or other areas of the and prepares matters relating to remuorganisation to attend Board meetings in neration and terms of employment for order to provide the Board with in-depth company management and makes annual information about their specific area. proposals for guidelines on remuneration­ HL Display’s auditors normally attend at of the CEO and senior executives. The least one Board meeting during the year. remuneration committee consists of Stig Karlsson, Susanna Campbell and Important matters dealt with in 2011 Mats-Olof Ljungquist. Stig Karlsson is included: chairman of the committee. The CEO’s – Restructuring of production. remuneration is decided by the Board. – New corporate governance structure. Remuneration of other senior executives­ – Investments in new IT infrastructure. is decided by the CEO in consultation – Contingency plan for dramatic changes with the remuneration committee. in market conditions. The Audit Committee consists of all Board committees Board members apart from CEO Gérard The Board has established a Dubuy. Mats-Olof Ljungquist is chairman remuneration­committee and an audit of the committee. The audit committee’s­ committee which prepare certain defined task is to ensure that high quality is matters for resolution by the Board. achieved in three primary areas: internal­ 33 Corporate governance of HL Display basis of defined strategies and Board decisions. Further information about the CEO can be found on page 36. Group Management In addition to the CEO, HL Display’s Group management consists of eight members who have day-to-day­responsibility for different parts of the business. Group manage­ment has at least ten scheduled meetings during a year. Further information about members of Group management can be found on page 36. Management of Subsidiaries HL Display has six area managers, who report directly to the CEO. The area managers have full responsibility for sales and results in their geographical region. This responsibility also includes the sales companies and logistics centre in each region. For the UK and Asia, it also includes the production companies. The division of responsibilities between the area managers and the country managers who are responsible for dayto-day operations in the sales companies is regulated in the framework of the internal Subsidiary Guide Book, which contains guidelines on various aspects of controls, financial reporting and external­ the subsidiaries’ business. The Director auditing. The committee ensures that of Operations, who also reports to the effective­internal control systems are CEO, is in charge of the Group’s other in place and a correct assessment of production­ units. the Company’s financial position has been made. The committee reviews Auditor the quarterly­financial information and The annual general meeting elects the annual reports for HL Display AB and auditor, following a proposal by the HL Display Holding AB. It also deals Board. KPMG AB was appointed as with critical accounting issues, such as the Company’s auditor until the 2012 valuation­and assessments. It is also annual general meeting. It is the auditor’s­ the audit committee’s­task to maintain task, on behalf of the owner, to audit dialogue­with the external auditors about HL Display’s annual accounts and the audit. bookkeeping methods, as well as the Board and CEO’s administration of the Managing Director and CEO Company. The chief auditor also submits HL Display’s Chief Executive Officer, an audit report to the annual general Gérard Dubuy, is in charge of day-tomeeting. Further information about the day operational business. A written set auditor can be found on page 35. of instructions defines the division of responsibilities between the Board and CEO. The CEO reports to the Board and presents a special CEO’s report at each Board meeting, with information about how the business is performing on the 34 Board of Directors Board of Directors Stig Karlsson Mats-Olof Ljungquist Lars-Åke Rydh Born: 1952. Born 1951. Born: 1953. Chariman of the Board. Member of the Board since 2007. Member of the Board since 2008. Member of the Board since 2001, Chairman Education: Master of Science in Economics Education: Master of Engineering. since 2010. and Business administration. Other appointments: Chairman of the Board Position: Industrial Advisor Ratos AB. Other appointments: Chairman of the Board in Nefab AB, San Sac AB, Plastprint AB, Education: Master of Science in Economics in Brunnberg & Forshed and Hermods AB. Schuchardt Maskin AB, CombiQ AB and and Business administration. Member of the Board in SBC Sveriges OEM International AB. Member of the Other appointments: Chairman of the Board Bostadsrätts Centrum AB, Svegro AB, board in Nolato AB, Arla Plast AB and in Diab AB and Hafa Bathroom Group. Swedsec AB and JLT Risk Solutions AB. OLJA ekonomisk förening. Member of the Board in Lindab AB and Independent member. Independent member. Lagerstedt och Krantz AB. Not independant in relation to major owners. Gérard Dubuy Susanna Campbell Kent Mossberg Born: 1961. Born: 1973. Born: 1957. CEO of HL Display AB. Member of the Board since 2009. Employee representative. Member of the Board since 2006. Position: Investment Director Ratos AB. Member of the Board since 1995. Education: Master of Science in Education: Master of Science in Economics Position: Property Manager. Economics and Business administration. and Business administration. Education: Engineering qualification. Not independent in relation to the Company. Other appointments: Member of the board in Arcus-Gruppen A/S and VinGruppen i Norden AB. Not independent in relation to major owners. Henrik Smedlund Magnus Jonsson Åsa Wirén Linder Born: 1976. Born: 1969. Auditor in charge and authorised Auditor Employee representative. Employee representative. public accountant (Far) KPMG AB Stockholm. Deputy member. Member of the Board since 1998. Born: 1968. Auditors since 2004. Position: Machine operator. Position: Machine operator. Other assignments: Auditor in Re-elected at the AGM Education: Financial qualification. Education: Structural Engineering charge in SkiStar AB, Pricer AB 2008 for the next qualification. and Seco Tools. Member of the four-year period. board in Far. 35 Senior Executives Senior Executives Gérard Dubuy Magnus Bergendorff Xavier Volpato Managing Director (CEO) Finance Director (CFO) Director for Operations Born: 1961. Born: 1964. Born: 1969. Employed since: 1995. Employed since: 2011. Employed since: 2007. Education: M. Sc. Economics. Education: B. Sc. Business Administration. Education: M. Sc. Economics, Politics and MBA. Håkan Eriksson Staffan Forslund Birger Nilsson Marketing and Business Development Director Human Resources Director Development Director Born: 1966. Born: 1949. Born: 1961. Employed since: 1992. Employed since: 2000. Employed since: 1999. Education: M. Sc. Engineering. Education: B. Sc. Economics. Education: M. Sc. Economics. Marc Hoeschen Julien Wagner Fredrik Birkhammar Group Supply Chain Manager Purchasing Director (CPO) Group IT Manager (CIO) Born: 1967. Born: 1975. Born: 1964. Employed since: 2009. Employed since: 2008. Employed since: 2010. Education: M. Sc. Engineering and MBA. Education: M. Sc. Engineering and MBA. Education: B. Sc. Economics. 36 Five year summary Five year summary Income statement (KSEK) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net sales 1,643,317 1,617,289 1,360,416 1,535,639 1,571,181 Operating profit 62,635 64,445 86,216 130,258 160,540 Depreciation and amortisation 35,874 38,587 35,581 36,123 39,515 Profit before taxes 24,222 28,738 84,143 136,157 154,688 Loss from discontinued operations – – – – – Net profit for the year 18,378 18,200 58,208 96,317 108,236 Balance sheet (KSEK) Non-current assets 1,430,195 1,438,066 390,094 202,233 195,644 Current assets 672,745 782,655 667,124 744,064 696,053 Total assets 2,102,940 2,220,721 1,057,218 946,297 891,697 Shareholders’ equity 1,122,778 1,122,986 433,113 541,853 474,865 Non-current liabilities 571,262 657,132 295,217 88,780 111,444 Current liabilities 408,900 440,603 328,889 315,664 305,388 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities 2,102,940 2,220,721 1,057,218 946,297 891,697 Key ratios EBITDA, KSEK 100,181 104,832 121,797 166,381 200,055 EBITA, KSEK 64,306 66,245 86,679 130,652 161,630 EBITA margin, % 3.9 4.1 6.4 8.5 10.3 EBT margin, % 1.5 1.8 6.2 8.9 9.8 Return on equity after tax, % 1.6 3.4 13.6 1) 19.1 25.2 Return on capital employed, % 3.6 5.3 11.0 1) 23.0 27.6 Return on total capital, % 3.0 4.2 8.9 1) 15.6 18.6 Equity/assets ratio, % 53.3 50.6 44.4 57.3 53.3 Net interest-bearing debt, KSEK 469,258 490,336 143,251 -119,693 -69,444 Debt/equity ratio, times 0.57 0.63 0.64 0.19 0.27 Interest coverage ratio, times 1.6 1.7 20.9 20.7 16.5 Net investments, KSEK 52,816 39,613 330,056 31,749 70,179 Cash and cash equivalents, KSEK 163,216 206,309 205,892 220,773 177,079 Goodwill, KSEK 1,157,309 1,180,343 230,754 33,270 23,411 Revenue per employee, KSEK 1,419 1,468 1,627 1) 1,562 1,623 Development expenses, KSEK 20,779 26,232 26,984 28,000 37,545 Average number of employees 1,158 1,102 836 1) 983 968 1) Average figures for 2009 excluding PPE, that was consolidated from 31 December, 2009. The financial information for 2010 refers to the HL Display Holding Group. The financial information has been restated as if the acquisition of HL Display with related refinancing had instead been made at the beginning of 2010. This means that the presented financial information for 2010 refers to the actual outcome for twelve months for the HL Display Group, with the addition that financial costs have been increased by an extrapolated interest charge. Comparative data for 2009 refers to those previously reported by the former group, HL Display AB (publ). HL Display applies IFRS. This corporate report has not been prepared in accordance with IFRS and has not been reviewed by the auditor. Definitions Development expenses EBT margin Return on equity after tax Development expenses are expenses for production, materials Earnings before taxes. Profit before taxes in relation to net sales. Profit after tax in relation to average equity. Minority shares have and product development. been excluded from both profit and capital. Equity/assets ratio Debt/equity ratio Equity including minority share in relation to balance sheet total. Return on total capital Interest-bearing liabilities in relation to total equity. Profit before taxes plus financial expenses in relation to average Interest-bearing net liability/receivable balance sheet total. EBITA margin Interest-bearing liabilities less interest-bearing assets. Earnings before interest, taxes and amortisations. Operating Working capital profit added for amortisation and impairment of goodwill on Interest coverage ratio Current assets excluding cash and cash equivalents less non consolidation, in relation to net sales. Profit before taxes plus financial expenses in relation to financial interest-bearing current liabilities. expenses. EBITDA Operating profit added for depreciation amortisation and Return on capital employed impairments. Profit after financial items plus financial expenses in relation to average capital employed. Capital employed is the balance sheet total less non interest-bearing liabilities. 37 History History HL Display was started in Borlänge, Sweden, in 1954 by Harry Lundvall. His first product for shops was a plate stand made of shaped metal wire. In due course, by hot bending plastic he also produced an item for displaying the price next to the product. In 1969, Harry’s son Åke Westberg took over the business, which was at the time turning over about SEK two million and had five employees. In 1975, Åke Westberg obtained a patent for the shelf edge strip that he had developed.­The HL Datastrip remains an important part of the product range. The patent was the breakthrough for HL Display. The largest Swedish retail chains recognised the benefits of Åke’s companies­were established in Poland, HL Display’s factory in China, situated in solution, and they soon became major Austria, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Suzhou, to the northwest of Shanghai. customers. Russia and Turkey. Local production was a very important step to increase competitiveness in the In 1977, Åke Westberg’s daughter Lis In 2000 and 2001, the number of sales region. Remius and her husband Anders Remius companies in Eastern Europe was started a sales company that mainly sold augmented with new ones in Ukraine, During 2007-2009, HL Display made products from HL Display’s product range. Slovenia and Slovakia. During 2000, a number of acquisitions. Finnish HL Display also began to look further Display Team, a leading provider of In 1986, Lis and Anders Remius bought to the east, towards Southeast Asia. merchandising­solutions targeting the HL Display from the investment company Many of the Company’s customers, such brand manufacturer customer segment, Parcon, which had acquired the Company as Carrefour, already had a presence was acquired in 2007. HL Display also from Åke Westberg in 1982. They in several major Asian markets. It was acquired its distributors in Finland and recognised a potential in HL Display that therefore natural for HL Display to have Bulgaria. In 2009, the Company made its they wanted to develop themselves,­ its own presence in these markets. The biggest acquisition so far, by acquiring­ including­the establishment of sales first Asian company was launched in British company PPE Ltd. Through the companies in other countries. 2000 in Singapore, and it now serves as acquisition HL Display extended its offer the hub of HL Display’s activities in the to the brand manufacturer customer International expansion began in 1987. region. Ratos becomes a minority sharesegment as well as strengthened its Sales abroad had previously been holder in 2001. market position­in the UK. channelled through direct sales and distributors,­but now HL Display set up In 2002 and 2003, expansion continued In 2009, a sales company was started in its own sales companies in Belgium and apace in Asia, with new companies being Dubai as a first entry into the Middle East the UK. Sales companies were then set established in Hong Kong, Malaysia, market. up in Germany in 1989 and in Norway Taiwan, Thailand and China. A sales and France in 1990. company was started i Romania in 2002. In July of 2010, the publicly traded private equity company Ratos acquired In 1993, HL Display was listed on the At the 2006 Annual General Meeting, the Remius family’s holding in HL Display Stockholm Stock Exchange. Anders Remius was succeeded by Gérard and then made a public offer to all other Dubuy as CEO of HL Display. Anders shareholders to acquire their shares. From the mid-1990s international Remius’ commitment to the Company HL Display was delisted from Nasdaq expansion continued in line with the continued, now as the Chairman of the OMX Stockholm on 17 September 2010. rapid growth of the retail trade. Sales Board. In 2006, production started up at 38 Produced by IR Stockholm and HL Display Design: John Blomqvist Photography: Magnus Fond Printing: Vitt Grafiska HL DISPLAY • P.O. BOX 1118 • CYLINDERVÄGEN 18 • 131 26 NACKA STRAND • SWEDEN • TEL +46 8 683 73 00 • FAX +46 8 683 73 01 www.hl-display.com
