Acre Resources Sustainability Report 2011/12 Contents A Note from the Directors 3 Acre’s Values 4 Progress on 2010 Commitments 5 Environment 6, 7 Our Carbon Impact 8 Staff Engagement 9, 10 Community Investment 11 The Workplace 12 Developing the Sustainability Marketplace 13 Future Actions 14 Note: We have decided to move to reporting in line with our financial year, running October through to September, rather than the calendar year. 2 Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 A Note from the Directors This year has been an eventful one for our business. In December 2011, due to head count growth, we upgraded from serviced offices to a larger office space in Holborn. This change inevitably bought challenges in relation to securing new suppliers and equipment, but also gave us the opportunity to take more control of our sustainability performance. We’ve invested in a more energy efficient IT infrastructure, have engaged a more comprehensive recycling scheme and have built on existing initiatives such as the ‘Cycle to Work’ programme. This year also saw the launch of the Acre Foundation (www.acre-foundation. com), the charitable arm of our business, bringing together our fundraising and volunteering activities. Building on our desire for our staff members to contribute in a positive way to our local community, we also granted four volunteering days a year to each member of our team. The core of our commitment to sustainability remains our everyday activity of placing talented professionals into roles where they can effect change within their organisations. We also continue to provide knowledge to the sustainability marketplace in the form of our white papers, and this year’s CR and Sustainability Salary Survey was the largest ever. We will continue to demonstrate Acre’s commitment to a more sustainable way of doing business, and hope to once more build upon our successes over the coming year. Andy Cartland Richard Wright Founder and Managing Director Chief Executive Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 3 Acre’s Values We place six values at the heart of our business. They influence how we work on a day-to-day basis and are a critical element of our corporate strategy. Entrepreneurship We value and reward productive work and constantly endeavour to go the extra mile for our Ethics clients and the organisation. We will always do our best to ensure that we are ethical in everything that we do. We are honest with each other, our clients and our suppliers and expect the same in return. We seek to be an agent of positive change and to deliver the highest quality Our Way of Working service available in the sector. We keep our processes simple, transparent and avoid bureaucracy. We deal with people and issues in the most direct manner without hidden Business Protocols agendas. As an organisation we share common goals. We value both company and individual growth and prize financial success. We always seek to achieve positive results for our clients and have confidence and pride in our ability to do so. Shared Values We are a team and we all strive to make people at Acre feel valued and appreciated. We have a common goal and celebrate each other’s Innovation successes together. We want Acre to be the best it can be for our clients, our candidates We embrace new ideas and and our employees. technology, as well as the innovation and creativity of our employees. 4 Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 Progress on 2010 Commitments 2010 Commitments Actions Further reduce our business and This year we introduced video commuting travel by being as flexible conferencing facilities to conduct as possible with regard to sustainable international meetings and interviews travel options and conduct ‘virtual’ with our clients and candidates with meetings where possible. great success. We continue to support cycling and running to work as part of not only a healthy lifestyle, but as a sustainable means of transport to the office and to meetings. Continue to demonstrate our Through the Acre Foundation we are commitment to the UN Global Compact supporting the charity War Child who through the development of a range are helping to protect children from of initiatives that support the values of the brutal effects of war and its this programme. consequences. We continue to promote greater environmental awareness through our work with graduates and engage in regular partnerships with highly-regarded educational institutions in our field. Continue to innovate on ‘best practice’ We have presented at a range of in our spheres of influence namely educational and industry seminars on sustainability and recruitment. the sustainability industry and emerging trends in relation to the technical expertise needed within these roles. Provide leadership and knowledge Since our last sustainability report, sharing within our sector, including the we have released a 2012 CR & production of further white papers and Sustainability Salary Survey, which was reports. also very well received in the industry. We have also produced two white papers. Develop further initiatives for Acre to Our volunteering and fundraising positively impact the community. activities have contributed to some deserving causes. We have also initiated staff volunteering opportunities to allow our employees to make a difference in our local community. Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 5 Environment Acre’s move to a self-serviced office will allow us to have a greater influence on our environmental impact. We will be monitoring our energy and water consumption and will be looking at how we can reduce further. 55Our new office, by virtue of being more modern, is more energy efficient than our last Energy 55We ensure that air conditioning is appropriately adjusted to ensure maximisation of impact with minimal energy usage 55There is no lift in our new office. This reduces our environmental impact and is good for staff fitness 55Our new thin client IT system requires far less energy than our previous energy intensive PCs 55There’s been an increase in the number of people Transport cycling to work, and an positive uptake in our ‘Cycle to Work’ scheme 55We are ensuring that we walk or cycle to as many meetings as possible Water 55No water cooler purchased for new office due to the unnecessary cost and excess energy usage 55Filter jug used for drinking water supply, reducing electronic filtering 55Improved recycling facilities with waste sorted into different streams Waste & Recycling 55Increased use of technology take-back and electronic recycling services 55Re-use and allocate new homes for unwanted furniture and equipment 6 Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 Environment Reduce 55Our weekly meetings are now paperless, and therefore reducing our printout needs 55The introduction of more laptops will further reduce the reliance on paper for printing 55Our stationery is made from 80% 100% recycled materials and is 99% recyclable 55Catering products (drinks, tea, coffee, sugar etc) are all organic and fairtrade where possible. The packaging is Procurement 99% recyclable after use 55Janitorial: we purchase only eco-products with that contain less harmful chemicals and 99% recyclable packaging 55Here are some of the brands we use: Clipper Fairtrade tea bags, Cambridge 100 % Recycled Notebooks, Ecover janitorial products (hand soap, dishwasher tablets, washing-up liquid), Ecolabel writing supplies Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 7 Our Carbon Impact 2010 Carbon Emissions 2011/12 Carbon Emissions Source of Emissions CO2 Emitted (t/yr) Source of Emissions CO2 Emitted (t/yr) Electricity 10.8 Electricity 23.0 Business Travel 2.3 Business Travel 1.0 Commuting 9.9 Commuting 11.0 Waste 1.0 Waste 0 Total: 24.0 Total: 35.0 Target for 2011/12 21.6 Target for 2012/13 35.0 .36 tonnes of .55 tonnes of carbon per person carbon per person last year this year Our increased carbon footprint can be mostly attributed to our move to a larger office. Our old office was 1190 sq. ft. compared to 2598 sq. ft. in our new office. You can see this reflected in our 113 percent increase in our electricity usage. Target for 2012/13 We have set our target for next year at the same total as 2011/12 emissions: 35.0 tonnes. Although this may seem cautious, we are anticipating growth in head count over the coming months so this will actually represent a significant decrease in emissions on a per person basis. 8 Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 Staff Engagement AcreFoundation This year saw the launch of The Acre Foundation the charitable arm of Acre Resources. The decision to set-up the Foundation was driven by a need to have a coherent and joined-up approach to the variety of charitable work we did as a business allowing us to highlight this giving to our customers and clients. The Foundation supports a range of good causes and is run by Acre’s staff with the support of our clients, suppliers and board of directors. Acre Resources is a skilled and passionate group of recruiters with interests across a range of charities and the Foundation allows for a strategic and proactive approach to working with these partners. To date the Acre Foundation has raised £14,393 and staff have volunteered a total of 44 hours to the below charities: Acre continues to support Kiva, a non-profit organisation working on the principals of microfinance that connects people through lending to alleviate poverty. Every new Acre employee is given £100 upon joining to loan through Kiva to entrepreneurs in developing countries. Acre has continued to partner with the Octavia Foundation to develop the ‘Gateways to Work’ programme aimed at supporting unemployed people who reside in nearby boroughs and are seeking work. Through this scheme, we provide mentorship to clients of Octavia’s employment and training projects, with the aim of assisting individuals into work and therefore helping them achieve greater long term control over their circumstances. The Acre team have engaged with a number of Octavia’s clients throughout the year to assist them in securing work via enhancing key skills such as engagement and communications, as well as assisting with CV development and interview training through a series of one-to-one sessions. This has lead to various successes in these individuals securing new opportunities in the work environment helping them to grow and develop both professionally and personally. Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 9 Staff Engagement Staff volunteer scheme We recently introduced a scheme that gives each member of our team four volunteering days leave a year and initiated several opportunities for the team to volunteer en masse. We participated in ‘Jubilee Hour’ – a brand new volunteering initiative in the year of the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee, encouraging people across the UK to donate 60 minutes of their time to celebrate the Queen’s 60 years of public service. Acre also joined St. Hilda’s East Community Centre to assist in hosting a day of themed events for the older people who use the centre. The day consisted of helping pensioners make Jubilee-themed decorations, making and serving lunch, hosting a quiz and serving afternoon tea. We also worked with Thames21, one of the country’s leading waterway charities. They work with communities across Greater London to improve rivers, canals, ponds and lakes for people and wildlife. Thames21 aims to transform neglected and littered waterways into areas that everyone can use and enjoy with an innovative and tailored community approach. Acre donated time to assist with a variety of practical outdoor activities to get ‘hands on’ in the clear-up of London’s rivers and riverbanks. This proved to be very successful with the Acre team; it allowed individuals to see exactly how just a few hours of their day can make a significant difference to a community garden and to those individuals who get to enjoy the space. 10 Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 Community Investment Ecoscheme Since Acre’s formation in 2003 we have supported local and global charities through our Ecoscheme which makes regular financial donations for each job placement we make. We ask clients who’ve had an individual placed by Acre to select from one of the following three charities: The simple idea behind Cool Earth is that rainforests are worth much more to the human race left standing. Cool Earth is a unique charity that is saving the world’s most endangered rainforests through working with local communities to secure forests at risk of being destroyed within the next 18 months. Cool Earth works to build local and community capacity to make a difference, ensuring that less than 10% of their supporters’ money is spent on administration. Their vision is to help establish strong and vibrant communities in central London and improve the quality of life for individuals. Octavia Foundation’s work is intended to increase the strength and effectiveness of community life; improving local conditions, especially for people in disadvantaged situations, enabling people to take part in public decision-making, and helping them to achieve greater longterm control over their circumstances. The EDGE of existence programme aims to conserve the world’s most Evolutionarily Distinct and Globally Endangered (EDGE) species by implementing the research and conservation action needed to secure their future. This donation will support the Zoological Society of London (ZSL) raising awareness of these species with local communities, supporting in-country experts in research projects and advising governments on sustainable conservation. In total Acre donated £1,995 the above charities in 2011/12. Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 11 The Workplace An equal opportunity employer Acre is an equal opportunity employer and provides services to our clients that satisfy the objectives and intentions of all global legislation and codes of practice pertaining to equal opportunities in employment. Our Equal Opportunities Policy opposes all forms of discrimination against employees, applicants for employment, trainees and persons providing a service to the company, or seconded to the company, on the grounds of: 55Colour, race, nationality, religion, ethnic or national origin 55Sex or marital status 55Disability 55Age 55Spent criminal convictions 55Sexual orientation Staff Development 2011/12 marked a number of achievements within our team: 55Seven internal promotions 55Continued investment in internal and external training 55Study leave for those who are looking to undertake further education 55Community volunteering days 55Quarterly reports on company financial performance by directors to staff Global Compact & Bribery Act Acre is a member of the UN Global Compact and actively integrate its principles within our business activities. We are strong advocates of human rights and equal opportunities and regularly review our internal policies to address the Bribery Act. 12 Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 Developing the Sustainability Marketplace Knowledge Leader Acre recognises that it operates in a rapidly evolving marketplace and that it’s in a position to have a positive and meaningful impact on the individuals who operate within it. In 2011/12 we have again been involved in a range of initiatives which have increased knowledge within the sustainability space. We continue to contribute to the knowledge base of the sector by releasing white papers that offer ‘thought leadership’ and discussion in the sustainability space. This year we released ‘The Evolution of the Energy Manager: From Boiler Room to Board Room’ that highlighted the commercial returns that can be achieved by investing in the latest energy management skills. Career Coaching and Events Acre continues to offer Career Coaching which we believe helps individuals discover the pathways into the sustainability marketplace. We have already placed several candidates in key roles within the sustainability marketplace who’ve undertaken our coaching service. Our ‘Green Events’ page showcases conferences and other events that may be of interest to our clients and candidates. We allow other companies to advertise their events here for free. Graduates Acre’s ‘Graduate Advice’ section demonstrates support for individuals who represent the future of the global sustainability marketplace. We also host a Graduate Network on LinkedIn and offer a free graduate advertising service to our clients for graduate placements. CR & Sustainability Salary Survey In July 2012 we published the 2012 CR & Sustainability Salary Survey in partnership with corporate responsibility consultancy Acona, industry publication Ethical Performance and creative communications agency Flag. Now in its fourth year, the survey and it’s participants provided an insight into the individuals employed in this expanding marketplace, from the types of organisations they work for, to their job functions, salaries and career backgrounds. Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12 13 Future Actions 2012/13 commitments 55Reduce the environmental impact of our business (per head); a challenge given our extensive business growth plans. We aim to do this through continuing to develop initiatives and promote behaviour changes which have a positive impact 55Continue to build the Acre Foundation in order to make a difference to causes that represent our passions and values 55Increase our output of key industry thought leadership pieces, to enable our industry and those specialists within it to flourish and create a sustainable future 55Continue supporting mentees through the Octavia programme Further information For more information contact: Acre’s Managing Director: Acre’s Marketing Executive: Andy Cartland Steve Hurst +44 (0) 20 7400 5571 +44 (0) 20 7400 5590 andy@acre-resources.com steve@acre-resources.com 14 Acre Resources: Sustainability Report 2011/12
