Environmental Resources Management UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Addendum to the ERM Sustainability Report 2012, available on www.erm.com The world’s leading sustainability consultancy Contents 1 Message from the CEO 2 Communication on Progress 2 Commitment and Policy 3 Human Rights 4 Labor 5 Environment 6 Anti-corruption 7 UNGC Content Index Message from the CEO This year ERM has published its first sustainability report, which also During FY12, we continued to strengthen our efforts across each of serves as our first Communication on Progress since becoming our seven core areas of sustainability: people, health and safety, signatories to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2011. business conduct and ethics, environment, community, thought As a company, we are committed to implementing the Ten Principles leadership and clients. This report details our progress in aligning our of the UNGC in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and operations with the Ten Principles of the UNGC, and our ongoing anti-corruption, and advancing them within our sphere of influence. support for the broader sustainability goals of the United Nations. As the world’s leading sustainability consultancy ERM is a truly global company that provides worldwide consulting services and innovative In keeping with our commitment to the UNGC, we will measure and solutions in more than 160 countries that help clients improve how report on our progress against the Ten Principles annually through they understand, manage and reduce their impacts on the world. Our our sustainability reporting. clients are from a wide range of sectors including oil and gas, power, mining, manufacturing, chemical, pharmaceutical, consumer goods, legal and financial institutions and government. John Alexander Chief Executive Officer The Ten Principles of the UNGC closely align with ERM’s own values and principles, and our ‘One Planet. One Company. ERM.’ business strategy, which places sustainability at the heart of our global activities. At ERM, sustainability means ensuring the safety and development of our employees, upholding the highest standards in business conduct and ethics, making a positive contribution towards meeting the world’s environmental challenges, contributing to local communities, advancing sustainability through thought leadership and developing innovative solutions to meet our clients’ needs.  ERM UNGC Report 2012 1 Communication Commitment on Progress and Policy This report has been prepared in accordance with current UNGC ERM operates under a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code reporting guidance, including the following standards: of Conduct), in conjunction with our Sustainability Policy and >> Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership (2010); Sustainability Approach (Approach). Our Code of Conduct provides >> Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (2011); and the basis for integrity, respect and fair dealings in all of our daily >> Reporting Guidance on the 10th Principle Against Corruption operations, while our Sustainability Policy and Approach articulate our (2009). sustainability commitments across our seven key performance areas. As this is our first Communication on Progress, we have set out These are publicly available on erm.com, along with other key global each section to outline our company approach and commitments policies including ERM’s Global Diversity Policy, Child and Forced in the key areas of human rights, labor, environment and antiLabor Policy and our Supplier/Sub-contractor Business Conduct corruption, our key initiatives to improve performance, and highlights Information. Our Code of Conduct and policies are applicable across of our progress this past year. The details of our performance are our global operations and support our commitment to the highest contained in our Sustainability Report covering the fiscal year 2012 standards of operation. Our Code of Conduct is available in (FY12, 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012) with the content index seventeen languages and supports all Ten Principles. providing direct links. Under the direction of the Group Executive Committee, ERM’s The report has also been prepared in alignment with GRI’s G3.1 Sustainability Advisory Committee (SAC) leads an annual risk Reporting Guidelines to a GRI checked Application Level C. assessment process with senior management across the Group to identify material issues for the organization. From this process, the Corresponding UN Reporting Guidance and GRI indicators and the Executive Committee approves and establishes annual sustainability location of disclosures related to the Ten Principles within this report key performance indicators (KPIs) and targets for the organization, are detailed in our UNGC Content Index on pages 7–10. For more which are disclosed in our Sustainability Report. To support our information on GRI, see our online GRI Content Index. commitment in driving business performance, significant progress is being made in our information management systems to provide timely, accurate and robust data to inform program development and implementation. Decisions on a range of new information management tools were made in FY12 relating to human resources, sustainability, learning and development, and contractor and sub-contractor management, and these systems are planned for implementation from FY13.  ERM UNGC Report 2012 2 Human Rights As a global business with operations in 39 countries and territories, Measurement of outcomes and activities in more than 160 countries, we recognize our Our Sustainability Report outlines our performance in FY12, with responsibility to support and respect the protection of internationally highlights including: proclaimed human rights, as defined by the UN Guiding Principles. >> Development of specifications for a new global system for We have instituted a range of policies and commitments to uphold reducing, and in time, eliminating risks associated with our these principles in our operations and activities. ERM’s written sub-contractors and suppliers related to health and safety, commitments are listed in the Content Index on pages 7 and 8. insurance, business conduct and ethics, and supplier diversity which are elements of a strong human rights framework. This In addition, our approach to sustainability is focused on using the platform will provide ERM with a consistent mechanism for opportunity we have of working with companies across the world to qualifying and monitoring vendors, suppliers and sub-contractors improve their practices. ERM has a Human Rights Working Group, based on services performed, and other risk exposure criteria. which is focused on providing advice to our clients on their Human >> Enhancement of the training of local compliance officers in Rights risks and obligations, as part of our service offerings. Our business units, including strengthened reporting processes work in this area is growing as clients realize the need to address related to compliance to enable us to better understand and human rights issues in their business, and how this in central to so improve our own performance. many aspects of their operations. >> Contribution of over $900,000 USD in company funds, as well as $374,000 USD in staff contributions, to the work of the ERM As a member of UNGC, we seek to improve our own organizational Foundation and its Low Carbon Enterprise Fund (LCEF). performance, while at the same time providing leadership and advice >> No instances of fines or non-monetary sanctions as a result to our clients, as the business sector seeks to improve its of material non-compliance with laws and regulations. understanding of and performance in human rights. Implementation ERM has continued to build our organizational capacity as part of our adherence to our Code of Conduct. We have strengthened our training programs, developing further online modules in the ERM Academy on our Code of Conduct, which includes human rights elements. We believe it is important to work with our all our suppliers, vendors and sub-contractors to improve the understanding and practices of those with whom we work. We intend to implement a new approach to manage sub-contractors in FY13 to ensure they meet ERM’s requirements, and in turn our clients’ requirements. Through our work with the ERM Foundation we provide advice and support to communities across the world. Our approach to working with communities includes enhancing their access to resources, including clean water and lower carbon energy sources, as well as improving educational opportunities and livelihoods. All of these activities support the fundamental rights of individuals and communities to build a better life. In FY13, we will continue to look at ways of strengthening our approach to human rights across our operations, in the execution of our projects and the services we provide to our clients, as well as continuing our involvement in organizations working to advance human rights globally.  ERM UNGC Report 2012 3 Labor We are committed to creating a work environment that protects the to map our existing approaches, performance and activities across safety and health of our people, remains free from discrimination and the business, and identify ways in which we can enhance the harassment, and reflects the diversity of the clients we serve, and diversity of our business. communities in which we operate. Our social and health consulting services team work with clients ERM’s Code of Conduct describes the Company’s expectation that around the world to identify and provide advice on labor issues. our interactions with each other, our clients and local communities be This includes the development of strategies, management plans, characterized by integrity, fairness and respect. In conjunction with information management systems and auditing to the SA8000 our Global Diversity Policy, the Code of Conduct sets out our labor standard. commitment to diversity and prohibits harassment and discrimination in all forms. As an international organization, ERM believes that our Measurement of outcomes workforce should include individuals from diverse academic, Our Sustainability Report outlines our performance in FY12, with experiential and social backgrounds. highlights including: >> Measuring the age and gender balance in different career levels The quality and passion in our work, and therein ultimately the across the organization to better understand the demographics of performance and success of our business, is a direct result of the our employees. close community of our people – “ERMers”. Our aim as a business >> Setting a goal for FY13 to increase the ratio of women to men in is to provide a safe, supportive and fertile environment for work in the categories of senior consultant and Partners by an increment which everyone can thrive and develop personally and professionally. of 5 percent from FY12 levels. We conduct a Global Engagement Survey annually to gauge >> Joining the Diversity and Inclusion in Asia Network (DIAN) to further employee satisfaction within ERM, and to identify areas with promote diversity. improvement potential. >> Conducting and responding to the results of our annual employee engagement survey. Our “You See It. You Own It. And Share It.” behavior-based safety >> Enhancing our global knowledge management system to increase culture is designed to keep health and safety at the forefront of the the access of materials, tools, links and specialist teams and to thoughts and actions of our people, as well as to ensure compliance improve engagement across the global organization. with internal policies and regulatory requirements. We also utilize this >> Improving our employee learning platform, the ERM Academy, in expertise and experience in the professional health and safety advice order to improve the learning and development opportunities for we provide to our clients in keeping with our approach of furthering our employees. best practices in the business community, including our sub>> Holding two live global discussions hosted by CEO John contractors and suppliers. Alexander, inviting employees from around the world to discuss with senior leaders ERM’s sustainability program and performance. ERM supports international efforts against child and forced labor and has a specific No Child or Forced Labor Policy that prohibits the use of child or forced labor or involvement by ERM with entities that support prohibited labor practices, including slavery, bonded labor or debt-bondage, and other types of coercion. Implementation ERM made significant investments in our people programs in FY12. Through a strengthened human resources function that worked closely with other key functions, as well as our business units, we reviewed our systems and processes as part of our goal of developing our people in line with our business strategy. We made decisions to improve our systems related to the management of our contractors and sub-contractors globally, in order to meet our commitments to labor standards and laws. As an organization, we believe in and expect all our people to abide by the principles of partnership, respect for each and every individual and mutual support across the world. We ensure this is an early focus for all our people through its inclusion in our mandatory induction training for all staff and contractors globally. Under the auspices of the Sustainability Advisory Committee (SAC), we intend  ERM UNGC Report 2012 4 Environment ERM is committed to further reducing our environmental footprint Our commercial team leaders are regularly working with our key and achieving more sustainable outcomes for ERM, our clients and technical staff to develop innovative solutions that address the society, and for the benefit of present and future generations. We use growing sustainability challenges being faced by our clients our market leading expertise to reduce the environmental footprint of Examples of outcomes from this innovation include strengthening our clients, as well as our own organization. sustainable remediation practices, refining ecosystem services valuation, driving adaption based on climate change physical risk As a global consultancy, our most significant environmental issue are analysis, and improving environmental footprinting and life cycle greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions generated by business travel and assessment methodologies. by energy use at our offices. We also consider resource utilization (primarily office supplies), green buildings and office-related waste as ERM provides financial contributions and pro bono time to support important issues for our business. Our commitments associated with the activities of the ERM Foundation and its LCEF. These activities these issues are set out in our Sustainability Policy and Approach. focus on environmental initiatives within local communities, relating to carbon reduction, conservation and biodiversity, environmental By helping our clients strive to achieve better outcomes, we not only education, and clean water and sanitation, and also provide tangible contribute to the sustainability of their businesses but also help to social and economic benefits. address broader global challenges, such as access to natural resources and energy, biodiversity and preserving key characteristics Measurement of outcomes of local communities. Our Sustainability Report outlines our performance in FY12, with highlights including: We also continue to increase our profile in key organizations that >> Piloting our Green Buildings Guideline – providing guidance to are working towards solutions for critical sustainability challenges, offices that are moving or refurbishing, including our Boston office including the World Business Council for Sustainable Development which achieved LEED Gold status in FY12. (WBCSD) and the Business and Biodiversity Offsets Program (BBOP). >> Piloting the Nightwatchman software designed to improve the energy efficiency of our information technology equipment. Implementation >> Existence of video conferencing capabilities in 57 of our offices FY12 brought further improvement in our environmental data globally, accessible to over 80% of our staff and logging over collection processes. We focused on obtaining a better 10,000 hours of time. understanding of our own GHG emissions and data sources in the >> Almost 80% of paper purchased in FY12 possessed an locations in which we operate. We also updated our reporting environmental credential. guidance, conducted training sessions and developed improved >> Being invited to join the BBOP Advisory Group, which is helping tools for data collection. companies to conserve biodiversity in an ecologically effective and economically efficient manner as they pursue their business goals. Not only are we continually looking for ways in which we can reduce >> The reappointment of Braulio Pikman, a Partner/employee in the energy consumption in the office buildings that we currently Brazil, to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate occupy, but we remain committed to moving our operations Change (UNFCCC) CDM Methodologies Panel. progressively to more sustainable office spaces as leases are >> Contributing over $900,000 to the ERM Foundation and its renewed or signed. We have developed and piloted Green Building programs, with the LCEF exceeding $1 million in commitments Guidelines which help inform our decisions when selecting new and investment since its inception in 2008. office space or refurbishing existing space. Our individual offices have been engaging with staff and implementing behavioral change campaigns, and we are working on a global approach using proven best practices from offices company-wide that have already undergone a transition to more sustainable operations. Energetic and engaged employees around the world continue to successfully champion local environmental improvement initiatives in their offices. We are a sustainability consulting firm, with a strong history in the environmental field. Over the past five years, we have worked for more than 50 percent of the Global Fortune 500 companies, delivering innovative solutions for business and other clients.  ERM UNGC Report 2012 5 Anti-corruption ERM supports governmental efforts to combat bribery and >> Participating in global conferences and collaborative projects that corruption and our commitment is detailed in our Global Anti-Bribery help us, as well as others, progress the cause of sustainable, and Corruption (ABC) Policy. ethical business, including: –– Aiding international law enforcement regarding anti-bribery/ ERM carries out at least two jurisdictional risk assessments a year corruption, trade sanctions, data security and money regarding ABC and Child and Forced Labor risk. We choose laundering, including participation at the FBI Corporate locations based on risk factors including but not limited to Compliance Officer Outreach Event in Washington, DC, in Transparency International high risk categorization. For certain risk September 2011; areas, ERM has developed additional policies. Examples of additional –– Participation at the 2012 Global Ethics Summit in New York on detailed policies include Gifts and Entertainment, Interacting with the topic of BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) and Government Officials, and our highly customized and industryemerging market development; and specific conflict of interest provisions of our Code of Conduct –– Membership on the working group that is developing the GRI (Section 4). G4 guidelines for anti-corruption business practices. >> External recognition of our leadership in business ethics with Ann Our policies regarding our vendor relationships are detailed in our Chilton, ERM’s Global Compliance Officer, recognized as one of the Code of Conduct (Section 6), as well in our erm.com section on ‘Attorneys Who Matter’ in ethics and compliance by Ethisphere. Supplier/Subcontractor Business Conduct Information. >> Examining business unit operations in Latin America and Asia Pacific (APAC) in FY12, and we have committed to examine For a full list of relevant policies, see ERM written commitments in the additional business units in both APAC and Europe, Middle East Content Index on pages 7 and 8 of this report. and Africa (EMEA) in FY13. Implementation Putting our business conduct and ethics commitments into action in every ERM office and activity, every day, depends upon the involvement and awareness of individual employees and the leadership of every manager and Partner. Training is a critical element in maintaining awareness and involvement. We continue to enhance our training program in order that our employees are aware of ERM’s commitments, policies and standards relating to anti-corruption and have mandated training required for new starters, all employees and those in key roles. In FY12, we updated our ABC compliance training via the ERM Academy, our online learning management system, incorporating e-learning approaches to effectively deliver the training to a highly dispersed workforce. ERM takes a holistic view of operational risks, and we have implemented an analytical framework that coordinates and integrates the evaluation of various risk elements. Our Project Liability Analysis (PLAN) system enables ERM project managers and Partners to identify and avoid or mitigate project-related risks in a systematic and comprehensive way. Measurment of outcomes Our Sustainability Report outlines our performance in FY12, with highlights including: >> Implementing the PLAN system. >> Enhancing our approach to training through: –– Four new e-learning modules on the ERM Academy, our on-line learning management system, to address requirements of the UK Bribery Act; –– Updating materials and training in several local languages; and –– Increased face to face training related to anti-corruption.  ERM UNGC Report 2012 6 UNGC Content Index The locations of disclosures related to the Ten Principles within our Sustainability Report 2012 are detailed in the tables below, including Reporting Guideline indicators for Principle 10: Relevant GRI indicators ERM Corresponding Partially Fully Global Compact Principle Written Commitment Sustainability Report reference reported reported Human Rights Principle 1 – Businesses should Code of Conduct (Principles); Our People LA7, LA8, HR9, SO5 support and respect the 1.2 (Global Considerations); LA13, HR6, protection of internationally 1.3 (Diversity); 1.4 (No Retaliation); Health and Safety HR7 proclaimed human rights. 5.1 (Respect and Fair Treatment). Business Conduct and Ethics Principle 2 – Businesses should Code of Conduct (Principles); >> Internal Auditing and HR6, HR7 HR9, SO5 make sure that they are not 1.2 (Global Considerations); Risk Assessment complicit in human rights abuses. 1.3 (Diversity); 1.4 (No Retaliation); >> Training 5.1 (Respect and Fair Treatment). >> Business Relationships >> Leadership in Business Ethics Community >> Low Carbon Enterprise Fund Labour Principle 3 – Businesses should Code of Conduct 5.1 (Respect Our People SO5 uphold the freedom of and Fair Treatment); 6.2 (Fair >> Professional Development association and the effective competition and Anti-Trust Laws). >> Employee Engagement recognition of the right to >> Diversifying the Workforce collective bargaining. >> Work/Life balance Principle 4 – Businesses should Code of Conduct 5.1 (Respect Health and Safety SO5 uphold the elimination of all forms and Fair Treatment); 6.1 (Fair >> Leadership and of forced and compulsory labour. Dealing); No Child or Forced Accountability Labor Policy. >> Sub-contractor management >> Health and Safety Principle 5 – Businesses should Code of Conduct 5.1 (Respect Performance SO5 uphold the effective abolition of and Fair Treatment); 6.1 (Fair child labour. Dealing); No Child or Forced Business Conduct and Ethics Labor Policy. >> Internal Auditing and Risk Assessment Principle 6 – Businesses should Code of Conduct 5.1 (Respect LA2 SO5 uphold the elimination of and Fair Treatment). Community discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Thought Leadership  ERM UNGC Report 2012 7 UNGC Content Index continued Relevant GRI indicators ERM Corresponding Partially Fully Global Compact Principle Written Commitment Sustainability Report reference reported reported Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should Code of Conduct 5.3 (Comply Environment EC2, EN26 SO5 support a precautionary with environmental laws and >> Our Carbon Footprint approach to environmental ERM’s environmental policies); >> Office Emissions and challenges. Sustainability Policy; Energy Use Sustainability Approach. >> Business Travel >> Resources and Waste Principle 8 – Businesses should Code of Conduct 5.3 (Comply EN1, EN22, EN3, EN4, undertake initiatives to with environmental laws and Community EN26 EN16, EN17, promote greater environmental ERM’s environmental policies); EN23, EN28, responsibility. Sustainability Policy; Thought Leadership SO5 Sustainability Approach. Principle 9 – Businesses should Code of Conduct 5.3 (Comply EN26 SO5 encourage the development with environmental laws and and diffusion of environmentally ERM’s environmental policies); friendly technologies. Sustainability Policy; Sustainability Approach; ERM contributions to the ERM Foundation and the Low Carbon Enterprise Fund; ERM business strategy ‘One Planet. One Company. ERM.’ Principle 10 – Businesses should Code of Conduct Principles; See Anti-corruption table SO2, SO4 SO3, SO5, work against corruption in all Section 1.1 (Overview of ethical (on next page). SO6 its forms, including extortion and legal standards); 1.2 (Global and bribery. Considerations); 4 (Conflicts of Interest); 5.3 (Comply with environmental laws and ERM’s environmental policies); 5.4 (Accuracy of Books, Records and Reports); 5.6 (Improper Use or Theft); 5.7 (Securities Trading); 6.6 (Gifts, Bribes and Kickbacks); Sustainability Policy; Insider Trading Policy; Antibribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy.  ERM UNGC Report 2012 8 UNGC Content Index continued Further details on Principle 10 – Anti-corruption. Basic Principles Sustainability Report reference B1 – Publicly stated commitment to work against corruption in all its Business Conduct and Ethics forms, including bribery and extortion. B2 – Commitment to be in compliance with all relevant laws, including Business Conduct and Ethics anti-corruption laws. B3 – Translation of the anti-corruption commitment into actions. Business Conduct and Ethics >> Internal Auditing and Risk Assessment >> Training >> Business Relationships >> Leadership in Business Ethics B4 – Support by the organization’s leadership for anti-corruption. See Anti-corruption section above Message from the CEO Business Conduct and Ethics >> Leadership in Business Ethics B5 – Communication and training on the anti-corruption commitment Business Conduct and Ethics for all employees. >> Training B6 – Internal checks and balances to ensure consistency with the Business Conduct and Ethics anti-corruption commitment. >> Internal Auditing and Risk Assessment >> Business Relationships B7 – Monitoring and improvement processes. Business Conduct and Ethics >> Internal Auditing and Risk Assessment >> Business Relationships  ERM UNGC Report 2012 9 UNGC Content Index continued Desired Principles Sustainability Report reference D1 – Publicly stated formal policy of zero-tolerance of corruption. See ERM Written Commitments in UNGC Content Index (above) D2 – Statement of support for international and regional legal See ERM Written Commitments in UNGC Content Index (above) frameworks, such as the UN Convention against corruption. UN Global Compact letter D3 – Carrying out risk assessment of potential areas of corruption. Business Conduct and Ethics >> Internal Auditing and Risk Assessment D4 – Detailed policies for high-risk areas of corruption. See ERM Written Commitments in UNGC Content Index (above) D5 – Policy on anti-corruption regarding business partners. See ERM Written Commitments in UNGC Content Index (above) D6 – Actions taken to encourage business partners to implement Business Conduct and Ethics anti-corruption commitments. >> Business Relationships D7 – Management responsibility and accountability for Business Conduct and Ethics implementation of the anti-corruption commitment or policy. >> Internal Auditing and Risk Assessment >> Training >> Business Relationships >> Leadership in Business Ethics Thought Leadership D8 – Human Resources procedures supporting the anti-corruption Business Conduct and Ethics commitment or policy. >> Training Our People >> Professional Development D9 – Communications (whistleblowing) channels and follow up Code of Conduct (Local Compliance Officers) mechanisms for reporting concerns or seeking advice. www.erm.com D10 – Internal accounting and auditing procedures related to Business Conduct and Ethics anti-corruption. >> Internal Auditing and Risk Assessment D11 – Participation in voluntary anti-corruption initiatives. Business Conduct and Ethics >> Leadership in Business Ethics  ERM UNGC Report 2012 10 Xxxxxxx x xxx xxxxxxx ERM has over 140 offices across the following countries and territories worldwide: Argentina Australia Belgium Brazil Canada China Colombia France Germany Hong Kong Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Italy Japan Kazakhstan Malaysia Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Panama Peru Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Romania Russia Singapore South Africa South Korea Spain Sweden Taiwan Thailand United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States of America Vietnam Find office contact details by visiting www.erm.com
