The Adherence to the Ten Guiding Principles Principles (GRI indicators Company's Policy & Direction (Approach/ Specific actions taken (Outcomes with Key results and correlated with) Process/ Deployment) measurements) Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and We follow the International Declaration of Human 1. Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC), which embodies our values, was adopted respect the protection of Rights. Our HR policies and procedures have and is explained (in languages besides English, also in Hindi). At the entry internationally proclaimed human been modelled accordingly. point, all employees in the organization including new entrants sign the rights TCOC. Regular trainings are conducted. A film on TCOC has also been prepared internally for wide circulation and reinforcement of ethical code amongst all employees & other stakeholders. 2. At entry point of their engagement, all employees are provided with a Service Rule book, which lay down various rules for the officers, like working hours of all employees, facilities provided by the company, including leave entitlement, etc. 3. Regular dialogues/feedbacks are conducted across the organization with/from all employees during various Communication Meets. Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in TCoC expressly commits to treat all employees 1. The Company ensures that it engages in business with suppliers, vendors, human rights abuses with dignity and to conduct its business fairly etc. who are compatible with the practices of the Company as laid down in without making any discriminations. the TCOC. Also, our HR/IR processes are derived through a 2. Any issue of conflict is addressed and peacefully resolved by the top consultative process, i.e. joint discussion of the management in discussion with the Union. management with the Union. 3. There is also a Safety Council, Welfare Committee, Whistle-Blower Protection Committee, Sexual Harassment Committee, Grievance Cell to address the various issues raised by the employees. Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses Should uphold the TSPDL engages in a process of 'collective The management interacts with labour Unions for fixation of salaries, labour freedom of association and the bargaining' through employee Union and periodic welfare measures, productivity bonus and all such decisions are arrived at effective recognition of the right to negotiations take place (every 3 years, a Wage with mutual consent, considering the performance parameters of the collective bargaining Negotiated settlement is arrived at) as per our Company. Company policy. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of As per the Govt of India policies, forced and There is no forced and/or compulsory labour in Tata Steel Processing And forced and compulsory labour compulsory labour is banned. The Company Distribution Limited. policies support this Principle. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child The Company's Recruitment & Selection Policy 1.The Company engages employees over 18 years of age only and deals labour ensures that only adults over 18 years of age are with suppliers and vendors who comply with this requirement. employed by the Company. All suppliers/ Dealers/ Vendors are also informed 2. There is a continuous review & monitoring policy in place to ensure this. on this issue for strict compliance. Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect We abide by our CoC and do NOT discriminate Our HR policies on recruitment and selection are strictly non-discriminatory. of employment and occupation our recruitment & selection process on the basis Right to employment in the organization is protected & practised regardless of caste/creed/sex/religion etc. of religion, caste, creed or sex. This is also laid down in TCOC. Principles (GRI indicators Company's Policy & Direction (Approach/ Specific actions taken (Outcomes with Key results and correlated with) Process/ Deployment) measurements) Environmental Protection Principle 7 Businesses should support a The company is pro-environmental in its approach 1. Certain units of the Company are certified to ISO 14000 Environment precautionary approach to & practices and specific policies and guidelines System Standards. environmental challenges exist to set direction that address these Principles and beyond. 2. Environmental Assessment Impact studies & Carbon Footprint exercises are conducted at regular intervals for different business units and recommendations followed up. 3. Operates ETPs to neutralize effluents. 4. TSPDL products do not have any immediate adverse impact on the society, as the process of sizing the steel through slitting, cutting-to-length, roll forming and rebar are all green . 5. Rainwater harvesting is carried out. 6. All e-wastes are disposed off in an environment-friendly manner. 5. Maintains norms for air & water emissions, noise pollution and Forest Act. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote Awareness amongst employees of upkeep and 1. Reducing usage of LDPE, HDPE by using single VCI stretch film in our greater environmental responsibility protection of safe & healthy environment as an Cold-Rolled Processing. inclusive work practice requirement is continuously imparted. 2. Replacing wood with steel pallets. Principle 9 Encourage the development and 1. Impact of products/operations on society is considered at the project diffusion of environmentally friendly feasibility stage itself so that correct technology can be chosen and used. technologies 2. Emphasis is on the use of re-generated acid for pickling operations, or even replacing pickling opeartions entirely with EPS technology. 3. Effluent water is treated to eliminate harmful elements and used for other purposes. Anti-Corruption & Prevention of Bribery Principle 10 Businesses should work against As a Tata Group Company, there is an elaborate 1. A copy of Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC) is given at the time of corruption in all its forms, including system and processes on the ‘Management of employment offer to all, read and signed by every employee. extortion and bribery Business Ethics’ (MBE) and all employees sign our TCOC. The TCOC spells out in clear terms the norms on 2. The company has a Chief Ethics Counsellor and locational Ethics gifts & donations and the ethical ways for Coordinators across the major locations of the Company. The name and conducting the company's business affairs such contact number of the Company's Chief Ethics Counsellor is displayed on all that corruption in workplace is Purchase Orders of the Company to report any untoward ethical breach. A prevented/eliminated. lady Ethics Counsellor has also been nominated to address ethical concerns of female employees. All Management and supervisory staff sign the 3. A Whistle-Blower Policy has been in place since the year 2005. It has Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC). been re-visited again in the year 2008 and appropriate changes made. At the vendor / Suppliers meets, our TCOC is 4. Breaches on ethics, after thorough probe with full transparency, are explained. addressed through exemplary punishment including dismissal, suspension & warnings, with feedback to the top management. This is an ongoing process.
