Get ready to love your future 2010-2011 Activity & Sustainability Report Sharing Information on Progress Get ready to love your future Table of Contents Pg. 4 Activity & Sustainability One Strategy One Report Pg. 5 2010-2011 A Year of Excellence Chapter One: Our Strategy Pg. 8 Humans at the Heart of Management Pg. 10 The Scope of our Responsibility Pg. 12 Euromed Management at a Glance Pg. 14 12 Months 12 Events Chapter Two: 5 Areas of Commitment Pg. 18 AREA 1 School Governance Pg. 24 AREA 2 Pedagological Approach Pg. 28 AREA 3 Research Pg. 32 AREA 4 Social Policy and Community Involvement Pg. 35 AREA 5 Green Campus Management Chapter Three: Our Performance Pg. 38 Financial & Extra-Financial Performance Pg. 40 Performance Indicators 2010-2011 Pg. 42 Performance Index Chapter Four: A Word from our Stakeholders Pg. 52 Students & Alumni Pg. 54 Academic & Business Partners Pg. 56 Staff Pg. 57 Peers Activity & Sustainability One Strategy One Report 4 This report is Euromed Management’s and more sustainable performance. It also first integrated activity and sustainhelps us reinforce our dialogue with our ability report. Reporting on sustainable stakeholders and improves transparency development started in 2005 with our first across the board. As in previous reports Communication on Progress Report (for the we will seek to present our successes as United Nations Global Compact), and was well the areas where we need to improve. followed by two sustainable development reports. Through this reporting process, What is integrated reporting? we have become aware of the necessity to integrate financial and extra-financial Integrated Reporting demonstrates the linkages between an organisareporting into one document. For the past tion’s strategy, governance and financial performance and the social, two years, we have based our analysis on environmental and economic context within which it operates. By the sustainable development indicators reinforcing these connections, Integrated Reporting can help business within our “Green Plan” that is divided into five areas: strategy and governance, to take more sustainable decisions and enable investors and other teaching and training, research activities, stakeholders to understand how an organisation is really performing. social policy and community involvement and environmental management. International Integrated Reporting Committee, IIRC The French Green Plan* was launched The information gathered for this report in June 2010 by the presidents of the covers the period of July 2010-July 2011 “Conférence des Grandes Ecoles” (French and mainly focuses on our French camBusiness and Engineering Schools) and the pus activities. As can be expected, we have “Conférence des Présidents d’Universités integrated our Toulon Campus activities (Public Universities), the French Minister into most of our analysis. We will also of Higher Education and Research and highlight other campus activities, in parthe French Minister of Ecology, Energy, ticular in China & Morocco. Sustainable Development and the Sea. It identified sustainable development Following the Green Plan layout, the report plans for higher education institutions. covers last year’s operations and seeks to The Green Plan initiative also provided describe our school’s commitment to both us with clear qualitative and quantitative United Nations Global Compact and the objectives. Principles for Responsible Management Education. (cf. Pg. 11) Incorporating broader indicators into the sustainable development matrix allows * Based on Article 55 of the Grenelle Law 1 (August 2009) for a better understanding of the complex relationship between financial and extrafinancial performance. It also serves as a management tool so that we have a clearer vision of the risks and opportunities of our strategy. We firmly believe that quality reporting leads to better decision making 2010-2011 a year of excellence The 2010-2011 academic school year was 5 one of the richest and most concentrated years of our history. • Sector Expansion: • Management: Euromed Management continued to invest 2010-2011 was the first year for our new in three key sectors: legal structure. It was characterised by a Maritime and logistics; new HR dynamic (launching of a yearly The social and health fields; and survey) and by a rigorous and exemplary Entertainment. school administration. Since 2003, the school has developed in six The merger with the Graduate School in areas, all of which experienced remarkable Toulon added two new domains of experThe 2010-2011 year will remain a remarkprogress in 2010-2011: tise: industrial management and design. able year in our history. It was the result Having a school of design is a considerable of the Board of Directors’ commitment, • Academics: asset for any management school. Design the academic quality of the faculty, the Euromed Management was able to renew is both a creative force and a differentiatwork of each staff member, the trust of its EQUIS accreditation and achieved the ing factor in company strategies. our corporate partners and student adheAACSB accreditation for the first time. The sion to their pedagogical projects. I am quality of our pedagogy and our research, • Innovation: grateful for this marvellous “euromedien” reinforced by strong corporate relations, We have increased our efforts regarding enthusiasm. made Euromed Management one of the 57 student personal development. The excelbusiness schools1 in the world to hold the lent quality of our practices was revealed François Pierson Triple Crown2. in the EQUIS auditor’s report: “This area Chairman of the Board of Directors can be considered something of an inter• Internationalisation: national best practice”3. Eu romed M an a gement successf ully established itself in Asia with the launch• Responsibility: ing of the Franco-Chinese Institute with Euromed Management includes in its Renmin University. MBA programmes in activities all forms of diversity that can China are doing well and have received have an impact on management. Our national accreditation from the Chinese researchers and our professors are actively Government. The World Med MBA made engaged in the dimensions of corporate its debut in the Financial Times internasocial responsibility. The focal point of the tional top 100 EMBA listing. With what we 2010-2011 year was the co-organisation have achieved in China and our presence of the 7th Bentley Global Business Ethics in Morocco, one could say that Euromed Symposium. This event brought over 250 Management is now in the heart of an academics, business, and civil society leademerging region, in the heart of the world ers from around the world to our campus of tomorrow. in Marseille. 1 As of 01/10/2011 2 AACSB, EQUIS, AMBA 3 cf. Pg. 57 Sophie M.Sc. Entertainment & Media 2011 Class of 2011 Trends Office at Printemps Hausmann chapter one Our Strategy Humans at the Heart of Management 8 We live in a transitional period during which the models the world was built on have reached their limit. alone, Euromed Management brought of our teaching. From our Bachelors to in over 42 external coaches to reinforce ou r Doctora l P rog rammes Eu romed the Personal Development teams, organManagement is focused on providing ised two recruitment fairs and ten job an individualised, flexible, action-based conferences. pedagogy that is also open to the world Going beyond conventional teaching methand its diversity. We do this by raising ods and models, our mission is to invent student awareness on new approaches to Confronted with modern social, ecologia new reference in the management field. complexity during their first year of studcal, economic and financial crisis, paraIn other words, our academic community ies and introducing systemic and longdigms must change. There is an increasseeks to disseminate knowledge through term performance visions. ingly urgent need to move from linear and an educational offer designed to help short-term thinking while we reconsider organisations develop and prosper. We aim Most importantly, we give our students new roles for managers within their comto educate and train managers who are the means to begin their career with conpanies and in a global economy. This is ethical and socially responsible, driven by fidence and optimism. In other words, we why Euromed Management emphasises a international ambition, committed to their prepare them to get ready to love their systemic vision of organisations, a vision own region and who are able to innovate. future. in which humans are at the heart of This is reflected in every aspect of our management. operations and particularly in our pedaProf. Bernard Belletante gogy, research and corporate relations. Director General & Dean Companies are not just the sum of their competences, a juxtaposition between Accomplishing this mission took on a new means or an ensemble of services. They dimension as the current economic crisis are complex structures where everything gathered strength, whether in terms of is interlinked, connected, and interdependexplaining how it occurred, understanding ent. In this perpetually evolving environhow it became generalised, managing its ment technical competence is not enough. impact or developing new managerial modA good manager must also have soft skills els. Last year, our corporate partners played such as leadership, adaptability, responsia large role both inside and outside the bility, creativity, the ability to listen and classroom. Through research activities such to work in a team, and the ability to learn as the Responsible Management Network, from their mistakes. companies worked with our professors on defining the parameters of responsible To this end, we work on identifying and management at the lowest levels of the revealing the potential of each of our stuwork pyramid. dents while they define their career plan This year’s triple accreditation confirmed and develop their competences. Last year our choice of pedagogy and the quality * More information on Pg.11 The Pillars of our Pedagogy Academic Openness to Empowerment 9 Excellence the World How do we know that we have Our Euro-Mediterranean identity Each student is unique. Each stuthe ability to offer our students is a differentiating factor that enadent has ambitions and their own new perspectives regarding their bles us to develop a unique mandefinition of success. We want to future careers? Because the qualagement programme. We train work with each individual and ity of our academics is recognised managers to be both efficient and help them reveal their potential by our triple accreditation, EQUIS, responsible. As future economic and look towards the future with AACSB, and AMBA. Because our leaders, they learn how to work in a confidence. In order to recruit the faculty is involved in the qualitateam and within different cultures, best students, we must assure tive and quantitative development integrating diversity and social their personal development and of our research activities. Because responsibility dynamics. Seeking their “soft skills”. An internawe help our students open themto develop such collective behavtional “best practice”, according selves to the world thanks to an iour we have adopted a systemic to our accreditors (cf. Pg. 57) our international faculty and 169 acaCorporate Social Responsibility personal development approach demic partner institutions across (CSR) strategy. This strategy can be starts by helping students get to the globe. Because we invest in our found in our institutional commitknow themselves, their aspiracampuses and in our international ments (equal opportunity policy, tions and career options. Learning development (new campu ses, environment impact of our campus by doing, students develop their exchanges, dualdegrees, academic activity, etc.) and in our pedagogiemployability. and corporate partnerships). cal commitments (teaching responsible management, research chairs, think-tank, etc.). Our Values: Humanism Responsibility Uniqueness Innovation “The stakes of tomorrow determine the pedagogy of today.” Frédéric Chevalier Chairman of the Strategic Committee The Scope of our Responsibility From the moment a school claims to be a leader in the field of CSR, a number of questions must be raised. What exactly is the extent of a higher education institution’s iron m en ta l responsibility? en v 10 ec al ci on so om On a daily basis a school – like any ic organisation – has an immediate impact our responsibility on its social, economic and physical environment. As educators we also as an organisation have an impact on the people we train and our partners. It is important that Personal well-being Waste and pollution Financial transparency we understand our responsibility conPersonal development Natural resource Short & long-term cerning both positive (e.g., employment) Health & safety preservation financial sustainability and negative (e.g., discrimination, polHuman rights Energy Value creation lution) external consequences of our Social & cultural diversity Climate change Community benefit activities and partnerships. Employability Biodiversity preservation Development Anti-corruption In a business school it is particularly Governance important as we contribute to the shaping of the behaviour and decisions of as a school future managers and world leaders. Socially responsible Inclusion of environmenLong-term vision of behaviour of graduates tal sustainability issues in graduates and partners Euromed Management’s commitment and partners the managerial decisions Participation of graduates to bringing CSR into higher educaPersonal and professional made by graduates and in the economic and tion led to the participation of the CSR well-being of graduates partners ethical development of Department in the United Nations society and of companies Global Compact (UNGC) Academic Working Group that was launched in the fall of 2010. The main goal of this initiative is to facilitate the adopLevers of Action tion and dissemination of the Global IN THE Organisation Compact in all categories of HEIs across the globe. SOCIAL CAPITAL environmental CAPITAL ECONOMIC CAPITAL Working and learning Transportation policy, International strategy, conditions, diversity policy, building solutions, managecontribution to local comaccess to knowledge, ment of GHG emissions, munity, investment policy, intellectual development, sustainable purchasing and remuneration policy, green social dialogue, stakeholder consumer behaviour… business and functionality engagement… economy, quality and efficiency management, risk management, sustainable performance indicators, governance… Euromed Management 2009 IN PROGRAMMES & RESEARCH INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Pedagogical approach, curriculum content, learning by doing, research themes, transversal research, exemplary behaviour, evolving information sources, provident of standards… Our Response to Responsibility Just as the world is increasingly aware of the social, environmental and economic stake of development and performance, Euromed Management 11 acknowledged its global responsibility and we actively seek to reduce the CSR Commitments & Progress negative externalities of our activity. 2004 Unis-Terre Student Association (now over 200 members) Since 2005 the school has embraced the increasing amount of courses and projects 2005 UNGC Signatory core values and principles of the UNGC across our campuses. 2006 Diversity Charter Signatory in the areas of human rights, labour Responsible Campus Membership standards, environment and anti-corrupIn more operational terms, our approach UNGC Academic Taskforce tion. Going beyond verbal commitments, is based on our commitment to the “Green Membership Euromed Management allocated financial Plan” created by the CGE and the CPU as 2007 Research Chair in Sustainable and physical resources to CSR actions and well as the six Principles for Responsible Development projects within the school – either faciliManagement Education (PRME). In this Responsible Management Network tated by members of the staff, faculty or document a PRME “stamp” was used students. This can be seen in the creation to illustrate our commitment to each 1st Carbon Footprint of the CSR department in 2007 and the principle. 2008 Research Chair in Alternative Financing PRME Membership The Six Principles for Responsible Acadix Extra-Financial Rating Management Education (A++ BMJ Rating) Comité 21 Board of Directors Administrator Principle 1 Principle 3 Principle 5 2009 1st Sustainable Development Report Purpose Method Partnership 1st Stakeholder Consultation (Deloitte) We will develop the capaWe will create educational We will interact with manbilities of student s to be frameworks, materials, procagers of business corporaCopenhagen Declaration Signatory future generators of sustainesses and environments that tions to extend our knowledge UN PRME Climate Change Working able value for business and enable effective learning of their challenges in meeting Group society at large and to work experiences for responsible social and environmental CSR Officer Nominations for an inclusive and sustainleadership. responsibilities and to explore 2010 300m2 Solar Panels able global economy. jointly effective approaches Research Chair in Responsible Principle 4 to meeting these challenges. Purchasing Principle 2 2011 7th Bentley Global Business Ethics Research Principle 6 Symposium Values We will engage in conceptual UNGC Academic Institutions We will incor por ate in to and empirical research that Dialogue Working Group our academic activities and advances our understanding We will facilitate and support Academic Impact Membership curricula the values of global about the role, dynamics, and dialog and debate among social responsibility as porimpact of corporations in the educators, students, business, trayed in internacreation of susgove r n m e n t , co n s u m e r s , tional initiatives tainable social, media, civil society organisuch as the United environmental sations and other interested Nations Global and economic groups and stakeholders on Compact. value. critical issues related to global social responsibility and sustainability. Euromed Management at a Glance student statistics Gender balance student origin 12 55% 45% 28% 5 604Students 72% 15 500 Euromedians active 816 scholarships 473 incoming 867 outgoing around the world international euromedians students number of students by programme 2010/2011 3 000 3 281 2 500 26 Student associations 2 000 1 500 1 606 3 324 student projects / pro-acts 1 000 500 263 Bachelors Masters MBA 4 bachelors 10 masters 2 MBA 1DBA programmes programmes Programmes Programme 2010-2011 founded in 1872 Accreditations & ratings Euromed management around the World 13 1 2 Europe North America 76 39 3 5 4 Middle-East 5 Africa 6 Asia-Oceania 29 campus location South America 14 1 Marseille 2 Toulon 3 Marrakech 4 Suzhou 5 Algiers (in cooperation with HEC/ESCP) 169 academic Partners 860 corporate relations Personal Development research faculty status Professionally Quality 42 135 Academically Quality external personal development coaches academic & professional journal articles 269 professors 126 15 staff members dedicated 2 research Research Chairs to personal development 36% of Research Activities 66 20 57 linked to CSR Permanent Adjunct 12 months 1 3 6 14 KURT SALMON, Chiheb Euromed Management 5th Edition of the U.N. Mahjoub, Corporate Student Associations Simulation in Marseille Partner of the Year win 5 trophies! and Marrakech The class of 2010 had the honour of hav“La Tribune”, a leading French economic Organised in partnership with UNRIC this ing Kurt Salmon’s C.E.O. and Euromed newspaper awarded 5 trophies to Euromed event brought together 190 Euromedians Management Alumni, Chiheb Mahjoub, as Management Associations during a cere& 175 Prep School students to debate their Partner of the Year. Commemorating mony on April 5th. The ceremony rewardon the topic of education. Event partthis nomination, a conference was held ing the best student associations of French ners and observers included: Air France, on the topic of “Leadership in a Changing business schools, took place in the Centre Carrefour, Clairefontaine, Haribo, Orangina World”. Marceau in Paris. Associations to win Schweppes, Procter & Gamble France, Quo trophies include: COBFI, Accede Provence Vadis, Rotary, Société Générale, UNICEF, Entrepreneurs and Unis-Terre. Ligue des Droits de l’Homme and the World Water Counsel. 4 Siemens Executive Education North Africa Contract Responding to an international tender Euromed Management undertook a contract with Siemens North Africa to train 40 high potential young managers comChiheb Mahjoub ing from Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. 2 A p r i l 15 -17 The programme dealt with leadership t h e 1s t e d i t i o n o f skills and general management through 5th Edition of SimONU “ J u n i o r & E n t r e p r is e ” an innovative ‘learning by doing’ pedagogy. 5 Marketing Mediterranée, the school’s One School junior enterprise, organized three days Three Accreditations of workshops, meetings and brainstorming sessions on the Luminy campus. Over 105 participants from junior enterprises This year the school had its EQUIS accredin Europe and Brazil as well as Euromed itation renewed and was awarded the Management students worked with comAACSB accreditation for the first time. panies and exchanged thoughts on various Proof of our academic excellence and straaspects of CSR in the corporate world. tegic coherence, we now belong to the 57 business schools in the world to have the Triple Crown (AACSB, AMBA, EQUIS). 12 events 7 SportMed Morocco Renmin University, IFC (Montpellier III) debated and exchanged over the dynamics 15 5th Sports’ Law and Paris IV. In October 2010, the school of stakeholder engagement in business. A and Management opened a campus in Suzhou in partnership special edition of the Tribune was printed Colloquium with Renmin University of China offering on Friday, May 20th on this topic and a Master’s in Finance and a DBA. interviews with the panellists are available on our website. 10 Euromed Management, Kurt Salmon, KGA, the University of Marrakech and ESCT and EID join the Moroccan Ministry of Youth and Sports the Euromed organised the 2011 SportMed Colloquium Management Group in Marrakech. The event took place in Marrakech’s new stadium during the In September 2010, the Business and “Salon du Sport”. Over 250 participants Technology School of Toulon (ESCT) and including: Members of FIFA (Federation the International School of Design (EID) International Football Association), CAF joined Euromed Management. This merger (Confederation African Football), football brought 800 new students and two new clubs and sponsors all came together to Master’s degrees. 11 discuss the theme, The Professionalisation of Football in Africa: The Case of Morocco. A Record Setting Year for our Admissions & 8 Euromed Management Recruitment Teams Maritime Forum 2010 A flagship event, every year our school This forum brought together 200 particireceives candidates on its Luminy campants, speakers, panellists and professionpus for written and oral entrance exams. als from the maritime sector as well as Over a seven week period 6 423 candiprofessors from Euromed Management. dates came before 1 891 juries (corporate, Symposium Special Edition Supplement in the French economic newsThis year’s contributions were articulated alumni, linguists and staff) and broke the paper La Tribune May 2011 around the important question of whether attendance records. 12 or not climate change actions can revitalise the shipping markets. T he 7th Bentley Global Business 9 Launching of the Ethics Symposium Franco-Chinese Institute and the On May 23rd the 7th Bentley Global opening of a new campus in Business Ethics Symposium was hosted Suzhou and co-organised by Euromed Management and Bentley University on the Luminy Based on the Bologna scheme, the new Campus. Over 260 participants joined us Institute receives students from the from the corporate, academic and NGO post-bac to doctoral levels. Euromed worlds more attended via the net from Management was given the responsibility all over the world. Over 40 students volof heading the Management Science secunteered and attended the conferences. tion. Other institutional members include: CEOs, activists, deans and professors Christian ESC Class of 2011 Co-founder of we.makesense.org chapter two 5 Areas of Commitment School Governance Area 1 18 Created by the Marseille The Groupe Euromed Management This Committee is the interface Association is governed by a volbetween the external governance Provence Chamber of Commerce untary Board of Directors made up system and the internal manageand Industry nearly 140 years of directors of large companies and ment system. qualified people who are commitago, Euromed Management has ted to the future of the school. It Four governing bodies are linked to been managed by an autonomous also includes members of local and the Board of Directors: regional authorities and economic • T he Audit and M an a ge ment non-profit association since players of Marseille Provence. Committee controls financial flows, January 2010. costs and assesses risks. The Board is com• T h e E thic s an d No min atio n posed of five colCommittee proposes new members le ge s: the C h ambe r s to The Board of Directors and works of Commerce College on ethical issues. (Founding Members), the • T he Remuneration Committee Companies and Qualified advises and controls the recruitPersons Colleges (Active ment and remuneration policy of Member s), the L oca l the school. Organisations College • The Strategic Committee tracks (City of Ma r seille, progress on the current strategic Departmental Council, Regional plan and works towards the emerCouncil, etc.) and the Stakeholders gence of the next one. Once a year, College. Only the first three colleges the Strategic Committee organises have voting rights on the Board (65% a strategic seminar attended by the for Chambers of Commerce, 20% for Board of Directors and members Companies and 15% for Qualified of the Executive Committee of the Persons). school. The Board meets at least twice The Board elects a President who a year. At six-week intervals, the designates the Director General and Chairman of the Board convenes an Dean. Executive Committee composed of himself and three other members. Pierre Cottin Quality and Audit Director “The purpose of the Audit & Management Committee is to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities for the integrity of the School’s financial statements and for the effectiveness of internal and external audits. The Committee provides recommendations for the improvement of accountability processes and supervises the development of risk management controls.” Françoise Cocuelle Chairwoman of the Audit & Management Committee Euromed Management’s Board of Directors Founding Members Active Members 19 Pierre Bellon Chairman & Founder, Sodexo Dominique Cerutti Deputy Chief Executive Officer, NYSE Euronext Frédéric Chevalier Chairman of the Supervisory Board & Founder, HighCo Represented by: Françoise Cocuelle Director General, E.Grille Chairman of the Board François Béatrice Kosowski Managing Director, Pierson Chairman & Chief Executive IBM France SNCF Integrated Account Officer, AXA Global P&C Anne-Charlotte Rousseau Chief Executive Treasurer Pascal Fouache Chief Officer, Crèche Attitude Executive Officer, CMR Group Jacques Saade C h ai r m an & C hief Secretary Franck Recoing Director Executive Officer, CMA-CGM & Associate, Générale de Ser vices & d’Assurances Marc Pouzet Chairman, Crédit Agricole Institutional (PACA) Members Joël Potier Chief Executive Officer, EMAVER Richard Caillat C h ai r m an of the Management Board, HighCo Chairman of Euromed Management Alumni Association Local Authorities “Euromed Management’s Board of Directors is composed of people and organisations committed to the values and ambitions of the school.” Franck Recoing Chairman of the Ethics and Nominations Committee Organisational Chart & CSR Officer Structure Two transversal executive bodies are • The Management Committee, uniting responsible for the implementation of the members of the Executive Committee and strategy acted by the Board and for the the different department managers, meets 20 The internal management efficient daily running of the school: every six weeks to ensure the implementasystem of the school tion of the decisions taken and to measure • The Executive Committee of the progress in key areas (internationalisation, is organised according to school meets biweekly with the Director research, pedagogy, CSR...). functions and disciplines. General and the operational directors in charge of implementing the strategic plan and steering the school. Director General & Dean * csr officers Ressources Programmes Executive Faculty Corporate/ Education & Research Markets Deputy Director Associate Dean Director Associate Dean Director General Qualité / Bachelors Tailor-Made M. Cazade Sales & promotions Director of CSR & Organisation /Audit E. McCallum Head deputy director of A. Couston A. Leterrier corporate/markets P. Cottin M. Friess D. Auffret J. Lario director of J-C. Carteron MBA research & masters doctoral Marketing/ HRM Dr. M. Gutsatz programmes Communication Sustainable Prof. B. Paranque N. Clair Development M-P. Codognet C-I. Taillandier A. Kane Manager prof. D. merunka B. Andronnet I. Di Monté N. Ballester PMG T. Giraud priority #1 Accounting/Finance Advertising Dr. T. LagoardeV. Andres-Gonder Students Services E. Gueret masters segot S. Tigana DSI priority #2 Office of Key Account C-E. Rio International Dr. B. bartikowski Managers S. Hiliquin Partnerships N. Jimenez C. Zoubir A. Stoll Management F. Larios priority #3 Control Dr. J. Hanoteau Events & Y. Coustet RegistraR Foundation N. Serna priority #4 F. Gobert Legal M. Esposito B. Van Roy Dr. J-P. Danglade P. Nabet Pro-Act Apprenticeship/Tax priority #5 HUB O. Pelazza E. Putero J-M. Blanc Dr. S. Yami M. Gassama E. Daroit Student/Graduate/ Company Services Building & M. Depont Purchasing A. Sassier M. Ferahtia Trajectoire F. Kroerr K. Ray A. GAULMIN A Systemic Management Approach to Sustainable Development One of the main challenges every commitrisks. With a holistic and personalised 21 ted organisation faces is how to dissemiapproach, the Group works on creating an nate the CSR strategy into every level of environment conducive to the personal and operations. At Euromed Management we intellectual development of each student. chose to adopt a systemic and transversal approach to this challenge and in 2009 creThis project resulted in the creation of the ated a group of “CSR Officers” that come Wellness Team composed of 6 members of from every department of the school. the school’s staff (Marseille and Toulon), who will serve as an information relay Currently there are 25 CSR Officers, nearly between the students and the school’s 10% of our staff, nominated by managemanagement. Starting in September of ment members. In addition to their regular 2011 a Student Wellness Centre – situjob duties, the CSR Officers are mandated ated in the HUB, the new Creativity & to serve as a link between the school’s CSR Innovation Centre, and the Wellness strategy and policies and the service they Counselling Centre will be opened. These represent. This means that they are not spaces will allow students better access only overseeing the infusion of CSR into to information resources, the school’s psytheir department, they also give feedback chologist and members of the Wellness and bring to the table ideas and projects Team. suggested by their colleagues. These exchanges happen during the monthly A pedagogical workshop is currently being CSR Officer meetings. The next step will developed by professors from the school of be adding CSR objectives into each officer’s medicine and will be offered to students on mission as well as their manager’s yearly stress, burn-out and addictive behaviours evaluation. and substances. This class will be integrated into the school’s preventive health Finding time to develop ideas and projects actions such as “responsible party” operathrough this group is not always easy. tions and designated driver activities. Visit the Wellness Centre This systemic approach helps encourage campus initiatives as well as their impleMore information can be found on the mentation. In fact, two new projects were Wellness Website: launched and coordinated by CSR Officers we ll n e s s .e u ro m e d m a n a ge m e n t .co m concerning dematerialisation and responsible purchasing. The first major CSR Officer “output” is the new “Wellness” service that will be officially launched during the intake of fall 2011. This initiative seeks to improve the quality of life and health of our students, to be at the service of individual performance and to help prevent psychosocial Future Wellness Centre Working with our Stakeholders 22 Sta keholders are They expect us to increase our regional 1 individuals or presence, share the knowledge that we Students groups that affect create, adapt our recruitment methods to Staff Faculty or could be affected favour equal opportunities and have an Management by an organisation’s ambitious environmental policy not forBoard of Directors activities, products getting financial transparency. Alumni Student Associations or ser vices and Academic Partners associated performance (from Freeman, Research and training activities have also City of Marseille 1984, Mitchell, Agle & Wood, 1997). This been shaped to respond to stakeholder Chamber of Commerce Local Government principle includes a company’s primary demands. Teaching risk management, Companies stakeholders (staff, clients, investors) as showing students how to be in harmony well as its competitors, regulating bodies, with the realities of the work place, and governments, suppliers, local communities be conscious of the risks of stress in the and civil society organisations. work place, we seek to teach our students how to handle failure, to think critically 2 Euromed Management’s strategic orientaand collectively. More importantly we are Parents tion is increasingly based on constructive asked to convey responsible management French Higher Education stakeholder consultation. Impacting virvalues, to help students know themselves Institutions Associations tually every aspect of business, from proand show them how to question reality (CGE & CPU) Unions ducts and processes, to company practices and build their future. Secondary & Prep Schools and governance – stakeholders are the International Accrediting critical friends of modern management. Bodies Prospective Students In 2009, Deloitte organised the school’s Suppliers first for malised stakeholder consul& Subcontractors tation. Their expectations were clear. Investment Banks 3 Government Bodies Competitors Civil Society (NGO & Associations) Press Calanques National Park Division International Networks * More information on Pg.11 The Corporate World, an Essential Partner At Euromed Management, companies as major stakeholders, are more than partners, they are 23 members of our community. Their contributions help us to keep up-to-date on the evolution of company expectations. More than 850 companies participate in the admissions process, help us address diversity issues and accompany students through their studies. Their second major contribution consists in supporting and developing research through financial and human resources. Think-tank, research chairs and projects are established where research interests and corporate needs converge. For example, after three years of cooperation with La Poste on the topic of sustainable performance, last year we carried out an applied research project on how diversity management affects corporate performance. Corporate partners also connect with our community throughout the year via numerous events such as the local entrepreneur fair that brings over 2 000 professionals to our campus every September. Another highlight of the year was the international business ethics symposium that we co-organised with Bentley University. This event brought together over 250 C.E.O.s, academics, NGOs and students to exchange on the topic of stakeholder engagement. Christophe Mouysset Corporate and Markets Director Laying the Foundations 14% 18% The Euro-Mediterranean Management Foundation (La Fondation Euro-Méditerranéenne du Management) was Events launched under the aegis of the Foundation of France with the Scholarships mission to promote the development of Euromed Management Research Chairs funds raised by facilitating access to higher education and contributing to Research Think-Tank by category 15% the training of efficient and responsible managers. It supports: Skills Patronage Students through the financing of scholarships and grants Not Attributed 37% based on merit and social criteria; Funds 7% Management research by financing chairs, conferences and networks in fields of interest to corporate donors; and 9% The development of new clusters and specialisations, innovative educational tools and real estate developments. 25/03/2010 FOUNDATION CREATED 4 founders 13 DONORS 411 K€ IN ACQUIRED DONATIONS 652 K€ IN ACQUIRED DONATIONS, INCLUDING SKILLS PATRONAGE * More information on Pg.11 Pedagogical Approach Area 2 24 Ranked as one of the top management schools in France and across the Euromed globe, the school now holds three major academic accreditations: AACSB, Management has AMBA and EQUIS. This outcome is the translation of our ambition to excel become a first-rate in the training of future managers who will be called to lead companies Business School at on a planetary level within a context of globalisation and sustainable development. the international level. According to AACSB, a ‘‘global’’ Confronted by the economic and school is “determined first by the social dynamics of the 21st century, outcomes it achieves, second by the processes it engages, teaching has increasingly evolved towards innovation in both peda100% of ESC & cesemed students and last by the places gogical content and teaching tools. spend at least six months it inhabits. Actions and Conventional methods of organisaabroad l o c at i o n s a r e u s e f u l tional management must now make means toward the end goal of globalisation, but room for the Asian Giants such as China and India and rapidly devel24% of students go on a study ultimately schools are oping countries in Latin America, abroad programme judged by the outcomes Eastern Europe and the Middle East. they achieve. A global school of management: The development perspective of 39 Financial Times Best Prepares students to perform comhuman communities goes far beyond European Business School petently and confidently in a world the organisational models taught for Rank of global business competition and the past few decades. It presupposes inherently global issues; a realigning of humans in relation to Generates research insights about their environment; it imposes upon trends and best practices in global leaders, socially responsible prac8,5% management; and tices that contribute to successful 15% Leverages diverse cultures and actions generating economic perpractices in pursuit of innovation and formance. It is the very essence of continuous improvement.” 1 Euromed Management’s mission – 16% to train competent and responsible Eu romed M an a gement a s ser t s managers. 8% its positioning as a global school 8,3% throughout all of our programmes. Dr Bruno Camus Associate Dean for Programmes Mandatory CSR Courses by Programme Euromed CeseMed M.Sc. & MS EGC/PMF ESC2 ESC1 1 AACSB Globalisation of Management Report 2O11 * More information on Pg.11 Pedagogy & Programmes At Euromed Management we seek to provide students 25 Bachelor Programmes with an understanding of the diverse and complex nature of business and economics in a globalised context. As PMF Finance and Banking EGC Mediterranean Bachelors future managers they need to be responsible for not only CeseMed International their lives but their actions as well. In order to do this we Bachelors PMG General Management base our approach on: values and culture, personal development as well Programme as mechanic and systemic approaches to management. Advanced Degrees DBA Doctorate in Business Programmes are designed in collaboration graduate students and executive particiAdministration with our stakeholders from the corporate pants. This offer is based on our view of Master Programmes world as well as faculty and members of the challenges that companies face today the staff. Over the years personal develand on the application of an adapted pedaESC our flagship Business opment has become a focal point in our gogical model. Our programmes place an Degree educational approach and resources are emphasis on the imperatives of internaIMM International Masters in Management dedicated to helping students achieve their tionalisation, innovation and sustainable Euromed M.Sc. & MS life and career goals. Our programmes go development. Thanks to our merger with Specialised Masters (Media, beyond the classroom and incorporate the the International School of Design (Toulon) Finance, Maritime, etc.) Master in Business Personal Development, Employability and this year two new programmes in busiAdministration the Student Project (Pro-Act) departments. ness engineering as well as project manaM.Sc. Business Engineering gement and design were added to our M.Sc. Project Management & Design Since July 2010, all Bachelor and Master programme portfolio. programmes have been regrouped within a single Programme Directorate. Student services such as the Office of International Partnerships, the Registrar and the Pro-Act Level of studies by programme Office are also part of this new Directorate. In 2010-2011 Euromed Management 2 4 6 8 offered a range of academic programmes meeting the needs of undergraduate and PMF & EGC CeseMed PMG ESC M.Sc. Business Engineering Euromed M.Sc. Executive MS How do we teach responsibility? DBA MBA / EMBA M.Sc. Project Management & Design * More information on Pg.11 Be Live Become A Three Dimensional Approach to Personal Development 26 Personal Development is an integral BE LIVE part of the Euromed Management I identify my personality, my skills, By managing projects known as ‘Proexperience. Future managers need my values, my motivations, my drivAct’ and by carrying out internships, to be able to carry out self assessing force; these elements allow me apprenticeships and other types of to elaborate a personal and profesexperience, I develop my skills by ment, define their objectives and sional career plan in accordance with applying what I learn in the classdevelop personal strategies while who I am. room in “real life” situations. I experilearning from their actions. This ment and this helps me make better is why Euromed Management has choices for my future. created a three dimensional persoBECOME nal development service that uses I build and put into action my perprofessional coaches and academic sonal and professional career plan advisors to help students personataking into consideration the evolution of the job market. lise their studies into a project that fits their interests. Pro-Act – Learning by Doing Beyond developing project management This Year’s Award Winning projects competences, Euromed Management’s More on personal development emphasis on action learning has a specific 1st Place personal development dimension: only Simonu organised the 5th edition of the experience can develop an understandUN General Assembly Simulation ing of complexity, diversity and the com2nd Place petences of effective action. Obligatory Euromed’s Sailing won both French and for graduation, one or two based on the World Student Sailing Championships programme, elective student projects help our students acquire knowledge through Student’s Choice action. Coherent with our values and Diambars Promoting Education through expectations, every Pro-Act is required to Football integrate CSR criteria in its reporting. An awards ceremony is held every year Three company missions were also given compensating superior student Pro-Acts. trophies for the quality of their strategic analysis, their teamwork and the pertinence of their recommendations to their assigned companies (SMTPC, KFC, La Tour de Sabran). More on Pro-Acts More on Diambars Julien Lanfrey (Diambars) with Bernard Lama Executive Education The school’s Executive MBA programmes in China and 27 Education offer ha s in France, four Part-time Masters rein forced Euromed (linked to main fields of activity in Over the years, Management’s visibility the PACA region: Social Services, Euromed in the business world, International Maritime Transport, on the local, national Wealth Management, Real Estate Management has and international levels and Urban Policies Management), placed Executive and has proven itself to the PMG (General Management be not only a financial Programme, an Honours Bachelor Education at the resource provider but also a key aimed at middle managers and cerheart of the school’s vector for innovation in contents tified by the French Government), and pedagogy aimed at experienced Tailor-Made Programmes and Short development. managers, in line with the school’s Modules. positioning and vision. The part-time Graduate and nonFrancoise Lassalle-Cottin degree Executive Education proDirector of Executive Education grammes include: DBA and Executive 2010-2011 Highlights In October 2010, the World Med MBA Regarding customised programmes, 344 Participants was ranked for the very first time by internationalisation is a core issue: the Financial Times among the top 100 Euromed Management won an interna66% 34% Executive MBAs worldwide. Ranked tional tender launched by Sonelgaz, the 84th in 2010, it progressed to be ranked main Algerian producer and distributor of 61st worldwide and 5th in France in 2011. electricity and gas. A 1.5 M€ customised In addition, this programme also received training programme was designed for 550 official accreditation by the Chinese govexecutives of the company and was deliernment in 2010. vered in Algiers in mid-2010. Following this success, Euromed won another contract The PMG, as one of the mainstays of the with Siemens North Africa, delivering a Executive Education activity, is resoleadership programme for 40 high potenlutely oriented towards management of tial young managers from Algeria, Morocco diversity: it now embeds a new track about and Tunisia. 50% “CSR and Sustainable Development” and in partnership with Ethik Management, a firm In August 2011 the Executive Education specialised in the training and professional & MBA programmes will move into new integration of people with disabilities, the facilities downtown (Campus La Joliette), PMG was adapted for managers with visual providing strong visibility for Euromed impairments. The first visually impaired parManagement in the heart of the city and ticipant entered the PMG in November 2010 an easier access for participants coming and three more are expected in November from the train station (via subway) or from 2011. Last but not least, a new PMG branch the international airport. 50% opened in Corsica for the first time in December 2010. Research area 3 28 Resea rch at Euromed 1/ Market, Corporate and Individual Management is strucBehaviours in Euro-Mediterranean, tured through research Emergent and Subsistence priorities which correMarketplaces. spond to faculty’s skills Coordinator: Dr. Thomas Lagoardeand expertise and to the Segot, Associate Professor of Finance strategic positioning of the business school. They 2/ The Management of Diversity and further guide choices of Managing Across Cultures. partnerships with busiCoordinator: Dr. Boris Bartikowski, nesses and organisations and the Associate Professor of Marketing Research is at the development of research chairs. heart of scientific 3/ Env i ronment a l and Ethica l The business models that research Dimen sion s of Bu sines ses and knowledge: will develop in the future imply new Organisations. undertaking and concepts, new measurements and Coordinator: Dr. Julien Hanoteau, establishing new relationships. We Associate Professor of Sustainable disseminating engage in conceptual and empirical Development and of Economics research is central research that advances our understanding of the role, dynamics, stakes 4/ Strategies, Markets and Customers to Euromed and impact of corporations, markets, in Entertainment, Sports, Healthcare Management’s cultures and consumers. Therefore, and Maritime Industries. research topics and approaches are Coordinator: Dr. Jean-Philippe Danglade, mission and vision. numerous, diverse and far reaching. Assistant Professor of Marketing Approaching these topics certainly requires scientific skills and exper5/ Managing Networks, Value Chains tise but also creativity and certainly and Entrepreneurship. changes in mindsets. Coordinator: Dr. Saïd Yami, Affiliate Professor in Strategy In a c c o r d a n c e w it h E u r o m e d Management’s Strategic Plan, there With over 250 publications and a are five research priorities that burgeoning amount of conferences re-group publications, projects, and events, our research activities and events alongside a number of are increasingly rich in quality and research chairs and think-tank activrelevance. A full accounting of this ities. The research priorities include: year’s research activities can be found on the school’s website. Prof. Dwight Merunka Director of Research and Doctoral Programmes * More information on Pg.11 A Few of the Year’s Research Highlights Research Chairs at Euromed Management The first research chair was created in Launched in April 2010, the chair is 29 partnership with La Poste, the French funded by three companies: L’Occitane, Postal Service, in 2007 on the topic of susSNCF (French Rail) and Sodexo, together tainable performance. Think-tank activiwith three NGOs: WWF, Max Havelaar ties were subsequently developed and conand Extra-Muros. These partners provide tinue to flourish through the Responsible data and analysis regarding the economic, Management Network. Two additional environmental and societal dimensions of chairs were launched in socially responresponsible purchasing. A new partner, sible investment and more recently in susERDF, will join the chair in August of 2011. tainable procurement. Over the next few years we aim to increase research activities through the creation of new chairs, projects and networks. The AG2R/La Mondiale Research Chair Company & NGO knowledge is matched to a multi-competence team of researchT h an k s to the suppor t of AG2R / L a ers. Dr. Robert Spencer (Marketing and Mondiale, Euromed Management’s chair Purchasing) and Dr. Frédéric Prévot “Finance Reconsidered : Investment, (Strategy) are the co-chairs, working in Solidarities and Responsibility” has been close collaboration with a selected team of extended for a period of three years researchers, including Danielle Castagnoni (2011–2013). The chair’s objective is to (Responsible Marketing) and Dr. Ali build and develop a modern and responCheaitou (Supply Chain Management). sible approach to finance, reflecting the societal views of both partners. AG2R/ La Mondiale’s research team is headed by Prof. Bernard Paranque, Professor of Finance at Euromed Management. Danielle Castagnoni Dr. Robert Spencer Dr. Frédéric Prévot Chair in Sustainable Purchasing in a Projects launched this year: Network Environment • A bibliometric analysis of responsible purchasing. The purchasing function is at the heart of • A managerial state-of-the-art project business and the sustainable development to determine the managerial definition of strategies. This chair uses a multifaceted what responsible purchasing is and to anaand project-based approach to a complex lyse the sophistication of firms in this field. issue packed with dilemmas, paradoxes and potential conflicts, depending on the stakeholders involved. The Responsible Management Network 30 Euromed Management launched the Responsible Management Network (RMN) in October 2007 with 14 companies and NGOs. Members of the network include: La Poste, Adecco, Acidd, Armor Lux, EDF, Kinnarps, ONET, Sodexo, Max Havelaar, La Banque Populaire, AG2R, Novethic, Cora and Utopies. Acting as a think-tank, the Network’s mission is to contribute to the emergence of “responsible management” in order to reconnect business dynamics with those of society. The Network’s secondary objective is to help advance our community by becoming the reference in responsible management. Through a participative methodology, the Network encourages innovating, emulating, capitalizing and co-creating knowledge, actions and a new “savoir-faire”. This year the RMN has launched a new phase that focuses on creating tools from the knowledge produced by Network activities. In 2011, Network members have focused their efforts on an RMN Highlight: approach to responsible management dynamics at the bottom of the pyramid. The publication of the “The Guide to Countering the True False Good Reasons for not Taking Action”. In the fall of 2011 this network will open up to new partAvailable on the Euromed Management website. ners including: ERDF, Institut Inspire, Groupe La Varappe Développement, L’Occitane, Satori, SNCF, St Microelectronics and Veolia. Publication highlights • “Investigating mediators between corporate reputation and customer citizenship behaviors”. Bartikowski, B., & Walsh, G. (2010). Journal of Business Research, 64-1, 39-44 • “Omega performance measure and portfolio insurance” . Bertrand, P. & Prigent, J-L (2010) Journal of Banking & Finance 35(2011) 1811-1823 • “Is slow steaming a sustainable means for reducing CO2 emissions from container shipping”. Cariou P. (2011). Transportation Research Part D, 16, 260-264 • “Navigating between dyads and networks”. Cova, B., Prévot, F. & Spencer R. (2010) Industrial Marketing Management, 9 (6), 879-886 • “Knowledge Exchange Processes in Organisations and Policy Arenas: A Narrative Systematic Review of the Literature”. Contandriopoulos, D., Lemire, M., Denis, J.-L., & Tremblay, E. (2010) The Milbank Quarterly Vol. 88, No. 4 (pp. 444-483) • “Networking under Uncertainty: Concepts and Research Agenda”. Ford, D., & Mouzas, S. (2010). Industrial Marketing Management, 39, 956-962 • “Opportunity cost based analysis of corporate eco-efficiency. A methodology and its application to the CO2-efficiency of German companies”. Hahn, T., Figge, F., Liesen, A., & Barkemeyer, R. (2010). Journal of Environmental Management, 91(10), 1997-2007 • “Improving supplier’s situation through supplier cooperation: The case of Xintang jeans town”. Jing, B., Talluri, S. & Yao, T. (2011) International Journal of Production Economics, DOI: 10.1016/j.ipe.2011.03.010 • “ A closer look at financial development and income distribution” Gimet, C. & Lagoarde-Segot, T. (2011). Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 35 Issue 7 (pp.1698-1713) • “The Antagonism of Push and Pull Strategies, and the Current Funding Campaigns to Fight Orphan Diseases”. Leoni, P. (2011). Social Science & Medicine, 72-2, 202-205 • “Effects of Nationality, Gender, and Religiosity on Business-Related Ethicality”. Peterson, R.A., Albaum, G., Merunka, D., Merunka, J.L. & Smith, S.M. (2010) Journal of Business Ethics, 96, 573–587 A Few notable projects Forum Euro-mediterraneen Global Research in Innovative SportMed: The 5th Sports’ Law 31 des Instituts de Science Economique Development Strategies (GRIDS) and Management Colloquium (FEMISE) The GRIDS research group is lead by Dr. Euromed Management, Kurt Salmon, T he F E MISE A ssociation is a EuroJulien Hanoteau, Dr. Thomas LagoardeKGA, the University of Marrakech and Mediterranean network that currently Segot and Dr. Virginie Vial, all faculty the Moroccan Ministr y of Youth and includes 94 member institutes, with the members at Euromed Management. Its Sports organised the 2011 SportMed primary objective of conducting research mission is to bring new insight into the Colloquium in Marrakech. The event took on economic, social and political topics complex interaction between economic place in Marrakech’s new stadium durthat have been defined as priorities for development, institutional change and ing the “Salon du Sport.” Members of the region’s future. FEMISE is currently human development through applied interFIFA (Federation International Football funding two research projects at Euromed disciplinary research. Association), CAF (Confederation African Management: Football), football clubs and sponsors all • A Cross-Country Assessment of WellInternational Research Network came together to discuss the theme, The Being and Quality of Life in the Euromed on Social and Environmental Aspects Professionalisation of Football in Africa: Region: Models and Measurements. in Business and Management (SEABUS) The Case of Morocco. • Financial Integration, Shock Vulnerability, a n d D o m i n a n t Fo r e i g n In v e s t o r s : SEABUS is an international academic Implications for the Cost of Capital in network that has been funded by the Emerging Markets. German Federal Ministry for Education and Research since 2006. In 2010, under Performance and Diversity: the umbrella of SEABUS Euromed hosted The La Poste Project a guest researcher from the Institute for Futures Studies and Technolog y Dr. Virginie Martin, Associate Professor Assessment (IZT Berlin) for three months. of Sociology and Political Science, and In addition, together with other network Thierry Brener, Adjunct Professor at members Dr Tobias Hahn published speEuromed Management, together with more cial issues of two academic journals on than a dozen students, worked in collabo“Trade-Offs in Corporate Sustainability” ration with La Poste (one of the largest and “A New Future for Business”. employers in France) to provide answers about how diversity management affects corporate performance. Social Policy and Community area 4 Involvement Diversity against Discrimination Promoting Equal Opportunity 32 Diversity is more than a notion, it is a Over 10 student projects support this polElite or Elitist? reality. W hether recr uiting students icy. Since 2006 the association Phoenix or staff members, recruiters follow an has received the “Cordées de la Réussite” a By choosing to be an “elite school” we anti-discrimination policy. Our goal is Government Grant to fund their activities choose to recruit and train the best canthat the school will one day reflect the in “priority education zones”. In 2010-2011 didates, no matter their social origin, realities of French society demographics 70 students from Euromed Management religion, gender or handicap. (National Green Plan Objective for 2020). mentored over 150 students from secondIn order to avoid involuntarily reproducTo achieve this objective and to change ary schools in Marseille; providing over ing oligarchic “cast” systems, we must mindsets, both long-term and short-term 5 300 hours of tutoring. make daily efforts towards achieving actions must be carried out. This is why the best social representation. This scho-larships, grants, apprenticeships and applies not only to underprivileged partnerships have been developed by the In March 2011 the school organised its households but also to people with disschool. Combined with efforts to diversify 2nd Diversity Week – raising awareabilities. its student profile, Euromed Management ness and analysing school policies also works towards making higher eduregarding disabled workers & students, cation more accessible for all. Through recruitment discrimination, managing tutoring programmes such as MedPower, diversity, freedom of religion, gender Coach me I’m Famous and the Cercle equality, sexual orientation and interPassport Telecom – corporate mentors generation work dynamics. Highlight of help students build their social network the week: “Diversity – an Energy that and corporate culture capital. Pays” – conference given by Myriam Maestroni, Former C.E.O. of PrimaGaz Agro-fishing industry Craftsmen, shopkeeper and business owner (over 10 employees) Senior management & intellectuals Intermediate level workers efforts for diversity 3% students 3% 9 % 4% 2% 12% Give everyone an Allow them Enable them to Enable them to access to higher to integrate carry out their enter the job education Euromed studies in the market 10% Social origin Management best learning of students conditions 18% 40% Civil Society euromed management job market Mentoring, Scholarships, Parallel admissions, Awareness Employees Tutoring, Apprenticeships, Wellness, Building Raising and Blue collar Workers Community conformity Training, Retired awareness Exemplarity, Persons without any professional raising Alumni Support occupation Other Giving back to our Community Commitment & Actions Marseille Europe As Euromed Management has grown, so has the school’s commitment to community Mena development. Investing in the region, sites have been opened in Avignon, Bastia, Toulon The world and Marrakech. Emphasis is also placed on regional social responsibility in regards to 33 international academic standards. The contributions of the student body are particularly noticeable due to the school’s project based teaching approach (Pro-Act). Promoting the attractiveness of the region, national and international communities. active role in our sustainable development helping to create and launch new busiLast year, over 3000 student projects were approach. They also contribute to regional nesses and products, working with comcarried out locally and internationally. Out innovation as demonstrated by Camille panies to improve their financial and social of these Pro-Acts, 119 were sustainable Paillard’s the “Light by Design” project. performance, contributing to academic or “earth” projects. From tutoring local This graduate of the class of 2011 designed debates around the world – these are just youths to promoting social entrepreneura prototype, which is now on the market, examples of how we give back to our local, ship in Africa, the student body plays an for the local company Blackbody. Pro-Act Breakdown: 3 324 sport company earth 285 124 495 1 348 61 59 119 84 20 Entrepreneurship research Art association international info-communication management Among our contributions International Equal Board RMEM/RMEI Marseille’s International City Institut de la Méditerranée International Incubator Council Femise Euromed Maroc Procamex Academic Conferences & Events ESAA (Alger) Provence Promotion Mediterranean Network of Institut Franco-Chinois Student Associations & Pro-Act Engineering & Management PRME Working Groups OCEMO Office of Economic Schools UNGC Working Groups Cooperation in the Mediterranean and Orient national CEEG (Commission Evaluation Responsible Management APM (Association for the Etablissements de Gestion) Network Progress of Management) Présidence of “Chapîtres des Responsible Campuses Projects ANDCP (National Association of Ecoles de Management” Comité21 HR Managers) ORSE Board Memberships Training SME Institut Français des Administrateurs Consultancy activities Local School Board memberships Grand Luminy Incubator Ecole de la 2ème Chance AGESEM (local subsidiary of Impulse Incubator Students Associations & Pro-Act CGE) R2D2 (Regional Network for Professional Associations Training job seekers Sustainable Development) Tutoring & Mentoring Company 2R2D (Regional Sustainable Research Projects Development Decision Makers’ Network) held on campus in Toulon Dec 2010 Academic civic Human Resources at Euromed Management Managing in Diversity 34 Since the change in governance, the main work environment and to put in place corchallenges to the school’s human resource rective action plans. Another “first” for the policies has been managing the hybrid school was the awarding of an end of the character of the contractual arrangements school year bonus to every staff member. with the employees and the diversity of This exceptional bonus reflects the value institutional cultures from which they we place on the efforts of the entire school originate. In 2010-2011 the school worked in our mission towards excellence and for towards building a social base to faciliachieving the triple accreditation. tate the emergence of a “school” culture and to promote the adherence and coheMarie-Pierre Codognet On January 2, 2010, sion amongst staff members. The school is Director of Human Resources human resources currently setting up company-wide agreements allowing the homogenisation of the management, previously various staff status (transferred from CCI under the responsibility of or private law contracts), of compensation management, promotions and furthering the Chamber of Commerce internal mobility. 42% 58% and Industry (CCI) was In les s th an a decade, Eu romed taken over by the HR Management has gone from a regional Department of the new school to an internationally accredited and renowned institution. This spectacuEuromed Management lar growth is not only due to the vision of Association. the school, but also the involvement and dedication of the school’s employees. As any organisation with heavy growth, the school has not escaped the heavy workAssociation loads and work related stress that such growth entails. Well-being in the workplace is one of the 40% human resources challenges for the comworking contracts ing year. In June 2011 the school carried 60% out its first yearly internal survey to evaluate the employee satisfaction with their CCI 41% faculty “The diversity in staff age and origin helps to create diversity social dynamics consistent with the desired growth of the school and the composition of its student body.” Marc Pouzet 59% Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Green Campus Management area 5 35 Building renovation All building renovations, main campus or otherwise, take into account ecological and social improvement needs. This fall, the school’s new campus in downtown Marseille has been made accessible for students with disabilities, in preparaThe only French business school situated in This year 300M² of solar panels were tion for three new visually impaired para national park, the sustainable manageinstalled and activated. These panels curticipants. These renovations are part of a ment of our campus is a challenge and an rently produce approximately 115.3kw/h larger plan to make the school fully handiobligation. This means that we must work every day. cap accessible by 2015. on managing our resources and waste, protecting our biodiversity and fighting Waste Management Bio-Diversity against climate change. In 2009 the school signed the Copenhagen Declaration and agreed to lower its greenhouse gas admisEffective waste management is a critical sions by 40% by the year 2020. Among our element in any sustainable development greatest challenges is reducing our carbon policy and one of our greatest challenges. footprint during an expansion phase. This Even though new contracts were estabis why The CSR Department works closely lished for recycling services (paper, cardwith the Student Sustainable Campus board, etc.) our paper consumption conSub-contractors and members of the techproject raising awareness among staff and tinues to skyrocket. Our management of nical staff currently use no noxious prodstudents. Our efforts to lower our carbon computer, electronics and technical waste ucts in our campus’s management. Next footprint are focused around six axes (cf. remains adequate and new objectives have year we will launch a project that will go index pg. 48). been established regarding the recycling of beyond product use and see how we can bottles and cans – the weakest link in our contribute to the preservation of the park’s waste management practices. Energy Consumption & bio-diversity. Already students organProduction ise “Calanques” park and beach cleaning Responsible actions. Purchasing With an increase of 8%, last year’s energy consumption rose at the same rates as Transportation the student body size. Efforts were made Since 2009, Euromed Management made to reverse consumption trends with the the commitment to integrate CSR criThis year students organised “Green arrival of energy efficient light bulbs, teria into 10% of the overall purchasDriving Classes” for students and memautomatic lighting systems and replacing evaluation. This year the CSR Officer bers of the Sustainable Campus Project are ing florescent light bulbs with electronic from the purchasing Department joined working on developing carpooling stations tubes. Currently over 65% of light bulbs the Responsible Purchasing Chair and on the campus. The school faces a number are low consumption and energy saving. In launched a project that aims at improving of difficulties in regards to transportaan effort to improve our daily management our process and tools. To date, although a tion and we have yet to find an efficient of electricity flow, the school put in place a number of products and contracts include solution. new automatic monitoring tool to analyse CSR criteria a “responsible” purchasing electricity consumption. Students organprocesses has not been formalised. For ised eight “just a click” awareness operaexample, for the past two years, all of the tions that reduced energy consumption by paper ordered from our supplier has come 20% on those days. from eco-certified wood. Kara World Med MBA Class of 2010 Management Consultant at Sia Conseil chapter three Our Performance Financial Performance 38 An ethical and principle-based transformation for a performance entirely to the benefit of our pedagogy and research: Euromed Management, a socially responsible school. A s of Janu a r y 2010 , • no shareholders to remunerate; Campus an innovative and hi-tech Euromed Management, • a school completely dedicated to concept that provides students with previou sly pa r t of the mankind, concerned about its stua space to exchange, create and learn Marseille Provence dents, their personal fulfillment and with new technologies. Both structures Chamber of Commerce, has employability, the balance between will open in the fall of 2011. acquired a new legal statute as a nonits researchers and colleagues, partprofit association. ner respect and development; Despite the increasing cost of our • a school that respects its environimproving academic offerings, the After a century of integrated management, is involved in its city and estabschool managed to contain the rise of ment, the school is now financially lished in a region to which it brings tuition. For the past three years, fees independent and responsible for maninfluence and competitiveness; only increased by an average of 10%, aging its budget, investments and • a school that is multi-cultural and considerably less than many other moreover, its future. open to the world; and business schools. This was a deliberate • a place of continuous learning, perchoice in conformance with Euromed This newfound “freedom” required sonal development, creativity and Management’s strategic positioning in staff members to be increasingly riginnovation. regards to its social responsibility. orous and professional. Parallel to this, the school’s Governing Body and Our ambitions call for regular and subWith regular and controlled growth, as Management Team became particustantial recruitments and investments well as important financial contribularily vigilant, in order to assure an so that we may improve our pedagogitions from our partners a sign of their optimal and efficient school adminiscal tools, hire international teachers trust -, the school was able to keep tuitration in accordance to our developand researchers, offer innovative protion fees well below the actual cost of ment strategy. grammes and spaces, and assure and each student’s education. maintain service quality on all of our Euromed Management thereby develcampuses. Yannick Gheno ops on daily basis an economic model Deputy Director General coherent with its mission and vision This is why the school invested in a in an effort to be virtuous, transparnew campus dedicated to executive ent and socially responsible. In other education in the economic heart of words: Marseille and the “Hub” on the Luminy “We invite you to join us in this new and exciting chapter of our school’s history.” Pascal Fouache Treasurer Extra-Financial Performance How can we ensure that our efforts, 39 our human and financial investments, actually serve our objectives? This question which all On this last point, in 2010 with Deloitte In the end, measuring the impact of good administrators ask we carried out our first stakeholder our CSR policy on student recruitthemselves is at the heart consultation and launched a number ment, accreditations or ranking is not of our sustainable developof actions in response to their requests. evident. Surveys during entrance exam ment approach. We must The Bentley Global Business Ethics periods (over 900 candidates quesmeasure both the quality of our daily Symposium on the topic of staketioned) indicate that our CSR positionactions (embedding of mandatory CSR holders was co-organised by Bentley ing is one of the deciding factors in courses for all of our students) and the University and Euromed Management our school’s success. Accrediting bodies true impact of our long-term objectives and provided our school with the seem to agree. (have we actually trained responsible opportunity to raise our colleagues’ managers?). At the moment we are awareness on this topic. It’s easy to measure partner investment aware that we lack indicators which through scholarships, grants, research would allow us to measure our impact In regards to our reporting, the publichairs and think-tank activities linked in various fields. cation of our two previous sustainable to CSR. One of our main challenges for development reports and our increasthe coming years will be to highlight In November of 2009, we asked BMJ ingly precise indicator index allow us the global link between social, societal Rating to evaluate the strategy and to have a clear view of the evolution and environmental performance with implementation of our CSR policy. This of our actions and helps us fix realistic our financial performance. independent firm provided us with an short, middle and long-term objectives. This integrated report is the beginning external view on our commitments Moreover we have built our reporting of this process. and actions carried out over the years. process around the model framework Although we are proud of our extraof the Green Plan (national objectives) Jean-Christophe Carteron financial performance (A++, cf. webto which we added supplementary Director of Corporate Social site), certain criteria remain in need indicators that we found pertinent. Responsibility of improvement. The audit confirmed This process, in which we seek to be Deputy Director of Corporate / Markets the necessity of “clear CSR reporting as transparent as possible, is in accorddisplaying the axes of improvement as ance with the UNGC guidelines and the well as precise objectives” not to forPRME Principles. get “a better identification and understanding of our stakeholders”. Performance Indicators 2010-2011 school budget (K€) total 2009 26 952 4 394 7 151 923 39 420 k€ 40 2010/2011 31 944 5 072 7 296 833 45 146 k€ 2011/2012 35 046 5 689 7 111 2 025 49 871 k€ student Tuition Apprenticeship tax CCi grants Other tuition fees (€) average cost of education 30 000 Sources of funding 2011/2012 2010/2011 Student tuition 25 000 Apprenticeship tax 2009/2010 CCI Grants 22 500 25 000 27 000 20 000 Other 2% 22% 15 000 15% esc programme 2010-2011 10 000 13 046 € 5 000 7 975 8 200 8 250 61% 5 733 5 817 6 117 Bachelors Masters MBA 2010/2011 expenses school investments New Staff Recruitment 2010-2011 17% 30% 41% 12 Men 11 women budget budget 16% 54% 42% Salaries Teaching Operating costs Operations / infrastructure Investments Sustainable Campus staff age distribution >55 32 11% 45-55 90 31% 35-45 97 33% 25-35 61 21% <25 12 4% number of students rankings 2011 41 5 000 61st / 4th World Med MBA Financial Times 2010/2011 (International / france) 4 000 30th / 7th 2009/2010 2008/2009 3 000 2007/2008 Master in Management Financial Times (Europe / france) 8th 2 000 3 469 4 165 4 503 5 604 1 938 2 050 2 320 3 281 ESC 1 000 Figaro Etudiant (France) 1 108 1 524 1 627 1 606 156 228 137 263 9th ESC All programmes Bachelors Masters MBA Le Point (France) student scholarships 2007/2008 2008/2009 2009/2010 2010/2011 & grants french Government Scholarships (CROUS) 321 394 453 466 Number/Amount of school grants 62 K€ 233 | 62 K€ 318 | 62 K€ 70 | 100,5 K€ Number and total amount of european 342 | 518 K€ 340 | 642 K€ 395 | 651 K€ 280 | 587 K€ grants for mobility Number of student Associations 9 26 Grant receiving students (esc programme %) 17,9% 18,1% 20,4% 21,31% cnrs 1 1 cnrs 1 1 cnrs 1 2 cnrs 1 2 research stars cnrs 2 0 cnrs 2 2 cnrs 2 4 cnrs 2 7 & publications cnrs 3 2 cnrs 3 8 cnrs 3 18 cnrs 3 13 cnrs 4 7 cnrs 4 7 cnrs 4 18 cnrs 4 9 total 15 total 33 total 74 total 64 articles published articles published articles published articles published 92 96 127 135 11,45 resource consumption 2,21 9 Electricity (GWh) 8 307 1,59 gas (Gwh) 7 603 8 241 water (m3) paper (T) 1,37 1,46 1,53 5 1,31 Note: 8% increase in student body size in 2010-2011 Performance Index This section is an index of Euromed General Performance Indicators Activity Measurement Management’s financial and extra Sustainable Development Indicators 1K€ = 1000€ financial performance indicators. : Means/actions carried out this year contributed to the achievement of long-term 42 For the past three years we have measured Impact Measurement goals the impact and progress of our extra-finan: Means/actions carried out this year are cial, sustainable development, indicators. not adapted to the achievement of long-term : Objective achieved or surpassed In this year’s report, the performance trend goals : Objective is being realised analysis will only apply to the extra-finan: Means/actions carried out this year did : Objective not achieved cial indicators. not contribute to our goals Main Indicator / Key Goals / SD Objectives Performance 2007 / 2008 2008 / 2009 2009 / 2010 2010 / 2011 Objectives Trends (National (NO) Indicators (KPI) 2011 / 2012 & Institutional (IO)) 1. Strategy and Governance Budget 2007 2008 2009 2010 / 2011 2011 / 2012 Overall Budget 34 M€ 36.3 M€ 39.4 M€ 45.1 M€ 49.9 M€ Payroll 14.82 M€ 14.95 M€ 15.21 M€ 18.9 M€ 20.4 M€ Budget in Million € (2007 / 2009 based on Investments 1 1 3.1 M€ 3.3 M€ civil year, 2010 / 2011 on academic year) Tuition Fees Average 9.2 M€ 11.1 M€ 13.4 M€ ESC Master’s Tuition Fees Global 20 M€ 22.3 M€ 27 M€ 33 M€ 35 M€ 2007 / 2008 2008 / 2009 2009 / 2010 2010 / 2011 Average cost of a Average Cost in K€ student Master’s 15 K€ 16.8 K€ 12.5 K€ 13 K€ 15.7 K€ degree Advanced partnerships 90 102 160 Corporate relations 860 Apprenticeship tax Corporate 5 M€ 5.7 M€ Contributions in Million € Internships 1853 2288 2546 2578 Company Origin 48% / 52% international / national Number of Students All Programmes 3469 4165 4503 5604 5794 Provence Area 29% 29% 25% 19% France 76% 76% 72% 72% Geographical Europe (excluding 5% 5% 7% 6% Student Origin Russia and Turkey) International 24% 24% 28% 28% (Including Europe) Required Entrance Ecricome 9,35 9,4 9,55 9,6 9,65 Exam Scores (ESC) Main Indicator / Key Goals / SD Objectives Performance 2007 / 2008 2008 / 2009 2009 / 2010 2010 / 2011 Objectives Trends (National (NO) Indicators (KPI) 2011 / 2012 & Institutional (IO)) Ecricome 8% 8% 8% 8% Recruitment Rate of ESC students Templin 1 1% 1% 1% 1% per Exam (Tests) Tremplin 2 3% 3% 3% 3% Number of Operating Campus Development 4 4 4 7 Campus / Offices Number / Name 3/ AMBA 3/ AMBA 2/ AMBA 2/ AMBA 2/ AMBA Accreditation of International EQUIS EQUIS EQUIS EQUIS EQUIS Accreditations AACSB AACSB FT Best european 53 49 39 Business School FT World Med MBA 84 61 43 FT Master in 23 26 30 30 Management L’Etudiant ESC Master 9 8 9 11 Grandes Ecoles Rankings L’Etudiant 1 8 CeseMed Post Bac Le Point ESC 10 15 12 9 Le Point 7 2 1 2 CeseMed Post Bac Figaro Etudiant ESC 8 7 8 8 Figaro Etudiant 9 10 CeseMed Figaro Etudiant EGC 1 Sustainable Campus Charter, id + (NO) Signature of Diversity Signature id + SD charter involving Engagement Charter, of Signature Internal id all stakeholders by the Management Responsible Declarations Academic deployment Campus for the Impact Campaign, Climate Solar Generation (IO 2015) 2 SD criteria Extra financial criteria in managers’ evaluain managers’ 0 0 0 0 10% tions evaluations Existence of a CSR Creation Department attached of CSR Yes Yes Yes Yes to the Director General Department (NO) Meetings each CSR dedicated trimester of SD 2 3 4 3 4 personnel committee made up of personnel, Number of meetings students, 2 10 10 11 11 management, of CSR referents and partners Existence of a CSR budget in K€ (excluding research budget, 67 K€ 67 K€ 70 K€ 55 K€ 100 K€ investment budget, salaries, etc.) (IO 2015) 1 annual meeting for each Frequency and type of stakeholder: consultation method 0 0 1 0 1 students, personnel, for stakeholders external (NO) Annual activity Integrated Integrated Activity report SD Report SD Report report including ND Report Report including SD actions 2008 2009 / 2010 SD actions 2010 / 2011 2011 / 2012 Sustainable (IO) Touch all Development Multiples Multiples 5 5 10 stakeholders awareness raising actions Main Indicator / Key Goals / SD Objectives Performance 2007 / 2008 2008 / 2009 2009 / 2010 2010 / 2011 Objectives Trends (National (NO) Indicators (KPI) 2011 / 2012 & Institutional (IO)) 2. Teaching & Training All Programmes 3469 4165 4503 5604 5794 All Bachelors 1108 1524 1627 1606 1543 PMF & EGC 125 471 483 499 403 PMG 124 126 118 88 144 CeseMed 859 927 1026 1019 996 All Masters 491 2050 2320 3281 3341 Number ESC 1523 1780 1944 2183 of students M.Sc. 467 508 488 1205 975 per programme MS 24 19 52 132 183 DBA 16 34 53 MBA 156 228 137 263 297 44 International Exchange 224 289 336 370 460 Students IMM 43 74 67 50 100 Number of Partners 121 (41) 137 (47) 154 (54) 169 (72) (accredited) Number of incoming 343 353 447 473 490 students Number of outgoing International 565 636 757 867 900 students Partnerships Number of students involved in special programmes (summer 66 65 70 64 79 school + MBA summer school) Personal Number of coaches 42 Development Total coaching hours 2750 3100 Total number of 908 2876 3324 Pro-Act Pro-Act Terre 45 67 119 Entrepreneurship 40 89 124 Information 179 303 495 / Communication Association 36 42 84 Student Pro-Acts Management by Category Sport 18 60 59 Art 11 40 61 Company 5 20 Employment 579 772 729 Research dept 957 1348 International 541 285 (NO 2013) SD training Number of professors for 100% of trained to implement 0% 0% 0% 3.6% 5% professors SD in their courses CeseMed CeseMed Rate of traditional (15%) (15%) teaching dedicated to EGC (0%) EGC (0%) ESC1 (8%) sustainable PMF (8%) PMF (8%) ESC2 (16%) development ESC1 (8%) ESC1 (8.3%) >> Obligatory courses ESC2 (16%) ESC2 (16%) (NO 2011) Existence MS/MSc. (0%) MS/M.Sc. (8.5%) of SD common ESC2 (30%) ESC2 (16%) knowledge pool >> Rate of optional ESC 2 (10%) MS/M.Sc. ESC1 (8%) (NO 2017) courses 100% of programmes (14%) MS/M.Sc. (20%) include SD 3 short 4 short classes >> Executive education classes + 1 programme Rate of students/ graduates doing an 17.5% 20% internship/job which includes SD issues Main Indicator / Key Goals / SD Objectives Performance 2007 / 2008 2008 / 2009 2009 / 2010 2010 / 2011 Objectives Trends (National (NO) Indicators (KPI) 2011 / 2012 & Institutional (IO)) 3. Research Activities Articles Published 92 96 127 135 A and B Articles 14 11 32 23 Other Academic 36 45 40 39 Articles Professional Journals, 42 40 55 73 Non-Refereed Publications Book Chapters 33 22 33 37 Books 3 4 10 14 Research Papers Presented at 75 71 81 95 45 Conferences Case Studies (published in a case clearing 5 7 6 10 house) Total 208 200 257 291 CNRS 1 (* * * *) 1 1 2 2 CNRS 2 (* * *) 0 2 4 7 CNRS* Star Ratings CNRS 3 (* *) 2 8 18 13 CNRS 4 (*) 7 7 18 9 Total Number of Stars 15 33 74 64 Rate of of academic output linked to (NO 2013) 15% of 17% N/A 31% 36% Maintain the level sustainable research projects development dedicated to SD themes Number of research chairs on SD / CSR 1 2 3 3 4 issues (NO 2011) Existence Interdisciplinary of an interdisciplinary Non Non Yes Yes research group on SD group on SD (NO 2011) National exchange platform of SD knowledge Involvement in national / international (NO) SD research Yes Yes Yes 3 research programmes partnerships with on SD other types of establishment (IO) Results of research work to A few articles Number of actions to general public and _ _ _ in the economic Regular articles spread research work decision makers press Number of SD research projects done by 50 60 75 168 180 students Main Indicator / Key Goals / SD Objectives Performance 2007 / 2008 2008 / 2009 2009 / 2010 2010 / 2011 Objectives Trends (National (NO) Indicators (KPI) 2011 / 2012 & Institutional (IO)) 4. Social Policy and Local Community Involvement Administrative Staff 160 213 Faculty Members 65 67 71 86 Percentage 32% / 68% 42% / 58% Human Resources Men / Women Rate 84% / 16% 84% / 16% French / Foreigners Number of hours 2788 for Staff training 46 Managerial 1 10 11 Recruitments Men Non Managerial 1 18 1 Managerial 6 14 5 Recruitments women Non Managerial 4 23 6 Percentage of Marseille’s Student 10% Population Community Impact attending Euromed Number of student 9 26 associations Euromed Social origin Management of students / National Statistics Agro-fishing Industry 6% 4% 5% 3.7% / 1.1% Craftsmen, Shopkeeper and Business Owner 13% 12% 12% 11.8% / 3.4% (NO) (over ten employees) Be representative of French society (socio-economic Senior Management 41% 41% 42% 40% / 8.8 % category, gender, & Intellectuals minority and disability) Intermediate Level 15% 16% 16% 17.9% / 13.2% for students Workers and employees Employees 6% 8% 8% 9.6% / 16.4% Blue Collar Workers 2% 2% 2% 2% / 12.8% Retired 1% 2% 3% 3% / 26.5% Persons without any Professional 0% 1% 2% 2.8% / 17.9% Occupation Other 17% 13% 11% 9% Women 47% 43% 42% 39% 45% Student Gender Men 53% 57% 58% 61% 55% Rate of women as managers, in senior management roles, 18% / 23% 17% / 17% 17% / 23% 14.23% / 23% 29%/23% and on the Board of Directors Rate of seniors 9.2% 12% 14% (employees) Number of projects in favour of equal 7 10 id opportunities Equal Opportunity Efforts Number of apprenticeship /professional 171 Mrs 139 145 Maintain the level contracts Mrs/Toulon 203 Toulon (on-the-job learning) Main Indicator / Key Goals / SD Objectives Performance 2007 / 2008 2008 / 2009 2009 / 2010 2010 / 2011 Objectives Trends (National (NO) Indicators (KPI) 2011 / 2012 & Institutional (IO)) Students 3 6 6 2 5 with waived fees Number Government 321 394 453 466 Grants (CROUS) Number / amount 62 K€ 233 / 62K€ 318 / 62 K€ 70 / 100.5 K€ 200 K€ of school scholarships Financial Aid / (NO) 100% of students and personnel live Number / amount above the poverty of European grants 342 / 518 K€ 340 / 642 K€ 395 / 651 K€ 280 / 587 K€ threshold for mobility 47 Grant receiving students 18% 18% 20% 21,31% 22% (ESC programme %) Total scholarships allocated by Euromed 62 K€ 62K€ 62 K€ 100,5 K€ 200 K€ Management in K€ (N0) 6% personnel (employees and Rate of disabled professors) / 0.9% / N/A 2.3% / 6 6% / 10 personnel / students students disabled (NO) Cell dedicated Existence of Improve comto welcoming and department dedicated munication with integrating internaYes Yes Yes Yes to integration of international tional students international students students Staff implemented 1 7 in wellness team (SO) Resources dedicated to student wellInfrastructure being and dedicated 2 psycho-social issues to wellness Budget allocated 32 579 € to wellness (NO) Raise awareness Actions to raise in 100% of students awareness in 100% of alcohol and drug 4 4 10 of students of alcohol abuse and drug abuse Rate of satisfaction 71% maintain the level of internal PP Rate of answers to HR 76% maintain the level satisfaction survey Rate of staff turnover 6.2% implement KPI (SO) Be one of the Rate of internal implement KPI «Best places to work» mobility Number of days absent due to accidents at 42 / 6 247 / 5 260 / 4 0 id work / number of people concerned Number of days off sick / number 1738 / 19 1709 / 32 -5% of people concerned (NO 2013) 100% of Percentage of teaching and nonpersonnel who have teaching personnel 0 0 0 7% 10% had SD training have had SD training during the year (NO) 30% of solidarity and cooperation acLocal / international tions to be taken for 46% / 33% id id id id solidarity projects developing countries Main Indicator / Key Goals / SD Objectives Performance 2007 / 2008 2008 / 2009 2009 / 2010 2010 / 2011 Objectives Trends (National (NO) Indicators (KPI) 2011 / 2012 & Institutional (IO)) 5. Environmental Campus Management Carbon footprint per (SO 2020) Reduce student (equivalent greenhouse gas in tons of carbon) 2.47 / 0.37 -5% emissions by 40% with / without trips abroad (NO) Integrate social and environmental Weight of social and To maintain at indicators in marenvironmental criteria 0 0 10% 10% 10% and create kets and give them at in purchases purchasing tools least a weight of 30% (NO 2010) 100% of wood 9 tons 11.45 tons 48 certified or coming Quantity of paper 5 tons (within 4 tons (within 4 tons -5% from sustainably consumption of paper about about managed forests reprography) reprography) Cardboard 35m3 91m3* Cans 10 500 80 000* Glass 20 000 28 000* Plastic Cups -105 000 110 000* Plastic Bottles 18 850 28 000* Product / Resource Consumption Batteries 33kg 30kg *estimations include student activities Light Bulbs 2500 2000 30 screens 4.4 tons Computer & Electronics N/A 40 units converted 10 printers Ink Cartridges 358 277 (NO) For buildings in Electricity consumption 1 306 741 1 587 892 Maintain the level renovation: reach (KWh) at least the label B (energy and climate) and A for new constructions Gas consumption (KWh) 1 369 332 1 455 930 1 533 801 2 207 889 Maintain the level (NO) 20% of Energy Average green energy from green sources 115.26 kWh production/day (NO 2012) 20% bio Launch the Rate of bio, local and and local products responsible food fair trade products in the catering service project (NO) Reduce waste 50 45 by 2% Tonnage of waste dumpsters dumpsters (on a constant basis) Main Indicator / Key Goals / SD Objectives Performance 2007 / 2008 2008 / 2009 2009 / 2010 2010 / 2011 Objectives Trends (National (NO) Indicators (KPI) 2011 / 2012 & Institutional (IO)) (NO) Guarantee the proper sorting of 100% of waste Rate waste recycling and reuse and reuse 75% Paper 20% 100% Cardboard 0 0 100% Cans 25% 10% 100% Glass 80% 80% 100% Plastic Cups 0 0 100% Plastic Bottles 0 0 100% 49 Batteries 100% 100% 100% Light Bulbs 100% 100% 100% Computer 4.4 tons Stocked Stocked 100% & Electronics converted 67% 9% Reconditioned Reconditioned Ink Cartridges 100% 33% 9% Dismantled Dismantled (NO) Water consumption Water consumption less than 3m3 8 307 7 603 8 241 -5% per year per full (m3) time student Carbon footprint (NO) Rate of public for daily travel: 55% / 45% 60% / 40% transportation public transportation higher than regional / car using petrol use (reference: Urban Public Emissions of Transportation Plan) greenhouse gas linked 92% 90% (NO) Reach a zero to transportation carbon objective for business trips for teaching, research and operational Compensation tax 0 0 0 0 activities for transportation (NO) 100% of green Census of native Preservation spaces managed species and the ecologically and of biodiversity 0% pesticides implementation with 0% pesticides and natural resources of an action plan Marc Euromed Design Class of 2008 Industrial Designer at Nestlé chapter four A Word from our Stakeholders our students 52 W hen I began applying to business schools, among my priorities was finding a school that was concerned with This experience has been strongly beneficial and showed me the difficulties inherent to the realisation of large projects. With issues such as diversity and the environa budget of 250 000 Euros and nearly 200 ment. I looked for a school that would students working on the various projects, I teach me how to better understand a was responsible for the management and world that would exist twenty five years the coordination of an impressive number from now. I wanted to learn new methof activities. This commitment has given ods and less conventional tools. Euromed me the desire to pursue and to refine my Management and the “hall of associations” career plans. enabled me to do so. Finally I gained great personal satisfaction In truth, Euromed Management goes from both the student accolades and the beyond speeches. It’s an ambitious school results obtained in various competitions. that gives itself and its students the means In 2011, Euromed Management became to manage differently. The first two years French student champion in tennis and of my studies were marked by my commitsailing and went on to win the world ment to “Unis-Terre”. As president of this University Sailing Championships. association I was able to work in collaboration with the administration to put into Edouard Mary place increasingly ambitious new projects. President of the Bureau des Sports I had the opportunity to rub elbows with Student Sports Association sustainable development directors and organisations that fight to transform the business world into entities that respect mankind and its environment. After two years I know that I did not A s a student at Euromed Management I had various opportunities to experiment through different courses, confermake a mistake in choosing Euromed ences, and student associations. During my Management. This school provided me studies I came to realise the importance of with tools necessary to my personal develCorporate Social Responsibility in the busiopment. By working on different projects ness world. Within the Junior Enterprise I discovered that any manager, if they we launched a sustainable development choose to, can change mindsets. business unit, so we can directly work with companies facing CSR dilemmas. One of Sarah Khemiss our first clients was Euromed Management President of Unis-Terre for whom we carried out their first Campus Student Solidarity Association carbon footprint a great and enriching experience. M y first year as a Masters student at Euromed Management was full of new experiences. On the one hand my Justine Tavernier Marketing Méditerranée professional specialisation, with a tailormade training programme, helped me to discover various professions and to choose my path. On the other hand my associative involvement, as President of “Bureau Des Sports”, gave me a chance to apply management theories taught in class. our alumni A t Euromed Management I discovered many new aspects about myself and learned how to better understand others. F or the past two years I have run the international division of the International Climate Action Network 53 More importantly, through my Pro-Act I France. I also represented French NGOS learned how to develop an idea, a project during the UN Climate Change Summits and work relations. It was a completely in Copenhagen (2009) and Cancun (2010). new way of learning, with real projects, Our goal is so that France is as virtuous real responsibilities and real people. as possible within its borders and on the Nowadays, I realise how important those European and international level in the activities were. I took part in many projects fight against climate change. This goes and all of them helped me develop in diffrom developing expertise to lobbying ferent ways. Through my commitment in political leaders and raising awareness the VI project, a humanitarian action in on environmental concerns. Benin, I learned how to help others and I was able to integrate this structure open myself to new aspects of sustainable thanks to my elective choices (NGO maneconomy. With my diverse experiences in agement), my Pro-Act (Unis-Terre, Campus the Student Council, I took responsibiliDurable) and my internships as an ESC ties in representing the Euromed stustudent at Euromed Management. It was dents, organising events, bringing people the holistic approach of my curriculum, together and promoting integration. required by the school’s pedagogy and confirmed by my Employment Pro-Act, which Emmanuel Labi allowed me to hold the keys to accessing Business Analyst this exciting career. I now have a career in Asia Lacoste Hong-Kong which I put into practice the competences Class of 2010 developed during my studies. Sébastien Blavier E uromed Management is known for the importance it places in each student’s personal development. They do International Office Manager Climate Action Network France Class of 2009 this through personalised coaching and tailor-made programmes. Every student is encouraged to embrace their differences, their personality and place value in this diversity. As for myself, I had the opportunity to undertake a number of associative projects suppor ted by Euromed Management (Agora RH, Fenêtre sur Cours, etc.) and to spend two semesters abroad (Germany and Poland). These experiences drew recruiters’ attention, have given me confidence and helped me to evolve within a large international company. Thomas Deville HR Manager Middle East Degremont (SUEZ Environnement) Class of 2007 our academic partners 54 T he Waikato Management School h a s p a r t n e r e d w it h E u r o m e d Management as both Institutions share was also sponsored by the UN Global Compact and the Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) initiative. a common vision of inspiring the world with a fresh understanding of sustainable The programme theme – Stakeholders development and passion for ensuring our Engagement in Practice: Global Challenges, students graduate with an appreciation of Possibilities, and Limitations – focused on the environmental and social as well as the critical nature of firm-stakeholder economic implications of decisions. relationships. Ed Weymes The theme was also a perfect fit for our Pro Vice Chancellor International work with Euromed Management, an University of Waikato institution that clearly takes its relationships with its stakeholders very seriously. I could not have been more pleased with T he Cameron School of Business has been collaborating with Euromed Management on dual degree programmes, the collaborative spirit of everyone we worked with, from the initial conceptualisation of the programme through its semester and yearlong study abroad and administration. As we explored the moral summer programmes since 1998. It is a imperatives that the stakeholder model pleasure to send students as we know raises as well as the pragmatic realities they are getting an exceptional educaof managing multifaceted relationships in tion. We also know that in all aspects the a complex, every-changing environment, school is well managed and students have it became increasingly clear that the idetremendous support systems. Whether als we were striving for were captured in it is coursework, internships, or activiEuromed Management’s own strategies ties outside of the classroom Euromed and practices. Euromed Management was Management does it well. Euromed an outstanding partner in this venture, Management is one of our most respected leading to one of our most successful propartners. grammes to date. Rebecca I. Porterfield, Ph.D. Anthony F. Buono Director of International Business Professor of Management & Sociology Programmes Executive Director, Bentley Alliance for Cameron School of Business Ethics & Social Responsibility University of North Carolina Wilmington Bentley University B entley University was proud to partner with Euromed Management for our seventh annual Global Business Ethics Symposium, held in May, on the Euromed Management Luminy campus. The programme, which was co-hosted by our Center for Business Ethics and Alliance for Ethics & Social Responsibility, was sponsored by the State Street Foundation, the charitable grant making arm of State Street Corporation. This year’s event our business partners “B eware of crossing your arms over your chest, assuming the sterile attitude of a spectator, because life K PMG finds that among Euromed Management graduates numerous profiles correspond to our recruitment 55 is not a spectacle, a sea of pain is not a needs. We appreciate their technical and proscenium, and a screaming man is not a academic competences as well as their dancing bear.” Aimé Césaire 1939 “soft skills”. They come to us with their autonomy, curiosity, entrepreneurship and The situation of those who are excluded ethical values. These competences are culfrom the job market cannot leave us indiftivated by Euromed Management thanks ferent. It is the responsibility of companies, to a rigorous yet open selection process their directors and their managers to bring and to the rich educational programmes back the humanist objective of their busithat emphasise group work, professional ness. In other words, to bring back their experience, international and cultural original function, creating wealth for awareness and responsible management. everyone. It’s mainly for this reason that Adecco Pierre-Laurent Soubra chose to participate in the Responsible Associate Partner Management Network that is led and aniKPMG mated by Euromed Management. Through our participation we seek to contribute to the preparation, accompaniment and creation of a future generation of competitive AND humanistic entrepreneurs and S odexo launched its sustainability roadmap, the Better Tomorrow Plan in December 2009. The Supply Chain teams managers. play a key role in achieving the Better Tomorrow Plan commitments. Sodexo’s Jean-Francois Connan support for the Sustainable Purchasing Director of Diversity and Social Chair launched by Euromed Management Integration demonstrates the Group’s desire to engage Adecco with multiple stakeholders including academics to find solutions and models to inform the decisions that have to be taken when we are confronted with paradoxical situations. Damien Verdier Group Executive Vice President Chief Marketing Officer in charge of Offer Marketing, Client Retention, Supply Chain and Sustainable Development Sodexo our STAFF 56 2 010-2011 was undeniably marked by our achieving the “triple crown”. As in every audit, these accreditations gave us F or some time now I’ve been toying with the idea of tribalisation of our society and of our consumption. My interthe opportunity to question ourselves, ananationally-influential research has emphalyse the impact of our actions and spend sised what I call consumer tribes. Since more time benchmarking. If only for these I joined the school in 2005, what I have reasons, the process is worth it – even if it seen more and more at play in Euromed meant more work! Management’s pedagogy through proSince I was recruited in 1997, I have acts and other proactive devices is the watched the school evolve for over fifteen emergence of learning tribes. All these years. I have seen spectacular evolutions in learning tribes form a kind of communal our internationalisation and our research constellation to which other groups belong but also in our pedagogical model. It is a such as faculty and staff. The sense of great satisfaction that our personal devel«we-ness» shared by all these persons is opment approach, based on experimentaa major driver of Euromed Management’s tion and student projects (Pro-Act) was a development according to me. major influence in our “triple A’. Beyond our accreditations, students confirm on a Prof. Bernard Cova daily basis the success of our pedagogiProfessor of Marketing cal model that incites responsibility and initiative taking. In the end, this project dynamic greatly contributes to the “Euromed Community” by mixing students from every programme, I n 1998 when I arrived at the school, self awareness and personal development were definitely not on the student developing their capacities to work in a agenda. Today they are an integral part team and to adapt to an every changing of Euromed Management’s pedagogy and environment…. More than learning, they the school has made personal development EXPERIMENT how to assume responsibiliand employability a fundamental cornerties and to take risks. stone of its strategy. However, Euromed For all of these reasons, 2011 will remain a Management’s aim is not only that stuyear during which I was particularly proud dents find a job at the end of their studies, to be “Euromedian”. but that the job they choose is in line with the personal values, motivations, profesOlivier Pelazza sional ambitions and competencies develHead of Pro-Act Pedagogy and Student oped at school. Associations My contribution to Euromed Management is to help develop managers who are responsible for their careers, who are proactive, who know how to make the right career choices and ask themselves the right questions at every stage of their lives. This, for me, is a fundamental motivation to contributing to the future of our students and to the success of Euromed Management today and tomorrow. Lucy Cook ‘Trajectoire’ Career Centre Manager Corporate and Markets Directorate OUR peers 57 EQUIS Peer Review Team Report June 2011 “The education agenda of the school is impressively oriented to both personal and professional development. The engagement of faculty and staff in developing each individual extends well beyond what is observed at many peer schools internationally. The Pro-Act projects, including the elective and international ones, require a considerable amount of personal reflection that is logged / recorded and assessed. The two dimensions of development (personal and professional) are also interconnected through these courses and faculty engaged with the process display a commitment to it that is confirmed by students and employer organisations. This area can be considered something of an international best practice”. Pg. 8 “The school clearly meets EQUIS quality expectations in the area of community contribution and it should be considered above standard with respect to corporate social behaviour”. Pg. 13 AACSB Peer Review July 2011 Commendations of Strengths, Innovations, and Unique Features “Among the strengths and distinctive features of Euromed Management are the school’s Pro-Act programme, its mandatory study-abroad and internship programme, as well as its focus on individual and personal development. The school is a reference in integrating diversity and corporate social responsibility within teaching, research and the school environment.” 58 T his repor t was piloted by the CSR Department with the assistance of the Quality and Communications Departments as well as the CSR Officers. A limited number of paper copies were issued and printed on PEFC (Pan European Forest Certification) certified paper. The ink is of vegetable origin and the offset waste reduced to a maximum. Our partner Siris is a certified Green Printing Company. This document is intended to provide insights into the school’s strategy, activities and sustainable performance. Further information, and a digital version of this report, can be found on the school’s website: www.euromed-management.com Any comments or questions can be directed to csr@euromed-management.com. Domaine de Luminy Rue Antoine Bourdelle BP 921 13288 Marseille cedex 09 FRANCE Tel. +33(0)4 91 82 78 00 Agence : Cognito
