o n O n g o in g Pr ogr es s ! Fastened Communication on progress 2012 www.gris-decoupage.com Communication sur le progrès 2008 www.unglobalcompact.org G R I S D E C O U PA G E ’s c o m m i t m e n t t o t h e G l o b a l C o m pa c t GRIS DECOUPAGE, founded in 1984 and based in Lesménils (department 54, France), specialises in the manufacture of mechanical components and flat or conical die-cut washers in medium or large runs. GRIS DECOUPAGE signed up to the Global Compact in 2006, thus demonstrating its commitment to the basic values of human rights, labour standards and environmental protection. But well before then, GRIS DECOUPAGE had already espoused the ideals underlying the ten Global Compact principles. Participation in the Global Compact was a logical step in the continuous improvement process adopted by the company a number of years ago. Continuous improvement was implemented initially in the fields of industry, quality and management and led to the ISO 9001 and ISO TS 16949 certifications obtained in 1993. It was subsequently extended in the early 2000s to cover environmental and sustainable development issues, as confirmed by the awarding of ISO 14001 certification in June 2007. GRIS DECOUPAGE is renewing its commitment to the Global Compact for 2013. In so doing, we undertake to uphold the ten principles on a daily basis, to make sure they are shared by all employees and to bring them fully to the attention of our subcontractors and suppliers. Francis GRIS President Communication sur le progrès 2008 Progress update from Global Compact participant I L L U S T R AT E D P R I N C I P L E S 1. OBJECTIVES SET FOR 2012 For 2012, GRIS DECOUPAGE chose to illustrate the following 3 groups of principles: Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The last principle, “Anti-corruption”, is not relevant to GRIS DECOUPAGE and we are not, therefore, reporting on this subject. Nevertheless, GRIS DECOUPAGE remains fully alert to this concern and will continue to exercise vigilance in the future. 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN IN 2012 • Human rights Corporate social responsibility is a fundamental aspect of GRIS DECOUPAGE’s business model. Recognition at work is an issue receiving ever closer attention from companies and increasingly viewed as a way to boost economic performance. It requires a significant change in behaviour from Managers. In this connection, the appointment of Céline GRIS to the position of Managing Director at GRIS DECOUPAGE in January 2012 is evidence of our organisation’s commitment to continue moving forward by upholding the values of respecting men and women at work and acknowledging their personal investment and results along with their competencies and right to a voice. • Labour To create more space in the workshop and accommodate a new production process, work to extend GRIS DECOUPAGE’s industrial facility was carried out in 2012, adding an extra 1000 m² to the existing building. This work enabled a number of sectors to be relocated, including Sorting, a Packaging line, the PU Press sector and Toolmaking. An occupational health ergonomist assisted the process of moving these sectors by identifying risk postures and suggesting improvements that could be made on reinstallation in the new premises. • Environment Communication sur le progrès 2008 This extension work provided an opportunity to undertake several environmental actions, such as: Lowering the risk of soil and water contamination Preventing soil contamination by fire-fighting water Reducing electricity and water consumption by conducting small-scale actions in the social areas. M E S U R E S D E S R E S U L TAT S O B T E N U S 1. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR : The building extension work made it possible to reorganise 4 sectors: a Packaging line, Reworking Presses, Sorting and Toolmaking. To improve the working conditions and ergonomics in these sectors, an occupational health ergonomist carried out a series of observations and proposed various action plans as described in detail below. Packaging machine: Change the position of a control unit for the machine and a control unit for the lifting table so that operators do not have to adopt postures that could lead to musculoskeletal disorders, Raise the height of the conveyor and of the whole line so that the carton grab height is between 0.75 m and 1.1 m. → This work will be carried out in early 2013. PU presses: Place a platform in front of the machine to bring the operator closer to the tool mounting zone, Install anti-fatigue matting in front of the workbench in this sector, Invest in a set of steps. → The two sets of steps are now in place. Sorting sector: Place the sorting machines further apart to improve the gangways between machines, Reposition the tables at the end of the line when the sorting machines are reinstalled, Install a label distributor that separates the labels from their backing paper, Bring the lids as close as possible to the employee and at the height of the operators’ elbows. → This work will be carried out in early 2013. Toolmaking sector: A more in-depth study was carried out in the Toolmaking sector by the occupational health ergonomist. This sector contains several machines and a feedstock storage area and involves load carrying. The ergonomist first observed the operators at work, listing the postural stresses to which they were exposed. Then, in a second phase, proposals were made for improvement actions. The action plans adopted and to be implemented in 2013 are as follows: Invest in new storage racks for feedstock bars, Make a truck to transport the feedstock bars from the Warehouse to the new Toolmaking shop, Provide a trolley, Add handles to the chip containers, Replace the old milling machine, Position the numerically controlled lathes to avoid reflections on the screens, Provide roller racks to store as-milled items, → These action plans will be carried out in 2013 in conjunction with the operators from these sectors. The action plans to be implemented following the occupational health ergonomist’s recommendations are fully in line with the company’s continuous improvement policy. They will provide better working conditions for employees and thus limit the risks of occupational illnesses and work-related accidents. These actions will be in addition to the severe working condition record sheet kept for each employee exposed to risk factors (as required by the decree dated 30/01/2012) and given to the employee on departure. Communication sur le progrès 2008 M E A S U R E M E N T O F R E S U L T S O B TA I N E D Furthermore, in the area of human rights and labour, the following actions have also been taken: • Give new meaning to social dialogue and collective decisions: Since 2012, weekly information meetings have been held at Production level. They bring together the main players from the Engineering Department, Production, Technical Department and Top Management with a view to addressing any Production problems encountered and deciding on the preventive or corrective measures to be taken. This action facilitates dialogue between the different departments and with the organisation as a whole. • Promote gender equality in the workplace: In a move to encourage more women into our workshops, specific female locker rooms have now been provided. • Negotiate and formally commit to prioritising well-being and eradicating suffering in the workplace: A preventive process has been put in place to provide an effective response to the psychosocial risks associated with international competition in a crisis-torn economic sector at a time of weak European and global growth. This initiative began in September 2012 under the direction of an occupational health psychologist. A questionnaire on well-being in the workplace was distributed to employees at the end of November 2012. The data will be collected by a department of the occupational health service responsible for statistics. We will be informed of the results in February 2013 at a future meeting of the Steering Committee monitoring the initiative. Working groups will then be set up under the occupational health psychologist. Following these various meetings, a decision will be taken regarding the concrete action plans necessary to improve working conditions. The relevant actions will be undertaken in 2013. 2. THE ENVIRONNEMENT : RESULTS OF CARBON ASSESSMENT Holding ISO 14 001 certification since 2007 and keen to preserve the environment, GRIS DECOUPAGE made a series of investments on the occasion of the building extension work in 2012 with a view to limiting the company’s impact on the environment. • The septic tank, which was no longer really fit for purpose given the number of employees in the company, has been replaced by a micro water treatment plant with a capacity of 40 population equivalents. • In anticipation of the Prefectural authorisation that will be required for the site in 2013 (further to the acquisition of a new press), a fire-fighting-water holding tank of 760 m3 has been constructed. The tank, of a value of € 360 000, has been installed below the workshop staff car park. It acts both as a storm water basin and as a fire-fighting-water holding tank thanks to the inclusion of a downstream valve. • The underground rainwater and wastewater networks have been separated at the level of the building, as required by law. • An oil interceptor has been installed downstream of the workshop staff car park to collect any oil leaks. • New social areas have been built. They have been equipped with self-closing adjustable-flow taps to limit water consumption. Presence detectors have also been installed to avoid leaving the premises lit unnecessarily. • The office part of the building has been re-insulated to improve staff comfort, limit energy losses and reduce electricity consumption. • Finally, a dual-flow CMV (Controlled Mechanical Ventilation) system has been installed, reducing heat loss compared with a single-flow CMV. All these action plans are part of the continuous improvement policy that has been in place at GRIS DECOUPAGE for many years. Communication sur le progrès 2008
