5th annual Communication On Progress (COP) 1|Page CHAIRMAN STATEMENT 2|Page Distinguished Stakeholders, Arab African International Bank, as the case investment in Egypt), and the Best Foreign with other banks, faced economic slowdown Exchange Bank and Provider for 2011 by throughout 2011, as various areas of the Global Finance. economy witnessed diminishing profitability; yet the bank's momentum over the past Foreign Branches years in maintaining its growth rate helped in The bank's diversified income sources gives supporting its financial strength and it an edge that distinguishes it from other preparing it to wave the storm of economic banks in the market, this was evident in the decline in performance results. high profitability of 42% achieved by our foreign branches, to reach US$14 million in The bank's profits slightly decreased in 2011, 2011, compared to US$10 million in 2010, as the net income reached US$126 million in reflecting the enhancement of AAIB's 2011, compared to US$143.5 million in 2010, Emirates branches performance and the with a decrease of 12%, an acceptable success of their handpicked client selection decrease especially when compared to other and business management, building on financial institutions that witnessed a 20% to strong relations with Egyptian corporate. 30% decline in profitability. Despite the economic slowdown, the bank’s return on Human Resources equity reached 18% by the end of 2011, AAIB is aware that its human resources are while return on assets reached 1.7%. the main force behind realizing its vision and AAIB enjoys a strong capital base (Tier 1), achieving future goals. In this, the bank reaching US$ 771 million in 2011 compared continued throughout 2011 its policy of to US$ 697 million in 2010. Capital adequacy developing its human force. Training Unit ratio reached 20%, compared to 16% in 2010, managed to secure 1,321 training doubling the Central Bank of Egypt's opportunities through 224 courses (locally minimum adequacy ratio of 10%. and abroad), in addition to training 1,093 In line with AAIB's strategy of development employees on money laundry and terrorismand flexibility in facing market's fluctuations, funding fighting. Moreover, a new the bank modified its strategy through performance evaluation system was reducing loans in order to further support its developed to evaluate employees’ liquid assets. performance (measuring goals and skills), in Net loans reached US$ 3.4 billion in 2011 addition to modifying their salary structure, to compared to US$ 4.1 billion in 2010. Our further motivate them and maintain good main priority was to maintain the high liquid calibers. 80% of the employees were ratio to be able to face any unforeseen promoted over the last year; also the developments. Loans to deposits ratio structural mainframe was modified to further reached 67%. apply governance requirements. Global recognition came with AAIB earning the titles: Deal of the Year 2011 by The Banker, J.P. Morgan Quality Recognition Award (for the third consecutive year), Best Investment Bank in Egypt by Global Finance (for its prominent role in supporting 3|Page Marketing and Mass Communications The foundation equipped the OR floor with AAIB’s rich brand is its main asset that much the most up-to-date medical equipment, in provided its stability, wavering a hard year in addition to doubling the unit’s capacity, the Arab region. The bank’s vision to grow making it possible to perform over 400 from a financial institution into a full-fledged operations per month. The foundation now financial group has materialized. focuses on accrediting the operations and Furthermore, AAIB maintains preserving its intensive care units at the hospital to the core values and extending its added value to highest available standards. Currently an all concerned parties: shareholders, clients, agreement is being signed with an employees, society, environment, and accreditation entity to train employees at the business partners. institute and apply quality standards to elevate the level of medical services offered Our Corporate Social Responsibility to patients. We Owe it to Egypt Foundation Arab African International Bank Award We Owe it to Egypt was established in 2007 Celebrating its seventh year, AAIB decided as the first foundation established by a bank to expand its annual awards scope. AAIB in Egypt. The foundation came as an Award aims at offering a suitable atmosphere important step to fulfill AAIB’s strong belief in in which youth’s creativity would flourish. In the importance of a social role to be played 2011, 7 universities participated in the award: by financial institutions. The foundation is Cairo University, The American University in relentlessly committed to improve conditions Cairo, German University in Cairo, British of health and education among Egypt’s University in Egypt, Alexandria University, citizens. MSA, and for the first time the Canadian International College (CIC). 34 teams Abou El Reesh Hospital participated in this year’s round; the students Offering a world-class service to our needy experience firsthand coaching and support children in Egypt comes as the foundation's through 7 intensive courses taught by top priority. This is duly achieved through experts from and outside the bank, through elevating the patients' service quality and which they will gain knowledge about preparing the hospital for international different aspects of the financial industry, in accreditation from the Joint Commission order to help them innovate financial International . products on a professional basis. In this, We Owe it to Egypt focused on Integrating Persons with Special-needs in the renewing intensive care units through Bank’s Organizational Environment upgrading impatient areas at Abou El Reesh With a strong belief in equality, AAIB hosted hospital, in addition to supplying medical its first special-needs intern for two months, equipment. The foundation also focuses on his internship was divided at both Training supplying a larger number of nursing staff, and Development, and Marketing and Mass who are present on the foundation’s payroll. Communications departments. The bank This is in addition to offering comprehensive also participated in funding a Training and training to nurses. Qualifying Center for persons with specialneeds. National Cancer Institute & Intensive Care Unit AAIB Caring for the Environment and Human Rights 4|Page Since 2009, AAIB has focused on applying Council. The Council recognized AAIB as a the adequate standards to maintain the success story to be followed. environment, citizenship, and elevating the community. This was achieved through Our Vision of the Future adopting the following initiatives. AAIB showed a good performance in the hard times witnessed by Egypt and the Equator Principles region in general, yet we aim towards In 2009, AAIB announced its abidance by the maintaining our leading position in the Equator Principles, to be the first Egyptian market by applying best banking practices. bank to sign the document. We look towards the future with optimism, our vision is built on the bank’s firm structure UN Global Compact that we know will secure it more growth. I'm United Nation’s Global Compact is an also fully confident that the Egyptian initiative that allows participating commercial economy is resilient and has passed its worst institutions to adopt human rights and times and will witness a return to growth in integrate them in their fields of business. the near future. Global Compact is the world’s largest initiative of corporate citizenship (over 100 thousand participants all over the world). A Final Note Participating institutions unite over the principle that a unified humane conduct of Finally, on behalf of the distinguished business will result in a more stable, just, and members of our Board of Directors and comprehensive global market. The bank myself, I would like to extend our deepest issued its annual report concerning the four appreciation to the bank’s employees for principles included in the GC agreement. The their loyalty and selflessness, and for their report was issued in April 2011, and UN’s hard work and professionalism amidst very commentary stated that the bank abided by hard circumstances. I am confident that the the four principles and is a role model in the upcoming period will witness more success field. that will meet our ambition. We UN Global Compact chose AAIB as the best financial institution in Egypt-and the second believe AAIB’s presence as one of Egypt’s in the regionfor its vital role in evaluating fastest growing banks will be further rooted. I and applying social and environmental risks would also like to thank our shareholders and in finance, especially in emerging markets, clients for their much appreciated confidence and for applying the highest sustainability in AAIB, and for all their support and loyalty, standards in commercial procedures. in which we take much pride and appreciation. In the same year, AAIB achieved local recognition after being awarded second place for its developmental efforts in health Mahmoud A. Khalek Al Nouri and education from the Egyptian CSR Chairman Arab African International Bank 5|Page Arab African International Bank Bringing Theory into Practice From Strategy to Execution 6|Page From Strategy to Execution The report is an attempt to draw a clear The AAIB had an impressive presence in structure for AAIB’s practices from guiding 2011 on the national and the global level. frameworks, to practice, monitor and The corporate presented its successful case evaluation. The report covers the CSR studies in CSR and sustainability in various practices in the duration from April 2011 to conferences with difference institutions; June 2012. academic, peers, NGOs and ministries. AAIB was the only financial institution from Egypt Emerging from AAIB’s mandate it has been a to attend Rio+ summit in Brazil 2012, to year of collaboration and cooperation. AAIB present a successful role model among CSR witnessed engagement and Egyptian corporates in CSR. The presence partnership with various institutions to outcome was initial agreements between enhance the UN Global Compact’s four AAIB and some peer banks to join efforts in principles. The annual strategy observed the upgrading and renovating “Health and bank’s engagement with academic Education” sectors in Egypt through the “We institutions, private and governmental, Owe It to Egypt’s” foundation established by embracing the vitality of the “sustainability” AAIB in 2007. as a discipline involved in educating curriculums. Since 2004, the CSR Unit has opted to take several frameworks to assess practices and AAIB was presented as a case study at the keep-thetrack. These frameworks are the German University in Cairo. While the “Equator Principles” which act as the main American University in Cairo partnered with guidelines for social and environmental risk AAIB in creating a MENA forum for assessment; UNGC which acts as the “Entrepreneurship and Sustainability” guideline for four main principles, human where entrepreneurs presented their success rights, labor rights, anti-corruption and stories, and discuss the know-how of dealing environment; and finally the “London with rising challenges. This partnership is Benchmarking Group” which measures the derived from AAIB’s belief that sustainability corporate community investment of the is a rich academic discipline which must companies’ spending. occupy space in the Egyptian educating curriculum. Following the annual reports, AAIB was recognized twice in 2011 and 2012 as “Best From another side, AAIB has engaged with Practice” Financial Institution in CSR. AAIB some NGOs such as “Hope Village Society” as best practice case was published in the for street children, and governmental bodies GC year book For Sustainable Finance (EP), such as the Ministry of health through the philanthropy (WOTE), AAIB Award & Anti“WOITE’s” foundation and the ministry of Corruption Guideline. This report will present foreign trade and industry to promote “ISO AAIB’s strategy throughout the years 2011 26000” for benchmarking sustainability. and 2012 to continue its path towards sustainability. 7|Page Principle I HUMAN RIGHTS 8|Page PRINCIPLE 1: HUMAN RIGHTS Arab African International Bank Award Rewarding Academic Excellence in Banking and Finance 9|Page Complying with the UN Global Compact Accordingly, for the 7th year AAIB has principle for advocating Human Rights, launched its annual nationwide banking AAIB has undertaken a strategy to competition for university undergraduates. proceed with the annual banking The award provides financial reward as well competition that aims at enhancing youth as creating value for all participants who skills and fosters capacity building. The acquire new skills and receive an opportunity strategy is derived from the corporate to access and understand banking industry, belief in the youth rights to be given the which is where the true value of the award opportunity and right track to link lies. Students apply in teams of three to five academia with professional life. members and conduct in-depth research on the market to develop their idea into a fullCompetition is a fact of life wherever there is realistic one. ambition and motivation to become the best. It can be a positive motivator to work harder to reach ones goals. The AAIB Award helps in creating that kind of positive attitude and atmosphere by learning to work as part of a team, managing success and disappointment, gaining knowledge about responsibility and time management by balancing training and other activities. Moreover, students get an early feel of finance and training in banking, which is an introductory overview of how business works in practice. Also, the students learn to think outside the box; since you have to be innovative because this is what differentiates you from others and might make one party win the AAIB Award over the other. Proposals and Outlines Training Sessions In this phase, students are expected to As every year, the program included material submit proposals required according to a and non-material benefits in the form of specific criteria drawn by instructors and training to students provided by bank banking professionals. The panel selects the executives and external experts on retail, most feasible proposals to be finally filtered corporate banking and investment as well as in to three winning teams. marketing, financial analysis, presentation and report writing skills. 10 | P a g e Closing Ceremony In the closing ceremony, representatives from participating universities attended the closing ceremony at the Four Seasons Hotel where the Minister of Higher Education and State for Scientific Research was among the panelist. The financial awards are given to winners according to their project’s ranking. The ceremony brings students with their parents and beloved to share the success and network with experts and professional to learn from their experience. 11 | P a g e Annual overview for the Award Year ROUND 1 ROUND 2 ROUND 3 ROUND 4 ROUND 5 ROUND 6 ROUND 7 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2011 No of Participating Universities 1 2 4 5 7 9 7 No. of Registered 9 teams 55 teams 95 teams 41 teams 50 teams 72 teams 53 teams Teams (Avg. 36 students) (Avg. 220 students) (Avg. 383 students) (Avg.164 students) (Avg. 200 (Avg. 288 students) Avg. 210 students) students Average No. of Active Teams 2 12 9 8 15 15 15 (finalists) No. of Volunteers TOTAL 8 TOTAL 19 TOTAL 24 TOTAL 24 TOTAL 31 TOTAL 32 TOTAL 35 8 Judging Panel 2 universities 10 faculty 10 faculty 14 faculty 15 faculty 10 Judging Panel (6 faculty) 8 Judging Panel 8 Judging Panel 10 Judging 10 Judging Panel 7 Assessment 8 Judging Panel 6 trainers 6 trainers Panel 7 Trainers Committee 5 Trainers 7 Trainers 10 faculty members 8 Trainers The table above shows the development status of the competition across years (2003-2012). AAIB managed to increase the number of participating students, teams and universities. As the competition geography expands, the impact and number of beneficiaries increase. 12 | P a g e PRINCIPLE 1: HUMAN RIGHTS HANDICAPPED PILOT PROJECT Empower and Be Empowered Internship Feedback Handicapped have the right for an equal opportunity In 2011, AAIB launched its pilot project and decided to empower and be empowered by “disadvantaged” individuals. The bank allowed a six weeks internship for Ayman Gamal Osman, The candidate was allowed the internship in two departments; Marketing and Communication, and Ayman Gamal Osman AAIB’s first intern with special needs Training and Development. Although on a wheel chair with some hearing and speaking difficulties, 1His internship experience in AAIB yet Ayman proved competence in Calculating scores using a calculator, editing and amending the Training and Good opportunity to learn about banks, tasks Development Department’s power point presentations, and and qualifications required, gave a wonderful typing assignments. He has also proven his interest in opportunity to work with all others as a team carrying out internet researches for training providers. and integrate smoothly, yet, training was short, need to be longer to give opportunity to candidates to learn more and get better idea Recommendations by the involved departments tackling about jobs required and the graphic designs possible areas for development and recommendations for needed to prepare them to perform required tasks the success of the pilot project: to join the bank industry.  Hosting department should be provided with all relevant information about interns with special needs to enable 2The impact of the internship on his future them to prepare all necessary arrangements, and to be view aware of how to handle emergencies and/or difficult Open eyes for employment opportunity that has situations and to avoid subjecting the intern to unneeded pressure. never existed before & proved the ability for  Prepared logistics depending on the conditions of the cerebral palsy people to work with all others as intern. integrated whole.  Creating an effortless and easy route for interns starting from the Bank’s entrance till reaching office .  Dedicated supervisor at least for the first week. 3Future Aspiration looking forward to have another change and get The bank is planning to allow three more “disabled” interns a 3 months training with clear objective to for a period of three months during the summer with a prepare and qualify my to work in the bank genuine consideration to study hiring disadvantaged candidates. His opinion in AAIB cause/pilot project Wonderful time, great passion, made me feel comfortable and welcomed and made all effort needed to give real work and encouraged me to do my best. 13 | P a g e AAIB donates to The Right to Live Association to establish a Rehabilitation Center After the disabled intern experience in AAIB and as various other activities that include arts, sports, the recommendation followed the pilot project, music as well as self care skills. The aim is to the CSR Unit was encouraged to financially and help the mentally disabled individual reach his managerially contribute to The right to Live maximum potential, and give him a sense of Association in order to establish a “Rehabilitation pride in himself and his achievements. The Center” which provides vocational training program also focuses on providing them with program. This program aims at training adults in necessary skills that would improve their various vocational skills that would help them find economic well being, by providing them with employment in the future. The program takes skills that can be place in the association's sheltered workshops or marketed and externally. Besides providing vocational training, hence provide the program provides academic training as well them with income. PRINCIPLE 1: HUMAN RIGHTS BLOOD DONATION CAMPAIGN Where there was a crucial need for blood employees supporting the campaign. The donation, especially due to a shortage in the donation took place at the bank premises, Egyptian blood banks, the Ministry of Health where the ministry sent their staff of Doctors VACSERA started a national blood and Nurses with all their required equipments donation campaign among organizations and to AAIB’s Head Office to receive the donors banks. Derived from its moral corporate contributions. culture AAIB employees were keen on their contribution to cause, where the year 2012 witnessed 15% increase in the number of 14 | P a g e PRINCIPLE 1: HUMAN RIGHTS We Owe it to Egypt Foundation For social development in health and education We Owe It to Egypt Foundation Profile Founded by: Arab African International Bank Established in: 2007 Registered by: Ministry of Social Solidarity Focus areas: Health and Education For more information: E-mail:info@oweegypt.org Call: 19575 Website:www.oweegypt.org 15 | P a g e Vision  To be the national drive behind a significant impact and sustainable development in health and education in Egypt. Mission  Pool patriotic resources towards establishing focused centers of excellence in health and education.  Establish core processes and stakeholder involvement to achieve and sustain development.  From April 2011 till June 2012, the WOITE’s foundation has achieved major developments within its current projects; Special pediatric hospital and the National Cancer Institute. Special Pediatric Hospital  The waiting area is renovated to accept more patients’ families.  The security and cleanness company are being revised to raise their performance standards.  Nurses are recruited according to International Medical Quality Standards in Cardiology departments, Intensive Care Unit and Intermediate Care Unit.  working hours are extended for nurses and portals to cover the patients nursing and services hours.  Upgraded and renovated current equipments, while supplying new equipments and oxygenators to satisfy hospitals’ needs.  AutomationProtocol signed with ministry of development to upgrade quality services.  Introduced “ Fit for Surgery service” which reduced the waiting time for patients and reduced clutter of people/families in front of the operating room. 16 | P a g e National Cancer Institute (ICU and OR)  Applying quality standards to improve services and functions  Established medical security to act as liaison between family and doctors.  Currently the foundation’s management office is in process of appraising services  Introduced cash cards to rescue patients on case of cardio arrest. \ Specialized Nurses training  Introduced new health and cleanness company to prevent the growth of organisms, with writing weekly report.  In both projects the foundation is working according to the JCI (elaborated  below: annex ).  Nurses are trained for “Basic Life support” assistance which takes place through three phases; basic, intermediate and advanced.  Improved nurses knowledge and increased awareness on how to deal with  emergency cases.  Decreased work load for nurses and improved their patients’ care function.  Recruited nurses where every nurse is responsible for two beds; to raise the  performance and quality of services.  Each five nurses are responsible for serving eleven beds. This had an impact on maximizing occupancy rate.  Upgraded the interior rooms for doctors and nurses.  The Operating rooms (OR) now have capacity of 50 % more than previous (it was 30 % now it is 80%). The progress which took place throughout the projects had major impact on the general performance of the projects. The table below shows the change in performance in quantitative analysis. The numbers from 1 to 5 reflects the degree of impact for the changes of the supportive action on the following; 1Direct performance 2Patient care 3Relation to patients and service satisfaction 4Infection control 5Bed occupancy 6Waiting List for the ICU 17 | P a g e Relation to Direct relation Waiting List Supportive Patient patient & Infection to Bed Occupancy for ICU Total score Actions Care relatives control performance Admission satisfaction No. of 5 5 5 5 0 0 20 Secretary No. of Nurses Extra 9 9 9 5 9 9 50 duties BLS Courses for 9 5 1 1 0 0 16 Nurses Cleaning 5 5 9 9 0 0 28 Company N.B: 9= major impact 5= moderate impact 1= small impact 0= no Impact 18 | P a g e Principle II LABOUR RIGHTS 19 | P a g e The Social and Sports Committee The committees organizes, schedules and advertises social, cultural, recreational, and sports events throughout the year for the bank staff community.These events create a bonding culture among the employees. Moreover, they boost the motivation to come back to work with a positive attitude and productive spirit. The committee is compromised of top managers, as well as junior and senior staff members from the bank. Some of the major events handled by the social and Sports Committee include the following:  Annual Football Tournament  Annual Ramadan Gathering  Mid-year vacation trips  Tickets to music concerts  Tickets to football matches  Staff offers for fitness centers  Staff offers for Showtime and Orbit TV channels The committee has been working hard to satisfy all staff needs and meet their expectations across the year. Moreover, the committee has shown cooperation and flexibility in responding to staff inquiries. 20 | P a g e Principle III ENVIRONMENT 21 | P a g e PRINCIPLE III: ENVIRONMENT THE EQUATOR PRINCIPLES SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RISK ASSESSMENT EP Policies Adjustments For the third successive year Arab African international Bank announces its commitment to the Equator Principles through publishing its annual report in April 2012. The report reflects the assessment of the projects financing operation which took place in 2012 in AAIB according to the EP. Moreover, the bank has renewed its subscription for the year 2013 to the EP which entitles AAIB to the key changes and amendments made by the steering committee and working groups aiming at engaging the abiding institutions deeply in the humanitarian aspect of finance. The key changes include: 1Project scope: the inclusion of project-related corporate loans subject to a US$100m threshold and a loan tenor of at least two years. Moreover, the inclusion of bridge loans that will be refinanced by project finance or project-related corporate loan. 2Climate change: there is a new requirement for an analysis of alternatives, including less carbon intensive fuel or energy sources and technologies, for projects emitting over 100. 000 tones CO2 equivalent. 3Stakeholders’ engagement and human rights: stakeholders’ engagement and human rights commitment according to the IFC standards. 4Social and Environmental standards: the EP with its sole discretion may seek to benchmark projects in these countries against these or other internationally recognized organized environmental and social assessment standards. Thus AAIB is reporting in April 2013 according to the new adjustments, counting on various stakeholders cooperation and corporate clients belief in sustainability. The new EP scope has been communicated to all concerned departments to inform the new extent of their cooperation in execution and reporting. Principle1: Review and Categorization Principle2: Social and Environmental The 10 Equator Principles Assessment Principle3: Applicable Social and Environmental Standards Principle4: Action Plan and Management System Principle5: Consultation and Disclosure Principle6: Grievance Mechanism Principle7: Independent Review Principle8: Covenants Principle9: Independent Monitoring and Reporting Principle10: EPFI Implementation22 |Page Reporting 23 | P a g e Principle IV ANTI-CORRUPTION 24 | P a g e AAIB Customizes its Anticorruption Guidelines Since Establishment in 1964 with a private law, Arab African International Bank has been following the Central Bank of Egypt’s rules for “Anti-Corruption” and “Anti-Money Landry” policies. However, following its success and leadership in Corporate Responsibility and Sustainable Development AAIB has decided to draft customized “AntiCorruption” guidelines to monitor and mentor AAIB’s business operations, activities and relation with stakeholders. The existence of a good regulatory framework provides a sound structure for the management of a country’s resources. A good governance approach usually encompasses the following elements:  accountability;  transparency;  participation;  equality;  rule of law;  capacity and competence;  responsiveness to people’s needs. The purpose of the Policy is to identify , handle and prevent all Anti-Corruption incidents (actual or potential, with financial or non financial impact) in order to build frame work of Anti-Corruption policy to be followed by all AAIB employees and to protect AAIB’s reputation, image and working environment. The guidelines addresses the following issues:  Corruption  Extortion  Bribery The guidelines as well identify the relevant action and cases to ”Red Flags” and “Whistle Blowing”. In addition, the guidelines specify the role of all involved departments such as Compliance, Corporate Sustainability, Human Resources and Vice Chairman technical office. The Board Management has a responsibility to ensure that there is a policy in place. 25 | P a g e Scope of the policy: The anti-corruption policy has been developed in order to give a clear signal for AAIB in dealing with following: 1Clients (both corporate and individual) 2Shareholders 3Subsidiaries 4Employees 5Suppliers, and 6Employees The Anti-corruption aims to:  Better safeguard AAIB integrity;  Increase transparency of AAIB financial system;  Facilitate the detection, investigation and prosecution of corruption and money laundering and the recovery of stolen assets. This policy has been designed in consistency with:  The Anti-Money Laundering Law promulgated by Law No. 80,The Presidential Decree No. 164 regarding the Money Laundering Combating Unit dated 2002  UN Global Compact anti-Corruption 10th principle  Financial Act Task force (FATF) recommendations of Anti-Corruption # 32 Regional Scope As for Emirates & Lebanon regulations regarding fighting corruption;  Emirates: The UAE Penal Code of Federal Law which regulates anti-bribery practices in articles 234 to 239 of Law No. 3 of 1987 (The Federal Penal Code).  Lebanon: LAW No. 318 of April 20, 2001 FIGHTING MONEY LAUNDERING[Extract from the Official Gazette, Number 20 of April 26, 2001]. This step was taken to build on AAIB’s position as CSR trendsetter in the Egyptian market. This is emerging from the unique CSR strategy that AAIB follows to maximize its sustainability practices. 26 | P a g e Measuring Corporate Community Investments (CCI) The London Benchmarking Group (LBG) 27 | P a g e Despite the sluggish growth of the Egyptian decrease in the community spending compared Economy in the past two years as a result of the to the years before. The minimal reduction in the economic recession in 2008 followed by the total spending did not affect the amount of Egyptian revolution that calls for re-structuring annually allocated budget for the Corporate the economic paradigm, Arab African Responsibility, Philanthropic and charitable International Bank (AAIB) has managed to activities. This is to record a total spending of sustain its development activities. Thirteen Million and Three Hundred Thousand Egyptian pounds in 2011 compared to Thirteen AAIB has measured its Corporate Community Million and Four Hundred Thousand Egyptian Investment (CCI) for the year 2011 to show no pounds in 2009. The table below shows / illustrates the distribution of expenditure across various activities/sector in 20092010. Sector Year Out of total Year 2011 Out of total Geographical 2009/2010 spending in (%) spending in Area (%) GBP GBP Health 21 1.001 55 730.8 National Education & Young 60 293 8 101.5 National People Economic 4 10 5 66 National Development Environment 9 59 21 276.7 National Arts & Culture 3 18 6 82.9 National Social Welfare 3 4 5 5.2 National Emergency Relief N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Total contribution/Estimated 100% 385.001 98% 1.33 M National Capture in GBP The table reflects the major spending on the However, the below chart reflect the variation in “Education” and “Health” sectors which reflects the financial contribution for AAIB across the past the significance of these sectors as main pillars three years. Moreover, it compares AAIB’s for development in Egypt. The bank is contribution compared to other London contributing to reforming health and education Benchmarking Group members worldwide. through the “We Owe It to Egypt’s” foundation which will be discussed later in details. 28 | P a g e The graph shows the total expenditures on various sectors such as health, education, environment, economic development, arts & culture. The expenditures for years 2009/2010/2011 Decreased profitability as result of the economic did not shrink the Community Investment Spending 29 | P a g e A few words from various AAIB stakeholders Here are some testimonials from people who value what we do… 30 | P a g e “We have been dealing with the AAIB on issues of responsible business conduct, philanthropy, and CSR since 2008. Over the years we became sure that the AAIB is a leading bank on these areas, it is far ahead all other banks operating in Egypt and one of the top business organizations in terms of the scope and seriousness of its CSR efforts”. Ashraf Gamal El Din Abdel Rahman TITLE, Egyptian Corporate Responsibility Center E-mail: agamal@eiod.info “From an academic perspective, AAIB’s multi-stakeholder approach is exemplary for both faculty researching this area as well as students learning about it. AAIB has been a pioneer in Egypt in leading and accepting dialogue on these issues with the Business and Society Research Cluster at The German University in Cairo through multiple sponsorships for student awards, seminar invitations, guest lectures, and roundtable discussions. AAIB has also been very professional in documenting these practices and disseminating them through publications and events. We wish all private sector CSR practices in Egypt are like this.” Dr. Noha El-Bassiouny TITLE, The German University in Cairo E-mail: noha.elbassiouny@guc.edu.eg “AAIB's CSR activities in education is a good example of how companies can be actively involved in developing and advancing the communities they live in. Unlike other CSR activities, AAIB employees are actively involved in educating students to make sure that they transfer their knowledge and skills to students. Further, AAIB helps in providing internships and securing jobs for qualified students. “ Dr. Hamed Shamma TITLE, The American University in Cairo E-mail address: shamma@aucegypt.edu 31 | P a g e ANNEX JCI The Joint Commission, formerly known as the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, and still known more commonly by the acronym, JCAHO, is an independent, not-for-profit organization that evaluates and accredits more than 15,000 healthcare organizations worldwide. BLC Basic Life Support (BLS) certification is a relatively short training course required of many health professionals to help revive, resuscitate, or sustain a person who is experiencing cardiac arrest or respiratory failure of some sort. This could include a drowning victim, heart attack or stroke patient, or any scenario where breathing or heartbeat have been compromised. As the name of the certification implies, BLS is the most basic certification and can be obtained with a few hours of class from the Red Cross, AMA, American Heart Association, or other medical association that offers such courses. Therefore, BLS is often required of people who work with young children, with elderly people, or who are lifeguards, coaches, or anyone involved with people on a regular basis who could have any sort of incident. The primary skills taught in the BLS course include basic mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and CPR (chest compressions to circulate blood). No medical equipment is needed and there are no invasive procedures taught in BLS. One of the key points taught in BLS are the ABCs : · Airway clearing any obstructions from the airway to allow air to flow to the lungs · Breathing making sure lungs are filling with air · Circulation ensuring blood is circulating through the body Typically the course consists of practicing the resuscitation exercises on a dummy , and demonstrating correct response in role-play situations. Additionally, there is a written portion of the certification that shows you have acquired the basic knowledge of what to do, and when. 32 | P a g e For further information please contact: Perihan Abdelghaly CSR and Sustainability Specialist Arab African International Bank E-mail: pabdelghaly@aaib.com 33 | P a g e
