ANTENA 3 GROUP 2011 Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report Index Contact details Antena 3 Group Communication Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 Letter from the President . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 San Sebastián de los Reyes Letter from the CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 28703 Madrid Main figures of Antena 3 Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 By e-mail: The year’s highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 comunicacion@antena3tv.es Antena 3 Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 responsabilidadcorporativa@antena3tv.es Television . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 www.grupoantena3.com www.fundacionantena3.es Radio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 Multimedia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92 By telephone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00 Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104 By fax: (+ 34) 91 654 92 04 Human Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118 Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138 The Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 158 Annexes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 172 This Annual Report was approved by Antena 3 de Televisión, S.A. Board of Directors on 22nd February 2012. antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 1 Letter from the President [ The merger with La Sexta will 2011 was a very intense year and, at the same not prevent us from closing the year, once again, generate interesting time, extremely satisfactory on several different stronger and more profitable. synergies and levels. Each one of the companies and divisions new business that compose the Antena 3 Group registered sig2011 was shaped by a highly important developnificant growth, evidencing our high degree of ment in the television industry. In December we opportunities that competitiveness in all the areas where we are signed a merger agreement by which La Sexta will make us more present. In television and radio, we increased our would be absorbed by Antena 3 Group, transformcompetitive and audience, while in advertising we outpaced the ing the landscape of the Spanish audiovisual marmarket; and all of the initiatives carried out in the ket and consolidating our position as the leading profitable. ] multimedia and film production areas have suroperator. passed our expectations. This privileged situation has given us the opportunity to enter into a merger The agreement, which was highly satisfactory agreement with La Sexta that I consider a sucfor both parties, entailed the delivery to La Sexta cess. In short, even though the crisis continued shareholders of an initial stake of 7% in the new José Manuel Lara to negatively impact the advertising market, it did company and an additional stake of up to 7%, 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 3 Letter from the President phased in gradually and in function of compliThe merger by absorption with La Sexta also says proud. Over the course of 2011 we have reinforced [ In television we ance during the 2012-2016 period with a series of a great deal about our management team. In 2011 our brand positioning and increased our market have reinforced objectives related to the results of the new Group. we worked intensely to reach this merger agreeand audience share. This is an exceptional performent, which we consider historic, both because mance, especially in such a short period of time. our brand The execution of the merger and the complemenof its size, and because it has unfolded in the best positioning and tary agreements is contingent on obtaining the possible way for both parties. The market conThe construction of a brand is a long process and increased our pertinent regulatory authorizations and approval curred with this assessment. requires changing viewers’ perceptions, a process from competition authorities. Approval of the operthat can take some time. In our case, the values market and ation will be submitted to the approval of the GenIn an environment in which the advertising marthat define us – such as respect for the viewer and audience share. ] eral Shareholders’ Meeting. ket has once again posted negative figures, with trust in our content – has already attracted new across-the-board drops in all the sectors, and in viewers and more advertisers. This is our qualitaWith the incorporation of La Sexta’s television which new competitors have appeared after the tive advantage. offerings, the new Antena 3 Group adds a leading merger of Telecinco with Cuatro, ANTENA 3 GROUP TV player to its strong presence in other markets such as radio, advertising and film: a total of eight closed the year as one of the companies that has best withstood the crisis, registering similar figFor the Antena 3 Group, Corporate Responsibility is not merely the latest fad, but forms an integral [ Antena 3 channels that meet the demands of both spectaures to last year. Net Profit came in at 93.4 million part of our business model. Therefore, a key part Group is one of tors and advertisers, with complementary and varEuros. Net Revenues stood at 805.2 million euros, of our Mission is to win the trust of our stakethe companies ied programming. and EBITDA came in at 124.4 million euros, with a holders; our Vision entails making a valuable and sales margin of 15.5%. positive contribution to society; and our Values, to that has best I believe that the whole can be superior to the sum embody quality and commitment. withstood the of parts. This is the case here. The merger with La Antena 3 maintained its commitment to sharecrisis, registering Sexta gives us the opportunity to be much bigger holders and will pay out more than 80% of the net The 2010-2013 Corporate Responsibility Master than what the union of two channels might sugprofit in dividends. Plan, which defines the lines of action needed turnover that gest. Our new position will generate interesting to put Antena 3 Group at the forefront of CR, has was similar to the synergies and new business opportunities that will This has all been made possible by the Group’s already achieved a degree of compliance of over previous year. ] make us more competitive and profitable. Being excellent team of professionals. They are the 76%, even though there is still another year before great is not just a question of size, but also of means through which we can offer a new concept said plan is finalized. strength. of television that we believe in and that makes us Furthermore, the approval of the Code of Conduct by the Antena 3 Group’s Board of Directors, heralds a new phase in the company’s organizational culture. This document is fundamental for providing guidance to employees, executives and members of the Group’s management bodies in all of their actions. The Code is perfectly integrated with the rest of the policies, values, and principles in force in the organization, and will also allow us to be more efficient. We go into 2012 with the belief that we are in the best position to continue growing as a group, especially now, since following the absorption of La Sexta we will face the enormous challenge of carrying out the integration of both companies while remaining the communications leader in Spain and Europe. 4 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 5 [ Under a common strategy, the new channels that will be integrated in the Group will retain their identifying characteristics, thereby joining the most varied offering on the Spanish market. ] Letter from the CEO Antena 3 Group’s merger by absorption with la the total integration of the two companies. This is Sexta, the details of which were successfully finala highly complex endeavor that will require us to ised at the end of the year, probably marks the operate at the same level as the other large combeginning of the most important period in the munications groups in Europe. company’s history, in which we will be able to consolidate a leading position in the audiovisual secUnder a common strategy, the channels that will tor. join the Group will retain their identifying characteristics, thereby joining the most varied offering Antena 3 Group will become the largest commuon the Spanish market. In the same manner that nication company in Spain: two large television we invest in our current portfolio of channels, we channels, six theme channels, two radio stations, intend to enhance the capacity of La Sexta and its all of which are continually growing, and will require theme channels to generate new and larger audia great deal of effort to manage. Furthermore, we ences with the aim of offering advertisers global have a presence in the advertising market through audiences in a high quality audiovisual environATRES Advertising, in film through Antena 3 Films; ment. and in internet through ANTENA 3 Multimedia. This merger also clearly represents an opportunity to If it were not for the crisis, this probably would continue developing our business model from a have been one of the best years ever for Antena 3. position of strength, which should result in higher Nevertheless, we have the satisfaction of being, profitability for each of the businesses that comonce again, the company in the media sector that pose our new group, and of course, for our sharehas been best able to adapt to the recession, in holders. an environment that has been in constant flux and a sector that is especially vulnerable to the curAlthough the execution of the merger is still pendrent economic situation. Our growth rates have ing the authorizations of the regulatory and comoutpaced those of the market because advertisers petition authorities, as well as its approval by the recognized the quality and variety of our television General Shareholders’ Meeting, we are already and radio offerings, which outweigh mere quantideveloping the lines of action that will implement tative considerations. Silvio González 6 antena 3 group 7 Letter from the CEO [ Our growth rates have [ It is a rare that a outpaced those of the channel meets with market because advertisers success in practically recognize the quality and 100% of its premieres, ing. These results evidence the success of its proOf the numerous activities undertaken in 2011 in variety of our television like Antena 3 has. ] gramming, which remains committed to continuthe area of Corporate Responsibility, I’d like to and radio offerings, which ity, balance and respect for all opinions. Similarly, underscore the new El Estirón initiative, which has Europa FM showed the most growth out of the been added to other highly successful initiatives outweigh mere quantitative music broadcasters. rolled out such as Ponle Freno and Hazte Eco. considerations. ] The aim of El Estirón is to increase awareness In light of these excellent results, it can be said and sensitize Spanish society, especially parents that Onda Cero and Europa FM have set clear and educators, about the importance of teaching benchmarks in the Spanish radio sector. They are youth good eating habits and promoting physical among the most listened-to stations and more activity. importantly – have gained the trust and a closer relationship with their audiences. Meanwhile, Fundación Antena 3 has prepared a As a result, Antena 3 Group has obtained excellent Advertising, has underpinned the good financial new strategic plan laying the groundwork for its results against the backdrop of a weak economy results presented in this statement. This year, We continue to pay attention to new forms of social welfare programs. This commendable iniand a downturn in the advertising market. FurtherATRES Advertising, our exclusive advertising operwatching television, and I’m not just talking about tiative highlights the company’s commitment to more, the merger of Telecinco with Cuatro has ator successfully embarked on a bold initiative to viewing TV on a computer, tablet or mobile handthe renewal and the continual improvement of its created a competitor that is larger than us. guarantee advertisers greater coverage, which led set, but also to what is known as connected telactivities. to it being recognized as the best company in the evision, an unstoppable phenomenon that will not The Group’s Net Revenues stood at 805.2 million sector. take long to sweep across Spain, and for which We can safely say that we know what we want euros, a very similar figure to what was posted in we are prepared. In fact, we have made exclusive and how to get it. And most importantly, viewers 2010, despite the 6% drop registered in the secIt is a rare that a channel meets with success agreements with the main television manufactur– and advertisers – have a clear understanding of tor, evidencing sustained growth that outpaces on practically 100% of its premieres. But this is ers with the aim of offering our content and appliwhat they can expect from us. In the coming years the market. EBITDA came in at 124.4 million what happened at Antena 3, and I feel especially cations adapted to this new technology that joins we will continue building a great multimedia comeuros, with a sales margin of 15.5%. Lastly, Net proud because we have been able to obtain this internet with television. munications group, that over time will become Profit added up to 93.4 million Euros. success while respecting the viewer, and offering larger, more profitable and competitive. the advertisers the security of knowing that their Antena 3 Multimedia had a record year in 2011 in Antena 3 Television also obtained strong results in brand is surrounded by quality content. all the areas in which it operates: as a broadcaster a year which saw TV advertising decline by about of its own content, and in the creation of vertical 10%. The company was able to maintain its sales As a result, and despite the growing fragmentachannels, the generation of applications for smartat practically the same level as the year before, tion, which has already reached 34.5% of market phones and tablets, and its massive presence on and was able to increase its market share by three share, Antena 3’s family of channels ended 2011 different social networks. Antena 3 is the leader points. with a 1.3 point increase in its audience to reach in the consumption of audiovisual content via the 17.1%. In general, all the new channels have reginternet in Spain. In 2011, Antena 3 consolidated its television model istered increases, which show that our investment based on quality. Our identity has been defined by policy, which has been in place since they began, With regard to our investment in Spanish film, we [ Fundación Antena 3 has concrete actions, i.e., the content we broadcast. has borne fruit. have had another outstanding year. The nine films prepared a new strategic In this regard, over the course of the year, a large premiered by Antena 3 Films in 2011 have colnumber of different formats have been incorpoOnda Cero, commercial leader in profitability per lected almost half the revenue of all the films made plan laying the groundwork rated on our programming line-up, representing listener, is the private radio that grew most, with in our country. In addition to box office success, for its social welfare all the genres and suitable for all audiences. This, a 5.6% increase in its audience, which reinforces our productions have won important prizes and programs. ] combined with the commercial potential of Atres its second place ranking in this segment’s rankcritical acclaim. 8 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 9 Main figures of Antena 3 Group Economic 2009 2010 2011 Total net revenues (Millions of €) 703.9 807.7 805.2 EBITDA (Millions of €) 81.1 156.9 124.4 Net profit (Millions of €) 60.7 109.1 93.4 Distributed economic value (Millions of €) 490.6 558.6 638.1 Economic assistance received from the Pubic Administrations (Millions of €) 2.7 10.8 11.6 Advertising efficiency ratio (adults) 1.61 1.81 1.81 Advertising efficiency ratio (individuals) 1.59 1.80 1.81 Number of advertisers 19,521 17,998 17,964 Average audience share Antena 3 Television (%) 16.6 11.7 11.5 Average audience share Neox (%) 1.2 2.2 2.7 Average audience share Nova (%) 0.7 1.5 1.5 Average audience share Nitro (%) – – 1.4 Share Onda cero (%) 18.3 19.0 20.3 Share Europa FM (%) 7.2 7.7 8.1 Number of Onda Cero listeners 2,257,000 2,323,000 2,454,000 Number of Europa FM listeners 1,173,000 1,455,000 1,579,000 Number of videos hosted on www.antena3.com (monthly average-millions) 13.4 26.3 52.9 Social 2009 2010 2011 Child programming broadcast hours 767 1,689 2,509 Accumulated captioning hours 3,878 7,196 10,491 Number of employees 2,071 1,942 1,849 Main figures of Investment in training (€) 1,002,338 333,923 424,858 Training hours per employee 29 34 29,5 Antena 3 Group donations to the Foundation (€) 500,000 500,000 360,000 Antena 3 Group Infractions of the Self-regulation Code Opportunity cost of the broadcast of free television spots for social advertising (€) Opportunity cost of the broadcast of free radio slots for social advertising (€) 2 – – 3 – – 3,715,759 1,735,430 2 Environmental 2009 2010 2011 Continuing the trend started in 2009, this report A summary of the Group’s main results, broken White paper consumption (pages) 7,165,000 6,595,000 6,117,500 includes in a unified manner, information on down by the three aforementioned areas, is as Toner and cartridge consumption (units) 901 886 791 Antena 3 Group’s business (economic and marfollows: economic, social and environmental. Fluorescent light consumption (units) 1,580 1,673 1,695 ket), and social and environmental information. Solid urban waste (tons) 375 363 352 Throughout this annual report, all information Gas consumption (m ) 3 13,064 12,442 10,270 This fact is yet another demonstration of the related to Corporate Responsibility has been Unleaded gas oil consumption (liters) 423,861 520,878 420,040 commitment assumed by the company to fully highlighted in green. Electrical consumption (Kwh) 19,534,953 19,716,406 19,400,980 integrate Social Responsibility into its busiWater consumption (liters) 49,371 52,449 46,856 ness model. Greenhouse gas emission (ton of CO2 equivalents) 4,316.32 2,095.06 2,680.31 Environmental investment (thousands €) 80.53 105.30 148.54 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 11 The year’s highlights Pablo Motos, host of El Hormiguero 3.0, at the entrance of Grupo Antena 3 headquarters. The year’s highlights Financial Results 2011 Milestones Antena 3 Group has obtained some good results Television Division Antena 3 and La Sexta Larger audiences despite against a backdrop of a downturn in the advertisagree to a merger the increased fragmentation ing market and weakness on the macroeconomic Antena 3 television also obtained strong results, The Antena 3 Group ended 2011 with audience level. outperforming the market in a year where TV La Sexta and Antena 3 signed a merger agreegrowth of 1.3 points, an increase that allowed its advertising declined by about 10%. ment by which La Sexta would be absorbed by family of channels, comprising Antena 3, Neox, • The Antena 3 Group’s net income amounted ANTENA 3 GROUP, radically changing the landscape Nova and Nitro, to close the year with a 17.1% to 805.2 million euros (vs. 807.7 million euros • Net income from the Television Division of the Spanish television and audiovisual market, market share. in 2010) reached 669.6 million euros. and consolidating Antena 3 Group’s position as the • EBITDA came in at 124.4 million Euros, a sales • EBITDA amounted to 103.3 million euros, benchmark operator. Out of the large television channels, Antena 3 TV, margin of 15.5%. resulting in a sales margin of 15.4%. with a 11.5% share, posted the best figures for • Net profit added up to 93.4 million Euros. the full-year period, and the one that has grew the • The distributed economic value was 638.1 milmost in the second half, over half a point (0.6%). lion Euros Antena 3, a year of big hits Radio Division The theme channels, Neox, Nova Antena 3 has positioned itself as the channel and Nitro continue growing Onda Cero continues reinforcing its position in the with a strong, unique personality, thanks to a telNeox ended December as the sixth most watched Antena 3 Group Spanish radio sector. In 2010 it increased its numevision model that prioritizes quality, variety, and national channel, for the second consecutive Million Euros ber of listeners by 66,000 – a figure that was douresponsibility. During 2011, there were new sucmonth. Furthermore, last year it grew 0.5 to 2.7%, bled in 2011. cessful offerings into the programming grid which a performance that made it the leader among the 805.2 kept building and reinforcing such new television private themed channels, and even surpassed La • In 2011 the Radio Division registered a net model. The results have been excellent: growth 2’s record. For the full-year period, Nova (1.5%) 638.1 income of 89.4 million Euros. that outpaced the market, an increase in audience was able to consolidate its results and Nitro • EBITDA amounted to 18.8 million Euros (sales share, despite rising fragmentation, and the unani(1.4%) grew a point, making it the most watched margin 21.0%). mous recognition of Antena 3 as the most innovachannel out of the ones that were launched this tive and most highly valued channel. season. These results are the fruits of the Group’s commitment to continue investing in its channels to give 124.4 them a strong personality through the program93.4 ming of premium content, specifically designed for each one of them. Net income EBITDA Net profit Distributed economic value 14 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 15 The year’s highlights Antena 3 News 1, the leading private This study also highlighted that Antena 3 TV news show “offered the best national series of the commercial Antena 3 News has once again become the news channels, with the actors of the highest quality, as benchmark, with the First Edition program the well as the best game shows of all the TV chanmost watched private news broadcast, Monday nels.” through Friday, as Monday to Sunday as well as on the weekend. In addition, Antena 3 TV received the Quality Prize in the XII edition of the TV Academy’s Prizes. For the seventh year running, Matías Prats has been rated the television personality with the best The highest success rate for image, according to the GECA image index. television premieres 2011 was a year of premieres for Antena 3’s famAntena 3 consolidates its family ily of channels. Entertainment programs, such as television model Tu Cara me Suena, El Hormiguero 3.0, and Otra Following the success at the end of 2010 of the Movida for Neox, have triumphed with audiences. motto, Antena 3 pone and its communication In addition, the channel rolled out the El Barco and campaign, in December 2011, the TV channel Gran Hotel series, and the gameshows, Atrapa launched a new initiative called Pongamos que. un Millón and Ahora Caigo. In a market where The spot is a massive musical production in which about 80% of new television programs meet with the channel’s top personalities send a clear message of optimism for 2012, and offer the spectator their spirited contribution: A happy, varied, entertaining and quality television experience. For yet another year, Antena 3 TV has been rated as the most innovative and most highly valued channel, an assessment extended to Neox and also to the news programs and their hosts, according to the GECA image index. El Homiguero 3.0. Making of Gran Hotel. Jury of Tu Cara me Suena talent show. 16 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 17 The year’s highlights Arguiñano, Antonio Garrido, Jaime Cantizano, this segment’s ranking. According to the General Sandra Daviú, Gloria Serra, Marta Hazas, Lluís Media Report (Estudio General de Medios) from Homar, Paco Tous and Jesús Olmedo, and many the end of November, Antena 3 Group’s generalist others. radio station had an audience of 2,454,000 listeners, 131,000 more than for the same period the previous year. Shareholder remuneration: Meanwhile, 2011 was the first year in which Europa more than 80% of net profit FM was able to break the barrier of 1.5 million listeners, with an absolute audience of 1,579,000 Antena 3 continues to maintain its shareholder listeners. Furthermore, it is the music station that remuneration policy and will pay out more than grew most in percentage terms last year. 80% of the net profit in dividends. This means that Antena 3 offers one of the highest dividend yields in the sector. Atres Advertising, the best exclusive advertising operator Onda Cero, commercial The exclusive advertising operator of Antena 3 has Sceen of El Barco. leader in profitability promised to return 5% of the campaigns’ costs per listener if it does not succeed in obtaining a better rating or greater coverage with the same GRPs. A year For yet another year, Onda Cero is leader in profitago all the companies met the standards guaranfailure, Antena 3 set a new record, across all the “Gran Hotel”, the best fiction ability per listener. With a 5.6% increase in its auditeed. Advertisers showed their confidence in the genres, with a nearly 100% success rate. premiere with 20% ence, it has reinforced its second place position in Group’s commercial model, rating Atres AdverWith an average audience of 3,719,000 viewers tising as the best exclusive advertising operator, Antena 3 afternoons and an audience share of 20%, Gran Hotel has according to the Media Scope study carried out are successfully revamped become the breakout series, and the best fiction by the Grupo Consultores. Antena 3 TV started 2011 with important changes premiere in the second half of the year. These are in the afternoon and early evening. Bandolera and a few of the stars of Antena 3 TV ‘s great library, El Secreto de Puente Viejo have boosted the which also includes top shows such as El Barco, Florentino Fernández and Arturo Valls. channel’s performance by two points in the early the most watched of the year, Los Protegidos afternoon. and Hispania. Entertainment, the new The best ideas with prime time focus the best professionals 2011 has also meant the revamping of the prime Antena 3 stands out for its capacity to attract the time slots, with the recovery of genres such as best ideas, and the most outstanding professiongameshows and variety shows. als. They are, without doubt, what gives credibility to the channel’s television model. Just a few names The tremendous success of Tu Cara me Suena, suffice to show its excellence: Pablo Motos, Atrapa un Millón and Ahora caigo also repreJavier Sardá, Paula Vázquez, Arturo Valls, Florsents a triumph for Antena 3’s new television conentino Fernández, Belén Rueda, Matías Prats, cept, which is based on entertainment for every Susanna Griso, Carlos Sobera, Amaia Salatype of audience. manca, Manel Fuentes, Maxi Iglesias, Karlos 18 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 19 The year’s highlights Furthermore, the “Foro de Comerciales de la Publers, while its Vision entails making a valuable and icidad” declared Antena 3 the best “Support in the positive contribution to society, and its Values, to television category” and the “Advertising support embody quality and commitment. with the best marketing”. Easily complying with New year of records the 2010-2012 Corporate for Antena 3 Multimedia Responsibility Master Plan Antena 3 is the leader in the consumption of audiThe CR Master Plan, approved in 2010, with a ovisual content via the internet in Spain, thanks three year window for its application defines the to its strategy based on exploiting video, and the lines of action needed to put Antena 3 Group at success of Modo Salón, the online platform for “the forefront of Corporate Responsibility in the viewing series’ episodes and complete programs, Spanish audiovisual sector”. In 2011, the Plan has that has surpassed 3 million users who have progressed more than expected, and has already watched over 500 million videos. achieved a degree of compliance of over 76% in only the first two years of the implementation Meanwhile, antena3.com, closed 2011 with an period. average of 8,933,000 unique users, 40% higher than the figure registered in 2010. The Code of Conduct by the Antena 3 Group marks a Antena 3 Films collects new phase in the company’s 40% of total film box organizational culture. office proceeds The approval of the Code of Conduct by the In 2011 Antena 3 Films premiered a total of nine Antena 3 Group’s Board of Directors, marks a new feature films, which represented 40% of the Spanphase in the company’s organizational culture. increase awareness and sensitize Spanish society, ish film industry’s box office proceeds. The sucThis document is a fundamental tool for providespecially among parents and educators, about cess of the film productions has been repeated ing guidance to employees, executives and memthe importance of teaching youth good eating year after year, and it would be no exaggeration to bers of the Group’s management bodies in all of habits and promoting physical activity, in order to say that the Group’s contribution is a key element their actions. Furthermore, the Code is perfectly avoid health problems caused by child obesity. in the development of the Spanish film industry. integrated with the rest of the policies, values, and principles in force in the organization. The Antena 3 Foundation designs its new Strategic Plan Antena 3 Group incorporates Corporate Responsibility in El Estiron: a new addition to After five years of hard work and in the spirit of Images corresponding to Ponle its Mission, Vision and Values the Ponle Freno, Hazte Eco constant renewal and improvement, the Antena 3 Freno race, El Estirón and the and Vive Conectado initiatives Foundation has designed a new strategic plan in online platform Modo Salón. The company has reinforced the integration of order to optimize the possible synergies with the corporate responsibility in its organization. A key El Estirón is the new Corporate ResponsibilGroup and to become the leading foundation in part of its Mission is to win the trust of stakeholdity initiative being rolled out by Antena 3 Group to the audiovisual sector. 20 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 21 Antena 3 Group Antena 3 Group Planeta de Agostini Group: 44.58% Treasury stock: 5.98% UFA FILM: 20.49% Mission, Vision Free-float: 28.95% and Values Shareholder structure. The Mission, Vision and Values of ANTENA 3 Group Creativity: We promote the creative develophave been revised, in 2011, in order to adapt ment of our employees, promoting artistic freeand respond to the full integration of CR into the dom and innovative thinking, and respecting organization’s operations, becoming a key part of the democratic and cultural values of society. Shareholder The De Agostini Group: Multinational Italian group the Group’s raison d’être. Long term vision: We are working towards crestructure with activity in the publishing market, in the content production and distribution for television and Mission ating a leading corporate project in the audiocinema, and in the financial and insurance sectors. Broadcast of varied, innovative and high quality visual sector that seeks to face the future by It is present in 30 countries and publishes in 13 news and entertainment offerings that respond making it. The Antena 3 Group is a multimedia group headed different languages. to our stakeholders in order to win their trust and by Antena 3 Television. It has traded on the Spanthereby ensuring the leadership position and susInnovation: We promote the creation of new ish stock exchange since 2003 and its main RTL Group 1 tainability of the Group. ideas, products, services that contribute value shareholders are Spanish and European commuWith 40 television channels and 32 radio broadto the company and society. nications companies. casters in 10 countries, it is the leader in the Vision European Entertainment market. It broadcasts To be the leading multimedia communications Leadership: To motivate and guide our colThe Planeta de Agostini Group more than 9,500 hours of television every year in group and to make a valuable and positive contrilaborators in order to promote their developThis group is the result of the strategic alliance the 57 countries it is present in. At present, it is bution to the society in which we operate ment and that of the organization, transmitting between the Planeta Group and De Agostini. Its broadcasting or in the production phase of over energy and inspiring confidence to help the goal is to reinforce its leadership in the publishing 300 programs all over the world. Each day, more Values organization reach its business targets. world, in new economic sectors and especially in than 200 million viewers all over the world watch Commitment: We strive to make a valuable audiovisual media. an RTL television channel. contribution to society, creating campaigns Working as a team: To foster a culture based to raise awareness about social issues, that on establishing relationships founded on trust The Planeta Group: A Spanish multimedia pubThere have been no significant changes made to resolve problems, and generate positive and respect between the employees and the lishing and communications Group, leader in coneither the shareholder structure or to other imporchange. Company. We promote their autonomy and tent production for the Spanish speaking market. tant aspects for the company during this period. participation in the decision-making process, It holds a privileged position with respect to its Quality: We work to ensure the continuous basing our management style on the principles competitors: it is the top Spanish publishing group improvement of our activities, developing of delegation and responsibility. and the seventh in the world. 1 UFA FILM UND FERNSEH GMBH UNIPERSONAL (RTLBersexcellent products in terms of both their form telmann Group). and content aimed at meeting the needs and expectations of our audiences. 24 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 25 Antena 3 Group Composition of the Board of Directors and its Committees The Board of Directors is the company’s most The Board of Directors approves the company’s important representative, administrative, manCorporate Governance policies. This policy is agement and oversight body in the company. It based on the principles of transparency and is responsible for determining the overall direcrespect for the Rules and Recommendations of tion and objectives, for which reason it carries out Corporate Governance, through the application, and exclusively assumes responsibilities related to interpretation and constant review of the applicastrategy (to orient and implement the company’s ble laws and rules, in both general terms and ones policies), oversight (to control management duties) that are specific to the Group. and communication (to serve as the intermediary Mr. José Manuel Lara Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Mr. Silvio González for shareholders and investors). Bosch Vice President Moreno Chairman Chief Executive Officer Mr. Nicolás Abel Mr. Mauricio Ms. Aurora Mr. José Creuheras Mr. Marco Drago Ms. María Mr. Elmar Heggen Mr. Pedro Ramón y Mr. Luis Gayo Mr. Manuel de la Bellet de Tavernost Casals Aldama Catá Sala Margenat Board Member Entrecanales Franco Board Member Cajal Agüeras del Pozo Viuda Fdez. Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Secretary de Heredia Deputy Secretary 26 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 27 Antena 3 Group Board of Directors its most significant shareholders and for receiving It is composed of five board members. All of them direct and periodic information from the company’s are external and were chosen by the Board of Name Position Type auditors (internal and external). Directors from among their members, taking into Mr. José Manuel Lara Bosch Chairman Executive account the specific circumstances of the comMr. Maurizio Carlotti Vice President Executive The Audit and Control Committee is currently pany to determine their number and also taking Mr. Silvio González Moreno Chief Executive Officer Executive composed of four Board members. into account the knowledge, expertise and experiMr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost Board member Proprietary1 ence of the Board members and the members of Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama Board member Proprietary 2 All members of the Committee are external Board the Committee. Ms. Aurora Catá Sala Board member Independent members, although senior executives and manMr. José Manuel González Board member Proprietary 2 agers may attend meetings when the Committee In 2011, this Committee met once. Mr. Marco Drago Board member Proprietary 2 expressly agrees to their presence. In addition, Ms. María Entrecanales Franco Board member Independent external auditors may attend their meetings, when Name Position Type Mr. Elmar Heggen Board member Proprietary1 it is requested that they explain the conclusions Ms. María Entrecanales Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras Board member Independent Chairwoman Independent Franco Mr. Luis Gayo del Pozo Non Director Secretary – reached in the course of their work. Mr. Nicolas Abel Bellet Vice-president Proprietary Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fdez. Heredia Non Director Deputy Secretary – de Tavernost In 2011, this Committee met 6 times. Mr. Mauricio Casals Board member Proprietary 1 R epresenting UFA FILM UND FERSEH GMBH UNIPERSONAL Aldama 2 Representing GRUPO PLANETA-DE AGOSTINI, S.L. Name Position Type Mr. José Creuheras Board member Proprietary Margenat Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Chairman Independent Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras Board member Independent Agüeras Mr. Elmar Heggen Vice-chairman Proprietary The Board of Directors has several specialized In 2011, the Executive Committee met 10 times. Mr. Luis Gayo del Pozo Secretary Ms. Aurora Catà Sala Board member Independent committees, which are as follows: Mr. José Creuheras Name Position Type Board member Proprietary Margenat Executive Committee Mr. José Manuel Lara Bosch Chairman Executive Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Secretary Board Fdez. de Heredia All the powers of the Board, except those which Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Executive member cannot be delegated, are delegated in the ExecuBoard tive Committee. Mr. Silvio González Moreno Executive member Mr. Nicolas Abel Bellet de TaverBoard Proprietary Appointment and Remuneration Its members are appointed with the favorable nost member Committee Board vote of two thirds of the Board of Directors. The Mr. Marco Drago member Proprietary Among other functions, this committee is responnumber of members that may comprise this comMr. Luis Gayo del Pozo Secretary sible for reporting all the resolutions adopted by mittee at any given time is decided upon by the the Board concerning the appointment or removal Board, which must take into account its own size, of Board members to the General Shareholders’ the optimal functioning and maximum efficiency of meeting, and for supervising compliance with the the Committee, as well as the number of memAudit and Control Committee corporate governance rules and reporting on the bers comprising the rest of the Committees. The Audit and Control Committee’s function is to appointments and removals of senior executives serve as the main advisor to the Board of Directors that the CEO proposes to the Board. It also has The Executive Committee is comprised of the folin the analysis and review of the annual accounts a key role in establishing the remuneration policy lowing: the Chairman of the Board of Directors, each year and of the periodic financial reports, as as well as in monitoring the application of same. In when he is a member of the Committee, and the well as to supervise the preparation of the finanaddition it is responsible for preparing the annual CEO. At present, the Vice-president of the Board cial reporting. It is also responsible for periodically remuneration report for the Board of Directors. also forms a part of this Committee. reviewing operations between the company and 28 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 29 Antena 3 Group Antena 3 Group’s corporate structure Management structure Antena 3 de Televisión S.A. Corporate Structure Television Division Chief Executive Officer General Manager Antena 3 Juegos S.A.U. Música Aparte, S.A.U. Mr. Silvio González Mr. Javier Bardají 100% 100% General Secretary Director of Information Services Mr. Luis Gayo Ms. Gloria Lomana Antena 3 Eventos S.L.U. I3 Televisión S.L. Chief Financial Officer 100% 50% Mr. Antonio Manso General Counsel Radio Division Mr. Manuel de la Viuda President of Uniprex Antena 3 Multimedia S.L.U. Guadiana Producciones S.A.U. Regulatory and Institutional Relationships Mr. Javier González Ferrari 100% 100% Ms. Carmen Rodríguez General Manager Audit and Processes Monitoring Mr. Ramón Osorio Atres Advertising S.L.U. Televisao Independiente S.A. Mr. Fernando Costi 100% 0,002% Director of Communication Mr. Ignacio Mata Advertising Division Antena 3 Films S.L.U. Vnews Agencia de Noticias S.L. Director of Strategy General Manager – Atres Advertising 100% 100% Mr. Javier Nuche Mr. Eduardo Olano Movierecord Cine S.A.U. Gestión Audiovisual de Canarias S.L. 100% 20% Multimedia Division General Manager Mr. José Manuel González-Pacheco Unipublic S.A. Videoreport Canarias S.A. 20% 51% 30% Film Division 100% Organizaciones Deportivas y Culturales Antena 3 Canarias S.L.U. 30% President – Antena 3 Films Unipublic S.A.U. 100% 30% Mr. Mikel Lejarza Antena 3 de Televisión Colombia S.A. Cordina Planet S.L. 55% 50% Antena 3 Foundation and CR Executive Director Ms. Carmen Bieger 40% Canal 3 de Televisión de Colombia S.A. Hola Televisión América S.L. 2% 50% Uniprex S.A.U.* 100% For more information regarding the companies in ANTENA 3 GROUP, please consult www.grupoantena3.com * Before Publicidad 3, S.A.U. 30 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 31 Antena 3 Group Antena 3 in the stock market STOCK FIGURES 2011 2011 was a tough year for the Spanish equity Household consumption has stagnated at 0% In total, close to 500 contacts have been estabShare Capital (millions of €) 158.3 market. In addition to registering a negative perforin 2011, and according to FUNCAS, will return lished with the financial community throughout the Number of shares 211,112,800 mance, it went through some difficult moments due to negative rates in the coming quarters, which year. Market Capitalization at the closing price to the sovereign debt crisis and the turbulence in should lead to a 1.9% decline for 2012 as a whole. 981.7 (millions of €) the financial sector, which were closely linked. The Share price at 31/12 (€/share) 4.65 Furthermore, in order to facilitate quick access to IBEX closed the year at 8,566.3 points, representIn this environment, FUNCAS expects a drop in Maximum (€/share) 7.81 clear information, the web page www.grupoaning a drop of 13.1% with respect to the close of 2012 GDP of 1.7%; the Bank of Spain, with a Minimum (€/share) 3.75 tena3.com has a specific section where relevant 2010. Antena 3’s share price closed at €4.65, a more pessimistic outlook, expects a decline of Price Weighted Average (€/share) 5.79 events, financial results and other news of interest 33.1% decrease on the previous year. 1.5%. Average trade volume (in shares) 649,000 are published. Average trade volume (in €) 3,757,710 The rest of the European stock markets registered Shareholder remuneration: Source: Fininfo similar performances. The Paris CAC 40 fell 16.9% 80% of net profit Other means of obtaining information are also (closing the year at 3,159.8 points); the German The ANTENA 3 share price fell 33.1% in 2011. The available: investors may contact the company DAX ended the year at 5,898.3, closing the year company’s market capitalization at the end of by email to ir@antena3tv.es, and non-institutional down 14.7%; The London FTSE fell 5.5%, clos2011 stood at €981.67 million. investors may do so via oficinadelaccionista@ ing the year at 5,572.3 points. The Eurostoxx 50 Shareholder and antena3tv.es. index, which includes the 50 largest companies All of this against a backdrop in which the adverinvestor relations in Europe, fell 17.5% closing the year at 2,316.5 tising market once again presented negative figpoints. ures. In 2010 the entire media market grew 4.0% Both the Investors Relations Department and the in line with TV, while in 2011 the figures deterioShareholder Office are in charge of disseminating Meanwhile, in the United States, the main indices rated, the total media market decreased 6.0% to the most relevant news and of informing investors went up in 2011. The Dow Jones gained 5.5%; €5,505.1 million. TV advertising, meanwhile, regof market developments and financial forecasts. the S&P stayed flat, while the Nasdaq posted a istered a 9.5% decrease in year-on-year terms to 2.7% gain. €2,237.2 million. In 2011, the Investor Relations Department was very busy. It attended 18 conferences in different For the Spanish economy, 2011 was slightly In this environment, and despite the weak market European cities, meeting 180 individual investors better than the previous year. In 2010, the GDP performance, Antena 3 maintained its committhrough one-to-ones, and has organized 7 road fell 0.1%, while in 2011 the economy registered ment to shareholders and will pay out more than shows, visiting more than 60 investors in their 0.7% growth. However, the weakness of domes80% of the net profit in dividends. offices. tic demand (derived in part from the downward adjustment to public spending), the deterioration More than 65 meetings have taken place at in the outlook for the European economy, and Antena 3, both one-to-ones and reverse road the rekindling of the sovereign debt crisis put a Share capital shows (brokers bringing investors to Antena 3): 45 damper on economic activity, choking off credit with investors, 12 with sector analysts and seven flows and increasing uncertainty. As of 31 December 2011, the share capital of with service providers. Antena 3 reached €158.3 million, represented by Furthermore, unemployment is rising: in 2011 211,112,800 shares with a nominal value of €0.75 The Investor Relations department has held 200 21.6% of the active population was unemployed, conference calls with investors and analysts to and according to FUNCAS (Savings Bank Foundiscuss current news, market events and financial dation) in 2012, this figure will increase to 23.7%. model revisions. 32 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 33 Antena 3 Group Corporate duct, which was approved by the Board of Direcof the experience accumulated over the years and Corporate governance tors on 30 November 2011. the degree of compliance with the Recommendations contained in the aforementioned Unified Responsibility Good Governance Code. ANTENA 3 GROUP’s Corporate Governance actions Changes to the corporate This review resulted in an ambitious and complete ANTENA 3 GROUP views Corporate Responsibilare determined by the following rules: governance rules in the proposal to modify the Company Bylaws and ity (CR) as a management model that prioritizes 2010-2011 period Regulations, in order to adapt them to the new sustainability and social progress, voluntarily • Company Bylaws laws and to include the company’s best practices responding to the needs and expectations of its • Board of Directors’ rules. The current texts of the Company Bylaws and of and the recommendations of the Unified Good stakeholders. • General Shareholders Meeting’s rules. the aforementioned rules were prepared, on the Governance Code, which are not mentioned in an • Internal Code of Conduct in matters related to whole, when Antena 3 held its initial public offering explicit manner in the current corporate texts, but Therefore, corporate responsibility is integrated securities markets. in 2003. which are being applied by ANTENA 3 GROUP. into each and every one of the Group’s activities. • Code of Conduct. The company puts its communications media at Since then, these texts have been subject to cerAll these rules are expected to be approved by the the service of society, placing a special emphasis The Antena 3 Group has not limited itself to comtain changes (especially the Board rules) to adapt competent bodies (Board of Directors or General on ensuring that its information and content are plying with the requirements established in these them to the new laws that have appeared in the Shareholders’ Meeting) in the first quarter of 2012, responsible, protecting the most vulnerable memregulations, but also contributes and participates “Unified Good Governance Code and compleand will enter into force once the legally required bers of its audience and guaranteeing access and in an active matter in their definition. It is a memmentary recommendations aimed at the Governnotification of the CNMV occurs, and the filing, if transparency. ber of the Association of Spanish Broadcasters, ment, the CNMV and Spanish Financial Institunecessary with the Mercantile Register. where it is a development partner. This Associations”. tion’s aims include the following: Among these reforms, we would highlight the fol• Contribute to the development of the high lowing: Committed to transparency standards for Corporate Governance best practices in listed companies. 1. Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010 of 2 July that Since the listing of Antena 3 TV shares, all of • Promote measures to improve communication approves the consolidated text of the Spanish ANTENA 3 GROUP’s corporate governance rules have between companies and their shareholders, Companies Law. been made available on the Company’s webpage as well as with other investors. 2. Law 7/2010, of 31 March, General Law on (www.grupoantena3.com), in the Shareholder • Maintain a relationship based on dialogue Audiovisual Communication, and Investor Relations section, which contains all and cooperation with the Administration and, 3. Law 2/2011 of 4 March, on Sustainable Econthe information submitted to the CNMV (financial especially, with the CNMV (Spanish Securities omy, which has implications for both Securities reports, significant events, significant shareholdMarket Commission). Market Law and the Spanish Companies Law. ings, shareholders’ agreements, etc.), in addition 4. Law 25/2011, of 1 August, partial reform of the to other documents that the Company believes Furthermore it has a Regulatory Compliance ComSpanish Companies law and the incorporacould be of interest to its shareholders. mittee, which is headed by the General Secretary tion of Directive 2007/36/CE, of the European and the Secretary of the Board of Directors, and Parliament and of the Council of 11 July, on In addition, in 2011 the Group published, via comalso includes the Head of Legal Services, the the exercise of certain rights of shareholders in munications to the CNMV, the required information CFO, the Head of Internal Auditing, the Head of listed companies. concerning financial information, General ShareHuman Resources and the Head of Operations, holders’ Meetings and resolutions, Board of Direcwho are responsible for overseeing, coordinating For this reason, in 2011, the General Secretary tors’ agreements, presentations for analysts and and managing this area, having being delegated and the Board carried out a comprehensive legal investors, etc. these competencies by both the Internal Code of and methodological analysis of these reforms, Contact for Matters Related to the Securities Marboth from the point of view of corporate law and ket, and Antena 3 Group’ Internal Code of ConCorporate Governance, and from the perspective 34 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 35 Antena 3 Group CR management model Corporate Responsibility • Human Resources Policy Mission management model • Operational management • Antena 3 Foundation Vision The Mission, Vision and Values of ANTENA 3 Group • Corporate responsibility Master Plan were revised in 2011, to adapt and respond to the • Radio content Values full integration of CR in the organization. • Advertising and advertisers • Internal auditing Strategy The principles of the Mission that guides Cor• Investor relations Improvement, porate Responsibility are manifested through a • Television content Corporate Corporate communication Define and specific policy that determine the general lines • Marketing and audiences Responsibility and MANAGEMENT Responsibility roll out model Model transparency Committee that ANTENA 3 GROUP must follow in certain areas, • News content such as legislative compliance, good governance, Monitoring and dialogue with Stakeholders transparency, human rights, the environment and The responsibilities of the CR Committee include: dialogue with stakeholders, among others (see chart page 36). Functions of the Corporate Corporate Responsibility Policy Responsibility Committee The CR Policy is reflected in the specific aims and Legal, economic, social and Contribute to the implementation of the actions contained in the Corporate Responsibility environmental compliance. Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. Application of principles of Mechanisms to avoid incidents of Master Plan that covers the 2010-2012 period. transparency, independence and corruption, bribery or fraud. Promote, supervise and report on actions related respect for laws in force. to the Master Plan. Verified and truthful Lastly, in order to implement the Mission, Values, Appointment and remuneration information, governed by committee that monitors the principle of balance and and Values, as well as the CR Policy and CR MasMonitor compliance with external commitments compliance with CR Policy. Legal assumed in relation to social responsibility. impartiality. compliance ter Plan, ANTENA 3 GROUP has created the following Corporate internal CR systems: Collaborate in the identification of, and dialogue Transparency governance and cooperation with the different Stakeholders. Responsible resource CR strategy • Corporate Responsibility Committee (CR) approved by Board of management and Directors. • Dialogue with Stakeholders maximizing energy efficiency. CR committee • Code of Conduct Respect for the supervises Supervision • Active commitment to CR In 2011 the Corporate Responsibility Committee environment implementation of policy. • Comprehensive CR scorecard has continued working on the implementation of Corporate the CR Master Plan, and on the definition of the Responsibility Policy Cross-sectional integration new initiatives that respond to the needs of stakeDissemination of Set up channels of content regarding The Committee on Corporate Responsibility was holders and for this reason it held two meetings communication to Dialogue with Responsible sustainability. set up at the end of 2009 with the aim of strengthduring the year. know their demands stakeholders content Independence with and expectations. respect to contents ening the cross-sectional nature and importance and in accordance of Corporate Responsibility in Antena 3 Group. 2010-2012 Master Plan with the Group’s values. In 2010, the ANTENA 3 GROUP launched the CorResponsible In order to give the Committee a global vision of porate Responsibility Master Plan, with the aim management of Human rights the organization and to work in an effective manof reinforcing the coherence between the pubproviders Public policies ner, it is composed of representatives of the main lic commitment of the company to Corporate Minimize supplies and contracts. Special protection for minors that Fairness and transparency in awarding participate in the Group’s contents. areas of the Group: Responsibility and its implementation in all the contracts. Battle against domestic violence. areas of the business. Sustainability criteria included in all purchases. We make our knowledge of the audiovisual sector available to Regulators and Public Organisations. Participation in sector forums. 36 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 37 Antena 3 Group ANTENA 3 GROUP’S IDENTIFYING SIGNS IN CR WE COMMITMENT WE INNOVATE COMMUNICATE TO ETHICS, WE TRUST OUR WE KNOW HOW IN BUSINESS IN A INTEGRITY EMPLOYEES TO LISTEN AND IN OUR RESPONSIBLE AND RISK PROCESSES MANNER MANAGEMENT STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Antena 3 Group’s meeting with LINES OF ACTION AND TRACKING INDICATORS stakeholders in 2011. STAKEHOLDERS ✓ Periodic informative meetings Since the approval of the CR Master Plan, the • Knowing their legitimate needs, expectations ✓ Monthly newsletter with the latest news from ATRES ADVERTISING. Advertisers company has worked to “make ANTENA 3 GROUP and interests. ✓ Advertiser satisfaction survey ✓ Consulting service for advertisers regarding the latest changes to audiovisual legislation. the benchmark for Corporate Responsibility in • Adequately responding to these interests and ✓ Webpages www.antena3.com, www.ondacero.es, www.europafm.es. the Spanish audiovisual sector”. This work is reliably transmitting the information. ✓ Facebook, Twitter, Tuenti and YouTube. reflected in the “identifying characteristics of ✓ Blogs and videoblogs. ✓ Digital video encounters. the Group” through which its strategic aims are ANTENA 3 GROUP’s stakeholders have been identi✓ Qualitative research to determine audiences’ tastes. Discussion groups, surveys and expert panels. Audiences defined. fied, prioritizing target groups that programming is ✓ Audience participation in certain program content: “Tienes la última Palabra” of Antena 3 news or “Tú haces Espejo Público”. aimed towards (audience, advertisers, sharehold✓ ‘Zona 3. ✓ Habbo. ers, employees and suppliers) but also including ✓ Teletext. those to which the Group has a social commit✓ Suggestion mailbox for the Fundación Antena 3: fundacion@antena3tv.es. In 2011 progress continued on ment (regulatory bodies, competition authorities, ✓ The PONLE FRENO Platform: www.ponlefreno.com. ✓ E-mail: responsabilidadcorporativa@antena3.es. the implementation of the Plan, and the social environment). Society ✓ Focus groups with external stakeholder groups. obtaining a degree of compliance ✓ Corporate Responsibility section on the ANTENA 3 GROUP webpage. ✓ Virtual press office. of 76 % for all the actions Advertisers ı Audience ı Society ı Employees ✓ Press releases through the Communication Division, and press conferences. scheduled for the period up to Competitors ı Regulatory bodies ✓ Breakfast with the CEO. 2012. Providers ı Shareholders ✓ Emails. ✓ Bulletin board. Employees ✓ Corporate intranet. Priority stakeholders for ANTENA 3 Group. ✓ Quarterly results presentation. ✓ M D3 internal magazine (new channel 2011). ✓ Whistleblower channel related to noncompliance with the Code of Conduct (new channel 2011). Dialogue with Stakeholders ANTENA 3 GROUP currently has various dialogue ✓ Sector forums. Competitors and ✓ Membership in associations such as UTECA, IMPULSA and ACT. The Stakeholders are the people, organizations channels, which are complemented with particiRegulatory Bodies ✓ Participation in CATSI. and institutions that affect or are affected by the pation in various sector forums and involvement ✓ Meetings with the Administration. decisions of the Company. Based this premise, in civil society initiatives. Similarly, the Group is Suppliers ✓ Periodic meetings of the Purchasing department with suppliers. ✓ Emails. one of the key elements of Corporate Responsiinvolved in different sector-based forums (“In ✓ Conferences, meetings and road shows organized by the Investor Relations department. bility for ANTENA 3 GROUP is transparency and diadefence of the audiovisual sector” in page 53) ✓ Press office. oficinadelaccionista@antena3tv.es. Shareholders logue with its main Stakeholders, with the double and initiatives of civil society which provide an ✓ Email for investors: ir@antena3tv.es. and investors ✓ Company webpage: www.grupoantena3.com. aim of: interchange of experiences and knowledge. ✓ A nnual reports, Corporate Responsibility and Corporate Governance reports. 38 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 39 Antena 3 Group To reinforce the information from the defined comexpectations and identifying relevant matters and During the Focus Group, the attendees analyze The Code, which is approved by the company’s munications channels, periodic focus groups are areas that could be improved for future projects. the different issues, such as the perception of Board of Directors, following the favorable report organized in which representatives of each of the the ANTENA 3 GROUP and its television model, the of the Audit and Control Committee, is a fundadifferent stakeholder groups participate. The aim The last focus group, held December 2011, had connection and dialogue with stakeholders, the mental tool for providing guidance to employees, of these meetings is to actively involve them in the participation of all of ANTENA 3 GROUP’s stakefeedback and complaint channels and the comexecutives and members of the Group’s managethe development of the CR strategy of ANTENA 3 holders. pany’s social involvement. Important conclusions ment bodies in all of their actions. Group, learning about their impressions, demands, are drawn from this dialogue with stakeholders, which help guide ANTENA 3 GROUP future actions, The Board of Directors, through the Regulatory and which are shown below: Compliance Committee (RCC), is responsible for Announcers directing and supervising compliance with the Code, as well as adopting the appropriate measSara Díez Fernández, Marketing Manager of Central Lechera Asturiana. ures for ensuring its continuous improvement and Strong Areas for updating. points improvement Audience Greater integration of CR Furthermore, the RCC is also responsible for Corporate Responsibility is fully integrated into campaigns in the content tracking and supervising the new regulations , Tono Irisarri, member of the Advisory Committee of IC Media and Board Member of Compromiso Empresarial. Antena 3 Group. of the Group’s media. including the self-regulation in relation to audiovisThere had been a major In terms of social ual material that is established in the General Law change in Grupo Antena commitment, new on Audiovisual Communication. Carmen Fuente Cobo, Vice President of IC Media and Assistant Director of Communications Degrees at the Centro 3’ programming model challenges have been Universitario Villanueva. in which a clear bet is identified for the coming being made on quality, years. responsible content. Producers Implementation of a Antena 3 Group is procedure to manage complaints and Antena 3 Group is currently considered to be Ramón Campos, Executive Producer ofBambú Producciones. “friendly and to inspire suggestions. evaluating measures that may trust”. be necessary to increase knowledge about its Code of Company/Clients Conduct among its stakeholders José Luis Lupiañez, member of the Spanish Confederation of Students’ Parents (CEAPA) of Castilla la Mancha. For 2012 a Focus Group is planned for employees, the results of which will complement the information gleaned from the rest of the Groups and To guarantee compliance with the Code of ConLuis Carbonell, President of the Catholic Confederation of students’ Parents (CONCAPA). will help define the new initiatives aimed at improvduct, the Group has launched a “Whistleblower ing the workplace climate. channel” which allows all the employees of the Group to report, in a simple and anonymous manCorporate Responsibility Code of conduct ner, actions they believe to be inappropriate and In 2011, ANTENA 3 GROUP developed an Internal which do not comply with the Code, or any other Jesús Cañizares, Sustainability Manager at AENOR. Code of Conduct, a component of Corporate regulation that may be applicable. This channel can Responsibility that encompasses and reflects also be used by workers to voice doubts or prothe policies, values and principles in force in the pose improvements in the control systems currently David Álvarez, Secretary of the Instituto Universitario de Desarrollo y Cooperación and Associate Professor at the organization. in force in the Group, thereby achieving the triple Information Science Faculty of the UCM. objective of prevention, control and clarification of questions related to the Group’s values. Focus Group Participants held in December 2011. 40 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 41 Antena 3 Group SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SCORECARD 2011 Results Human Resources Environment – % Women 49.7%. – E nergy consumption in Antena 3 Group: 10,493 Kw / employee. – F ull-time contract: 81%.  ater consumption: 25.3 m3 / employee. – W – T urnover rate: 4.3%. – P ercentage of recycled paper: 62%. Active commitment the Compact promotes. This adhesion is yet – T raining hours per employee: 23.3. – G reenhouse gas emissions: 1.45 tn of CO2 equivaThe dialogue with Stakeholders implies participaanother example of the company’s commit– S eriousness of accidents: 0.81. lent/ employee. tion in different national and international forums ment to manifesting values such as respect for – Investment in training (€): 424,858 euros. – E nvironmental investment: 149,000 euros. and initiatives, thanks to which ANTENA 3 GROUP human and labor rights, the environment and can share their experiences in Corporate Responthe battle against corruption and bribery, in all sibility with other organizations. Furthermore, aspects of its business. Economic sustainability Society these activities constitute a superb opportunity to • Member of the FTSE-4Good Ibex. For the exchange and discuss the best practices of other fourth consecutive year, the ANTENA 3 GROUP – D egree of Compliance with Corporate Responsibility companies that are leaders in sustainability, both forms a part of the FTSE-4Good Ibex, which – N et revenues: 805.2 millions of euros. Master Plan: 76%. in the audiovisual sphere and other sectors. is comprised of leading companies that meet – D istributed economic value: 638.1 millions of euros. – A ntena 3 Group revenue contributed to the Foundagood standards of practice in corporate social tion: 360,000 euros. – F inancial assistance from governments: 11,533 • Collaboration with the Global Reporting Initiresponsibility. euros. – O pportunity cost of the broadcast of free spots for ative (GRI). Since 2009, the company has colNGO campaigns: 5,451,189 euros. laborated on the preparation of the first ComCorporate Responsibility Scorecard munications Media Sector Supplement which With the aim of monitoring ANTENA 3 GROUP’s peris being backed by the Global Reporting Initiaformance with regards to Social Responsibility, the tive (GRI). This will serve as the basis for the company has defined and implemented a series of future preparation of Corporate Responsibility indicators that track the performance of the areas Corporate Responsibility Goals 2012 Quality: continuous Reports in this sector. ANTENA 3 GROUP is the only Spanish communications media comthat have the most impact on Corporate Responsibility, such as: In 2012 the ANTENA 3 GROUP will continue to deploy the tools necessary to strengthen its position as a improvement pany that has attended all the work sessions responsible and sustainable company. The main aimed at drafting the principles of trans• Economic sustainability challenges facing the Group next year include the parency and communication that must be • Human Resources following: In 2009, the Antena 3 Group implemented a reported on by communications media com• Society Quality Management System, applicable to panies. Leading companies in the audiovisual • Environment • Complete the implementation of the Corpoprogram production and recording processes world, such as BBC, Bertelsmann, Vivendi, rate Responsibility Master Plan in order to and program and advertising broadcasts for The Guardian, Grupo Clarín and Australian The continuous measurement of these indicators reach 100% compliance. all their television channels. Broadcasting Corporation form a part of this allow for the rollout of concrete actions to ensure • Improve the communication channels for the working group. the continuous improvement of the ANTENA 3 Corporate Responsibility Strategy The Quality Management System is based on • Support for the Global Compact. In 2011, the GROUP’s responsible and sustainable performance. • Continue to include the new management four main tenets: company ANTENA 3 GROUP renewed its memThe results, trends and development of each of and reporting criteria for communications bership for the fourth consecutive year in the these measurement tools can be found throughmedia set forth in the Global Reporting Initia• Identifying and controlling incidents that Spanish Global Compact Network, and conout this report. tive sector guide. could occur during said processes. firmed its support for the ten principles that 42 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 43 Antena 3 Group incidents evolution in antena 3 group • Carrying out a continuous analysis of information related to incidents related to the qualIncidents have been reduced ity of the implicated processes and systems. by more than 50% since Quality • Action plan design. System was implemented. • Constant rollout of improvements in processes to increase their quality. Detection of incidents These measures have two purposes: • Eliminate the root cause of the incidents, in 2009 2010 Jan 1011 Mar 2011 May 2011 Jul 2011 Sep 2011 Nov 2011 such a way that they do not recur. Classifications • Implement improvements in processes that entail the introduction of more controls in the processes in question, thereby reducing the probability that new incidents occur. Identifying cause To carry out this identification and categorization Improvement Plans The Quality Committee holds of quality incidents, there is a Quality Software between 6 and 8 meetings a Program, through which all the areas involved in The Quality Committee forms a part of the Qualyear. Action plan the production, recording and broadcast of conity Management System. This Quality Committee tent and advertising must enter, on a daily basis, has periodic meetings in which the most imporall the incidents that may have occurred in these tant incidents are analyzed and the action plans processes. This identification and categorization of each area are shared, and next steps are deterIn 2011, the Action Plan for Quality was based on Identification and paves the way for the analysis and improvement mined. In addition proposed improvements are establishing actions that improved the following control of incidents plans described below. put forward for the Quality System. processes and tools of the Group: Incidents related to the production, recording and The Quality Committee is composed of reprebroadcast processes for content and advertising sentatives of all the areas that are affected by the ✓ System for broadcasting subtitled content. may be of two types: Continuous analysis processes entailed in the Quality System, thereby of incidents ensuring the most complete information when ✓ Broadcasting process. 1. Incidents that have “on air” effects, i.e. those making decisions: that have an impact on the signal for channels Information related to the Quality System is ✓ General equipment and software that are distributed to spectators. reported monthly to the Executive Team through • Auditing and Processes • Programming ✓ Process for receiving advertising and promotional material 2. Incidents with no “on air” effects, i.e. those a Quality Report. • Content • Production that do not affect the broadcast • News • Technical ✓ Broadcast continuity systems This monthly report includes all incidents, whether • Operating Resources • Broadcast Thanks to the Quality System, a process has or not they affected broadcasts. The most • Marketing • Commercial ✓ Control and Monitoring process for the Coverage Service been established by which all the incidents (with important incidents are identified, their cause is ✓ Audio service. or without effects on broadcasts), are detected, explained, and follow-up actions and plans to preand classified based on standardized categories, vent future recurrences are detailed. ✓ Process of Broadcasting Advertising Campaigns and lastly, analyzed individually to determine the cause (equipment, software, human error) and The accompanying graph shows how the Quality establish measures to ensure that such incidents System has steadily reduced incidents, year after are reduced or eliminated going forward. year. 44 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 45 Antena 3 Group Processes: controlling risks ✓ Evaluation of the Internal Control System for Financial Information Type of risk and implementing ✓ Introduction of Improvements in the Management and improvements Approval Process for Contracting Proposals ✓ Implementation of Action Plans for Corporate Quality System The main new development in 2011 was the inclu✓ Enhancement of control mechanisms for guaranteeing final Strategy and context Internal processes Corporate and reputational product sion, due to its critical importance, of reputational risk, with the aim of guaranteeing respect for the ✓ Review and Improvement of main Financial Processes law and voluntary compliance with the principles and values of the ANTENA 3 GROUP. ✓ Implementation of all the Control and Service Management Procedures Risks associated with operation Risks associated with and processes regulatory compliance • Risks associated with regulatory compli✓ Financial review of subsidiaries that are not audited by ance, such as that related to the General Law external auditors on Audiovisual Communication (LGCA), the ✓ E xecution of operating audits of Group areas and audits of Law on Advertising, and the broadcasting of broadcast programs advertising content or laws related to environRisks related to information in Risks related to external image decision making processes mental compliance. • Risks associated with the broadcasting of programming that is not in line with the ethical values of the Group. Risks related to financial reporting ANTENA 3 GROUP, with the aim of controlling the Provider main risks associated with processes and in order to implement improvements to reduce these risks, management carried out a series of reviews and action plans The Risk Map of Antena 3 Group. can be summarized as follows: ANTENA 3 GROUP’s commitment is not limited to • Financial control: Financial evaluation, compliinternally applying its values and principles of ance with policies, regulatory and procedural ethical actions, but also to working to ensure that controls and cost controls. these values are applied by its main providers, • Implementing processes. Monitoring indicareinforcing and expanding the Group’s value chain. tors associated with the auditing process. With this aim, the company informs and encour• Risk map: Based on the risks identified by the ages providers to follow good practices directly organization, the critical points are evaluated related to human, environmental, and labor rights. and improvements are proposed to reduce or eliminate these risks The ANTENA 3 GROUP distinguishes between two types of providers An Improvement Plan is prepared based on the review and analysis of processes. In 2011, the • Production and distribution companies which main actions included in the Improvement Plan supply fiction and entertainment content. were the following: • Other goods and services suppliers. 46 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 47 Antena 3 Group Number of distributors who operate with ANTENA 3 GROUP Tender proposals generated Purchasing expenses (€ Mn) 43 189 55.0 49.5 49.5 35 137 95 20 17 18 Antena 3 has doubled the 14 number of its national providers with respect to 2010. 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Total Spain Total abroad Other product and 2011, Catalonia 9.8%, with the remaining regions Production and The number of production companies that have service providers governments accounting for 13.2%; other coundistribution companies collaborated on the production of programs has tries make up 3.9%. The increase in purchasing decreased as a result of a change in the programThe Purchasing Department is in charge of optiin 2011 was due to investment in technology to The Third Party Production Department is charged ming line-up vis á vis the previous year and the mizing the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s relationships with its replace obsolete equipment. with managing broadcast rights for all those stability of same, although we would highlight that suppliers and contractors. In 2011 purchase were broadcasts not produced exclusively for Antena 3 there has been an increase in both the number of carried out amounting to 55.0 millions of euros, Bearing in mind the magnitude of these figures Televisión. In 2011, 189 proposals for third party programs produced and the number of fiction series. with the consequent positive impact on suppliers’ and the importance of selecting the best suppliproduction were generated, 54% for domestic balance sheets. ers, ANTENA 3 GROUP has established a specific distribution companies and 46% to foreign comcontracting system, whose main phases are sumpanies. Production Companies The Madrid Region represents 73.1% of the Purmarized in the following flow chart. collaborating with Antena 3 Television 2009 2010 2011 chasing Department’s total awarded contracts in Due to the new need for programming to reinforce Number of production companies the identity of complementary channels and the collaborating to produce programs 20 23 16 for Antena 3 Television launch of the Nitro channel in August 2010, the Number of different programs 39 40 42 contracting system Flow number of national distributors with which it has produced closed deals doubled with respect to 2010 and the number of foreign distributors went from 18 Production Companies collaCriteria of Technical, borating with Antena 3 Teleto 43. Modern Family (Neox), The Pacific (Nitro) vision on FICTION SERIES 2009 2010 2011 management, economic and Sign CSR bidder and commercial commitment and Pesadilla en la Cocina (Nova) are three examNumber of production companies purchasing criteria ples of leading series that have been acquired collaborating to produce fiction 7 6 9 series for Antena 3 Television specifically for broadcast on these channels. Number of series produced 10 9 16 Notification of Issue award need to make Receive offers Assess offers Award contract Track purchase 1,306 programs and 625 series’ purchase conditions episodes produced in 2011. INTERNAL AUDIT 48 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 49 Antena 3 Group Extract of the letter notifying ANTENA 3 GROUP providers that been awarded a contract ✓ Equal opportunity.. supervised by the Secretary of State for Telecom✓ Non-discrimination munications and by Sociedad de la Información ✓ Safe and healthy conditions in the work(SETSI). place This clause, that could appear superfluous in These bodies must verify compliance with applia democratic country governed by the rule of cable regulations, whether legal, universally applilaw and with legal guarantees, is quite relevant cable to all the operators, or specific because they when the supplier is located in a country in are contained in the self-regulation Codes subwhich basic environmental, social, and labor scribed to by Antena 3 and the companies in its rights are not respected. Group. • Controlled process: We would highlight that the management process for purchasing is This control is in effect for all phases of the cycle: periodically submitted to a series of internal From the moment the content is chosen/created audits. To date, there have been no incidents (verifying the information, ensuring compliance registered or complaints, confirming the transwith the classification by age, making it accessiparency and reliability of the system. ble to viewers that are disabled, etc.); when it is programmed in the line-up (respecting protected slots, quantitative limits and rules on advertising breaks, rules for electoral periods); and until when they can be broadcast (complying with the regulations regarding visual and audio notices in the Regulatory television broadcast, informing the user of the proThe design of this process ensures compliance with the following conditions: • Environmental Responsibility: In all the tenders, the suppliers will be required to have compliance gramming ahead of time, etc.) measures in place to minimize the environFurthermore, the different administrations and • Technical quality: At the beginning of the conmental impact of the activities to be carried public bodies (SETSI, CMT, etc.), in exercistracting process, and for each purchase or out. In addition, every time a need to acquire ANTENA 3 GROUP not only complies with and encouring their respective competencies, may request contract, the minimum quality criteria required new technological equipment is detected, it ages the respect of the laws in force, but also, to information in order to monitor compliance with are established for all suppliers. If the supplier will be selected according to criteria based the degree possible, seeks to improve existing the applicable regulations by A3TV and its group does not meet these criteria, it cannot be conon minimizing the space occupied by said legislation, as evidenced by the numerous activicompanies, in its condition as the owner of the tracted, even if, in economic terms, its bid is equipment, and low energy consumption. ties discussed in this report whose implementation licenses to provide audiovisual services, for both more attractive. Price is important but does not This is called “green purchasing” criteria. was not required by law, but rather, driven by the television and radio. outweigh other values. In 2011, “green purchasing” criteria were used free and voluntary decision of the ANTENA 3 GROUP Furthermore, more important or high value purin the purchase of the following equipment: One of the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s primary aims is to chases, (of over €50,000) must be approved ✓ 65 servers The influence of the communications media on ensure compliance with the regulations and rules by the Technical Purchasing Committee, com✓ 76 Pc´s. today’s society is irrefutable, whether its effects in force in all of the businesses and operations of posed of the CEO, the Director of Internal ✓ 60 Laptops. are felt only on a single individual or on an entire its companies. Auditing, the Financial Director and the Direc✓ 61 printers. group. Therefore, it is especially important to have tor of Management Control. • Social Responsibility: A key requirement an efficient legal framework in place, and to ensure • Transparency: The same information will established for all the production companies compliance through all appropriate means. always be provided to all suppliers participatand product and service providers is the signing in the tender process so that they compete ing of a Corporate Responsibility Clause in all In Spain, all television media is subject to intense under identical conditions. After the contract the contracts. This clause guarantees compliregulation. Especially notable are Law 7/2010 of is awarded, all the suppliers will be informed of ance with certain basic rights for its workers, 31 March, General Law on Audiovisual Commuthe outcome of the tender process. such as: nication (LGCA), for which compliance is currently 50 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 51 Antena 3 Group The Department of Regulatory Matters and InstiIn 2011, violations of the Self-regulation Code tutional Relations is responsible for promoting the were due to the following causes: interests of the company in regulatory processes. It is responsible for analyzing the possible impact • Broadcast during a reinforced protection time of new regulations and for monitoring the compaslot, of a film classified as inappropriate for ny’s regulatory framework. children under 13 years-old. • Presentation of a serious emotional conflict, In addition to complying with the aforementioned without a positive resolution, in a reinforced regulations, ANTENA 3 GROUP is in constant diaprotection time slot. logue with the Operators, Public Administrations and consumer organizations and associations. The number of disciplinary actions and violations Dialogue with the stakeholders forms a part of related to non-compliance with marketing regulaANTENA 3 GROUP’s Corporate Responsibility strattions is shown in the table below: egy. 2009 2010 2011 No. of disciplinary 4 11* 7 actions Number and type of violations Fines due to regulatory time for advertising slots during daytime televiNo. of infractions 15 43* 26 non-compliance sion or limits per hour, and limits on how much All the violations are related to the Self-regulation advertising may be included in the program(*) The data related to the number of disciplinary actions and Code, which is voluntary, not legal, regulation. violations has been changed with respect to Reports of previous The fines incurred as the result of non-compliance ming line-up. Over the course of the last several years, the numyears, since in 2011, two disciplinary actions by the Secretary of with laws and regulations are as follows: • In the advertising in other media section, the State of Telecommunications and the Sociedad de la Información ber of these incidents has remained stable, and of have been revoked as a result of the two verdicts handed down fine imposed by the Spanish Data Protection by the Courts of Judicial Review. small magnitude, as can be seen in the following Agency was included, due to the content of graph: 2009 2010 2011 commercial communications via SMS in a Of the seven disciplinary actions included in this Television 493,781 696,232 761,899 campaign carried out by a specialized techadvertising (€) category, (noncompliance with marketing regulanological platform that was specifically conNumber of Self-regulation Code Advertising in violations tions), one of them corresponds to commercial 0 64,702 50,000 tracted for this purpose other media(€) communications via SMS and the rest to commerTOTAL 493,781 760,934 * 811,899 cial communications via television. 3 (*) The data related to the number of disciplinary actions, violations and fines has been changed with respect to Reports of In 2011, Antena 3 de Televisión, S.A. was not subprevious years, since in 2011, two disciplinary actions by the ject to any disciplinary actions from the National Secretary of State of Telecommunications and the Sociedad de 2 2 Competition Commission, for monopolistic pracla Información have been revoked as a result of the two verdicts handed down by the Courts of Judicial Review, which declared In defence of the tices or practices that inhibit free competition. Nor was the company subject to any disciplinary action the two disciplinary actions taken in 2010, which resulted in fines of €57,750 and €187,500, null and void. audiovisual sector In 2011, there were no violations of the obligation to inform users related to the obligation to inform users of the proof the programming line-up. gramming line-up. The cause for the sanctions levied last year are as ANTENA 3 GROUP has a pro-active attitude towards follows: legislative changes and trends in the audiovisual sector. Therefore, and with the aim of debating 2009 2010 2011 • The disciplinary actions related to the broadand having a positive influence on the developcast of advertising via television were due to ment of public policies that affect the sector, it non-compliance with regulations applicable to participates in numerous forums and associations television operators governing the maximum that defend the sector’s interests. 52 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 53 Antena 3 Group In this regard, we would highlight the work carAs a result of its participation in these associations ried out by ANTENA 3 GROUP, focused on raising and other work forums, in 2011 ANTENA 3 GROUP awareness about the legal vacuum in the General had a key role in developing the following public Law on Audiovisual Communication regarding the policies: sending of free messages related to issues of a philanthropic, social or public service nature. This work resulted in the approval of the following addiProcess of freeing up the In 2011 the process of freeing up the spectrum for the awarding of the “digital dividend” began. Thanks tional clause: spectrum for the digital to the initiative of Antena 3, during its development, national operators were able to aggregate their dividend. broadcasts in two digital “multiplexes”, which has allowed the four channels operated by ANTENA 3 GROUP to maintain their broadcasts in parallel with the simultaneous broadcast on the main channel High Definition Television. with HD technology. This process should be completed before 1 January, 2015, when each national “Public service announcements or those of a license will make available a complete “multiplex” which will facilitate operating decisions. philanthropic nature that are disseminated freely General Law on Audiovisual After the entering into effect on 1 May, 2010 of the General Law on Audiovisual Communication (LGCA), are not considered advertising.” Antena 3 Televisión participated very actively in the preparation of its development guidelines, Communication. thereby increasing the legal security of operators and viewers. This new clause allows ANTENA 3 GROUP to once The LGCA and the regulatory process has resulted in a flexibilization of the obligatory investment quotas again offer NGO’s and non-profit organizations which requires television station operators to earmark 5% of annual income for financing full-length features and made for TV movies, so that now a significant portion of this quota can be covered by the different advertising slots, both on its television production of exclusively made-for-TV products, such as fiction series. However, TV stations have maintained their position and remain against obligatory investment quotas. channels and on its radio stations, with the aim of Support for Spanish cinema. Antena 3 Televisión believes that the Constitutional Court, the body that the Supreme Court has giving them a voice and promoting campaigns to requested render a judgment on the constitutionality of said obligatory quota, decides in favor of the thesis of the private operators. raise awareness. Meanwhile, the efforts of Antena 3 have resulted in the recognition that promotions on a TV channel of feature films produced with the financing of this television channel should not be considered advertising, which will make it viable to promote Spanish film more efficiently. These are some of the main associations in which ANTENA 3 GROUP participates: The ban on obtaining revenues from broadcasting commercial communications went into effect on 1 January, 2011. This ban was brought about through Law 8/2009, on the Financing of Corporación RTVE. Antena 3 Television has always believed that public television should obtain its credibility and strength through its public service and not through advertising sales, creating television for the citizens and not The Associated Union of Commercial Television Stations, La Unión de Televisiones Comerciales Asoadvertisers. Therefore, it applauds the decision to eliminate advertising from RTVE. ciadas (UTECA), was founded by Antena 3 Television and Telecinco. Currently, it is made of the six Financing of Public Antena 3 Televisión is actively working, both on an individual level, and as a member of UTECA, Unión de Televisiones ComTelevision. to rationalize the public television sector in its totality. To this end, Antena 3 has been very active in erciales Asociadas UTECA. national private channels. As a member of UTECA, Antena 3 Television is an active participant in the elaboration of laws and regulations affecting the audiovisual, advertising and intellectual property secUTECA in the preparation and dissemination of a comprehensive report/proposal for autonomous televitors, among others. sion stations in Spain, which was presented in September 2011. This report/proposal established a set of key factors for rationalizing the expenses of public television stations that would allow greater effiAntena 3 Television is a member of the ACT, an association created by the main private audiovisual ciency and savings and adapt the content of public TV stations to their specific public service function, groups in Europe to defend their rights before the competent EU organisms. Antena 3 Televisión parthereby differentiating them from purely commercial television. Association of Commercial Television in Europe (ACT). ticipated in this forum in 2011, working on, among other things, various actions related to the review of the implementation of regulations concerning public subsidies, and in preparation for the future Directive on the collective management of intellectual property rights. The Antena 3 Group is working to obtain regulatory reforms that will demand transparency from the collective entities managing intellectual property rights, establishing objective, equal and adequate criteCouncil for TelecommunicaIn its capacity as a member of CATSI, Antena 3 Televisión had an influence on the reports of the ria in the prices these entities may demand for the rights they manage. tions and the Information Permanent Committee of this body. These preliminary reports are mandatory in the approval process for These efforts are supported by a report on the collective management of intellectual property rights in Society (CATSI). regulations that affect the telecommunications and audiovisual communication sector. Reforms relative to the Spain, published by the National Competition Commission, which is in total agreement with the thesis management of intellectual defended by Antena 3 Televisión and Defense of Competition, and requested that the Government Association for the Autoproperty rights. carry out, as urgently as possible, the legislative initiatives that end the constant abuse of the manageRegulation of Commercial As an active member, it collaborates in order to better meet both regulatory advertising and competency ment bodies; the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, and the petitions of the Social and Economic Communications (Autoconrequirements, expanding the guarantees of advertisers, TV stations and above all, consumers. Council and the State Council, which have handed down rulings, all of which request a rapid reform to trol). the Intellectual Property Law that sets in place rules for collective management while protecting the Spanish Association of Comrights of the owners, respecting the rights of the users. mercial Radiobroadcasters (AERC). As a member of these associations, Onda Cero defends the interests of the radio sector. Catalan Radio Association (ACR). Antena 3 is a development partner of the Association, through which it seeks to raise the standards Association of Spanish Broadcasters. for Good Corporate Governance, creates working groups to analyze regulatory projects and maintains a constant dialogue with the CNMV. 54 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 55 Television Manel Fuentes at “Tu Cara me Suena” set, the hit show of the year. Television [ Out of all the large television channels, Antena 3 maintained its audience figures best during the full-year period, and also grew the most in the second half. ] A great year for Antena 3 TV started 2011 with important changes Atrapa un Millón. Antena 3 in the afternoon and early evening. First, Bandolera and El Secreto de Puente Viejo have boosted males and Neox is the clear leader within the DTT 2011 has also meant the revamping of the prime the channel’s performance by two points in the offer and among young adults. time slots, with the recovery of genres such as early afternoon. Then came Atrapa un Millón and gameshows and variety shows. Furthermore, there Antena 3 TV has positioned itself as the channel Ahora caigo. With these, Antena 3 TV has reinhave been new offerings in fiction, which not only Audience at 4:00pm 9:00pm time slot with a strong, unique personality, thanks to a telvented the afternoon programming and revitalized feature new titles, but new genres, such as susevision model that prioritizes quality, variety and the gameshow genre in the daytime hours, after pense and science fiction. 15% responsibility. During 2011, there were new suchaving brought it back in the prime time programcessful offerings into the programming grid which ming, where it has been extremely competitive. kept building and reinforcing such new television model. The results have been excellent: growth The increase in audience in the afternoon slot is that outpaced the market, an increase in audience even greater from Monday to Friday for the ANTENA share, despite rising fragmentation and the unani3 GROUP channels in aggregate, posting a 4.5 7.5% Quality and variety mous recognition of Antena 3 as the most innovarise. At the end of the year, not a single minute tive and most highly valued channel. of the broadcast in the afternoon and early evening hours is the same as last year, and in total five The hit show Tu Cara me Suena; the entertainhours of programming have been renewed from In 2011, Antena 3 launched a television model that ment offerings El Hormiguero 3.0, combined with Monday to Friday. was new and innovative, based on the diversity 0% the leading national fiction show on private televiand quality of its formats, which are aimed at every DEC 2010 DEC 2011 sion, El Barco and Gran Hotel, and the successful Neox, Nova and Nitro are the most appreciated type of audience. Programs that deliberately avoid gameshows, Atrapa un Millón and Ahora Caigo, channels in their respective segments. Nova is the sensationalism and that have had an excellent were ANTENA 3 TV’s most notable triumphs in 2011. leader in the female segment, Nitro leads among reception from both viewers and advertisers. 58 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 59 Television The television channel that best maintained its audience levels 2011 was a good year for audience figures. Out of the large television channels, Antena 3, with a 11.5% share, maintained its figures best during the full-year period, and grew the most in the second half, over half a point (0.6%). In a context of diversified offerings and increased fragmentation, which has already reached 34.5% of the market (4.5 points higher than in 2010), the Antena 3 Group’s television division ended 2011 with audience growth of 1.3 points, an increase that allowed its family of channels, comprising Antena 3, Neox, Nova and Nitro, to close the year with a 17.1% audience share. During prime time, the highest consumption slot, ANTENA 3 GROUP won 1.2 points, increasing its audience share to 16.9%. Like the previous year, it was the leading Group among young audiences, obtaining an average audience share of 23.8% in this segment. Antena 3 TV was also the leader in this group, with a share of 12.7%, while Telecinco registered a 12.1% share and La 1 an 8.9% share. With respect to the theme channels that comprise the Group, Neox ended December as the sixth most watched channel, for the second consecutive month, and grew 0.5% points last year, to 2.7%, a figure which made it the leader among the private theme channels. Overall for the year, Nova (1.5%) was able to consolidate its results and Nitro (1.4%) grew one point, becoming the most watched channel out of the Making of Pongamos que spot. recent theme channels launched this season. The best-in-class tv channel Following the success at the end of 2010 of the As a result, Antena 3 TV has been rated as the motto, Antena 3 pone and its communication most innovative and most highly valued chan15.3% 14.4% 14.0% 14.0% campaign, in December 2011, the TV channel nel, an assessment extended to Neox and also to 12.3% launched a new initiative called Pongamos que. the news programs and their hosts, according to 11.3% The spot is a massive musical production in which the GECA image index. In fact, Matías Prats has the channel’s top personalities send a clear mesbeen rated the television personality with the best sage of optimism for 2012, and offer the spectator image for the seventh year running. 6.9% 6.5% 5.7% 5.4% their spirited contribution: A happy, varied, entertaining and quality television experience. The GECA index also highlighted that Antena 3 TV “offered the best national series of the commercial + 1.0 0.9 0.0 1.1 1.1 Antena 3 thereby positions itself as a channel with channels, with the actors of the highest quality, as an identifiable personality with clearly marked limwell as the best gameshows of all the TV chanANTENA 3 La1 T5 Cuatro La Sexta its on contents. A television model that prioritizes nels.” talent, creativity, responsibility as a means of com01/09/2010 to 31/12/2010 01/09/2011 to 31/12/2011 municating, and entertainment for the entire family. Antena 3 closed 2011 with strong growth, and as the only generalist channel that improved its audience in the initial part of the 2011-12 season with respect to the same period in 2010 (12.3% vs. 11.3%). Source: Kantar Media. Spain. Individual totals. 60 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 61 Television [ “Tu Cara me Suena” was the hit The highest number show of the year, of television with an average successes audience share of starting with a 14% share and a little more than 19%. ] Antena 3 opened the 2011-12 season not only as 2 million viewers, since its sixth episode, its share the channel with the largest increase in audience has not dropped below 20% and it ended the first numbers, but also as the channel with the most season with nearly four million viewers and 25.9% successful premieres, with new launches in almost of the audience. all the genres. In fact, all the new incorporations in the line-up have been able to garner the support of viewers and revamp the current panorama of generalist television with formats aimed at the “Atrapa un Millón y “Ahora entire family. Caigo”, hit gameshows In the entertainment area, audiences have been Tu Cara me Suena, Bandolera and Ahora Caigo. enthusiastic about Antena 3 TV’s new offerings in “Tu cara me suena”, 2011. We would particularly highlight its two hit hit show of the year gameshows Atrapa un Millón and Ahora Caigo. Tu Cara me Suena was another Antena 3 TV sucThese are innovative formats that are further comcess in the entertainment genre. plemented by the success of La Ruleta de la Suerte. The gameshow hosted by Jorge FernánWeek after week, the program hosted by Manel dez obtained an average audience share of 18.2% Fuentes has steadily climbed in the ratings, and over 1 million viewers in 2011, and widened becoming the hit show of the year and a talent its leadership with its nearest competitor, Tele­ show leader, registering an average of 2,932,000 cinco, which it was already beating in its time slot viewers and an audience share of 19%. After by 2.7 points. THE UNSTOPPABLE CLIMB OF “TU CARA ME SUENA” On 4 February, Atrapa un Millón premiered on Five months afterwards, on 6 July, Antena 3 TV 25.9% prime time with 14.8% and 2,690,000 viewers, put Ahora Caigo on prime time. In its 13 broadoccupying the first position in its time slot. From casts, it achieved an average audience share dur21.6% 21.3% 21.4% 20.0% its premiere to the end of the year, it registered ing prime time of 13.7% and 2,044,000 viewers. 18.5% an average of 14.6% and 2,303,000 viewers. The Mirroring the performance of Atrapa un Millón, 16.0% 16.1% 14.0% 13.8% gameshow won the Premio Ondas for best enterthe gameshow helmed by Arturo Valls also pretainment program. miered a daytime version on 22 August, obtaining a 15.8% share and 1,520,000 viewers. Since Its prime time success led Antena 3 TV to premiere its premiere, it grew over 3.5 points evidencing its the format in a daytime version, with the same upward trend. strong results. It was so successful, in fact, that since April, it had an average audience share of 26-SEP-11 05-OCT-11 12-OCT-11 19-OCT-11 26-OCT-11 02-NOV-11 09-NOV-11 16-NOV-11 23-NOV-11 30-NOV-11 14.8% and 1,481,000 viewers. 62 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 63 Television ANTENA 3 News, the news program benchmark [ The news program headed Antena 3 News 1, the “Espejo Público”, the morning 14% leading private news show show that is growing fastest 1,836,000 12,9% by Vicente Vallés 1,686,000 and Mónica In 2011 Antena 3 News has once again become Espejo Público was the morning show that grew Carrillo, is the the news benchmark, with the First Edition promost (0.7 points) reaching an average of 13.5%. 8,4% gram the most watched private news broadcast, The best data point of the year, 19.8%, was reg783,000 most watched 6,5% Monday through Friday, as Monday to Sunday as istered on 19 October, the edition that featured, 688,000 private news well as on the weekend. among other things, an exclusive interview with broadcast, with the parents of Madeleine McCann. The news program headed by Vicente Vallés and an average of Mónica Carrillo, is the most watched private news Lastly, the new news show “Equipo de Investi1,876,000 viewers broadcast, with an average of 1,876,000 viewers (14.2%). gación” on Friday nights had over 1.2 million viewers, winning a 12% audience share, in its new late (14.2%). ] night weekday slot. First edition Monday to Sunday 14.2% 13.9% 1,876,000 1,851,000 Two major house bets: “El Hormiguero 3.0” and “Otra Movida” 8.7% In the entertainment genre, Antena 3’s family of 821,000 channels made two major bets in its 2011 pro6.4% 672,000 gramming: El Hormiguero 3.0, during prime time on Antena 3; and Otra Movida, in the afternoon slot at Neox. In Pablo Motos’ new chapter with Antena 3, the program obtained an average of 12.1% audience share, and 2,356,000 viewers, which makes it the most watched program on the private channels First edition Monday to Friday in its time slot and the leader in audiences under 13.8% 35-years old. 1,730,000 In 2011, it aired the most watched show in its his10% tory, which occurred on November 16th with the 1,258,000 visit of Justin Bieber, a program that reached an 7.6% 691,000 6.7% average of 3,308,000 viewers. 736,000 On 8 August, Neox premiered the first major bet for the evening time slot on the new channels, Otra Movida. The new program presented by Florentino Fernández, Anna Simon and Dani Martínez was very well received by audiences. In fact, it’s the best premiere in the history of DTT, with 6.4% Susanna Griso. audience share and 758,000 viewers. Its broadFirst edition weekends 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 65 Television [ “Otra Movida”, presented by Florentino Fernández, was the best premiere in the history of DTT. ] Otra Movida, Gran Hotel, Downton Abbey, Los Protegidos and Hispania. cast on Neox led to an improvement of 0.9 points leader in its time slot and had an especially notain the Monday to Friday slot, making it a leader ble performance with adult audiences between among young people (12.5%). 45-54, with a 21.9% share, and a 19.5% share for viewers between 55 and 64 years old. Meanwhile, during the morning hours at Antena 3, we would highlight the strong performance of KarLos Protegidos was the third most watched los Arguiñano en tu cocina which, following the series of the year on Antena 3. Its second season, change to its morning slot, obtained an average aired between January and April of 2011, had audience share of 12.1% and 437,000 viewers. average viewership of over 3 million (3,021,000) and a 15.1% audience share. Its success among children (29.8%) and youth segments (34.1%) was particularly noteworthy. The most watched “El Barco” and “Gran Hotel” episode was broadcast on 6 February, with lead the fiction offerings 3,266,000 viewers and a 16.4% audience share. Antena 3 TV has a long record of triumphs in In its second season, Hispania obtained an audinational fiction shows, and this year its producence share of 15.1%, with an average viewership tions have once again met with great success. of nearly 3 million. It was especially popular with El Barco maintains its excellent performance and viewers between 13 and 24 (17.2%) and between became the most watched show of the year on 35 and 44 with 15.6%. The most watched epithe private channels, with over 3.5 million spectasode was broadcast on Tuesday, 17 May, with tors and an audience share of 18.9% . 3,130,000 viewers and a 16.2% audience share. In the first season it obtained 20.6% and Foreign fiction also met with success on Antena 3 4,132,000 viewers, while in the second it reached and the top foreign show, Downton Abbey, 17.1% with an average of 2,966,000 viewers. obtained an audience share of 14.8% and Furthermore, several episodes of El Barco were 2,842,000 viewers in its premiere season. It was among the top ten broadcasts of the year. The most successful among more adult audiences: most watched broadcast was the premiere epi20% between 45 and 54; and 17.5% between 55 sode, with 4,769,000 viewers and a 23.4% audiand 64. Its first episode, broadcast on 15 March, ence share. Among young people between 13 had a 17.1% audience share and 3,254,000 viewand 24 years old this share rose to 36%. ers. With an average audience of 3,719,000 viewers In regard to film, the most watched film of the year and an audience share of 20%, Gran Hotel has on Antena 3 was Eclipse, broadcast on Sunday, become the breakout series and the best fiction 27 November, and obtaining 3,658,000 viewers premiere in the second half of the year. In the first and a screen share of 19%, making it the most season, it obtained an audience share of 18.6%, watched film on a private channel. with an average of 3,365,000 viewers. It was the 66 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 67 Television Neox, theme channel LaSexta2 y LaSexta3) with an average audience ANTENA 3 FILMS TOPS THE RANKINGS OF THE HIGHEST GROSSING MOVIES leader share of 1.4% in 2011. Its most watched broadcast was the Law and Order episode of 7 November (524,000 viewers, 2.5%), followed by the game between the national soccer teams of PorWith respect to the theme channels that comprise tugal and Argentina (520,000 and 3.9%). Among the Group, Neox ended the year as the sixth most its programs we would highlight the figures for watched channel, for the second consecutive Law and Order (225,000 and 1.7%), war movies month, and grew 0.5% points last year, to 2.7%, a (323,000 and 1.8%), Band of Brothers (157,000 figure which made it the leader among the private and 1.6%), Extreme Justice (231,000 and 1.5%) theme channels. It has become a leader among and Walker Texas Ranger (194,000 and 1.6%). young audiences, with an average annual share of 8.1%, and growth in this segment of 1.9 points. The improvement in Neox was mainly due to growth in the afternoon slots (0.5%) and in the daily early evening shows (0.8%), thanks to the incorporation Antena 3 Films Rkg Title premiere DIRECTOR box office viewers tv player collects 40% of all 1 Torrente 4 11/03/2011 Santiago Segura 19,509,475.06 2,633,469.00 A3TV of Otra Movida (3.6%) and early evening series 2 Midnight in Paris 13/05/2011 Woody Allen 7,835,944.71 1,207,502.00 such as The Big Bang Theory (3.2%); Two and a Half men (3.0%), American Dad (2.9%) and The spanish cinema (*) 3 Fuga de Cerebros 2 02/12/2011 Carlos Theron 5,098,927.36 803,060.00 A3TV receipts 4 La piel que habito 02/09/2011 Pedro Almodovar 4,590,498.58 715,115.00 Simpsons (3.4%). 5 No habra paz para los malvados 23/09/2011 Enrique Urbizu 4,050,273.89 635,884.00 T5 … In prime time, Neox also grew (0.3%), mainly 11 Intruders 07/10/2011 Juan Carlos Fresnadillo 2,681,102.90 414,542.00 A3TV through Cinematrix (3.3%) which broadcast the 12 Contrario al amor, Lo 26/08/2011 Vicente Villanueva 2,552,503.59 411,263.00 A3TV most watched movies of the channel: the Twilight In 2011 Antena 3 Films premiered a total of nine … saga (1,032,000 and 6%), Eclipse (1,024,000 full length features that made up 40% of Spanish 15 There Be Dragons 25/03/2011 Roland Joffe 2,003,788.23 345,639.00 A3TV and 6.2%), New Moon (931,000 and 5.5%) and box-office receipts. The success of film produc… Transporter 3 (955,000 and 5.4%). tions is repeated year after year and it would not 19 No lo llames amor, llamalo X 06/05/2011 Oriol Capel 1,034,970.83 167,073.00 A3TV be an exaggeration to say that the Group’s con… The most watched broadcast in 2011 was the The tributions are essential to the development of the 25 No controles 05/01/2011 Borja Cobeaga 633,440.00 97,584.00 A3TV Simpsons episode aired on November 7th, with Spanish film industry. … over 1.3 million viewers and a 6% audience share. (*) 28 Maktub 16/12/2011 Paco Arango 553,685.50 85,379.00 A3TV Antena 3 Films is aware that it is not enough just (*) 29 XP 3D 28/12/2011 Sergi Vizcaino 533,211.54 71,984.00 A3TV Meanwhile, Nova has kept pace with 1.5%. Its to make good films, it is also necessary to know * In theatres most watched broadcast was an episode of how to connect with the public, and following Amarte así frijolito on 9 May (3.4% and 580,000). these principles it has been producing box-office The soap operas in the afternoon such as Mujer hits and gaining recognition from critics and the total receipts of the second place film, “Midnight in Also in 2011, Paco Arango’s first film, Maktub, de madera and the weekend gameshows Ahora film industry at both national and international film Paris”. Another Antena 3 production, Fuga de Cerpremiered with three Goya nominations (Best Caigo and Atrapa un Millón also had noteworthy festivals. ebros 2, directed by Carlos Theron and starring First-Time Director for Paco Arango, Best Leading performances, each with 2% shares. Adrián Lastra, was the third highest grossing film Actress for Goya Toledo; and best original song), Torrente 4, with more than 19.5 million euros in of the year with 5.3 million euros and the second and the joint international productions There be Nitro, in its first full year of broadcasting, was conticket sales, produced by and starring Santiago best premiere of the year. With these two movies Dragons, directed by Roland Joffe and Intruders, firmed as the most watched channel out of the Segura, was both the highest grossing film of alone, Antena 3 collected more than 28% of all with two Goya nominations (Best Special Effects, new theme channels launched in the 2010/2011 the year and the box-office leader in the week of Spanish film receipts. Best Leading Actress Pilar López de Ayala). season (MTV, Marca, Boing, 13TV, La 10, Divinity, its premiere (8.4 million), which even exceeds the 68 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 69 Television [ Antena 3 Films premiered a total TV movies, the best movies trends and the different supports to improve and of nine films to for the small screen define new content in line with audience prefergreat public and ences. critical acclaim. ] In the TV movies category, 6 episodes of El corazón del océano, have been filmed; the show Antena 3 also listens to opinions on the largest is based on the book by Elvira Menéndez, and social networking sites and forums. This permanarrates the story of a group of women in the XVI nent interaction with the audience allows us to century who go to the New World in the hopes of continually adapt and improve programming. marrying a Conquistador; Rescatando a Sara, a Spanish woman’s struggle to recover her daughter from her ex-husband who has taken her by force to Iran; Alas al viento, on the life of Rocío Jurado, and Historias Robadas, based on the book of The audience gives the the same name by Enrique Vila Torres, starring Antena 3 Group an A+ Rodolfo Sancho, and based on a real story that Premieres in 2012, the narrates the investigations of a young boy to find In 2011, Antena 3 carried out various studies to success continues the brother taken from his mother at birth. analyse audience opinions of programming, such as Estudio de Imagen de Antena 3 or Televidente In 2011 Antena 3 Films has continued to invest 2.0, in which researchers analyse consumption of in the best cinema; premiering full-feature films in audiovisual content in the digital space. A high2012 like Luces Rojas, directed by Rodrigo Corlight from the study is the finding that the Antena 3 tés and starring Robert de Niro and Sigourney website was the most visited television channel Weaver, which was nominated at the Sundance Close to the viewers with 53% of the total share. Film Festival; Tengo ganas de ti, based on the novel by Federico Moccia; the continuation of One of the reference reports in the sector is the Tres metros sobre el cielo, also taken to the big “Índice de Imagen GECA” (GECA Image Index), screen by Antena 3 Films and the highest grossing The GRUPO ANTENA 3 strives for a television linewhich measures not only the image of the main film in 2010; and Extraterrestre, by Nacho Vigaup that ensures entertaining programming that public and private television networks, but also londo, with Michelle Jenner and Carlos Areces, pleases audiences, is respectful to all publics, satisfaction levels among consumers. which was shown at the Austin and Toronto Film and is of the highest quality. festivals to much critical and public acclaim. This study, for yet another year, ranks Antena 3 With this in mind, the Antena 3 Marketing Departthe top rated channel among the private chanFurthermore, currently in production are El cuerpo, ment undertakes ongoing research into programnels. This opinion also extends to Neox, which is directed by Oriol Paulo and starring Belén Rueda, ming formats and content before, during, and the highest ranked theme channel. It also names Hugo Silva and José Coronado; El callejón, after their broadcast. some Antena 3 personalities among the most from Antonio Trashorras, with Ana de Armas highly regarded: Karlos Arguiñano, Concha and Leonor Varela in the cast; Fin, directed by Throughout 2011, the department has undertaken Velasco, Carlos Sobera, Pablo Motos… and for Jorge Torregrossa, with Maribel Verdú, Daniel continuous qualitative research in conjunction with the 7th straight year, Matías Prats as the most Grao and Clara Lago in the cast; Futbolín, first other prestigious institutions in the sector. Among highly regarded television personality. animated film from Oscar winner Juan José Camother projects, 71 groups convened, which gave panella; and Los últimos días, an apocalyptic us the opportunity to hear the opinions of more thriller directed by brothers Alex and David Pastor than 560 people in order to better understand set in Barcelona. viewer tastes: their pleasures, preferences, and expectations. It also gave us the chance to understand the changes in audiovisual consumption Karlos Arguiñano, Concha Velasco, Carlos Sobera and Pablo Motos. 70 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 71 Television According to the GECA Index, The GECA Index named the Antena 3 is the most highly themed channel NEOX and regarded private channel in the Antena 3 website as the Spain. most highly regarded in their respective categories. GECA Image Index – Main Generalist tv channels TVE Antena 3 Cuatro La Sexta Autonómicas La2 Telecinco Antena 3 News. Television 1. Program, series and advertising content, with 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 that responds special attention to content which responds to social concerns. Source: Índice de Imagen GECA 2011 2. The protection of the most vulnerable audiences, especially children and disabled popuThe figures from the GECA Image Index 2011 put • Quality of presenters in entertainment. The word “responsibility” derives from the word lations. Antena 3 in an excellent position among viewers in “respond”, and when we answer the questions 3. The audiences’ media literacy. quality programming; its shows garnered the highAs far as programs, the GECA Index once again and concerns of Society we refer to that as Corest grades in the following categories: highlights El Peliculón, as the most recognized porate Responsibility (CR), a voluntary commitIn the following paragraphs, the specific responses film franchise, Atrapa un Millón is the second ment from the ANTENA 3 GROUP. that the ANTENA 3 GROUP devotes to each of these • Entertainment value. highest ranked game show, and The Simpsons areas will be given in more detail. • Novelty programming. as the best animated series. Audiences also voted Quality television should be varied, light, and enter• Quality in advertising. Espejo Público the most highly regarded magataining, but the ANTENA 3 GROUP understands that it • Quality acting. zine show and Doctor Mateo and El Secreto must also be “responsible”, to heed Society’s con• Magazines and entertainment. de Puente Viejo were the highest rated self-procerns and become involved in solving some of its Social-orientated • Game-shows. duced series. main problems. This is where the responsibility lies. programming As a result, all of the Group’s channels, Antena 3, Antena 3 News Neox, Nova and Nitro include programming that If a television program must be a model of responIn 2011, the “Foro de Comerciales de la Publicidad” awarded analyses social causes; this is an attempt to gensibility and concern with society, it is news broadAntena 3 the best “Support in a Television Category” and erate ideas, recommend good practices, and to casts; this is how viewers can understand the real“Advertising Support with the Best Marketing”. propose solutions to the society of which we are ity of the day-to-day that concerns everyone. a part of and to which we address ourselves. As a Antena 3 received the Quality Prize at the XII edition of the means of communications the ANTENA 3 GROUP has Television Academy Award. a specific responsibility in the following areas: 72 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 73 Television The News Services of Antena 3 Television work The organization and structure of decision-making On another note, the ANTENA 3 GROUP views the be a reflection of the social reality that concerns under the basic premise of giving their audience at Antena 3 News is designed to guarantee that growing implication of the citizenry in the identithe citizenry. Proof of this connection with the contrustworthy, quality information that is committed these principles, which establish successive filters fication, generation, and investigative process of cerns of society is the broadcast of various news to the principles of social responsibility with the and controls, are not only based on applicable legnews making very positively, especially now that reports related to the Economic Crisis, one of the professional ethic of audiovisual informative jourislation but also on CR principles and on the codes social networks and communications and informain concerns of Spanish society in 2011 accordnalism. of professional conduct, as summarized in the folmation technology facilitate direct and immediate ing to the reference sociological surveys (CIS lowing table: contact with interest groups. Barómeter 2011). Aside from topics related to the crisis, Equipo de ETHICAL CODE FOR ANTENA 3 NEWS Investigación has also investigated other curBehavior and information may not violate legal or regulatory regulaIn only 8 months, the initiative rent affairs related to, for example, consumption Legal and Regulatory tions. of the Antena 3 News program and health; or in depth analysis of crimes against “Tienes la Última Palabra” have citizens involving fraud or swindle, with the aim of All information should ensure the respect of people’s rights, guaranteeregistered more than 24,000 preventing them. Personal dignity ing fair treatment and the presumption of innocence, with special rigor when information involves minors. entries with opinions and suggestions ugerencias. Information can be a means of preventing certain Language and visual resources should accord with the information that social threats or of promoting good practices, Information language and visual resources is meant to be transmitted, without any room for expressions or images as shown in the following table with the reports that, without further information, could injure audience sensibilities. broadcast in 2011 and their impact: With the goal of increasing citizen participation All journalists on Antena 3 news must comply with this principle. This entails withdrawing from the process of researching or generating and discovering the concerns of the citizenry, Conflict of interests news when the journalist, or his immediate entourage, is or could be, Antena 3 News has introduced viewer participaPROGRAM AUDIENCe % viewers a party to or implicated in the particular news item; thereby avoiding potential conflicts of interests. tion via social networks with the initiative “Tienes El Precio del Fraude 15.6 1,755,000 la última palabra”. This is a segment during which El Negocio de los Desa11.6 1,015,000 hucios Antena 3 news writers may not accept gifts or benefits from compaviewers can interact with Matías Prats commentEl Precio de un Trabajo 13.1 1,410,000 nies or institutions that are the subject of news coverage, which could ing on the image or theme of the day on FaceGifts give the impression of infringing on their ability to deliver objective Ruiz Mateos y Cía 13.8 1,567,000 and independent information. book, Twitter and antena3.com. El Liquidador 11.5 1,122,000 El Nuevo Timo de la 11.2 1,107,000 The journalist that could, due to his work, have access to privileged Estampita Privileged Information information, may not use it for his own benefit. Viewers have received the initiative positively and La Dieta Dukan o El 17.2 1,663,000 Negocio de Adelgazar in only 8 months it has received more than 24,000 The news programs clearly and explicitly separate information from opinions. advertising, the purely journalistic content from commercial content. Commercial and critical information They also unequivocally differentiate strictly informative content from that which infers an interpretation or critical evaluation of the news. One example that stands out are the more than 2,500 questions which, as a result of the 2011 Espejo Público General Election, the audience posed to the main Another program with a clear commitment to candidates to the Presidency during the interbenefit society is Espejo Público. It is a live, daily views. show that analyses current affairs of high social interest. Highlights of the social issues dealt with in 2011 include Breast implants that tear, Baby In recognition of their work with a clear social commitment, Antena 3 News kidnappings or The Dukan Diet. was awarded the national prize ‘Alares’ for the broadcast of reporting about Equipo de Investigación the work life balance. An average of more than 1.2 million viewers each week has watched the journalistic works of the Equipo de Investigación. The program aims to 74 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 75 Television With the aim of increasing citizen participation in A result of this concern with social issues is that the program and thereby being able to go into in 2011 A Fondo reporters prepared more than more detail into the areas that interest the pub200 features broadcast on different editions of the lic most, Espejo Público has created a link on its Antena 3 Television news broadcasts. website Tú haces Espejo Público (www.antena3. com/programas/espejo-publico/participa/), a new The contents of this work include topics related area through which citizens can express their to current news events and their degree of social opinions on the topics discussed and propose content. From the largest events, like the Pope’s their ideas, suggestions and solutions. Audience visit to Madrid during the Youth Days, to catasopinion matters on Espejo Público. trophes like the earthquake in Lorca, social movements, health, or the consequences of the economic crisis and unemployment on families and businesses. The program dedicated special attenA Fondo tion to victims of terrorism, domestic violence, and The A Fondo team is interested in everything that common crimes; all aspects which are at the top happens on the streets. It aims to delve indepth of the list of citizen concerns. into changes in social conduct and other subjects which concern and impact citizens. Its single-topic One part of the social themes was centered on reports are included within the Antena 3 Television reports of crimes and investigation, as summanews programs as thematic complements which rized in the following table with highlights of the Antena 3 website. are devoted special attention. features in 2011: Protecting children In the following paragraphs we detail how we have promoted and protected children’s rights, especially in those especially sensitive areas like content, SUBJECT PROGRAMS advertising, protection of adolescents in hiring, and The Pope’s visit during the Youth Days in Madrid. Lorca earthquake. The cucumber crisis hits Spain. CURRENT AFFAIRS The wave of the Chinese community. Protests in Puerta del Sol. The 15-M movement. Five years of the Well-being, respect, and the promotion of children’s access to the Group’s premises. driving license by points reduces highway deaths dramatically. The crisis strengthens the gold business. rights are basic premises that the ANTENA 3 GROUP Paper theft from waste containers. Trash food. The exploitation of the homeless and beggars. Gangs bears in mind in all it does. CHARGES AND INVESTIGAdedicated to copper theft. Marijuana plantations camouflaged among agricultural plants in Huelva. The TION shadow economy. The Madrid night mafias and their connection with Colombian drug traffic. Youth disappearances. The Marta del Castillo case. The search for international delinquents fleeing from justice. The falsification of cosmetics. In order to comply with this principle, ANTENA 3 In contents GROUP pays special attention to providing famHEALTH Mediators in hospital rooms. Assisted reproduction. The expiration and waste of food products. Esthetic surgery. ily programming that is in line with the tastes and The Antena 3 Group is aware that television is a NEW TECHNOLOGIES Alternative energies. Radioactive security. requirements of the youngest audiences, while cartransmitting medium for principles and values, OLD AGE Secrets to longevity, living more than a century. INSERSO baths. rying out strict monitoring in the classification and which is why it broadcasts programming for all ADOLESCENTS The best of the school exams. Young entrepreneurs. The phenomenon of “fans”. Juvenile violence. Pubbroadcast of its content and commercial communimembers of the family and specific children’s lic drinking and alcoholism. Cleaning up graffiti. cations in the children’s time slot. programming. The Neox Channel is the Group’s In the museum Bellas Artes de Bilbao with Antonio López. The Cibeles Catwalk. The new paths of flamenco. The best photographer in the world. Popular theatres. Movie theatre finder. Municipal music channel devoted specifically to the youngest audiCULTURE bands. DJs, a phenomena of the masses. The Godspell Chorus arrives in Spain. Traveling theatre. The In addition, the Antena 3 Foundation’s mission is to ences. In 2011 the Antena 3 Group broadcast a new forms of advertising. Truck tuning. The new advertising models. ensure that children and adolescents have the suptotal of 2,509 hours of children’s programming, SPORT, TOURISM, AND High mountain sports. Six star holidays. Mine tourism. Scuba diving below the ice. High competition. LEISURE port required to promote their well-being and edu2,132 of which are broadcast on the Neox chancation, as well as promoting the social awareness nel which emits series and animated cartoons like of their rights, needs and interests. Heidi, Pucca, or Pippi Longstockings. 76 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 77 Television In order to guarantee the protection of minors In Advertising of strengthening the protection of minors in access to and security on the ANTENA 3 GROUP in content, the ANTENA 3 GROUP is, since 2005, a advertising segments aimed at children. premises. member of the Código de Autorregulación sobre Audiovisual commercial communication that Contenidos Televisivos e Infancia, a voluntary secaccompanies children’s programming or is The ANTENA 3 GROUP’s internal security regulations tor code of conduct for all signatories. The selfincluded in it, is another aspect to which the prohibit, generally, minor’s access to its premregulating code, once signed, make up the rules ANTENA 3 GROUP pays special attention, given the Hiring minors ises. However when, exceptionally, a minor must for the ANTENA 3 GROUP. Furthermore, the ANTENA 3 special vulnerability of minors to advertising mesparticipate in a program (as a guest or the audiGROUP is part of the Self-Regulation Committee sages. The Group has the following tools at its disWhen the ANTENA 3 GROUP hires minors (for examence) this regulation dictates that the minor must and the Mixed Monitoring Commission, organposal to undertake the task: ple as actors or for their continued participation be accompanied by production personnel who is isms which are responsible for verifying the proper on a program), it always commits itself, via corresponsible for their security. At any rate, minors application of the Código de Autorregulación. a. Self-regulation. In 2009, ANTENA 3 committed responding clauses, to guarantee the minor’s may only exceptionally enter the ANTENA 3 GROUP to collaborate, along with the other television essential rights: premises between 10:00 and 20:00 and always As required by Royal Decree 410/2002 of 3 May, associations like FORTA and UTECA, in the • Respect their image, honor and personal and with written authorization from their parents or the television programs of Antena 3 and its digipromotion and application of the Código de intimate family life. legal guardian. tal channels strictly qualify their content in order Autorregulación de la Publicidad de Alimen• Guarantee the development of their educato clearly inform their audiences of suitability for tos dirigida a menores (PAOS). The object of tion, in such a way that when the continued minors. In addition to the entertainment programs this code is to prevent health problems such as presence of a minor is required, the proper or the fiction series, movies and TV movies are child obesity. To this end, the PAOS expressly measures to ensure compatibility with their also exhaustively qualified by the Antena 3 Departregulate the following aspects: studies and their work loads are taken. ment of External Production following strict criteria Television advertising and marketing of More accessible defined by the new General Law of Audiovisual Communication and the Ministry of Culture. Selffood and beverages for children aged 12 and under. television advertising and sneak-peak program clips are also Broadcast times for these advertisements. Security regarding minors subject to the classification criteria set by the law The manner in which these products are on Antena 3 premises in order to keep minors from accessing unsuitable presented and promoted. The Antena 3 Group facilitates access to informacontent. The protection of minors is not limited to protion for groups with hearing or visual handicaps b. Protection measures that go beyond legal gramming or advertising; it goes beyond that by by providing content with audio descriptions and Furthermore, Spanish legislation allows citizens to requirements . Social responsibility should even defining specific measures to guarantee their subtitles. demand the competent authorities to act when exceed or voluntarily improve the legal requirethey believe audiovisual content is not compliance ments applicable in a specific country or time. with existing legislation or self-regulatory codes. For this reason, one of the specific measures subtitled hours To this end, and in order to increase the degree of the ANTENA 3 GROUP has adopted to “improve” compliance with the code and to facilitate the proexisting legislation is the voluntary increase in cess of citizen complaints or suggestions reaching the reinforced protected time-slot (from Mon10,491 the competent authorities, the Antena 3 webpage day to Friday) by 2 hours, ensuring more proincludes a section that allows users to contact tection of minors with respect to the television 7,746 the Monitoring Commission, making the process content broadcast during the time-slot. smoother and easier. c. Collaboration with interest groups ., AUTOCONTROL – association of which ANTENA 3 is a member-signed in 2010 an agreement 3,619 3,706 with the Spanish Association of Toy Manufac2,313 2,331 2,086 2,368 turers (Asociación Española de Fabricantes 1,264 de Juguetes) and with the National Institute 550 of Consumption (Instituto Nacional de Consumo) relative to toy advertising with the aim 2010 2011 78 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 79 Television This is why the ANTENA 3 GROUP has increased Media awareness its accessible programming, largely exceeding the requirements of the General Audiovisual Law and training which establishes that at least 25% of the programming hours must be sub-titled. The specific 2011 figures are the following: The means of communication should contribute to the media literacy of the audience, defined as • Broadcast of a total of 10,491 subtitled hours, the capacity of the audience to understand the an increase of more than 35% with respect means of communications and their content and to last year. use them as required. This allows the audience to • Broadcast of 112 signed hours equally split become responsible users of the means of comamong all the group channels. munication. Radio workshop for hospitalised children. School students visiting Antena 3 premises. • Broadcast of 209 audio described hours, NITRO standing out with 98 broadcast hours. Thanks to media literacy, a responsible audience sions these visits have served to guide students 3-year agreement. By this agreement, the screen• Neox is the Group’s channel with the most able to undertake the following tasks is promoted: into their vocations. plays from final year students will be presented broadcasts accessible to persons with audio and valued for their potential audiovisual producor visual disabilities, with more than 3,700 • Differentiate among and familiarize itself with Tomorrow Project (“Proyecto Mañana”). This is tion at Antena 3 Films. This possibility will also be programming hours directed towards children diversity in the types of means of communian Antena 3 News initiative that aims to investiavailable to final-year students in other disciplines, and adolescent publics. Which means more cation. gate what televised news programs might look pending approval from the designated committee. than 50% of its programming is accessible • Choose content based on its informative or like in the future. To undertake this project, they • By time-slot, subtitling is most common in the entertainment purpose. signed a collaboration agreement with six ComRadio workshops for children. The first was held morning (07:00 -14:00h) with 24.4%, almost • Reflect critically on these issues. munications faculties in Spain (Universidad Antoat the Niño Jesús Hospital. Attendees learned equal to the afternoon time-slot (14:00-17:00h) nio de Nebrija, Carlos III, Universidad de Navarra, how a radio program was made, the language with 23.3% and followed by Prime Time To this end, in 2011 the ANTENA 3 GROUP carried out Pontificia de Salamanca, Pompeu i Fabra and Uniused, and how to conduct an interview. During (20:30-24:00h) with 21.7%. some initiatives aimed at bringing the means of versidad de Sevilla), which present their projects the workshop, organized by the Antena 3 Founda• ANTENA 3 has continued to advance with live communication closer to not only audiences but on “televised newscasts in the future” in a contest tion and given by the Head of Local news for Onda subtitling for programs of social interest such also society as a whole. In order to reach this tarwhich prizes the two best submissions. Cero Madrid, the children recorded an interview as: get, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has boosted collaboration that was broadcast on the Madrid en la Onda –– The debate between Rubalcaba and Rajoy. with centers of education and universities. A group of students from the Communications program. –– The interviews of candidates to the PresiFaculty at the Universidad de Navarra and another dency of the Government in 2011 (Rajoy School and University Alumni visits to the from the Journalism Faculty at the Universitat Other ANTENA 3 GROUP projects that are aimed and Rubalcaba. Antena 3 premises. In 2011, more than 2,000 uniPompeu i Fabra were the winners of the Tomorat contributing to media awareness and training –– Two episodes of Espejo Público. versity and school students aged between 12 and row Project. Antena 3 awarded five students from include the Vive Conectado campaign aimed at –– The Christmas message from His Majesty 22 visited the Antena 3 premises. During these each school a quarterly scholarship to undertake promoting the safe use of internet and social netthe King. visits they are explained the different professions internships at the networks news programs. works for adolescents, www.viveconectado.com –– The special program CAMPANADAS 2012. that make the daily activities of a communicaor the Proyecto PRO of the Antena 3 Foundation tions group possible, the production and broadAgreement with the Foundation of the Film and www.proyectopro.es which is geared towards the More evidence of the clear support for subtitling cast process, and they are also taught the value Audiovisual School of Madrid (Fundación de education and integration of disabled persons into can be found in the free broadcast of subtitled of teamwork as the maxim that makes the work la Escuela Cinematográfica y Audiovisual de the workforce in the audiovisual sector. advertising spots. In 2011, almost 7 hours of subof a means of communication possible. They also Madrid) (ECAM). In line with the business comtitled spots have been broadcast, among others witness a live radio program, visit the television munity’s commitment to the Spanish film industry Find more information on the Vive Conectado on page those of Henkel, Campofrío, and Carrefour. studios, and are educated in situ on the means and to contributing to the discovery and promo149 of this report. of communication with the help, on occasion, of tion of new values, and to boost this significant the Group’s own professionals. On many occaartistic, economic and cultural sector, in 2011 Find more information on the Proyecto PRO on page 154 of this report. Antena 3 Films and the ECAM signed an initial 80 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 81 Julia Otero at the Onda Cero’s central radio set Radio Radio [ Onda Cero, due to an increase of 5.6 % in its audience, strengthens its second place position in the national conventional radio ranking. ] The fastest growing 20.3%, versus 11.6% and 10.5%, for its two closprivate radio est competitors. Onda Cero’s share in December in 2010 was 19.0%, while in 2009 and 2008 it was at 18.3% Onda Cero’s headquarters. Onda Cero and Europa FM’s position in the Spanish and 16.0%, respectively. This means that in the radio market was reinforced in 2011, consolidatlast four years it has increased its share by 4.3 The secret to the success of Onda Cero and Europa almost one million listeners -, listens to Julia en ing the growth from previous years. If in 2010 Onda points. Another no less significant figure is profitFM lies in the work and dedication of its professionla Onda in the afternoons – half a million listenCero was already the private radio station posting ability per listener, an indicator that Onda Cero has als: a team that has known how to capture listener ers -, follows the summary of daily events with the most growth with 66,000 new listeners, they for years been beating the competition. concerns and listens to their demands. While Onda the La Brújula – more than half a million followdoubled this figure in 2011. The generalist channel Cero has designed an open and pluralistic proers– and goes to sleep with Al Primer Toque, the of the Antena 3 Group, according to figures from The music station Europa FM managed to break gramming, where there is room for the opinions sports segment that has gained the most listeners the General Report on Means of Communication the one million listener barrier in 2011 with an of all, Europa FM has carefully guarded the quality according to the third wave of the General Report (EGM) at the end of November, had an audience increase of 124,000 followers, registering an absoof its product. Well selected music complements on Means of Communications (November 2011). of 2,454,000 listeners, 131,000 more than during lute audience of 1,579,000 listeners. It is also the participation segments, with comedy programs the same period the year before. music station that has grown the most in percentand revamped dedications programs. age terms in the past year, 9%, increasing its dis“Herrera en la Onda”, the tance from Kiss FM by half a million. Figures from In 2011 Onda Cero continued to strengthen and morning show reference the latest EGM are telling: 103,000 new followers improve content. Within the context of the staOnda cero: sustained on Europa FM and a morning program, Levántate tion’s current stability we must point out the multiIn 2011, Herrera en la Onda had the highgrowth of 5.6% y Cárdenas, which in just over a year has already season renewals of contracts with Carlos Herest increase in audience on all generalist radio, reached 760,000 listeners. rera, Julia Otero and Isabel Gemio. Also in 2011, 208,000 more listeners than in December 2010. These results back some general lines of programthe station ordered the deployment of significant The magazine show that is directed and preming that value continuity, fairness and respect Judging from these excellent results, we can human and technical resources in order to cover sented by Carlos Herrera, with 1,898,000 listenof all opinions. Onda Cero, thanks to an increase state that that Onda Cero y Europa FM – and Onda the general elections, analyzing the different politiers, exceeds by more than half a million listeners of 5.6% in its audience, strengthened its second Melodía with a dozen radio stations – are the cal proposals with honesty and independence. the morning show on Radio 1 (Radio Nacional) position in the conventional radio rankings, beatbenchmarks in the Spanish radio space. They are and by more than one million the morning show ing the third option– Radio 1, of Radio Nacional among the most listened-to, continue growing The Onda Cero line-up is still the same – save time on Cope. Herrera en la Onda has a larger audide España – by more than 700,000 listeners and and– more importantly – are gaining credibility and changes – as the previous seasons. The audience ence between 6:00 and 12:30 than the total of the fourth place station– Cadena Cope – by a milfamiliarity with the audience. clearly identifies the voices and sounds of a radio each of the two radio stations cited. lion, all the while managing to register a share of station that wakes up with Herrera en la Onda – 84 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 85 Radio Among its novelties, a weekly section devoted to participation, without changing the identifying feaMediodía also registered excellent results, the Matallanas and Susana Guash. These last two the proper use of the Spanish language, presented tures: rigor, humor, reflection and debate. best in the program’s history, reaching 277,000 share a microphone with the veterans of the team, by Carlos Tristancho, and a confidential during listeners with a significant advantage over the midAlfonso Azuara and Santi Segurola, and with which well-known journalists reveal breaking news José María Calleja joined the commentator team day news program on Cope. other regulars and easily recognizable commenor keys to current affairs. Herrera, one of the most on Julia en la Onda, alternating his analysis of curtators like Xabier Azkargorta, Gica Craioveanu, influential communicators in Spain according to rent affairs with Arcadi Espada during the first half The news, the backbone of programming on Onda Ricardo Gallego or the master of statistics and recent surveys, combines news and entertainment hour of the program, while Vicente Vallés, direcCero, is followed by more than one million listenfigures, Alexis Martín Tamayo “Mr. Chip”. like no other and has turned his program into the tor and presenter of Noticias 1, on Antena 3, and ers. In 2011, demand was even higher due to greatest reference on Spanish morning radio. Rubén Amón, in the evening review the main curthe general elections, the social protests, and the Despite the fact the Professional Football League rent affairs on La Brújula and comment on newsstrikes and conflicts in countries like Egypt, Tunisia has banned radio stations from retransmitting paper headlines for the following day, respectively. and Libya. football matches, the audience of Radioestadio has easily exceeded one million and a half listen“Julia en la Onda” and ers, counting the two weekend editions. Onda “La Brújula”: rigor, Cero, like other radio stations, has filed a comreflection and debate One million listeners get New collaborators on plaint against the Professional Football League, “in their news from Onda Cero the sports segments defense of the fundamental right to information”. Julia en la Onda gained listeners with respect to 2010 and is the second most listened to magazine La Brújula has increased the time dedicated to The sports segments Al Primer Toque and show in its time slot, reducing the distance with the economy by fifteen minutes– an inevitable Radio­estadio have also reinforced their staff of the first place and increasing the gap with the third topic– and ended 2011 beating the new barrier of collaborators, incorporating big names like the place show. Julia Otero has continued betting on half a million listeners. The news program Noticias trainer Ángel Cappa and journalists Javier Gómez 86 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 87 Radio Something beyond radio For another year, UNIPREX has maintained its commitment to serving society through news programs, radio content and advertising space. This Onda Cero and Europa FM websites. commitment is crystallized in its broadcast, support and active participation in social initiatives [ The new Onda and campaigns aimed at solving actual problems Cero website and increasing interactivity with listeners, which manifests the UNIPREX commitment with the pluhas increased its the audio. All of this in order to get closer to its rality of opinions and respect for diversity and the internet users by listeners. This wager has already given rise to two free participation of its audiences. 45%. ] first results, with an increase of 45% in listeners versus 2010. Onda Cero has also become the To this end, in 2011 Onda Cero and Europa FM have most popular radio station on the internet, with an been steadfastly involved in the following events: average of 52 minutes per visit (figures from OJD interactive January-April 2011). • Lending support to the corporate responsi“Te doy mi palabra” bility campaigns of the ANTENA 3 GROUP (Ponle (I give you my word) Aware that most internet visitors to ondacero.es Freno, Vive Conectado, Hazte Eco and El want to listen to the live and simultaneous broadEstirón), through various reports and interAs far as the weekend, it is worth highlighting the casting of the station’s distinct segments, the new views on the main goals of each of the camgood results from Te doy mi palabra, with Isabel website allows for a better audio experience by paigns: Gemio; and the consolidation of the Gente Viabroadcasting on aac+/mp4. Use and navigation of –– Road safety. jera, audience, directed and presented by Esther the site have been enriched and improved, with –– Promoting healthy eating habits and physiEiros. These are two competitive programs that a design based on standards applied successcal activity for children. are highlights of the themed and diversified profully to the web pages of the Antena 3 Group. The –– The advantages of new technologies. gramming available on weekends. new ondacero.es also increased its own content, –– Respecting the Environment. 100% online with more exclusive reporting, spe• Promoting the work of the Antena 3 Foundacials, interviews, meetings and video meetings, tion and its different initiatives, among which ranking, etc. the Una Semilla, Una Vida (One Seed, One 45% more listeners Life) campaign stands out; its goal was to save on ondacero.es The changes carried out on ondacero.es are an 400 children in Mozambique from malnutriexample of the desire to innovate in everything tion. To support this campaign and request The web pages of Onda Cero and Europa FM have that has to do with the station’s ultimate goal: to collaboration from its audience, the Groups’ experienced considerable change in 2011. In addireach the largest number of listeners. Onda Cero radio stations made mention and broadcast tion to the presentation and design, ondacero.es was already the first Spanish radio station to sound bites in support of the initiative, and has in the last few months promoted the participabroadcast via internet in May 1996. Thanks to this interviewed them on the shows with the largtion of its listeners, integrated its website on social new support, Onda Cero broadcasts may be heard est audiences like Herrera en la Onda, Julia networking sites, increased content and improved in real time from anywhere in the world. en la Onda and Te doy mi Palabra. 88 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 89 Radio ✓ The Choir Boys gave a free concert in January In 2011 4,037 commercial support of Haiti at Micrópolix. Furthermore, UNIPREX devoted special support to Care centers. In Spain there are 15,000 chilbrakes in support of the ✓ Support to the campaign “El Sonido del the major emergencies in 2011. Onda Cero delivdren who are wards of the State awaiting fosCáncer” (The Sound of Cancer) (Spanish Antena 3 Group’s corporate Association Against Cancer), which gave ered special coverage of the Fukushima earthter parents. February responsibility campaigns were eight cancer patients the opportunity to quake in March 2011, as well as the Lorca earth• 1st Popular Race against Neuromuscular Distell their real cancer stories in their own broadcast. words. quake in May 2011 with the live broadcast of the ease. ✓ 24 Hour Ford: Ford’s most emblematic show, La Brújula, directed by Carlos Alsina, from • 1st Fashion Show Contest for Charity for social action which attempts to unite the Lorca, which gave a voice to the victims, authoriyoung designers. March world of cars and charity with the aim of raising money for several NGOs. ties, emergency services and volunteers. Once • A Charity match between Coria and Sevilla In addition to backing the GROUP’s initiatives, ✓ B anco Santander RSC Race: the Banco again in July 2011, Onda Cero became involved in the Guadalquivir Stadium in Coria del Rio. May Santander organizes a race in support of Onda Cero and the Group’s radio stations have also with the hunger situation in the horn of Africa, Homage to Manuel Ruiz Sosa. a UNICEF children’s’ project in Mexico. gotten involved in other social causes by lending ✓ Radio workshop organized by the raising awareness of this emergency through its coverage to various projects developed by NGOs Antena 3 Foundation to bring radio newscasts and programs, and by supporting The La Brújula program also stands out for dealcloser to the children of the Niño Jesús and not-for-profit organizations through its conHospital (with a live broadcast from the various charity events directed at mitigating the ing with topics of social interest; the show has a tent and the broadcast of free commercial brakes June program Gente de Madrid (People of effects of the famine. daily spot entitled Las Noticias que no intereMadrid) with Alfredo Menéndez).. for support. In 2011, a total of 869 commercial ✓ Malagasy Gospel Tour to raise awaresan a nadie (News that does not interest anyone) brakes for social causes were broadcast on ONDA ness of child exploitation in Madagascar which aims to highlight news of social interest that and the rights of children. CERO, like the ones calling for aid to Somalia, or the don’t make the pages of the typical newspapers. ✓ Day of Company Solidarity. A call for aid extended to victims of earthquakes in Japan companies and volunteers to participate Programs with social content The weekly “prime time” segment on the Herrera and the Murcian town of Lorca. in the 5th Edition of the Day of Company en la Onda program Un Mundo Social (A Social Solidarity organized by the Antena 3 Cooperation and the Antena 3 Group. In addition to the varied selection of news, enterWorld) devotes attention to the ONCE foundation July ✓ Support for the associations AMREF Flying Doctors and FEDASIB which work tainment, and sports programs, ONDA CERO also which is committed to integrating people with disto improve the conditions of children in offers a wide range of programming with social abilities into society. Horn of Africa and Chernobyl respecThe broadcast of 869 tively, through the development of their content that reflects its commitment with the commercial brakes with social work. corporate responsibility policies of the Antena 3 Other programs on ONDA CERO that reflect differcontent has represented an ✓ Day of Company Solidarity. Group. ent social themes in its content include En Buenas ✓ Una Semilla, Una Vida (One Seed, One opportunity cost for Onda Cero August Life). An Antena 3 Foundation camManos, in which Dr. Beltrán explains, in a light of 1,735,430 euros. paign to help 400 children in the south The show Te doy mi palabra, with Isabel Gemio, and didactic fashion, the most common health of Mozambique out of malnutrition. has dealt with social issues as diverse as the problems and how to prevent them, or the show ✓ Day of Company Solidarity. ✓ International Festival on Film and Disreincorporation of battered women, alcoholism, Como el Perro y el Gato (Like Cats and Dogs) September ability (ANADE Foundation). or eating disorders, and has also given special specialized in analyzing current events in the ani✓ European Week of Attention Deficit DisHighlights of the social projects that have made order and Hyperactivity in Children. coverage to the economic crisis. Through various mal world and giving practical advice for the care an impact on Onda Cero in 2011 are listed below: ✓ Day of Company Solidarity. special reports and interviews in community dinof pets. Finally, the show Partiendo de Cero, ✓ Proyecto Pro. Support to the audiovisual school for persons with disabilities creing rooms or with entire families who are unemhosted by Paco de León, brings the world of sciOctober ated by the Antena 3 Foundation. ployed, the program attempts to reflect the social ence and big inventions to the audience, in docu✓ Popular race “Corre por el Niño” for the Niño Jesús Hospital to raise funds for impacts of the crisis. In addition, the program still mentary format and with practical applications of research into serious childhood illnesses. has a section of radio ayuda (radio help) during the great discoveries in day-to-day life. ✓ Insurance Industry Solidarity Awards, which the psychologist María Jesús Álava Reyes bringing the insurance sector closer to November the needs of society through economic responds to specific questions posed by the audiThe impact of the economic crisis, especially donations to various humanitarian proence. In addition, the program supports other unemployment, has been a widely covered topic jects. charities such as: on all the UNIPREX programs and radio stations. Aware of the situation, a number of local maga• The 1 niño, 1 familia: (One child, one famzines have included a classified jobs section and ily) campaign. In 2011, agencies attempted useful information aimed at helping people in proto reduce the number of Children in Foster tracted states of unemployment. 90 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 91 Multimedia Online video meeting team. Multimedia [ Antena3.com is the most visited television website in Spain. There has been a data increase of 40% in comparison to 2010, placing it significantly above competitors. ] The most well The figures are similarly positive from other statisticonnected Radio cal sources, such as the General Study of Media (EGM). In November 2011, EGM reported that section of the web ended the year exceeding 3 million users who accessed over 500 million vidcasting international series such as Camelot, Downtown Abbey, Sherlock and Torchwood. and Television antena3.com was the most visited TV website in eos. Modo Salón provides a wide range of entertainSpain for the 6th consecutive survey, showing a ment programs including daily shows with large 17% increase over the previous year. In October 2011, the audimetric company, Comaudiences, such as Tu cara me suena. This is one Communication continues to evolve at unstopScore, published its first global report on online of the televised programs for the channel that has pable rates towards new formats and media. As The results are equally positive according to user video consumption. The results could not have had surprisingly great success on the Internet. a communications group, Antena 3 is present opinions. According to the annual report published been better for Antena 3, when –with over 51 milon all platforms generated from the Internet. In by GECA in reference to web-images for television lion videos viewed per month and an average of 2 June 2010, the channel successfully launched its viewing, antena3.com is the preferred web for hours per Internet surferit was established as the online portal. During 2011, changes were made to watching television series. most popular Spanish media group. Of the main Five million fans on update the Onda Cero and Europe FM portals. In video websites in Europe, only three television stasocial networks addition, the group implemented new features to tions were highly ranked: RTL (Germany), BBC a multiplatform strategy based on video, promo(United Kingdom) and Antena 3. In 2011, social networks also proved that Antena 3 tional advertising and self-made content. All of this Audiovisual Group Leader is gaining importance on the Internet. At the close led to a record year for Antena 3 Multimedia. The in online video in Spain This is no coincidence. In 2007, Antena 3 was the of the year, the channel was the communications data backs this up. first television station to offer its series and commedium with most Facebook followers, close to Antena 3 is the leader in consumer use of audioplete programming online. This policy was com460,000 people. Marca is in second place with antena3.com closed the 2011 fiscal year with a visual content via the internet in Spain, in addipleted last fiscal year with the portal update and 396,000 and third is Europa FM (also part of the monthly average of 8,933,000 individual users, tion to being a benchmark for online audiovisuals the creation of Modo Salón. Antena 3 Group) with 382,000. 40% higher than in 2010. The last quarter was in the European market. This can be attributed to especially relevant, when the portal reached an its strategy, which focuses on promoting its main Some of the series that Modo Salón offers are El Counting up all the different profiles managed by average of 9,700,000 users according to data asset, video, as well as to the success derived Barco, Gran Hotel, Los Protegidos and HispaAntena 3 on Facebook (including channels such from Nielsen Market Intelligence. from Modo Salón, an online platform available for nia as well as afternoon shows Bandolera and El as Neox, Nova and Nitro, as well as primary series viewing both TV episodes and full programs. This Secreto de Puente Viejo. It is a pioneer in broadand programs), Antena 3 has close to 5 million 94 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 95 Multimedia [ Antena 3 has the highest number of Facebook followers. ] fans. Special mention should be made of the “El Sótano”: First channel 480,000 followers of El Barco, which makes it for exclusive content the most successful Spanish program on this network. Another trademark of Antena 3 Multimedia is the broadcasting of its own content. The goal is to On Twitter, Antena 3 accumulated over 150,000 achieve greater customer loyalty when users visit followers in 2011 compared to 25,000 at the close the group portals and web. Consequently, the of 2010. In addition, the channel has had events channel has boosted the production of programs, of global relevance, such as the launching of El video-interviews with stars, making-of spaces, Barco twittersodes (exceeding 300,000 followexclusive reports, and webseries. ers), and the numerous trending topics obtained from its series and programs. In this area, the proThe 3.0 strategy Antena 3 has set up to develop gram Tu cara me suena has shown significant the concept of television on all media took a giant activity. In its 10 shows, it reached 54 trending leap in June 2011 when El Sótano was introtopics on a national level and 53 worldwide. duced. This was the first channel dedicated exclusively to transmitting online products and content. In its eagerness to be present in all possible social This has proven to be an opportunity for new talnetworks, corporate profiles for Antena 3, Neox, ent and audiovisual creations. At the end of 2011, El Barco, Antena 3 Noticias and Celebrities El Sótano had more than 20 productions offerdebuted on Google+, joining with Tuenti and Youing all types of formats and genres, from current tube. events to animation as well as comedy and mystery. Certain programs that stand out are Diarios Apart from the numbers, Antena 3 has been able de la Webcam, Las Crónicas de Maia, ¿Quieres to carry the social network world over into televialgo más? and Manga por hombro. sion and vice versa. For example, every night on #TienesLaUltimaPalabra, Matías Prats reads the Additionally, El sótano has a weekly program opinions on a current topic that users have posted shown on the Nitro channel, La escalera del Broadcast of a video-conference, cast of series “Diarios de la Webcam”, report on “El Sotano” in Md3, the Antena 3 Group’s internal digital magazine. on Facebook, Twitter and antena3.com Sótano. This is an extension to the web philosophy of maintaining novelty and portal premieres, For another year, antena3.com has been the referas well as interviews with creators of the series. In relation to Megatrix, the online strategy hopes Increase in vertical channels ence and partner of Habbo in Spain, the biggest to go beyond televised broadcasting, by adding and 100% internet content virtual youth community in the world. This portal In December, the first contest for online creations children’s content. Initiatives for this project have was chosen for its audiovisual power, its quality was started on El Sótano. More than 60 candiintroduced 16 series, including timeless classics The commitment Antena 3 Multimedia made durcontent and the live interviews with actors from the dates appeared. Antena 3 will produce the winning such as Heidi, Marco and Érase una vez el homing 2010 to create specific content for the Internet most popular series among Spanish youth. project. bre, among others. led to the launching of 3 vertical portals: celebri96 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 97 Multimedia ties.es (stars and celebrities), seestrena.com Television is also internet tionally, Microsoft announced in October 2011 television on Spanish mobile operators (Movistar, (movies) and defconplay.com (videogames). This that the Xbox live service for Xbox 360 will include Vodafone y Orange). project was consolidated this year with the creaOne of the most popular trends seen in 2011 has a total of 40 stations around the world. Among tion of new thematic contact targeted for children: been the increase in popularity of television conthese, Antena 3 has been noted as the best SpanAntena 3 has been a pioneer, once again, in the Megatrix. In terms of audience, the specific connected to the Internet. Devices for which the final ish private channel open to the offer. multiplatform sector, with various feats: tent for internet has grown 90% in 2011, comproduction is forecasted for 2012 will remarkably pared to general portal growth of 47%. change the way we watch television. • The first company to launch Nielsen’s measures on its connected devices. News coverage has also increased due to the creAs part of that effort, Antena 3 has reached agreeNew portable applications • antena3.com application for Windows Phone ation of Specials. The number of blogs is up to 40 ments with the primary manufacturers, allowing terminals. in an attempt to attract new audiences. Similarly, it to offer innovative content and applications, antena3.com continues to innovate with new • Launch of advertising experiences on new live broadcasts have been streamed on the web which, up to this point, do not exist in the world of applications for cell phones, smartphones and connected devices. for events of general public interest, such as the television in this country. tablets in line with its multi-resource strategy. In • Launch of application with Modo Salón and movie premieres of Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn 2011, the company launched new content and live broadcasting on smartphones. Part 1, Makbut, Puss with boots, Xp3D, and for To do this, Antena 3 is working with channels in features in Android, iPhone and other tablets to • Launch of application updates for its radios on series such as Los Protegidos. Sony Bravia Internet Video, Internet@TV from allow users to watch Modo Salón, live broadcastsmartphones adding multifunction features, Samsung and platforms from LG, Philips, Sharp ing, and clips from all series and programs. podcasts and social networks. Finally, broadcasting of live digital Video meety Loewe. All of these offer access to a virtual vidings, products exclusive of antena3.com, has eoteca containing episodes of the channel’s sucIn addition, antena 3 was the first private TV staplayed an important role for an increase both in cessful series tion in Spain to launch an application with the new the quality of these as well as in the number of Windows Phone system. This is considered by Series and Programs video meetings celebrated, over 150 in 2011. This type of content can also be accessed using users as one of the best applications. played online videoconsoles. Antena 3 is one of the first television channels in the world to launch an application Antena 3 is also a point of reference on iPhone. After experiencing success with the online game for direct use of its content on PlayStation 3. AddiThe channel’s application, launched in December Hispania (which reached over 250,000 registered 2011, became one of the top leaders in only 2 players at the end of the year), Antena 3 launched weeks for its free applications on the iPhone, with several trans-media initiatives for other series like 200,000 downloads. El Barco and Los Protegidos. Antena 3 contents on multimedia By downloading this application, users have simIn addition to twittersodes, El Barco followers can ple access to complete episodes for whole series continue to enjoy the series by using its online through Modo Salón, as well as the channel‘s live game at juegoelbarco.com. This has been develbroadcasts. They can also follow storylines and oped jointly by Play Television, Antena 3 and Glowatch highlights, exclusive interviews, series and bomedia and is based on plots and characters programs. from the fiction series. The plots to each chapter continue in this application, with weekly missions This launching completes the applications prolinked to the televised stories. The idea is to have vided by the Group, made up those programs massive multiplayer entertainment, in which thouaimed at audiences of Onda Cero, Europa FM and sands of users compete with one another by way Antena 3 Films. All of these have been updated of the F2P concept (Free to Play). This means that during 2011, adding multifunction tools, social anyone can register for free from any computer by networks and podcasts, among other features. using a search engine. On the other hand, Antena 3 maintains leadership Another project in the works is misprotegidos. with regard to its information services (alerts) and com. This is a multiplayer platform with a com98 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 99 Multimedia [ The board game “Atrapa un Millón” reached programs, integration with social networks, and multiplatform broadcasts. record sales of 184,000 in only 6 months. ] Live programs continue to be a priority of the Onda Cero website. Therefore, the changes have been aimed at improving the overall experience providing new tools and content, such as podcasts and mp3s. Furthermore, listeners can now access complete programs from the network whenever New Business, new On the other hand, the area for New Business they choose. interactive formats has not only launched series and content on DVD and Blueray, but it has also edited several novels Among other updates, substantial improvements based on successful series, such as El Secreto were made in audio quality (both live and onde Puente Viejo. demand). Furthermore, full integration with social The goal of the New Business Area is to produce Online version of the program Los Protegidos. networks has been obtained. Users will also find commercial network brands and develop intera simpler design, facilitating access to information active formats. The Group’s numerous mediums and user participation. serve as support in communicating with consumpletely new plot, but with mystery and action ers. characterized by Los Protegidos. There is also a Audio plays a large role in the new ondacero.es; Audience’s mobile version for Apple and Android functions. however, news, articles, blogs, and the most interesting and popular videos also play a part. In a nutIn Licensing and Merchandising, the board game Atrapa un Millón has had much success, reaching participation With the aim of creating more interactive proshell, the site offers quality content in different fora record of 184,000 units sold in only 6 months. grams, an online version of the program Atrapa un mats and consumers have several methods of use. Millón was created. This gives people the opporThroughout 2011, programs such as Adivina ANTENA 3 GROUP offers ways for users to communitunity to play from home simultaneously, facing the The most recent web to be updated is europafm. Quien Gana Esta Noche (Antena 3), Mgustas cate by telephone and online. This way, the audiaudience and dealing with the same challenges com. It has been given a fresher design, incorpo(Neox), Astroshow and El Futuro en tus Manos ence can give suggestions and express opinions and questions as contestants on the show. rating the same functions as antena3.com and (nova) have been broadcasted using new interacas well as participate in program content. This ondacero.es and reinforces the team with identifytive formats. feature highlights the Group’s commitment to ing signs. encourage the plurality of opinions and to respect La Llamada Millonaria has focused on SMS condiversity and participation of its audience. Onda Cero and Europa Once again, the public confirms that we are on tests for spectators throughout the entire year. FM most listened to the right track. Ondacero.es has grown 26% and This is a simple and entertaining transaction and on the Internet europafm.com 45%. Together these websites half a million euros are given in prizes during the already exceed a million individual users. Most year. Social Networks Ondacero.es underwent improvements in June noteworthy is the fact that both stations are the 2011. Antena 3 Multimedia applied the same most listened to on the Internet in its category. The Law 13/2011 passed on May 27 for game The year 2011 has been witness to the success strategy to the radio station as that which helped Online users spend over 42 minutes daily listenregulation required the network to purchase a of ANTENA 3 GROUP, which has great presence on to consolidate audience data for antena3.com. ing to Onda Cero and more than 53 minutes daily gaming license to promote SMS contests and all key social networks such as Facebook, TwitThis includes improved promotion of live and full listening to Europa FM. TV programs such as Adivina Quien Gana esta ter and Tuenti. This is due, in great part, to the Noche. Antena 3 Group has completed successfan phenomena that has generated from its series fully all the requirements to obtain this license from and programs, but it is also because of the conthe newly created company Antena 3 Juegos S.A.U. tinuous communication Community Managers [ ondacero.es and europafm.com already Thereby lending continuity to these lines of busihave maintained with the followers. In a move to exceed a million individual users. ] ness while approaching new opportunities that innovate in 2011, the Community Manager team may come up in the gaming sector. was expanded not only to create more dynamic 100 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 101 Multimedia istered users. This way, improper use of this tool Telephone Channels can be filtered more easily and at the same time, Antena 3 Group can have basic registered data ANTENA 3 GROUP offers its users a wide range of telof its users. This will result in improved tracking ephone services to access specific products and of activity and provide more adequate responses participate on programs and in game shows. using more exact data for its analysis. Sending short texts and multimedia messages (SMS and SMS/MMS Premium) are some of the most utilized systems in programs. This gives the Web: Navigation and audience a chance to participate on programs Accessibility from their cell phone (sending votes, opinions, attending live talks, etc.). Participants can also The antena3.com website continues to be a sign up for Antena 3 services, allowing them to leader in navigation and accessibility. In 2011, it participate in contests organized by the channel. continued to use the IT development from the previous year, complying with W3C standards. These Other services are provided by calls to the prefixes include web development for alternative texts, 905, 806 and 807, allowing spectators to participroper lengths, search help and predictable navipate in different shows and in Antena 3 contests. gation and so forth. Services provided by calling the numbers 806 and This high level of technical development has 803 associated to Antena 3 are given by third-paralso been extended to the radio websites www. ties and strict control is carried out through daily ondacero.es and www.europafm.es which have monitoring, allowing for any deficiency to be spotbeen wholly updated to match the capacity, utility ted right away. and accessibility that exists on antena3.com. One of the main priorities of these services is to To guarantee quality web content, strict controls ensure that the spectator is well informed when are carried out of the information included on the participating. Antena 3 does not limit itself to the Antena 3 and Onda Cero’s Community Managers. web pages associated to programming. Contribuminimum application guarantees in the Code of tions made by users on these pages are closely Conduct for the application of tariff based sermonitored and any messages or opinions that do vices based on messages, it goes beyond these communication with users but also to guarantee was focused on “Teaching parents and children not comply with legal standards are immediately requirements, reinforcing the information fed to strict compliance of standards applied by social to use the Internet and social networks responsieliminated, as are any messages that could put users via informative messages and in all its comnetworks and respect corporate values in the conbly”, placing special importance on the protection the health or safety of users at risk. munications including, for example, a double inditent published. of minors connected to the web: www.viveconeccation of the type of service offered and its price, tado.com. In addition to these controls, ANTENA 3 GROUP asks on both its on-screen communication and via text Social networks have proven to be a useful tool in for the collaboration of its users to debug errors and message. communication, but always when used responsiStatistical tools were implemented in 2011 to proprevent abuse. Any illegalities or irregularities found bly. This has precisely been one of the goals for vide clearer information about the activities carried can be reported easily, immediately and at no cost Another example of spectator protection is estabthe Vive Conectado campaign. The initiative by out on social networks and in the comment modby writing to the email: webmaster@antena.es. lishing a maximum limit of 18 Euros/month per this ANTENA 3 GROUP campaign is to spread popules on the web. In line with these measures and user in subscription services offered by Antena 3, ularity and encourage awareness of the advanas a special precaution to protect internet surfers, compared to the majority of operators who set this tages in technology for citizens. This campaign comments can only be made exclusively by reglimit at 30 Euros/month. 102 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 103 Advertising Trancas and Barrancas, starlets at El Hormiguero 3.0, the best TV content for advertising innovation. Advertising [ Atres Advertising is considered the best exclusive Quality and has put its choicest means at the service of its ventional ad, grants the advertiser increased recadvertiser profitability advertisers, even using the first ad of the year to convey this message. ognition and better content integration. In this way, during 2011, the Branded Content, the advertising according to a placement, has turned out to be one of the most innovative options in the Group’s commercial offer. Media Scope 2011 has been a year in which the Antena 3 Group study. ] carried out a public commitment with its clients, Television: the highest The actions of Corporate Social Responsibility spectators and advertisers alike, always focusing efficiency ratio continue to be a great link between the Group’s on quality. social function and its advertisers. In 2011, brands This support has been mutual. The advertisers that were already established, such as Ponle From the public point of view, this promise was have responded positively to the Atres Advertising Freno and Hazte Eco were joined by a new implemented at the beginning of the year for the model. As a result, the group has shown the best important brand: El Estirón, aimed at preventing spectators through the Pone campaign, in which evolution in advertising market turnover, increaschildhood obesity. the Group committed publicly to “put” (“poner”) ing its investment quota by two points compared varied and limited quality content; from the comto 2010 and exceeding 30% market share, this in mercial point of view, Atres Advertising made an adverse economic and advertising environment public its coverage and efficiency obligation with including mergers among its competitors and in Onda Cero and Europa FM, the advertisers. which the effects of the New Audiovisual General remain at the top of the Law (Nueva Ley General Audiovisual) have had a market Under the claim “Atres Advertising PUTS (or negative impact on the Special Solutions (SoluPROVIDES) coverage and efficiency”, the excluciones Especiales) market. During 2011, the Uniprex Group has enjoyed yet sive advertiser committed to refund 5% of the another year of performance superior to that of the campaigns if it wasn’t the option that delivers a market in general, this in spite of it having been a higher rating or increased coverage with equal difficult year due to the contraction of investment GRPs. Coverage leaders in radio. ANTENA 3 ADVERTISING AS THE BEST This being said, a year having gone by, all the camOne of the causes of this good performance in Onda Cero has consolidated itself in 2011 as the ADVERTISING EXCLUSIVIST paigns have upheld the guaranteed standards and investment quota has been the audience increase second best radio station in the country, narrowthe advertisers have expressed their confidence throughout 2011, which has enabled to position ing the gap with its closest competitor thanks to in the group’s business model assessing Atres the group as coverage leader and thus, provide its the fact that among its main communicators are Advertising as being the best exclusive advertiser advertisers with the best possible product for its some of the market’s best hosts. according to the Media Scope study carried out communication needs. by Grupo Consultores which includes over 450 Thus, it can offer its advertisers varied programinterviews including advertisers and media agenThe quality of programming, as much for its ming that allows to plan throughout all the timescies. results as for its image associated to light and lots, which improves coverage and recognition family entertainment that pleases advertisers and results compared to other more concentrated This desire to support the advertisers has also spectators alike, has enabled Atres Advertising to offers. These attributes have enabled Atres Advermaterialized in the big campaign carried out by consolidate its leading price position in the Spantising to maintain its average income per second Antena 3 in all its media outlets favoring brands ish television market, confirming Antena 3 as the in an unfavorable market environment. with the participation of the company’s most leading commercial group with a 1,81 power ratio. recognizable faces. In the campaign, our hosts Furthermore, after years of growth in Europa FM’s shared with the audience the commitment that the In the Special Solutions market, and despite audience and being only a few thousand listeners brands have towards the quality of its products as the General Audiovisual Law having markedly away from positioning itself as the third option in opposed to the generic or house brands whose restricted it, the Antena 3 Group has continued to Radio Formula, Atres Advertising has overcome Source: Media Scope 2011, Grupo Consultores prime attribute is pricing. In this way, the Group generate advertising space that, beyond the conthe challenge of capitalizing on the good results 106 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 107 Advertising that have been obtained by increasing its turnover Thanks to these tools that enable growth, Atres Antena 3 Events by more than 30% and showcasing the attractive Advertising has practically doubled its turnover product Europa FM has to offer in terms of audifor the Group’s websites. ence among the younger targets. When the event is news Movierecord, more theaters In 2011, Antena 3 Events began a new commercial Multimedia doubles and better efficiency ratio strategy based on the creation of events for the its turnover Group’s companies and the consolidation of those During 2011, Movierecord has faced a difficult already existing, without giving up promoting lines The main challenge with regards to the Internet advertising environment, with challenges specific of action focused on providing agency service to that Atres Advertising has faced in 2011 has been to the medium, such as a new competitor on the loyal clients as well as gaining new ones. to make the most of the good audience results market or the development of the digitalization antena3.com has obtained since the re-launching process in theatres and the explosion of 3D. The capability to generate news by organizing all of its website in the last trimester of 2010. sorts of events, whether they be musical or sportIn spite of this, this year Atres Advertising has ing events, movie premieres or the launching of Thanks to the website, Atres Advertising has continued launching new products and increasnew products for the brands is one of the keys of been able to present the best advertising offer with ing circuits, and as a result has made it the only Antena 3 Events’ success. a reference brand that has a premium product in exclusive advertiser to increase its efficiency ratio the internet video market. for Investment in Rates with respect to its audiThroughout 2011, numerous events have taken ence share. place, such as “Europa FM in Concert”, which The Internet commercialization strategy has kicked off with a spectacular concert in the established itself upon three main axes: Regarding the digitalization process, MoviereVicente Calderón stadium in Madrid featuring the cord presently continues to increase the number band “Black Eyed Peas” and David Guetta to pre• Take advantage of the synergies generated of digital theatres and has already reached 192, sent his latest work: “The Beginning”. Due to its from the television medium to increase the which represents 25% of the total. This makes the great reception, the Europa FM concerts will be Internet client portfolio. broadcasting of its ads easier for the advertiser, expanded to two annual editions. • Positioning itself as the leader for pricing for putting an end to one of the biggest handicaps the premium product of the video market. that the cinema medium as an advertising support While music played a prominent role, commercial • Further innovation and betting on the special suffered from and paving the way to retrieve the cinema also had its place on center stage thanks formats that the Internet medium provides. importance that it always enjoyed among the conto the “Madrid Premiere Week”, in its first edition, ventional mediums. which awarded the some of the biggest box office successes of the national as well as international market. Furthermore, Antena 3 Events organized the premieres for the following movies: Maktub, Puss in Boots and Fuga de Cerebros 2. Sports, a great platform for special events [ The group has put forth the best advertising Carrying on the experience of organizing big market turnover, increasing its investment sporting events, in 2011 Antena 3 Events organquota by two points with regards to 2010 and ized once again in 2011 the Ponle Freno race, which gathered thousands of sports lovers. exceeding 30% of the market. ] Black Eyed Peas in concert. 108 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 109 Advertising [ Approximately 13.000 participants for the third edition of the “Ponle Freno” campaign to collect funds for traffic safety projects. ] The numbers: 13.000 participants enjoyed routes of 5 and 10 kilometers through the streets of Madrid and by doing so took part in the collection of funds for traffic safety projects. Another big sporting event on the calendar that had a new edition in 2011 was the Padel Woman Tour. Antena 3 Events, in collaboration with Mediasponsorship –a company specialized in sports marketing-, was once again this sporting event’s agency where competition and learning coincide. Sports, a great platform for special actions. Among agency services for brands, the ones organized for Movistar and its sponsorship activities for various teams of the Professional Football League stand out. All in all, over 30 events took place in stadiums, such as the launching of a 10 meter zeppelin above the crowd while it projected images of fans cheering for their team. Premieres for Fuga de Cerebros 2 and El Gato con Botas. Image of the 3rd Ponle Freno race. 110 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 111 Advertising Social Honesty responibility Responsible advertising policy Childhood Premiere for Amanecer. 15th Castilla y León Fashion Show. Accuracy protection Premieres on the red carpet Collaborations with other companies of the group In 2011, Antena 3 Eventos continued rolling out resulted in a tour through six cities, the goal being the red carpets to welcome the best movie and TV to record the public’s reaction for subsequent proactors and have them launch their latest projects. motional summer TV campaigns for Coca Cola’s “Limon y Nada”. For national cinema we can mention the premiere A Bet on Responsible A model in which certain of Torrente 4, Encontrarás Dragones, No lo llaBrand Experience Advertising content is not acceptable mes amor llámalo X and Lo Contrario al Amor. Knowing the benefits of different products through experience is one of the advertising actions whose The ANTENA 3 GROUP has acquired a firm commitIn the international section, Antena 3 Events organdemand still plays an important role nowadays. ment to build a television model based on responized the premiere of the latest Twilight saga movie, Included in the new television model that the sible entertainment. A model in which certain Breaking Dawn, with the stars of the film meeting Shell or Braun are some of the clients that have ANTENA 3 GROUP is developing, advertising will play content is not acceptable; programming is enterthousands of fans in Barcelona. bet on innovative forms of communication that a key role. Atres Advertising is involved as an taining but with certain limits, based on respect of enable to generate an ideal atmosphere where the additional actor in the creation of programming individuals, avoiding humiliation or denigration at The network’s best series also had spectacular public takes action, gets to know and experience that is sustainable and positively assessed by the all costs. season premieres. The Gran Vía in Madrid was the brand. spectator. In a model where quality, variety and center stage for the actors of El Barco and Los responsibility predominate, advertising must be Protegidos to greet their fans. Braun bet on bringing its Minipimer line together coherent with these values for two reasons: with its target audience through a contest launched Antena 3 is perceived as the On a different note, Antena 3 Events organized the on Facebook where the winners enjoyed the pres• Firstly, in order to catalyze the positive elemost quality medium. 15th Castilla y León Fashion Show, which put on ence of a professional chef in their own homes to ments of programming and enable the adverSource: study of communication media quality. mediaScope November display the creations of designers from this autoncook them a luxury dinner. This took place during tisers to benefit from them. 2011 omous region. seven months in all of Spain’s provinces; over 500 • Secondly, so that the advertising messages guests were treated to sumptuous dinners. are inserted and combined in a logical way Likewise, other events such as the production of with the contents and come out in a believable tours on a national level for Google in its campaign For Shell gas stations, Antena 3 Events organized manner for the spectators. to support PYMES (Small and Medium Sized various events as a side-show for the Formula 1 Atres Advertising keeps a public commitment Companies), or the ones organized for ONCE Grand Prix in Valencia, such as the presentation To reach these goals, Atres Advertising takes with its advertisers, offering them a clean environ(Association for the Blind) in its communication of an original initiative aimed at pilgrims that were action in three fundamental fields: ment so that brand communication is efficient. campaign for the game “Rasca”. headed to Santiago de Compostela; it consisted To achieve this, it commits to offer thematically in stamping the “compostelana”, the pilgrim’s cre1. Responsible Television Model. diverse and quality programming, responsible dential, in any gas station of the brand. Fernando 2. Auto-regulation of advertising content. towards the audience and the advertisers alike; in Alonso was present for the event. 3. Creation of advertising communication that is short, a vehicle conducive to brand communicasocially committed. tion. 112 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 113 Advertising To guarantee the fulfillment of legislation currently in • Daily Claims Control of minutes errors. force, as well as the codes the Antena 3 GROUP vol• Weekly dispatch of advertising alert report to [ We want to offer our clients untarily adheres to, ATRES ADVERTISING has a strict the General Sub-Department of Audiovisual control system at its disposal for all advertising Media belonging to the Ministry of Industry, the best possible environment content before they are broadcast; it is based on Energy and Tourism. so that their brands may a triple filter, implemented by the Broadcasting, shine. ] Commercial and Auto-control departments. These These control systems for advertising broadcasts Rocío Robles filters guarantee the rejection of any advertising have made it possible to reduce the number of Director of Commercial Policy and Optimization in Atres Advertising campaign that does not abide by Atres Advertisviolations with regards to maximum broadcast ing’s responsible advertising policy. duration and restrictions for the time at which ads are placed in the timetable by more than 40%. As has been stated, the ANTENA 3 GROUP is a member of Autocontrol, an association with no profit motive in mind that takes care of managing With this objective, the ANTENA 3 GROUP maintains a The ANTENA 3 GROUP’s commitment to respecting the Spanish advertising auto-regulation system Committed advertising Responsible Advertising Policy articulated around these codes goes beyond legal requirements, through the implementation of the principles found communication the principles of honesty, accuracy, childhood insomuch as they are part of a substantial commitin the Advertising Code of Conduct. protection, excellence and social responsibility. ment of the company with society. The ANTENA 3 Atres Advertising has a social commitment GROUP wants these codes to be present in all of its Among the services that this entity provides, the with responsible communication and advertising programming, thus it pays close attention to them service of previous consultation, or “Copy Advice”, beyond providing a mere communication service. in a direct manner in all of its content, and also stands out; it assesses ethical and legal correctIt’s a commitment that it keeps with society, specAuto-regulation of makes especially sure that they are upheld in the ness of ad campaigns before they are aired. tators and advertisers, which is materialized in advertising content advertising messages, and that they are incorpoevents and specific actions and responds to real rated in a coherent way for the spectator. problems that concern society. To respect the principles of the Responsible Advertising Policy implanted in 2010, the ANTENA 3 As an additional auto-regulation measure, Antena 3 With 249 copy advices and 60 On one hand, Atres Advertising has continued GROUP has voluntarily committed to various codes has voluntarily expanded the reinforced protection legal queries, Antena 3 is the to bet on the participation of its advertisers in the of sector auto-regulation, such as: timetable in the begining of our advertising bungroup that has processed the corporate responsibility campaigns of the group: dling strategy in February 2009; this ensures legal most requests. Ponle Freno, Vive Conectado or Hazte Eco. PAOS: self-regulating code of advertising aimed at minors to protection of minors with regards to television proWhat’s new in 2011 has been the launching of El prevent chil obesity (2005). TV players committed to this code gramming that is broadcast in this timeslot. Estirón, initiative that promotes a healthy lifestyle in 2010. for the household’s younger members, based on a FEBE: self-regulating code of the Spanish Spirits and Beverage Federation (2006). On a different note, Atres Advertising pays close balanced diet and getting exercise. Protected times reinforced acco Reinforced prot attention to the fulfillment of the running time and Self-regulating code of Spanish Beer–Makers (2009). rding ection to Law times ex tended the type of advertising that is admissible depending Apart from these campaigns, one can highlight the by Wine Code of Ethics (2009). Antena 3 Group on time slots, determined by the current Regulation special action designed by Atres Advertising in SMS Self-Regulation Code (2009). Saturdays and Su in force. To do so, Atres Advertising has various collaboration with Central Lechera Asturiana and ndays: Saturdays and Su Self-regulation code of toy advertising (modify in 2010). from 9 to 12:00 ndays: systems at its disposal that enables it to control the Samsung, to bring 3D technology to hospitalized Monday to Friday: from 9 to 12:00 from 8 to Monday to Friday: fulfillment of these legal requirements: children in 5 hospitals in Madrid and Galicia. The Environmental Impact Self-Regulation Code (2010). 9 and 17 to 20:0 from 8 0 11 and 17 to 20:0 to action consists in broadcasting the first episode of 0 • Daily occupation report of the networks that the second season of the series Los Protegidos are part of the group. thanks to material (screens, 3D glasses…) and the • Daily minutes monitoring aimed at advertisnecessary funding provided by both advertisers. ing and advertising saturation, according to the Kantar Media company. 114 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 115 Advertising try and improves products that are on the market. The goal is for the consumer to reassess them and continue to perceive them as quality brands they can trust. All things considered, a committed television and advertising model isn’t truly responsible if it doesn’t provide the commitment to the advertiser of obtaining efficient advertising communication. In 2011, with the intent of providing a better com[ At Promarca we wished to munication service, Atres Advertising guaranteed thank the Antena 3 Group for its its advertisers the highest audience coverage support channelled through Atres among all the networks, and, if it were not able Screening of a chapter in 3D of Los Protegidos at a hospital. Advertising who has backed us to deliver on the promise, would reimburse 5% up in our desire to restore the role of the cost of the campaign. This condition, that Participating Hospitals: paigns free of any charge, with an economic cost and social value of brands and will remain in place in 2012, is the first in a series MADRID: Hospital Monte Príncipe, Hospital La amounting to 3,715,759 euros. of actions whose intent is to guarantee the qualtheir economical contribution. The Paz and Hospital Niño Jesús. ity of the campaigns from an advertising efficiency broadcast of the ad campaign GALICIA: Hospital Universitario La Coruña Account of advertising space handed over for the point of view. Atres Advertising thus adds to its supporting brands produced with and Hospital Universitario Santiago de Combroadcasting of campaigns free of charge on netcommunication service reason of being, all of the postela. works of the ANTENA 3 TELEVISION GROUP in 2011. well-known faces of the network attributes and principles of the ANTENA 3 GROUP to such as Matías Prats or Susanna provide added value advertising. On the other hand, Atres Advertising has conFinally, faced with the critical situation that some Griso have contributed to transmit tinued to broadcast ad campaigns with social companies are experiencing, Atres Advertising to the audience the importance content on television and radio, without charging has elaborated a generic communication support of filling their shopping carts with the advertising NGO. In 2011, 30,943 seconds campaign, free of cost, for brands in general; it’s quality brands. Antena 3: the most efficient were handed over in advertising blocks to camcalled PROBRAND Campaign Association (CamTo not value brands is to raise network for advertising in 2011. doubts surrounding the value Source: study of communication media quality. MediaScope November 2011 Opportunity Seconds of and the contribution of many CAMPAIGNS Cost (euros) Broadcast companies and people who make COMMITTED WITH SOCIETY an effort to differentiate their Pro Project: first audiovisual school created by the Antena 3 Foundation whose purpose is to proproducts and services offering mote and facilitate the incorporation into the audiovisual sector workforce of people who suffer from a handicap or some kind of disability. 371,080 1,120 quality, reliability and customer Awards and recognition A seed, a life: project developed by the Antena 3 Foundation with the support of the whole communication group and whose goal is to alleviate malnutrition for a group of 400 children in Mozambique 94,620 360 service. ] The commitment assumed by Atres Advertising (www.fundacionantena3.com). Ignacio Larracoechea and the ANTENA 3 GROUP with the responsible manJosep Carreras Foundation against Leukemia: International Foundation presided over by the tenor President of PROMARCA 312,187 2,520 agement of its advertising has been recognized Josep Carreras that fights against leukemia since 1988. Reina Sofía Foundation: Joint charity and cultural foundation created in 1977 and presided over by with various prizes and awards. Her Majesty Queen Sofía. Its work involves research and raising awareness for Alzheimer’s disease. 884,066 4,493 This year’s campaign has taken on the name of Memorybase (Banco de Recuerdos) COMMITTED WITH THE ADVERTISER AND THE AUDIOVISUAL SECTOR paña Asociación PROMARCA). This promotional In 2011, it noteworthy to highlight that the “ComAuto-control: Non-profit organization founded in 1995 by advertisers, agencies and media outlets action included the collaboration of the network’s mercial Advertising Forum” gave Atres Advertiswith the purpose of managing the Spanish advertising auto-regulation system guaranteeing responsi1,473,080 18,100 most well-known faces and its purpose is to raise ing the award for “Media that produces the best ble advertising for consumers. awareness in society of the importance of valuing multimedia marketing” and also gave Antena 3 Iqua (Online Confidence): Association that ensures transparency of online advertising paying close attention to the protection of personal information and emphasizing the protection of minors and 580,726 4,350 quality brands, given that they contribute to the the “Best Television Medium” and “Advertising adolescents. economic development and research in our counmedium with best marketing” awards. 116 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 117 Human Resources Entrance of Antena 3 Group cafeteria. Human Resources Confidence in people Professional career. The ANTENA 3 Group has a workforce of 1,849 peoLeadership close to ple who, day after day, show an unyielding comemployees. Management by targets mitment not only to doing their jobs well, but also Training. to assuming and overcoming new social and ecoTalent, key element. Preventive healthcare. nomic challenges every year. Hire young people. Assess the risk of each job. Foster employee 1,849 employees Churn rate of 4.3% Career loyalty. Thanks to this commitment and the good results obtained, the management team is confident in Safe work Talent environment each and every employee who forms part of the ANTENA 3 GROUP, which has resulted in stable, quality employment. 81% of the workforce 23.3 hours of has a long-term training per Competitive salaries. The ANTENA 3 GROUP understands that managing Ascendent and Variable remuneration contract employee descendent channels Dialog HR PolICY Salary employees properly depends on a combination of communication. for Directors and middle management. of effective policies, systems and tools to guarantee their professional performance, but also to promote their careers and facilitate their all-round development. Below, we comment on some of Balance work and Freedom personal life Flexible work Equality Freedom to belong environment. to belong to lawful Social benefits. associations. Objectivity and transparency. Hire disabled people. Guarante non-discrimination and diversity. these initiatives, starting with our Human Resource Policy, which is a real policy that leads to concrete policy. actions adapted to the needs of all the Group’s employees. In 2011, we have reinforced those Policy princiHuman resource policy ples that are most sensitive to the global socioeconomic situation we currently face, such as Confidence in the people who work in the ANTENA 3 Career Development, Attracting and Retaining GROUP is structured through our Human Resource Talent and Internal Communication. 120 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 121 Human Resources Number of employees in Antena 3 Group Percentage of long-term contraCTS Our challenges 2,071 85 1,942 80 81 1,849 After analyzing its human resources situation, the ANTENA 3 GROUP undertook an action plan in 2011, in order to improve weaknesses and bolster its strengths. Evaluation of Action results plan Analysis of initial situation 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Below, we detail the improvement actions we implemented in the last year, as well as the main concluAge range of Antena 3 Group sions we reached after assessing the degree to which they had been achieved. Quality, stable employment employees The ANTENA 3 GROUP has a workforce of 1,849 1,094 2011 challenge degree of compliance COMmEntS employees, of which 81% have a long-term conThe Plan has been drawn up and progressively implemented tract. Furthermore, the average seniority of our Complete launch of through meetings between employees and the CEO, the launch staff is 11 years. Communication Plan. of an internal magazine and the Welcoming Plan, amongst other actions. This data, along with the latest results of the Consolidate the corporate 467 A work environment study has been conducted and complemented annual labor climate study (score of 77 out of tools for work environment and 180º assessment. with a 180º assessment. 100), confirmed that the employees of the ANTENA 269 3 GROUP enjoy stable and quality jobs. Negotiate new Collective A new Collective Bargaining Agreement is currently being negotiBargaining Agreement. ated. 19 Significant data Design new HR development In 2011 the “High Potential” program has been prepared and 20-29 30-45 46-60 >60 tools: Talent Management. implemented. The workforce reduction in 2011 is mainly due to organizational changes, which have made it necCarry out organizational essary to outsource some services in order to restructuring of Antena 3 The organization has been restructured to adapt to new needs. adapt to the demands of the audiovisual sector. Televisión. The rotations considered as voluntary lay-offs at The ANTENA 3 GROUP workforce is young and the the company stand at very low levels (4.3%), equal typical employee is between 30 and 45. The averto the levels registered in 2010, and only one point age age is 39.4. above 2009. The commitment to flexitime and work-life balance The geographic distribution of the ANTENA 3 GROUP programs in order to facilitate, for example, the workforce is mainly concentrated in the Madrid possibility of allowing workers to voluntarily rotate region, followed by Andalusia, Catalonia, Valencia between cities. and Galicia, although it has staff available all over the country. 122 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 123 Human Resources Geographic distribution of employees Breakdown of workforce by gender (number of employees) 52.9 19 49.6 50.4 50.3 49.7 11 31 48 11 43.1 11 46 11 89 1,162 41 73 19 18 17 123 32 2009 2010 2011 Men Women Commitment to equality 2011 gender breakdown by career The ANTENA 3 GROUP is committed to equality and diversification throughout the entire selection, 633 management and promotion of its personnel. Integration and diversity 564 These principles form part of the company’s spirit, and are established in its HR Policy and Equality Our workforce currently includes 42 disabled Plan. workers, all of whom have been fully integrated Training Talent Training plan for into the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s operations. Most of management young people plan plan The equality achieved between the genders in the these disabled workers occupy “technical” posiAntena 3 Group, shows that these policies and tions. We should point that Spanish law mandates 180 plans are consistently applied. 136 141 that all companies with over 50 workers must 85 96 reserve 2% of the total workforce for disabled 30 persons, a percentage that the ANTENA 3 GROUP slightly surpasses. Training plan Managers Technical Officers Rest The Training Plan has been one of the pillars of HR Policy Equality Plan workers Furthermore, 13 foreigners work and are fully intethe ANTENA 3 GROUP’s career development strategy Men Women grated into the ANTENA 3 GROUP. for the last three years. During this time, we have progressively added improvements to adapt it to the workers’ training needs. Each year the Training Plan draws up a program and schedule of courses Equality and Career development designed for the Group’s workforce, aimed at the diversity in Antena 3 Group In 2011, 53.4% of the transversal (languages, skills, values, safety and new hires were women. The people who work in the ANTENA 3 GROUP are hygiene, etc.) and function needs of the unit or one of its main assets and therefore the company’s position (finance, HR management, etc.) held by focuses on the career development and growth each employee. of its employees. In order to achieve this goal, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has set up the following plans and programs: 124 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 125 Human Resources Average hours of training by job category 50 47 30 25 22 23 22 21 20 19 19 19 Managers Officers Technical workers Others 2009 2010 2011 Note: the drop in average hours of training per executives is due to the notable increase in the number of people who have participated in the training program for executives. In 2009, 57 executives participated, while in 2010 this number rose to 68 and in 2011 a total of 168 executives participated in these programs. Training courses to employees. All the Group’s employees receive the training necGROUP is the Talent Management Program, which Hours of training per type of course essary not only to perform their jobs perfectly but currently includes Managers, although we plan to also to facilitate their one personal development. extend the program to the entire workforce. This 7,268 7,423 initiative is broken down into four subprograms: 6,361 6,101 • Personnel with strong executive potential. • Personnel with creative talent. 4,248 23.3 hours of training per • Employees who are important for the organi3,674 employee. zation due to their high-degree of professional 2,948 3,080 versatility. 2,436 • Personnel with professional talent throughout 1,660 1,454 the organization (analysis of executive struc976 678 512 544 In 2011, training programs have been offered to ture). 968 employees, with 542 finally participating, and they were given a total of 16,018 hours of training, The objective of this program is to encourage Communication Technology Languages Skills Other which is equal to an average of 23.3 hours per internal promotion, by identifying and promot2009 2010 2011 person. ing a “breeding ground for professionals” within the organization without having to resort to exterThe total investment in training and career develnal recruitment and selection. This not only saves opment amounted to 424,858 euros, nearly time and money (training, period of adaptation and Currently, the Group offers over 350 courses, or languages, although the most requested are 100,000 euros more than in 2010. acceptance, etc.) but also, which is even more which are given either in person or via e-learning those related to “change management” (mainly important, clearly shows the organization’s support (online or virtual training). These courses cover a due to the outsourcing of processes that do not Talent Management Program for the workforce. Since the start of the Program, wide range of topics such as the development of form part of the core-business). Another initiative undertaken to develop the 70% of the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s middle management certain skills, communications, new technologies careers of the professionals that work at ANTENA 3 has come up through the ranks of the organization. 126 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 127 Human Resources tor, many of the Group’s professionals participate as teachers in various Master proResults oriented grams and Universities, some of the most important are: [ After being part of the –– Universidad Carlos III de Madrid. Masters Teamwork Commitment internship program, I joined in Audiovisual Business Management the Antena 3 Films workforce. Factors (MEDEA). This internship program gave assessed in –– Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. Masters in the 180º skills me the opportunity to find a Television Journalism. evaluation job in such tough times. ] –– Universidad San Pablo CEU y TRACOR. Communication Innovation Laura Villanueva Masters in Reporting and Journalistic Antena 3 Group employee. Investigation in Television. Leadership The Group’s collaboration with universities allows us to develop dialog with stakeholders as important as the Academic community. Although the Group plans to extend the skills evaluation to all the employees, it currently affects 563 • Employability: Building up a potential “breedpeople who work in the Group (30.4%) ing ground” for future professionals so that Remuneraton policy 70% of middle management by the end of their internship they are better comes from up through the qualified to enter the workforce, with in one of One of the main factors that helps create stable, ranks of the company. the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s companies or the audioquality Jobs is our salary policy. In the ANTENA 3 Social benefits visual sector. GROUP, employees’ salaries are higher than those set by collective bargaining agreements and, in Another factor that contributes to job quality and most cases, way above the sector average. stability is Social Benefits. The ANTENA 3 GROUP Youth Internships Program offers all its employees the following: The ANTENA 3 GROUP has continued to reinforce its In 2011, 514 young people Employee remuneration is set by collective barYouth Internship Program for Young people with who did their internships at the gaining agreements and varies according to the graduate and post-graduate professional training. Antena 3 Group and of these, particular features of each worker’s position, funcAccident insurance for Company cafeteria Young people who participate in this program their 135 also received specific tions and responsibilities in the company. relocated personne internships at the ANTENA 3 GROUP. Each intern is training in their respective areas. assigned a tutor who is in charge of guiding stuOn the other hand, Executive salaries (Directors, Life insurance Public transport dents so that they can take full advantage of the Assistant Directors and Managers) consist of a experience and apprenticeship during their internbase salary and a variable remuneration linked to ship. Other initiatives directly related to the training of three parameters: Special perks future professionals are the following: This Internship in the ANTENA 3 GROUP has a twofold • Specific individual targets. objective: • The ANTENA 3 GROUP collaborates with the • Overall company results with respect to Madrid Press Association (APM), through its EBITDA. Special advantages: Apart from these Social Ben• Practical training: It provides inexperienced “First Job Program”, which allows a gradu• Result of the 180º skill evaluation. efits, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has established agreestudents to opportunity to learn about the ate (registered in the APM) to form part of the ments with different external companies, which business world firsthand, while complementGroup for a year. The 180º skills evaluation is a well-defined and allows workers to enjoy certain products and ing their internship with their academic stud• Furthermore, and in order to reinforce the transparent procedure in which each person is services at special prices: special rates on health ies. specialized training in the audiovisual secevaluated according to the following skills: and fitness services, special conditions for train128 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 129 Human Resources ing programs (agreement with the ESIC), the use • Newsletter “Más de Tres”: in 2012 the comCorporate volunteer initiatives of sports facilities (the Dehesa Boyal municipal pany will launch the internal magazine “Más as distinguishing factor sports center in San Sebastián de los Reyes) and de Tres”, designed to provide all the Group’s discounts on the purchase of books, trips and resemployees with important information. Corporate volunteering is one of the main compotaurants, among others. nents of the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s social commitment policy. Through Corporate Volunteering, the Group Value added: Working in a Media company also offers the potential and the professional skills of its has its own advantages. As an added value, employees to associations and NGOs that work the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s employees can take their with different groups of people and various social children to the film shootings, go to their favorite problems. It’s called “volunteer” because the shows or obtain tickets for the premiers of the Group’s employees choose to do it of their own [ A few months ago I had the films produced by the company. volition, without any contractual obligation to do chance to hold several meetings so and, often, outside of work (vacations, weekwith some of the Group’s ends, etc.) and it is called “corporate” because it employees. At these breakfast is an activity that is reinforced and backed by the meetings, most people wanted New media channels ANTENA 3 GROUP and is one in which the company more information on what happens has decided to invest. in the company. They were right. Within its HR Policy, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has started a Communication Plan that aims to proCorporate volunteering distinguishes the ANTENA 3 The fact that the Antena 3 Group mote communication between the employees and GROUP and entails tangible benefits not only for its has grown over the last few the company at all levels. Among the actions to be employees, but also for the Group itself and the years makes it more necessary undertaken in the Plan, we mention the following: society at large. than ever to set up an internal communication tool. “Mas de • Breakfast with the CEO: periodical meetings Tres” the new corporate newsletter between the CEO, workers and executives, Benefits of volunteer work has been created to meet this to discuss the company’s main concerns. In demand. ] 2011, 189 employees have participated in this • Welcoming Manual: is an ongoing part of its Silvio González activity, which is one the most valued in the policy of knowing more about its workforce, in CEO of Antena 3 Group company. 2011 Antena 3 TV has drawn up a “Welcoming Improve the work • Corporate Intranet, main source of informaManual” that will be available in 2012 through environment in the Group. tion, consultation and access to the matters the Antena 3 Intranet. This Manual provides of interest for the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s employees. information that is very useful for integrating Reinforce the and knowing the company. The Manual is not Help meet the employees skill sets Group’s social through volunteer only aimed at new hires, but the entire staff, objectives. work. given that the information covers matters of In 2011, each month an average general interest, such as the Code of Conof 1,300 different users enterede duct, services, safety protocol and rules, gifts the Intranet, with an average of for trips, etc. 15,000 entries per month. Since 2005, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has given its steadfast support of corporate volunteer activities and has used its media to promote the awareness of this important work in Spanish society and support the causes of NGOs that need the selfless collaboration of society and the Group’s workers. 130 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 131 Human Resources Volunteer work in Antena 3 Group 5 volunteer projects in 2011 Events & others Volunteer program 78 Group employees Corporate Solidarity Day Volunteer work with family worked as volunteers Corporate Volunteer Volunteer work Observatory during the samer Investment of €15,942 Volunteer work with Antena 3 Foundation As regards the Group’s employees, this support is • “Volunteering in summer”. This is an initiative Antena 3’s volunteer employees dubbing voices for the characters of the new Canal Fan 3 comic. comprised of two main lines of action: through which the ANTENA 3 GROUP offers its employees the opportunity to participate in • A Volunteer Program through which the Group various projects during their vacations. The • Volunteering through the Antena 3 Foundaand consulting of the Corporate Volunteer Obseroffers its workers opportunities to participate options proposed to workers in 2011 were the tion: dubbing voices for the characters of the vatory and the second report issued by the Obseras volunteer activities. Thanks to these initiafollowing: new Canal Fan 3 comic, which focuses on chilvatory: “Corporate Volunteering in Spain”. tives, the employees can satisfy their desire –– Walk on the Camino de Santiago with dren with heart disease. This Project was carto show their solidarity and learn about the children with de Down’s Syndrome, coorried out by 28 volunteers who were selected Nº of volunteers at realities faced by other groups of people and dinated with the “Down Catalunya” founout of over 100 candidates. “Corporate Solidarity Day” enrich themselves personally and professiondation. Over 10 days, the volunteers from ally through these experiences. the ANTENA 3 GROUP shared their vacations Participation and forums and events • Participation and forums and events to prowith 12 kinds who have Down’s syndrome, For the fifth consecutive year, the ANTENA 3 800 mote volunteer activities. while at the same time encouraging their GROUP and the Cooperación internacional ONG 700 social inclusion learning more about these organized the Corporate Solidarity Day. Over 800 Volunteer programs people firsthand. employees from many different companies parIn 2011, these activities included the following: –– “A Name, a Life”: 3 volunteers from the ticipated in this event, 20 of which were ANTENA 3 Group spent 3 weeks in the province of GROUP employees. 450 • 3rd “Family Volunteer” Day. Thanks to which Tulear (Madagascar), working on a social the Group’s employees can participate as volawareness campaign about the imporThe ANTENA 3 GROUP employees were put in charge unteers with their families. tance of registering new born babies, in of maintaining the homes run by the Ademo FounThis initiative is carried out in collaboration with order to ensure their legal, health and edudation which helps people who have some type of the Fundación Balia, which consists of employcational protection. During their stay, the mental disability ees and their families accompanying 160 boys volunteers processed nearly 65,000 birth and girls, who are risk of being excluded from certificates. This Project was coordinated Furthermore, for the second straight year, the 2009 2010 2011 society, on a field trip to the Madrid Mountains with the “Agua de Coco” Foundation. ANTENA 3 GROUP has collaborated in the financing 132 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 133 Human Resources Safe and healthy work Worker awareness and training. Furthermore, The prevention and Medical Serenvironment Proper prevention begins with raising awareness vices Committee has undertaken a series of and training the workforce. Therefore, and in order actions aimed at fomenting healthy habits: The ANTENA 3 GROUP follows an active labor risk to raise the workforce’s awareness of the imporand health prevention policy, whose main lies of tance of preventing risks and ensuring safe and • Eye Health and Prevention Campaign: a total action are also included in the collective agreehealthy work conditions, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has of 355 employees were examined to detect ments in force to which all the company’s employstarted various initiatives that facilitate not only the possible eye problems. Taking advantage ees are bound. employees access to all relevant information, but of this circumstance, the worker was also also those that enable them to contribute suggesinformed on the state of the functional vision. tions and improvements. Said awareness is car• Anti-smoking campaign: the company has ried out through the following initiatives: continued to check up and inform work100% of the workforce is ers who have participated in this initiative. represented by the Safety and • “Por tu Salud” (For your Health): this is Throughout 2011, on 25 different occasions Health Committees. an information tool found on the Group’s the Medical Service professionals have been intranet, which provides practical examples involved in consultancies and practical advice. and detailed information on how to ensure the • Promotion of exercise: the Prevention Comhealth and physical well-being of the workers mittee has carried out several initiatives Throughout 2011 the personnel was diligently and their families. Thanks to “Por tu Salud”, focused on promoting exercise and participainformed on matters concerning labor safety and in 2011 the company has provided practical tion in sports activities health. Proof of this are the 12 meetings (once a advice on such sensitive matters as: month) with the prevention delegates of the two –– Coordination of Business Activities and Work accidents and absenteeism unions that represent employees in the company. criteria for working with permanent and As we can see in the following graphs, accidents temporary workers as regards risk prethat do not result in sick leave have improved In 2011, no formal agreements were signed with vention and labor health. considerably in the last year, partly thanks to the unions regarding Risk Prevention and Work –– Preventing back problems. awareness initiatives and training courses. Health. Nevertheless, the company has continu–– Ergonomic posture and setting up work ously communicated with the unions and in 2011 post. Number of accidents a monthly meeting has been held with the dele• Suggestion box: thanks to this recently implegates of the two unions. mented tool, employees can make suggestions, complaints and report on any matters 55 Furthermore, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has specifically related to workplace safety and health. Six discussed with the Prevention delegates of the suggestions were received on the tempera41 unions (CC.OO and CSIF), matters related to the ture of various work stations, which lead to an 37 34 following: assessment of how to fix said circumstance. • Ergonomic improvement program: whenever • Report on 2010 activities and 2011 programan employee request an ergonomic analysis 19 19 ming. of their work station via Intranet, the case is • Close monitoring of the radiation exposure of evaluated, and answers are proposed to fix the workers who went to Tokyo. the situation. In 2011, over 20 enquiries were • Eye Health and Prevention campaign. made on the ergonomic conditions of the facil• Organization of 2011 Medical Check-ups. ities, work stations or tasks and each case With sick leave Without sick leave • Coordination with Temp Agencies (ETT). was evaluated and measure of continuous 2009 2010 2011 • Delivery of work gear. improvement were adopted. 134 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 135 Human Resources Accident and absenteeism rate Average duration of work Absenteeism (common and professional contingencies, maternal and paternal Lastly, we should point out that in 2011 there were leave) 393 medical interventions over 4,300 medical visprofessional 6.56 sick leaves Mat./Pat. leaves contingencies its, advice, emergencies, analysis and injections. 31,06 62,85 17,16 Note: The average duration of work absenteeism is 36.61 days 4.05 4.10 Technical prevention 2.48 2.60 2.11 2.21 1.90 543 527 1.50 483 419 0.26 0.07 393 0.06 363 Accident frequency index Accident seriousness index Common illness absenteeism Work absenteeism (%) index (%) 2009 2010 2011 165 156 106 74 90 88 67 61 Note: the rates for 2009 and 2010 have changed with respect to the data provided in previous reports, given that before nota all ANTENA 3 GROUP employees were taken into account. 26 • Accident frequency index: number of work accidents for every million hours worked • Accident seriousness index: number of work days lost due to work accident for every thousand hours worked. • Common illness absenteeism index: the number of work hours lost due to common illness for every thousand hours worked. Evaluation of Preventative planning Security, hygiene and Medical checkups Other prevention • Work absenteeism: total hours lost compared to total hours worked. workplace risks ergonomic reports initiatives 2009 2010 2011 Breakdown by gender of Work Absenteeism (common and professional contingencies, maternal and paternal leave) Professional Workers (percentage) sick leaves contingencies Paternal Maternal M W M W leave leave M w 49,13 50,87 29,66 70,34 56,67 43,33 31,58 68,42 Future Challenges Note: Considered overall, contingencies occur 34.99% with Men and 65. 01% with Women. Looking forward to 2012, the ANTENA 3 GROUP has set new objectives in order to continue fomenting the values and principles covered in its Human Resources and its Prevention Policy: As regards work accidents, the frequency index • Workers have had more prudent attitudes, has risen slightly, one tenth, given that the numperhaps to the overall crisis. 2012 Human Resources Targets ber of workers has declined, while the seriousness Note: The seriousness index has been recalculated for 2011, now including all the index has improved, given that the average duraGroup’s companies Continue with Communication Plan: Launch Newsletter for all employees and start up Welcome Plan for new employees with the creation of the New Employee Guide, to facilitate the integration of all employees. tion sick leave has dropped. Greater use of Management and Personnel Motivation Tools: Talent Management, Work Environment Study, Performance EvaluaThe work accident index has improved for the folAs regards the absenteeism index, its slight tion, Plan for Executives in Languages and Skills. lowing reasons: increase was due to the number of sick leaves for Approval and implementation of Equality Plan (Pending agreement with Workers’ Committee). common illness and their average duration, as well • Workers are more aware about preventing as the lower number of workers. Start campaign to revise hearing of all the Group’s employees. accidents in the work place. • Greater attention and planning in work trips, Give several informative talks aimed at preventing risks and ensuring health in the workplace (results of medical check-ups, likelihood of accidents in the workplace, women and their health, men and their health, etc.) which has led traffic accidents (commuting) to have stabilized. 136 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 137 Society Picture of starting line of 3rd Ponle Freno race. Society Society: Antena 3 Group provides Our challenges AIR TIME ON ANTENA 3 AND DTT CHANNELS DEDICTED TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CAMPAIGNS Runs Total time solutions Meeting social challenges every year entails a formal 2011 Ponle Freno A3 promos 1,207 DTT promos 3,563 Seconds 97,841 Minutes 1,631 Hours 27 Cov % 94.5 GRPs 39,679 process of active listening to the needs and expectaEl Estirón 663 1,975 69,056 1,151 19 90 37,791 tions to the main stakeholders, which makes it posHazte Eco 690 66,035 1,101 18 44 18,466 The ANTENA 3 GROUP has assumed the commitsible to detect and prioritize lines of action. Vive Conectado 154 510 12,021 214 4 68 28,341 ment and responsibility of using the power of its media to serve society, by undertaking various initiatives and social campaigns. Antena 3’s various channels have broadcast nearly 9,000 spots on its corporate responsibility campaigns, with Listen to Prioritize and Define stakeholders select challenges a total duration of 4,000 minutes. 94.5% of the population, nearly 40 million individuals, have seen the Ponle ANTENA 3 GROUP understands that corporate Freno campaign, while the El Estirón has reached 90%. Hazte Eco and Vive Conectado achieve an excellent responsibility is one of the most powerful ways coverage of 44% and 68% respectively. of promoting communication, dialog, action and confidence between various stakeholders. By The challenges undertaken in 2011 give priority to the RADIO SPOTS ON ONDA CERO DEDICATED TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CAMPAIGNS actively listening, the Group PROVIDES real solufollowing social interests: Main station Local FM Local OM Total tions with tangible and positive. Ponle Freno 474 505 490 1,469 • Improve road safety on our highways through the Vive Conectado 309 307 314 930 Ponle Freno campaign. El Estirón 280 246 253 779 • Fight against child obesity in Span through a new Social commitment policy corporate responsibility campaign called the El To meet these challenges, the Group carried out specific actions, whose degree of compliance is summarized Estirón. below. The ANTENA 3 GROUP commitment to society is • Raise society’s awareness, particularly young peoimplemented through its Social Commitment Polple, about the environment. GENERAL DEGREE OF COMPLIANCE COMMENTS icy, and one of its main foundations is its “positive • Popularize and promote advantages of new tech2011 CHALLENGES contribution to society”. The entire Group contribnologies. Design new actions that respond to sociWe have launched the El Estirón campaign to promote good eating ety’s real problems and exercise habits. utes to this endeavor, as it makes its human and • Develop effective social actions managed via the economic resources available to society and supAntena 3 Foundation, especially those related to Road safety ports projects that seek to create a better world. children in hospitals and integrating disabled peoHold the third Ponle Freno race Held on 27 November 2011, with 32% more participation than in 2010. ple in to the audiovisual sector workforce. Write second Ponle Freno de Road Safety Report Conducted study on compliance with speed limit. All of the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s media actively support the social action campaigns undertaken, by giving air time Positive Hold virtual Road Safety Events Events advertised via web, Facebook and Twitter. Raise to contents and or advertising while acting as a spokescontribution awareness to society person. Both ANTENA 3 TELEVISIÓN, and ONDA CERO have Raise awareness about importance of Specific campaigns launched during Easter Holiday and summer, periodically provided air time for these causes, by driving education and child road safety campaigns. Social inserting spots or public service messages during its ANTENA 3 FOUNDATION 2011 challenges commitment policy programs. Extend offer of PRO Project classes. Geographic diversification Two new courses given, one of them in Barcelona. Foment Transparency Reinforce Antena 3 Foundation’s recogcorporate and maximum nition regionally and locally Regional media push through local Onda Cero broadcasters. volunteerism impact Increase in number of visits to hospitals Number of visits to hospitalised children doubled by ANTENA 3 GROUP’s most-well known celebrities. 13 in 2011. 140 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 141 Society Ponle Freno: Ponle Freno, with society, 2nd Campaign on traffic signs and ensuring Road Safe because we can do it together deteriorated roads In 2011, car accident fatalities Ponle Freno once again has looked for dangerdecreased by 14.5%. The ANTENA 3 GROUP has promoted this initiative, ous traffic signs and has intensified its complaints but its success is due to the fantastic support from about deteriorated roads. This is the second In 2011 the Ponle Freno campaign celebrated its society and the permanent dialog between all the straight year that, with the help of everyday citithird anniversary, Antena 3 Group’s most successstakeholders, while providing specific answers to zens, a campaign was launched to file complaints ful public service campaign, and it took its first Ponle Freno has improved every year after it its needs. about the poorly located , confusing or defective step at the emblematic kilometer 0 of our motorbecame a leading voluntary citizen platform, not signs, and roads that are in bad shape. ways. Ponle Freno was created to use all power only for the actions undertaken, but also because Citizens, Public Administrations and other interof a media Group to improve Road Safety, and of its achievements and the support received ested organizations have actively collaborated In 2011, the over 300 complaints received on the join forces to battle this major social problem, but, from many social agents, experts and prestigious with Ponle Freno, establishing an ongoing dialog official Ponle Freno website have been broadcast above all, save lives on the motorways. people who believe in the Ponle Freno cause: To thanks to which not only have the main conon ANTENA 3 GROUP’s various media and a report SAVE LIVES. cerns been identified but conclusions have been has been delivered to the Traffic Department. The The downward trend in the graph below that reached and REAL Solutions proposed: campaign has been quite successful given that, shows the drop in car accident related deaths over Ponle Freno has continued to insist that preventhanks to citizen participation, the Traffic Departthe last decade are an inspiration for Ponle Freno tion is the most effective way of avoiding acciRoad safety on social networks ment is correcting and these stretches of deteriobut, at the same time, we still have 1,479 reasons dents, has noticeably increased its activities while Ponle Freno has its own website www.ponlerated roads. to keep fighting; one reason for every death on the continuing to support its actions undertaken in the freno.com it is present on Facebook and Twitter, roads of Spain in 2011. previous year. as it periodically provides updated information and announces road safety campaigns via these social networks. PONLE FRENO files complaints about poorly placed or defective signs and roads in poor condition. Antena 3 GROUP believes social networks play a fundamental role in reducing fatalities given its Significant drop in car accident fatalities ability to reach citizens and as a way of sharing In 2011 they have information. received 347 3,993 complaints. 3,464 3,268 2,989 2,741 2,477 129.591 fans in followers in Facebook 2,180 Twitter 1,903 1,730 1,479 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Through the campaign’s website and social networks, citizens can discuss their concerns about Traffic deaths: 2003-2011. Source: DGT road safety and make suggestions. Ponle Freno does all it can to effectively respond to those legitimate queries. 2nd Campaign on traffic signs and deteriorated roads. 142 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 143 Society Campaign to point out dangerous stretches of road Congress listened to this request from the Ponle 10% of car accident fatalities occur in where there Freno Platform, with more than 50,000 users, and are dangerous sections of road. That is why, since in September 2011 they began to paint stripes on 2009 Ponle Freno, with the support of the citithese key sections of motorway. zen platform, requested that the Public Administrations to provide signs to identify dangerous Easter holiday and summer exodus stretches of road. After said requests, and accordFor yet another year and, after the actions taken ing to the data published by the DGT in 2011, 189 on the street, in 2011 Ponle Freno has launched stretches of road of been identified as dangerous, a specific campaign for the Easter and Summer of which the fatalities have been controlled on 172 Holiday traffic jams, given this when the greatest of them (56 expressways and 116 highways). number of vehicles are on the motorways. This is an innovative, preventive and informative campaign that is widely followed by citizens, given that by placing massive screens of 189 DANGEROUS 60 meters2 in the main cities of Spain citizens STRETCHES 171 fewer accidents SIGNPOSTED can read the positive message “Your on vacation enjoy your trip. We can do it together” (Easter campaign) and “Enjoy your trip” (summer trip). 22 fewer accident 76 fewer injuries This action was accompanied by a campaign on TV, radio and Internet via the Antena 3 media, to raise awareness about being cautious when driving and reminding citizens that the car trip is another part of the vacations that is to be enjoyed. Of these 172 stretches, on the expressways the accidents dropped 12% and fatalities by 56.9%, 3rd Ponle Freno race while on the highways the accidents dropped by After the success of its first two races, last year 43.1% and fatalities 62.5%. over 10,000 citizens participated, and this year Safety distance campaign and 3rd Ponle Freno race. Ponle Freno has once again asked society to In absolute numbers, this signposting has led to NOT STOP organizing the 3rd Ponle Freno race, 171 fewer accidents, and it has saved 22 lives the only time when going fast SAVES LIVES. Athletes such as Ricky Rubio, Carlos Moyá or tion of Victims of Traffic Accidents) and PAT APAT while preventing 76 serious injuries. David Ferrer and other well-known personalities (Association of Prevention of Traffic Accidents) and The race took place on 27 November 2011 in from ANTENA 3 and ONDA CERO provided support. Life on the Highway, along with Esther Rincón, the Tailgating wareness campaign Madrid, with the participation of over 13,000 Ponle Freno person of the year, who gave a stirring Keeping a prudent distance from the vehicle in runners making it yet another huge success (the Ponle Freno also provided support and rememspeech and balloons were released into the sky in a front of you is one of the most important ways of organizers ran out of numbers for the runners). bered the victims of traffic accidents by commemshow of support for the road safety cause. avoiding accidents. That is why, last April a camThe race was closely followed on ANTENA 3 weborating the world day of traffic accident victims, paign was launched to urge Public Administrasite and the social network, and even became a which is held on 27 November. tions to paint with anti-slippage material the safety trending topic on Twitter on the day of event. distance to distance keep from cars at key points On the day of the event representative of the In 2011 the Ponle Freno race on the motorways: exiting cities, entering tunnels AESLEME (Association of Research on Spinal Cord collected 32% more money than and long, steep stretches of road. Injuries), STOP ACCIDENTES, DIA (State Associathe previous year. 144 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 145 Society The orange ribbon was also presented, and from In order to help the instructors, Ponle Freno gave now on it will be symbol that pays homage to this the schools the informative material on Road group of people. Safety. The content was developed by Road Safety University Deparment from the UniversiPonle Freno will use the proceeds from the race, dad de Alcalá and technical advice from the Pons €123,729, to carry out road safety actions in Foundation, which specializes in raising awareaimed at the Group most voted by the runners: ness, teaching and investigating road safety. cyclists. Over 600 grammar schools throughout Spain Educating children about road safety and a total of 54,000 students between 10 and In September 2011, Ponle Freno, in collaboration 11 years old, were given the Ponle Freno Road with the Antena 3 Foundation, launched the “Road Safety information packet. Safety Education Week” which aims to teach children about how to safely, responsibly and sustainII Ponle Freno Report: study on ably travel. reactions to spanish speed limits In 2011 the second Ponle Freno journalistic report on road safety was written to analyze how spanish drivers adapt to the speed limits on the motorThe Child Road Safety ways of Spain according to the type of vehicle Campaign was financed with they drive. El Estirón campaign’s expertise group . proceeds from 2nd PONLE FRENO RACE. To collect their research, the Ponle Freno technicians visited six Spanish provinces (Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia, Seville, Bilbao and Burgos) and These conclusions do not seek to raise or lower El Estirón: they collected data from 35 radar detectors that included expressways, thruways, ring roads highthe current overall speed limits, but they do urge that the signs and speed limits that are inadequate Comprehensive ways and they collected 9,301 measurements. on many stretches of the Spanish motorways be Plan to Fight Child inspected. Obesity Ponle freno awards and There are several stretches acknowledgements where over 95% of the vehicles In recognition of the work done by the Ponle pass the speed limit, and others Freno campaign over the last three years, the “Spain is the world leader in where over 95% respect the Commerce and Services Association of Alcázar child obesity” limit. de San Juan, which forms part of the CEOE-CEPYME, gave the ANTENA 3 GROUP the “La Sonrisa de Don Quijote” award. The World Health Organization considers child After analyzing the results, the report concludes This award distinguishes businesspeople, organiobesity an epidemic of the 21st century. The rise that the Spanish speed limits are a good referzations or individuals who have defended imporin child obesity in Spain is spectacular and of great ence, but that in many areas they are too high or tant social causes in Alcázar de San Juan. concern, given that it has already surpassed obetoo low. And in those cases, drivers choose to sity rates of countries such as the United States ignore the speed limit by either going at a higher (o and it is estimated that by 2030 37% of Spanish lower) speed that they feel more comfortable with. men and 33% of Spanish women will suffer this disease. 146 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 147 Society as he learns healthy habits. Miguelón’s adventures Vive Conectado: have a Facebook page. “Because without In order to reinforce the message, El Estirón also you, it’s not the has NOVA with a weekly half-hour coaching prosame” gram in which three families with young children participate, where a group of experts in nutrition and physical education analyze the real situations these families face. The program also includes Vive Conectado was created in 2010 as a camreports and sections on the properties of food, paign that forms part of the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s gastronomy and nutrition in order to help kids “3.0 Strategy”, that aims to develop a new way learn to lead healthy lives. of watching television where when and how you want and it is for all audiences. In 2011, Nova has broadcast 17 programs with over 85,000 viewers. The program has had a masThe main objective of Vive Conectado is to dissive impact and the first episodes registered over seminate and popularize the advantages of tech100 families interested in participating. Through nology through society, and it has been promoted Facebook, the program is also followed (768 fans) through, slots, informative commercials and and those interested can give their opinions and programs on the Antena 3 media, as well as on make suggestions. antena3.com and viveconectado.com. Specifically, on the website www.viveconectado. com users can access unlimited information that El Estirón awards and will help them in practical and simple way learn Karlos Arguiñaño, Ainhoa Arbizu and the young actors of Los Protegidos as El Estirón campaign ambassadors. acknowledgements about different social networks or the latest technological developments or, learn to shop online, In 2011, El Estirón received numerous awards connect with your family or friends, find work, or In light of these alarming data, in May of 2011 a This initiative is backed by a multidisciplinary Comand acknowledgements for its campaign to prolearn about the tele-homecare tools, amongst new ANTENA 3 GROUP corporate responsibility cammittee of Experts that acts as a consultancy commote good eating and exercise habits amongst other things. paign called El Estirón, whose objective is to raise prised of representatives from the national medichildren and young people: awareness in Spain, especially amongst parents, cal, educational and political institutions. In 2011, once of this initiatives main objectives about the importance of teaching their children • Special mention at the “IX Codapa awards” was to “Teach parents and their children how good eating habits and promoting exercise to El Estirón uses of the Antena 3 Group’s media (Andalusia Confederation of Public School to use the Internet and the social network in a avoid health problems stemming from child obeas a platform to transmit the campaign’s mesParents). responsible manner”, giving priority to protecting sity. sages: ANTENA 3, NEOX, NOVA, NITRO, antena3.com, • 2011 “Lux et Veritas” award from the FECAPA minors on the web. For this reason, Vive ConecONDA CERO and EUROPA FM, and continuously on (Catholic Association of Parents of Seville). tado launched a campaign on how to inform parantena3.com/elestiron. • “Health and Well-being” award from the ents and children about parental control filters Pilates Foundation. or the risk associated with excessive of reckless The Spanish Food Safety and Amongst the website’s contents, we should note use of social networks. As a complement to this Nutrition Association estimates the 100 tips for growing up healthy and responawareness campaign on television and radio, that 30% of Spanish children are sibly or the Comic The adventures of Miguelón, the ANTENA 3 GROUP gave a seminar the Groups obese. aimed at the youngest kids and it tells the advenemployees on how to protect their children from tures of a boy is bit of a glutton, naughty and fun Internet. who, with the help of his family, friends and school teacher learns how to grow up healthy and happy, 148 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 149 Society 57% of the children between Mission: disseminate Vision: to be the most 9 and 16 years old log on knowledge and facilitate innovative and attractive the Web every day or nearly experience that enable children Foundation in the field of every day. to lead happier lives and children and young people. become better citizens. Another objective in 2011 was to promote the Antena 3 Foundation: Using the Mission, Vision and Values it has defined, the Antena 3 Foundation, has established the following incorporation of technological advantages into daily life for the majority of the Spanish population Joining forces overall goals: and reduce the digital gap. Therefore, Vive Conectado launched the campaign Pueblo Conectado Transparency Honesty which distinguishes five towns in Spain, some with The Antena 3 Foundation was created in 2005 fewer than 500 inhabitants, for the effort to adopt in order to group together the Antena 3 Group’s Improve and enrich the relationship between minors Meet the needs of hospitalized children and television, internet and new technologies. and their families. new technologies and thereby improve the daily social projects. The Foundation efforts focus on paperwork and life of their inhabitants. The towns the two most vulnerable social groups: infancy Educating citizens awarded were Abla (Almería), Carlet (Valencia), and young people. Playful spirit Listen to children and young people and undertake Cehegín (Murcia), Guardo (Palencia) and MoralzarPromote values and ethical principles that help social actions that allow them to participate and get protect and raise children and young people. zal (Madrid). The Foundation’s main mission is to guarantee involved. that said groups have the necessary support for their well-being and training, as well as to raise awareness about their rights, needs and interests. Undertake all sorts of educational activities, especially those related to the audiovisual sector and aimed at disabled young people. Public acknowledgement Furthermore, the Foundation takes advantage Participation Innovation In 2011 Vive Conectado was awarded with the of the enormous power of the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s “Cibermax” award of the Cibervoluntarios Founmedia to raise awareness, inform and generate dation, in acknowledgement of the best initiatives opinions that help improve society. concerning the promotion of the use of technology to foment Corporate Social Responsibility. Six years at the service of young people and children Over the last six years, the Antena 3 Foundation has developed numerous initiatives to contribute to the well-being of children and young people. This effort has been rewarded by very positive results, which has encouraged us to continue investing in the children and young people. Below, we summarize the main actions undertaken in the six years since the Foundation was set up: [ The Antena 3 Foundation This program of activities designed to help hospitalized children and their families make their stay in the hospital is convinced that by helping Hospital assistance as pleasant as possible.: Children’s television channel FAN3, the organization of fun activities related to reading, magic and values, visits by the most well-known personalities of the Antena 3 Group, programs that teach how infants, we can create a better to use new technology responsibly. future. ] Other abilities Activities that integrate people with different skills: Proyecto PRO, financing to subtitle in-house fictional series, raise awareness through reading and financial support for organizations that work on integration projects. Carmen Bieger Spreading values Activities that promote values and principles amongst children and young people: Road safety, promote reading, Head of Fundación Antena 3 and CR. and principles children’s rights, health and welfare of children and young people. Theoretical projects Organization and participation in debates and teaching forums that enable reflection, the exchange of knowledge of the proposal of policies related to children and young people. Promotion and professionalization of Volunteer work for employees that is in line with their concerns and allows them to learn first-hand about the volunteer work realities faced by other groups of people, enriching their lives personally and professionally. 150 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 151 Society 2011: the foundaton • A show on Canal Fan 3, designed for hospitalstarts new road ized children and young people, with new content and the previous sections have been made 2011 was a very fruitful and productive year for larger. the Foundation. On the other hand, they have • The “it so good to do sports” drawing contest, continued to carry out several initiatives in line with with the participation of 12 hospitals. previous years thanks to the economic resources • Book Day, which includes the first delivery of provided by the ANTENA 3 GROUP but, on the other a copy of the Apeles Mestres Child Illustration hand, the Foundation has thought long and hard Award for each hospitalized child. about how to improve its strategy going forward. • Disability Day, on which 4,300 books were handed out in 90 hospitals. • The Radio Workshop at the Hospital Niño Jesús Antena 3 Group’s contribution to the Foundation (€) de Madrid, which included the participation of Onda Cero. 500,000 500,000 • Children with eating disorders from the Hospital Niño Jesús visited the Antena 3 Group facilities. • Participation of specific work groups, where 360,000 NGO´s and institutions propose initiatives to improve society. • Participation in the Humanization of Hospitals for Children conference • The ANTENA 3 GROUP’s most well-known personalities visited hospital to being the magic of television and radio closer to children. Proyecto Pro: Broadening the scope 2009 2010 2011 The media can make a positive contribution to raising awareness in society; in order to reinforce We should take the time to point out some of the this objective, the Antena 3 Foundation, in collaboinitiatives undertaken in 2011: ration with Spanish Universities, gave two courses in 2011 on audiovisual content aimed at disabled Assistance for hospitalized children young people: and young people: we keep working In 2011 new hospitals have been added to the • “Program for Planner and Supervisor of Radio Antena 3 Foundation Hospital Assistance Proand Television Broadcast”, given at the Cargram, such as the Pediatric Centers belonging to los III University. The course lasted 170 hours the Castilla y León Health Department, the Montand was given to 19 students, of which 15 did pelier Clinic in Zaragoza, the Hospital San Pau of an internship at companies in the audiovisual Barcelona and the Ribera Salud network of hospisector. tals. With these latest additions, over 91 hospitals • Course on ”Specialization of Multimedia ComThe “it so good to do sports” drawing contest and disability day at hospitals. benefit from this program. munication”, at the Complutense University in Madrid, which last 180 hours. Out of the 15 Within the Hospital Assistance Program several students who attended the class, 12 did an initiatives have been created for hospitalized chilinternship at companies in the audiovisual dren, amongst which the following stand out: sector. 152 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 153 Society In collaboration with the Mozambique South FounThanks to the involvement of the entire ANTENA 3 dation, this initiative’s main objective has been to GROUP and everyday citizens, over 127,000 euros ensure that 400 children in Southern Mozambique was collected. are properly fed, with enough resources so that this crisis can be handled in the future. In order to meet the project’s main objectives, two Looking to the future main actions were planned: 2011 was a milestone in the history of the Antena 3 • Continuous supply of milk to help these chilFoundation, given that apart from all the initiatives dren overcome malnutrition during the breastit carried out, it has reflected deeply about its misfeeding period, which is crucial for their develsion and has prepared a strategy to better achieve opment. its goals going forward. This process has led to • Seeds given to mothers, so they can plant the design of its new Strategic Plan. them in the family garden and ensure they have food going forward. Below, we briefly describe the milestones reached to define the Antena 3 Foundation’s new strategy: In order to achieve these goals, an awareness campaign was carried out citizens, and collaboration was requested. The ANTENA 3 GROUP broadI. Analysis of the Foundation’s initial situation cast 9 mini-documentaries that shed light on the and identification of areas it can improve. extreme poverty in Mozambique. Jorge Fernández was the campaign’s ambassador and he visited the region to learn about and narrate the situLeading ation in first person. Improve Foundation in Raise potential the Audiovisual efficiency Sector Jorge Fernandez ambassador of the One Seed, One Life campaign. Other complementary awareness actions carried out as part of this campaign were: The objective for 2012 is to continue implementing Proyecto Pro, and offering new courses and • Daily broadcast on the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s media II.  Define the “mission”: the objective is to listen Proyecto PRO: 34 students, involving new universities such as the Politécnica and an animated spot during the campaign. to children and young people and allow them 350 hours of training. de Cataluña. • Comments and interviews on News and telto participate in the activities carried out by the evision programs such as Espejo Público, Foundation: One Seed, One Life Tu tiempo, El Hormiguero, Programa de –– Provide ways of participating. In 2011, the Antena 3 Foundation continued to Arguiñano, Ahora Caigo, Otra Movida (Neox), –– Act as “spokesperson” for their interest mobilize and raise society’s awareness about Chiletc. and concerns. At this juncture, we should dren’s Rights through the One Seed, One Life • Spots and comments on Onda Cero, as well highlight the execution of a “Focus Group” campaign. as interviews on important programs: Herrera with Children and Young People in order en la Onda, Te doy mi Palabra, etc. to find out first hand their main concerns, In 2011, the Campaign was dedicated article 24 • Two solidarity contests ( Wheel of Fortune always in a social context. of the Children’s Rights Convention, in support of and Atrapa un Millón), whose proceeds were –– Provide opportunities that allow them to be a project that fights against malnutrition amongst earmarked for the project part of the solution children in Mozambique, where the rate of malnutrition is 37% of the population. 154 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 155 Society “Committed to Quality”, the Antena 3 Group, gación or A Fondo section of Antena 3 News, as it did in 2010, has launched a campaign in which they report on various issues that in support of brands that aim to raise viewaffect society through investigative reports. ers’ awareness about the good things “Social content on programs and news shows” about brands and the benefits they pro• Social content on Onda Cero: Onda Cero social duce for society and consumers themselves. commitment is reflected in content of its various “Responsible advertising” programs that include subjects of interest to • Current events and news shows with social society and its support for social causes such content on Antena 3: the programming usuas Te doy mi palabra with Isabel Gemio or the ally includes contents about the problems and program En buenas manos in which Doctor concerns that affect society at large, such as Beltrán explains common health problems. the subjects dealt with Equipo de Investi“Social content on Onda Cero”. Future challenges Campaign against famine in the Horn of Africa. The social projects carried out by the ANTENA 3 GROUP are not limited to occasional actons, but rather it III. Submit proposals of actions and projects, by sending sms which cost was totally earis on-going effort that forms part of the company’s culture. included in the Strategic Plan and focused on marked for the Red Cross. 2012 regarding one of young people’s main • Campaign against famine in the Horn of In order to keep meeting the needs and concerns of society, in 2012, the ANTENA 3 GROUP will continue concerns. Africa. The Antena 3 Group, offered all its help to work along the same lines of action defined in its commitment to social projects, and the creation of to the Red Cross and UNICEF to fight against new initiatives that improve society. famine in Somalia, Kenya and Ethiopia and face the grave situation that affected over 11 people. In the same vein, the Group has set the following objectives for 2012 • “Cucumber” campaign, which aimed to support business that live off the harvesting, disPONLE FRENO 2012 Objectives Other social project tribution and sale of this product and promote Kick off listen and participate campaign to record concerns regarding road safety and ways to solve problems. actions the consumption of cucumbers after the false alarm by a Member State of the EU. Hold the 4th Ponle Freno race. Organization of the third Road Safety 3.0 Day. Awareness campaign on how to protect cyclist and motorcyclists. In its role as spokesperson for the main concerns EL ESTIRÓN 2012 Objectives and problems facing society, through its various We continue to contribute Continue to produce and broadcast the El Estirón program and create new sectons in order to promote healthy habits amongst viewers and incresse the participation of families in the program. media the ANTENA 3 GROUP has supported the comOrganise events that encourage children to exercise. munications efforts of other entities immersed in Apart from the initiatives detailed in this section, Get others involved in the campagin and suppport other events held by other entities that work to reduce child obesity in Spain. emergency situations by broadcasting awareness elsewhere in this annual report other actions are campaigns. Among actions of this type carried out described that complement them and confirm in in 2011, we highlight the following: ANTENA 3 GROUP’s social commitment: ANTENA 3 FOUNDATION 2012 Objectives Systemize the support to NGOs and foundations through public announcements. • Campaign in support of the victims of the • Hazte Eco: a great global campaign through Creation of job placement exchange for students of Proyecto Pro. earthquake in Lorca and the earthquake in which Neox makes the defense and protection Broaden presence in Hospital Assistance Program. Japan. After the earthquakes that devastated of the Environment its main social cause. both Lorca and Japan, La Razón, Onda Cero “Environmental awareness” and Antena 3 organized a solidarity campaign • “Promarca” campaign. Under the slogan 156 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 157 The Environment The Environment Comply with laws and regulations. Good environmental reporting practices. Other national and international initiatives. Legal compliance Raise awareness about recycling and saving energy. Minimize greenhouse Ensure providers follow policy. Dissemination Climate gas effect. Social awareness about and information change responsible environmental Reduce emissions. practices. Environmental policy Ensure means are available to avoid contaminating Control of Control energy costs. environment. waste and Energy Efficient design of facilities Minimize generation contaminating efficiency and activities. of waste. Promote recycling. substances Our challenges Efficient use of The ANTENA 3 GROUP wants to be recognized as example of environmental awareness and concern, resources which means that its management must set example. With this objective, the Group has set six environmental challenges for 2011, aimed at: Procedures to optimize consumption of resources. Use resource for entire useful life. Increase energy efficiency and Improve waste Minimize impact management. on climate change Environmental • Internally: Minimize the environmental impact resource consumption. awareness • of all the activities carried out by the group. Externally: Raise awareness about Environmental protection and improvements. As can be seen in the table below, all of these challenges were successfully met: The Antena 3 Group takes environmental issues Environmental investment (€) seriously, which means that year after year sets 2011 CHALLENGES DEGREE OF COMPLIANCE COMMENTS new objectives. These targets are defined accord148,540 Continue to install LED lighting in common areas The lighting on the Antena 3 News set was replaced ing to Environmental Policy, which includes specific commitments that go well beyond merely Annual savings of 50,000 Kw by renovating projectors Savings of 56,000 Kw adhering to regulations. 105,300 Five-year plan to air80,530 conditioning gases for more The Policy shows how important it is to internally environmental-friendly Gas was replaced in 22 refrigeration systems. improve environmental management, but it also gases (not required by law) makes it clear, that the Antena 3 Group, as a ComCut generation of solid urban waste by 1% SUW was reduced by 3%. munications Group, has the obligation to transmit its environmental awareness to society. In light Increase paper and cardboard recycling by 1% Paper recycling increased by 2.6 % of these considerations, two main lines of action have been established: Design Theoretical and Practical Course on imporCourses raising environmental awareness were given. 2009 2010 2011 tance of recycling 160 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 161 The Environment Energy consumption 13,064 315.48 12,442 258.96 10,270 235.25 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Gas (m ) 3 Diesel A (litres) 56,112 Replacing of all the old lighting of the Antena 3 News set with new LED technology. 45,250 15,295 Energy efficiency Furthermore, we should also point out the effort 11,224 made over the last year to improve the insulation Energy efficiency was one of the Antena 3 Group’s and the sound-proofing of all the Group’s facilities main concerns. Thanks to several studies conby installing solar filters and using “Climalit” winducted to measure the energy efficiency of the dows. This measure has proven to make a very new equipment, slowly but surely management is positive contribution to optimizing the Group’s ensuring that all the tasks carried out by the Group energy consumption and overall comfort. only use the energy that is strictly necessary. 0* 0* Another measure to optimize energy consump2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 In this context, the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s Operations tion has consisted of encouraging the Group’s Diesel (litres) Petrol (litres) division has been put in charge of replacing all the employees to use public transportation (preferlighting on the Antena 3 News Set LED technolably the train), instead of travelling in their own ogy. This project was executed in 4 months and vehicles, whenever possible. 19,534,953 19,716,406 19,400,980 entailed a total investment of €90,000. This meas520,878 ure managed to: These initiatives have helped improve energy consumption, as can be seen in the following graphs: 423,861 420,040 Cut energy consumption by over 56,000 The old lighting Kw per year. system used on the Our energy consumption Antena 3 News Set dropped by over 300,000 Kw in was replaced Reduce the energy consumed by refrigeration systems stemming from the the last year. heat emitted by incandescent lights. 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Electricity (Kw) Gas oil (litres) *In 2009 Antena 3 did not have any vehicles to transport personnel for news coverage. 162 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 163 The Environment Our train use increased 7.1% vs. 2010. Along these lines, in 2011 we finished installing • Improvement of plumbing, which increases an automated system for all the air-conditioning the effectiveness of water collection and equipment, which, along with the aforementioned avoids overflows. In 2011, 2 drop shafts were improvements, will achieve a considerable energy set up, which improved the control of water Waste management at Antena 3 Group. savings that will be seen in the coming years. and its quality. Another two wells and the con2009 2010 2011 necting tubes were repaired, which prevents White paper (sheets) 7,165,000 6,595,000 6,117,500 Furthermore, for several years now, the ANTENA 3 the risk of further leaks. Toner and printing cartridges (units) 901 886 791 GROUP has implemented various effective energy • All the employees were informed about the White envelopes (units) 29,550 29,500 29,750 savings measures: responsible use of water. Fluorescent lights (units) 1,580 1,673 1,695 Drop ceilings (m2) 395.5 1,495.4 387.3 Technical floors (m ) 2 300.8 1,826.8 561.7 52,449 Partitions (m2) 18.7 161.9 36.0 Control room temperature in summer and winter (+-2ºC). 49,371 46,856 Bookshelves (m) 415 0 0 Reduce number of hours lights are on and the number The ANTENA 3 GROUP promotes recycling and reuse. Proof of this are the data collected on the volume of of fluorescent lights in premises. resources reused: Reduction number of hours production sets 2009 2010 2011 and controls are on/ off Total % of total Total % of total Total % of total reused acquired reused acquired reused acquired 2009 2010 2011 Toner and printing cartridges 901 100 886 100 791 100 (units) Water consumption (m ) 3 The total energy consumed by the ANTENA 3 GROUP Electronic and computer 1.205 81,4 985 73,3 398 18,6 material (units) in 2011 represents 73,118.13 G. Jules. Drop ceilings (m2) 133,2 33,7 557,7 38,8 63,8 16,5 Technical floors (m ) 2 260,8 86,7 544,4 29,8 42,0 7,6 All the water the Group consumes comes from a Partitions (m2) 18,7 100 0 0 36,0 100 public source, and is dumped in the sewer system Shelves (m) 341,0 82,1 0 0 0 0 Efficient use of resources so that it can be treated and purified. Mobile phones (units) 98 54,1 133 60,0 132 76,3 Furniture 0 0 173 65 0 0 Efficient consumption of water is another of the As regards the other resources used, the following ANTENA 3 GROUP’s concerns and, therefore, in 2011 table shows the respective consumption trends: we have taken several initiatives aimed at controlling and reducing the consumption of water: 2009 2010 2011 Total % of total Total % of total Total % of total reused acquired reused acquired reused acquired Paper (units) 4,012,400 56 3,931,250 59.6 3,804,250 62.2 Fluorescent lights (units) 1,580 100 1,673 100 1,695 100 164 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 165 The Environment Non-hazardous wastE Minimizing waste 80 76 The ANTENA 3 GROUP has not only achieved its goal 73 of reducing its generation of solid waste by 1%, but it has also managed to reduce paper and cardboard waste by c. 20%. These results were achieved thanks to two specific projects: • Improve the reclassification of waste over (due to good internal management). • Raise providers’ awareness in order to foment the reuse policy for its own cardboard container. 2009 2010 2011 Paper and Cardboard (tn) Furthermore, we should particularly point out the installation of 3 multifunction copiers (photocopier, fax and scanner) in the News area, and the Opera432 tions and Infrastructure facility. With these measures, the Group has managed to reduce the consumption of toner by 10%. Another new development in waste management compared to 2010 was that all the work carried 164 out on the premises of the ANTENA 3 GROUP now 117 have formal files that help to control the waste generated and ensure it is recycled as much as possible. 2009 2010 2011 The total volume of paper, cardboard and solid Rubble (m3) urban waste in 2011 totaled 425 tons, 18 tons less than in 2010. 375 363 352 2009 2010 2011 Solid urban waste (tn) The Antena 3 Group promotes paper recycling at its facilities. 166 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 167 The Environment Hazardous wastE Stop climate change • Greater and better planning and control of Lastly, we should point out the specific action work trips, which has allowed the Group to taken by ATRES ADVERTISING in 2011 to help reduce 1.56 In 2011, the most noteworthy initiative aimed at reduce the number of flights by 819 vs. 2010. its environmental impact: curbing the impact of climate change consists of replacing the R-22 gas used in 22 refrigerators, These initiatives, undertaken over the last few • Send tapes in digital files: a platform was 1.20 which are greenhouse gases in the event of a leak, years, have helped reduce the amount of NOX, set up to manage these types of deliveries, for an environmentally-friendly gas with similar SOX and CO emitted into the atmosphere, as we thereby reducing the environmental impact characteristics. This project, coordinated by the can see in the graphs below: associated with this type of activity. 0.50 0.54 0.53 0.47 Operations Department, entailed an annual invest• Receive and load purchases digitally: use of ment €35,000 and will continue to be carried out the Editran and Portal to totally eliminate the Emissions of NOX, SOX and CO (Tn) until 2015 use of paper associated with these activities. 3.4 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Batery waste (tn) Toner (tn) 22 refrigerators have been given inert gas that is ozone friendly. 2.6 Environmental awareness: 2.3 “HAZTE ECO” 370 Greenhouse gas emissions (Tn of CO2 equivalent) The Antena 3 Group is aware of the potential its media has to raise the public’s awareness and move society to defend and protect the environ4,316 ment. 160 2,680 2009 2010 2011 2,095 NOX NEOX and Greenpeace have 16 20 been working together on 4 6 “Hazte Eco” since 2010. 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Bateries (unit) Television sets (units) 0.87 2009 2010 2011 tn de CO2 equivalent 1,673 1,695 1,570 Other actions carried out by the Group to reduce noxious gas emissions focused on reducing the 0.28 environmental impact linked to the use of trans0.16 0.15 0.12 portation, amongst which the following stands 0.08 out: 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 • Increase the use of audio and videoconferSOX CO ence systems to reduce the number of trips. • Improve the effectiveness and efficiency of on2009 2010 2011 line equipment by incorporating 3G technolFluorescents (units) ogy. 168 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 169 The Environment Towards this end, in 2010 the NEOX cannel started In 2011, the following subjects were dealt with by the Hazte Eco campaign to defend and protect the Hazte Eco campaign: Future Commitments the environment. The campaign is promoted through the following channels: January • Recycling center. The ANTENA 3 GROUP will continue to honor its commitment to the environment in 2012 and, as it has • Air pollution in Spanish cities. in previous years, it has set a series of objectives in line with the principles that govern its environ• The possibilities of windpower in Spain. February • The importance of not wasting water. mental policy. WEB • The benefits of using recycled paper. March It has a website on which concerned citizens • Responsible use of aerosols. can actively participate by sending messages • Use of natural cosmetics. Environmental objectives 2012 and making complaints. April • Sustainable tourism. This medium is also used to publish articles, Continue the five-year plan to replace the gases used in the air conditioning systems which in 2012 would be tantamount to reports and tips on the environment. • C  onsumption and danger of red tuna changing the machines that produce no less than 275,000 B.T.U. becoming extinct. May Complete technical assessment to implement LED lighting in the common areas with fluorescence, and subsequently conduct an • Reduce energy consumption through lighting. economic viability study. Analyze the viability of installing energy efficient lighting in at least one Production set. June • Desertification of Spain and saving water. Weigh possibility of changing print press for digital press, which eliminate the consumption of 26,000 newspapers a year. • Forest risks. SOCIAL Reduce toner consumption by 5%, by installing machines with various functions. July • “Return” initiative for recycling bottles NETWORKS and glasses in stores and bars. Present on Facebook, with 2,663 followers. Reduce volume paper and cardboard sent to recycling by 1% vs. 2011. Publishes Hazte Eco web content August • Destruction of the coast.. Production and broadcast of new bi-weekly Hazte Eco micro-slots and news features. September • Overexploitation of the sea and fishing. Start up of Hazte Eco campaigns which require that citizens participate through social networks. • Information on environment and biodiverOctober sity. • Ecological clothing. • P roblems with garbage dumps. November • Durban conference to extend Kyoto comCANAL NEOX mitments. Formative broadcast on environmental • Genetically modified food. education and awareness in line with the December • Responsible Christmas. content published on its website. 170 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 171 Annexes About Corporate Responsibility Report Coverage and scope: This is the fifth time that the • “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” version ANTENA 3 GROUP publishes its corporate Responsi3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative, known bility Report as part of Annual Report, as it details as G3.1. its commitments to economic, social and environ• G3.1 Global Reporting Initiative indicator promental Sustainability. tocols. It is also the fourth year that this report has been Furthermore, we have begun to implement the verified by a third party (AENOR), in order to ensure requirements established in the Media Sector that the requirements set in the 3.1 Global ReportSupplement of the Global Reporting Initiative. ing Initiative Report are met with an A+ rating. In the event the GRI protocols cannot be applied, The information reported in this report pertains to we will indicate the metric used. the period that goes from 1 January to 31 December 2011 and covers all the businesses of the For any question related to the content and the ANTENA 3 GROUP (ANTENA 3 TELEVISIÓN, NEOX, NITRO, definition process used in the Annual Report and NOVA, ONDA CERO, EUROPA FM, ANTENA 3 FILMS, ATRES the Corporate Responsibility Report, please conADVERTISING and FUNDACIÓN ANTENA 3), while focustact: ing on material information, without omitting any relevant information. ANTENA 3 Group Communication Department Any modifications in terms of the scope and subAv. Isla Graciosa nº13 jects covered in this report will be indicated. This San Sebastián de los Reyes is the case with the environmental indicators, CP 28703 (Madrid) which only refer to the ANTENA 3 GROUP offices in San Sebastián de los Reyes given that they repe-mail address resent 90 % of its total activity. Furthermore, when comunicacion@antena3tv.es any changes have been made to the way data is responsabilidadcorporativa@antena3tv.es calculated compared to previous reports is noted next to the data in question. Telephone: (+34) 91 623 05 00 Fax: (+34) 91 654 92 04 Materiality: the materiality of the contents is based on the information received from the various stakeholders through the channels of communication available, which is complemented by Focus Annexes Groups that assess the impact of said contents. International standards: this Corporate Social Responsibility Report was been prepared accordEntrance to studio 3 at Antena 3 Television. ing to the following guidelines: 172 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 173 Annexes GRI Report Verification Report 174 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 175 Annexes GRI index 1 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Pg./ANSWER 1 REPORTED 2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 6 TOTAL 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6, 43, 137, 157, 171 TOTAL 2 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Pg./ANSWER 1 REPORTED 2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY 2.1 Name of the organization 3, 173 TOTAL 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 30 TOTAL 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 30 TOTAL 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 173 TOTAL The Antena 3 Group broadcasts in Spain, Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically 2.5 although some channels may be seen TOTAL relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. abroad. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 30 TOTAL 30, 38. The Antena 3 Group broadcasts in 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Spain, although some channels may be seen TOTAL abroad. Scale of the reporting organization: • Number of employees • Number of operations 2.8 11, 14 TOTAL • Net sales (for private sector) or net revenues (public sector) • Total capitalization, broken down in terms of debt and net assets (private sector) • Amount of products or services rendered. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: 2.9 • The location of, or changes in operations,including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and No significant changes TOTAL • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 69, 117, 147, 149, 150 TOTAL 3 REPORT PARAMTERS Pg./ANSWER 1 REPORTED 2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) forinformation provided. 173 TOTAL 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 173 TOTAL 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 173 TOTAL 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 173 TOTAL Process for defining report content, including: • Determining materiality; 3.5 38-41, 173 TOTAL • Prioritizing topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 173 TOTAL 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 173 TOTAL Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly No joint business ventures, subsidiaries, and 3.8 TOTAL affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. no installations rented in 2011 All the data has been collected with corpoData measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 3.9 rate tools and using the GRI Guide as a basis TOTAL applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. for calculation Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.10 173 TOTAL (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 173 TOTAL 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 173 TOTAL 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 173 TOTAL 176 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 177 Annexes 4 GOVERNMENT, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Pg./ANSWER 1 REPORTED 2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, 4.1 26-29 /www.grupoantena 3.com TOTAL such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the 4.2 26 TOTAL organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are inde4.3 26 TOTAL pendent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 33 TOTAL Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including depar4.5 26, 128 TOTAL ture arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 28, 29, 34 TOTAL Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the 4.7 29 TOTAL organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and 4.8 24, 41 TOTAL social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, envi4.9 ronmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally 28-29, 44, 47 TOTAL agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, 4.10 28, 29, 34 TOTAL and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 47 TOTAL Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subs4.12 122, 140, 156 TOTAL cribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Has positions in governance bodies; 4.13 54-55 TOTAL • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or • Views membership as strategic 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 38-40 TOTAL 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 38-40 TOTAL 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 38-40 TOTAL Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to 4.17 41, 129, 141, 161 TOTAL those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. EC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Pg./ANSWER 1 REPORTED 2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY Economic performance 3-9 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and EC1 10, 11. 2011 Annual Accounts, pg. 2 TOTAL other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Risks and opportunities Does not have proceduwith financial implicaEC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. 168 PARCIAL res or tools to compile 2013 tions and its quantifithis information cation EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. There are no pension plans TOTAL EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 10-11 TOTAL MARKET PRESENCE 3-5 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 128 TOTAL Suppliers. There are no policies defined for EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. TOTAL this concept Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operaThere are no procedures defined for this EC7 TOTAL tion. concept INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 47, 79 178 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 179 Annexes Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, inEC8 79, 115-116, 156 TOTAL kind, or pro bono engagement. The indirect economic The information is not impact generated, with material for the organithe exception of the EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 47 PARCIAL zation and there are no revenues generated procedures available for by providers, is not the analysis analyzed. EN Environmental performance indicators Pg./ANSWER 1 REPORTED 2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY MATERIALS 165 TOTAL EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 165 TOTAL EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 165 TOTAL ENERGY 162 TOTAL EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 163 TOTAL All the energy consumed comes from electricity EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. --NOT REPORTED 2012 companies and global data is not available. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 162 TOTAL Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as EN6 162 a result of these initiatives. No initiatives in this regard have been EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. TOTAL undertaken WATER 164 TOTAL EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 164 TOTAL EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 164 TOTAL The ANTENA 3 GROUP does not recycle EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. TOTAL water given the nature of its business BIODIVERSITY 160 The ANTENA 3 GROUP conducts its busiLocation and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside EN11 ness in urban areas that have no impact on TOTAL protected areas. biodiversity Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiEN12 TOTAL versity value outside protected areas. No action to protect or restore habitats have EN13 Habitats protected or restored. TOTAL been taken The ANTENA 3 GROUP conducts its busiEN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans For managing impacts on biodiversity. ness in urban areas that have no impact on TOTAL biodiversity Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of EN15 TOTAL extinction risk. EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 167-169 TOTAL EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 169 TOTAL EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 168-169 TOTAL EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 168-169 TOTAL EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 168-169 TOTAL EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 169 TOTAL EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 164 TOTAL EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 11, 164-165 TOTAL 180 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 181 Annexes No spills or environmental accidents have EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. TOTAL occurred Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, EN24 No hazardous waste has been transported TOTAL II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. All the water that the ANTENA 3 GROUP Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting EN25 consumes comes from the public water TOTAL organization's discharges of water and runoff. system PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 50, 160 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 50, 162,168-169 TOTAL The ANTENA 3 GROUP only sells audiovisual EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. TOTAL content COMPLIANCE 160 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and No sanctions or fines have been levied for EN28 TOTAL regulations. environmental non-compliance TRANSPORT 162 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, EN29 162, 168-169 TOTAL and transporting members of the workforce. OVERALL 160 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 160 TOTAL LA LABOUR PRACTICES Pg./ANSWER 1 REPORTED 2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY EMPLOYMENT 120 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 123-124 TOTAL 123. There are no any significant differenLA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. ces (>10%) in the breakdown of men and TOTAL women LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 129 TOTAL LABOUR/MANAGEMENT POLICIES 120-121 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 100% TOTAL Notification periods are defined in the pertiLA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. TOTAL nent collective bargaining agreements OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 133 TOTAL Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor LA6 133 TOTAL and provide advice on occupational health and safety programs. 135. No fatalities. There are no any signifiLA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. cant differences (>10%) in the breakdown of TOTAL men and women Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or LA8 133 TOTAL community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 133 TOTAL TRAINING AND EDUCATION 125 126. There are no any significant differenLA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. ces (>10%) in the breakdown of men and TOTAL women Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in LA11 127 TOTAL managing career endings. 129 . There are no any significant differenLA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. TOTAL ces in the breakdown of men and women 182 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 183 Annexes DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 125 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group LA13 28, 123-124, www. grupoantena3.com TOTAL 2013 membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 128 TOTAL LA 15 Percentage of time spent at work post after returning from a parental leave, by gender. 100% TOTAL HR HUMAN RIGHTS Pg./ANSWER 1 REPORTED 2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY INVESTMENT AND SUPPLY PRACTICES 47 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone All the contracts meet laws in force that HR1 TOTAL human rights screening. guarantee respect for human rights HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. 50 TOTAL Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, HR3 41 TOTAL including the percentage of employees trained. NON.DISCRIMINATION 125-126 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. No incidents of discrimination TOTAL FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 120, 133 The ANTENA 3 GROUP’s activities are Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and HR5 governed by Spanish Law, and therefore TOTAL actions taken to support these rights. there no risks of this nature. CHILD LABOUR 77 The ANTENA 3 GROUP’s activities are Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of HR6 governed by Spanish Law, and therefore TOTAL child labor. there no risks of this nature FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR 121 The ANTENA 3 GROUP’s activities are Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the HR7 governed by Spanish Law, and therefore TOTAL elimination of forced or compulsory labor. there no risks of this nature SECURITY PRACTICES 121 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are The ANTENA 3 GROUP does not have any HR8 TOTAL relevant to operations. security personnel on the payroll INDIGENOUS RIGHTS 121 The ANTENA 3 GROUP’s activities are governed by Spanish Law, and therefore HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. TOTAL there no risks of this nature and no related incidents have been reported The ANTENA 3 GROUP’s activities are governed by Spanish Law, and therefore HR10 Percentage and number of operations that have been evaluated to verify compliance with human rights. TOTAL there no risks of this nature, and evaluations will be carried out 12, No complaints of this type have been CORRECTIVE MEASURES TOTAL reported Number of human rights complaints, which have been filed, addressed and resolved through formal mechanisms to ensure reconNo complaints of this type have been HR11 TOTAL ciliation. reported SO SOCIETY Pg./ANSWER 1 REPORTED 2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY COMMUNITY 140 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communi47. The impact of social campaigns are SO1 TOTAL ties, including entering, operating, and exiting. evaluated In 2011 there are no anti-corruption policies CORRUPTION available. In 2012 and internal code of conTOTAL duct will be applied SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 47 TOTAL 184 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 185 Annexes In 2011 there are no anti-corruption policies SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. available. In 2012 and internal code of conTOTAL duct will be applied SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. No incidents of this type TOTAL PUBLIC POLICIES 53 TOTAL SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy”. 53 TOTAL The ANTENA 3 GROUP does not make this SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. TOTAL kind of contribution 12. No legal action nor sanctions for these ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR TOTAL reasons have been reported No legal action nor sanctions for these reaSO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. TOTAL sons have been reported REGULATOTY COMPLIANCE 51 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 53 TOTAL COMMUNITY 140 TOTAL Taking into account the ANTENA 3 GROUP’s activity, its operations do not cause any sigSO9 Operations that have potential or actual negative impact on local communities. TOTAL nificant negative impact outside of business risks SO10 Actions taken to prevent and mitigate negative impacts (potential or actual) on local communities. TOTAL PR PRODUCT REPONSABILITY Pg./ANSWER 1 REPORTED 2 PART NOT REPORTED 3 REASON FOR OMISSION 4 ASSURED BY HEALTH AND CONSUMER SAFETY 44, 113 TOTAL Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of PR1 44, 113 TOTAL significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of proPR2 No incidents of this type have taken place. TOTAL ducts and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING 44, 113 TOTAL Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to PR3 44, 113 TOTAL such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information PR4 52-53 TOTAL and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 70-71 TOTAL MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS 113 TOTAL Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, PR6 51, 113 TOTAL promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, incluPR7 61 TOTAL ding advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 12. No non-compliance of this nature TOTAL Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products PR9 52, 53 TOTAL and services. 186 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 187 Annexes Glossary of terms FTSE-4Good: A market index created by the Financial Times Stocks Exchange (FTSE) to measure compliance with recognized global environmental standards in order to facilitate investment in these companies. The FTSE-4Good is comprised of firms that meet a series of environmental requirements, dialogue with stakeholders and respect for human rights. Social action: Use of resources, usually money, assets or services, for social projects or projects that support disadvantaged groups. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): This is an independent institution set up in 1997 in which various stakeholders participate. Its mission is to prepare and disseminate the Sustainability Value chain: The value chain is breaks down the company into its core businesses to underReporting Guidelines, which is an international standard for drawing up sustainability reports: stand the costs trends and differentiating factors (current and potential). The value chain is it is not obligatory. This report follows GRI standards. comprised of, among others, the following activities: procurement (providers), logistics, marketing and advertising, human resources or R&D. Stakeholders: These are people or entities that affect or may be affected by the decisions taken by the company. Code of Conduct: A document that lays out, without being legally bound to do so, the rules and principles that define the nature of an institution, trade union or sector, through guideHours of sign language: These are the hours during which a simultaneous sign language lines that ensure that it functions properly. A single organization may have various codes of service is provided for certain programs. conduct that complement each other. They are also called “Codes of ethics (or CSR)” and “Deontological Code”. Hours of audiodescription: Audiodescription is a system that enables blind or visually impaired people to have access to TV or movie information through descriptions that do not Community Manager: This is a new position within marketing and online advertising, whose interfere with the dialogue or the action of a given program or movie. job is to create, manage and spur the activity of a community of users on Internet regardless of the platform employed (social networks, blogs, etc.). Annual Report (Sustainability): This is a public document that systematically reports the criteria, commitments and activities of an organization in terms of CSR and also describes Opportunity cost: In economics, the opportunity cost is the cost investment of the resources the activities and the channels through which it communicates with stakeholders. It is usually available, in an economic opportunity, in exchange for the best alternative investment availbased on international recognized indicators, such as GRI, which are those used to prepare able. This refers to that which an agent foregoes or rejects when making a choice or a decithis Annual Report. sion. In other words, it is also the profit or gain that the Group would not obtain by not billing– for a social reasonthe market price of given good or service. Mission: The Group’s mission is to broadcast diverse, innovative and quality programming that responds to our stakeholders in order to gain their confidence, thereby achieve a leading Balanced scorecard (BSC): This is a management system that goes beyond the financial market position and ensure the Group’s sustainability. perspective that managers usually use to evaluate a company’s performance, making it possible to measure a company’s activities in terms of its vision and strategy. The BSC gives NGO: A non-governmental organization is a private entity with well-defined ends and objecmanagers an overview of a business’s performance. As a management tool, it continuously tives, created outside of local, regional and national government, as well as international shows the actual degree to which the targets set in a strategic plan are met, facilitating deciorganizations. It has various legal statuses such as association or foundation, among others. sion making, the identification of areas of improvement and net challenges. The NGO sector is known by various names such as the volunteer, non-profit, solidarity, social economy or third sector, among others. NGOs are national or international (cooperation) in 180º evaluation: This is way of evaluating a workers’ performance, by which a worker is scope, cover areas such as humanitarian aid, attending marginalized or excluded groups, evaluated by his superior and peers (occasionally by clients as well). It is different from a 360º or programs that deal with health, nutrition education, environmental issues, the defense of evaluation in which superiors are not judged by those work under them. Human Rights, etc. Focus Group: The focus Group is a way of analyzing people’s opinions and attitudes used Global Compact: This is an initiative undertaken by the former Secretary General of the in the social sciences and marketing studies. It is also called a discussion group or group United Nations (Kofi Annan), which is comprised of ten principles regarding human, sociodynamics, and consists of a group (between 6 and 12) with a moderator who asks questions labor environmental and anti-corruption rights that companies and other organizations must and shapes the discussion so that it stays on the subject. The discussion group focuses on follow. The pact was officially launched at the United Nations in July 2000 and aims to make the attitudes and reaction of group with specific interests to a given social or political matters, market markets more sustainable and inclusive. or any other subject. 188 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 189 Annexes Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): In the broadest sense, this is a concept whereby Corporate Volunteer work: This is a new way of channeling social activities, which allows the companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in company to take advantage, provide incentives and channel the potential of its employees their interaction with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis. This classic definition of CSR (EC in benefit of certain social needs or civic organizations (NGOs, etc.). There are many types of Green Book) was widened by the Commission in its 2011 press release, in which it redefines corporate volunteer work, with the most widely used being professional volunteer work and CSR as a ‘company’s responsibility with regard to its effect on society”. In order to assume occasional volunteer work. Professional volunteer work consists of employees who do the said responsibility, the EC insists that ‘companies must respect current legislation and the same work they usually do but to help out an NGO. Therefore, the company makes workcollective agreements reached between the various stakeholders’. The ANTENA 3 GROUP ers available during the work day so that they can participate in NGO. Occasional volunteer refers to Corporate Responsibility (CR) when talking about the Group’s specific CSR. work refers to workers who set a volunteer work day target for the year and, on those days they participate in activities that benefit the community. All these activities must be voluntary, Sustainability (Sustainable Enterprise): This is a company that aims to create value in the given that the objective of corporate volunteer work is to promote a vulture of collaboration, medium to long term, both economically (profits), was well as environmentally and in socialraise the employees’ awareness about the social needs of other groups and enable them to labor terms, by ensuring that the concern of its stakeholders are addressed in its strategy. discover new values and put solidarity into practice as a way of developing character. Transparency: refers an organization’s ability to respond to or render accounts to its stakeholders through public information that is accessible, complete, intelligible and understandable. One way of doing this is by publishing an Annual Report such as this one. Trending Topics: is the name given to the words or phrases most used at a given moment in Twitter. The tem most relevant are shown on the start page, while the users can choose the geographical scope they prefer-global or regional. Furthermore, the massive impact that this is having on the press has caused the expression to be also be used for subjects of great interest, whether it is being mentioned on Twitter or not. Values: are the set of principles, beliefs, and rules that govern the management of an organization. This constitutes the company’s institutional philosophy and the foundation of its organizational culture. The main objective of defining corporate values is to have a reference framework that inspires and regulates the life of an organization. These are usually expressed through policies, codes and rules that define the professional conduct that the employees should follow. Vision: is what a company wants to be in the future (where they want to go). It includes the goals and achievements sought by organizations. A company’s vision is summarized in a brief philosophical statement what a company wants to be, how it wishes to be perceived by its clients, employees, owners, and other stakeholders going forward. 190 antena 3 group 2011 annual and corporate responsibility report 191 Antena 3 Group Communication Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 San Sebastián de los Reyes 28703 (Madrid) email: comunicacion@antena3tv.es responsabilidadcorporativa@antena3tv.es www.grupoantena3.com www.fundacionantena3.es Phone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00 Fax: (+ 34) 91 654 92 04
