“Our customers and locations are central in everything we do.” Annual Report 2011 2011 in brief Financial highlights In 2011, Fabege Net lettings amounted to concluded leases SEK 130m (27). Proﬁt from property manageworth SEK 241m ment declined to SEK 564m This represents 275 new leases (782), and rental income with an average annual rent of SEK declined to SEK 1,804m 0.9m. However, the most gratifying (2,007) as a result of net sales development during the year was of properties and higher market the sharply improved retention rate, interest rates. whereby customers corresponding Unrealised changes in the value to 75 per cent of the rental value that had expired opted to remain of properties amounted to SEK as tenants in Fabege’s portfolio. 1,093m (843) and of interestrate derivatives to a negative SEK 397m (pos: 106). After-tax proﬁt for the year was SEK 1,141m (1,697), or SEK 7.01 per share (10.38). The equity ratio was unchanged at 39 per cent and the loanto-value ratio declined to Fabege has joined the 57 per cent. The Board of Directors proposes UN Global Compact a dividend of SEK 3.00 per For several years, Fabege has conducted a successful environmental and share (3.00). energy initiative. Fabege also takes social responsibility and the company’s sustainability work includes urban development focused on people and the environment. Joining the UN Global Compact in 2011 was a natural step www.fabege.se that underscores our commitment. Accordingly, Fabege has taken a stance to promote the UN’s ten principles on human rights, labour conditions, corrupMore information about Fabege and tion and a better environment. our operations is available on the Group’s website. Rental income and net operating income Surplus ratio Equity/assets ratio SEKm % % 2,500 80 45 40 2,000 75 35 70 30 1,500 25 65 20 1,000 60 15 500 10 55 5 0 50 0 07 08 09 10 11 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Rental income Net operating income Outcome Target: 70% Outcome Target: at least 30% Fabege 2011 2011 IN BRIEF Contents Introduction 2011 in brief 1 This is Fabege 2 Message from the CEO 4 Solna Stockholm The business Strategic focus and objectives 6 Opportunities and risks 9 Financing 12 The business 14 Property portfolio 22 Hammarby Valuation of the property portfolio 25 Competition description 27 Market review 28 Growth in Fabege's markets attractive markets Stockholm inner city Solna 30 32 During 2011, Fabege continued to invest and develop Hammarby Sjöstad 34 the property portfolio in its prioritised sub-markets. Property listing 36 Net investments totalled approximately SEK 1bn, through investments in projects and transactions. Sustainability report Responsible enterprise 42 Value growth of around SEK 1.1bn should also be Environmental work 44 considered. Responsible procurement 48 Employees 50 Social involvement 52 GRI Index 54 Financial reporting The ﬁnancial year 56 Directors' Report 58 The Group Statement of comprehensive income 64 Statement of ﬁnancial position 65 Statement of changes in equity 66 Statement of cash ﬂows 67 The Parent Company Proﬁt and loss accounts 68 Balance sheets 68 Statement of changes in equity 69 Statement of cash ﬂows 69 Notes 70 Corporate Governance Report 81 Board of Directors and Auditor 87 Group Management 88 Key ﬁgures 2011 2010 Signing of the Annual Report 89 Rental income, SEKm 1,804 2,007 Auditor's Report 90 Net operating income, SEKm 1,227 1,348 Proﬁt for the year, SEKm 1,141 1,697 Other information Share information 92 Return on equity, % 9.9 16.0 Information to shareholders 95 Surplus ratio, % 68 67 Five-year summary 96 Equity/assets ratio, % 39 39 History 97 Interest coverage ratio, times 2.2 3.0 Deﬁnitions 97 Earnings per share before and after dilution, SEK 7.01 10.38 Dividend per share, SEK 3.001) 3.00 The formal audited Annual Report com1) Proposed cash dividend for 2011. prises the information on pages 58–89. 1 This is Fabege Fabege’s sub-markets Fabege is one of Sweden’s leading property companies, focusing mainly on letting and managing office premises as well as property development. Fabege offers attractive and efficient customers, which, coupled with Fabege’s premises, mainly offices but also retail extensive local expertise, creates a solid and other premises. The company’s foundation for efficient property manoperations are highly concentrated agement and high occupancy. to a number of fast-growing subFabege’s vision is to be the most markets in the Stockholm region, such proactive, innovative and competent as Stockholm inner city, Solna and commercial property company in Hammarby Sjöstad. Stockholm as well as an important Fabege manages a well-located partner for its customers and society property portfolio that is continuously in general. being refined through development, At year-end 2011, Fabege owned 97 sales and acquisitions. The concentraproperties with a total market value of tion of properties to well-contained SEK 29.2bn. Rental revenues in 2011 clusters brings the company closer to its were SEK 1.8bn. 2 Fabege 2011 THIS IS FABEGE The business Fabege operates in three business areas; Property Management, Property Stockholm inner city Development and Transaction. Most of Fabege’s inner city properties are located in the area around Kungsgatan and Drottninggatan, in the Norrtull area and in western and eastern Kungsholmen. The portfolio includes the DN building and Wenner-Gren FABEGE Center, two well-known Stockholm landmarks. Read more on page 30. Breakdown of rental value Property Property No. of properties 38 Management Development Transaction Ofﬁce 86% Lettable area, ‘000 sqm 497 Retail 7% Market value, SEKbn 16,809 Industrial/ P R O P E RT Y M A N A G E M E N T Rental value, SEKbn 1,181 warehouse 2% Finding the right premises for a customer’s Financial occupancy rate, % 92 specific requirements and ensuring that Other 5% the customer is content is the essence of what we do. Our approach is long-term and based on a close dialogue with the customer, which builds mutual trust and loyalty. Solna P R O P E RT Y D E V E L O P M E N T Arenastaden and Solna Business Park are Fabege’s main sub-markets in Solna. Qualified development activities that add Fabege is one of the initiators and part owners of the new Arenastaden district, value to Fabege’s properties is the second which will be home, not only to a large number of ofﬁce buildings, but also to cornerstone of our business. The company the new Swedbank Arena, the Mall of Scandinavia shopping centre, the Quality has long-standing expertise and long experiHotel Arena and residential buildings. Read more on page 32. ence of extensive property development Breakdown of rental value projects and strives to attract long-term No. of properties 37 Ofﬁce 82% tenants to properties that have not yet been Lettable area, ‘000 sqm 455 fully developed and can be redesigned based Retail 7% Market value, SEKbn 9,856 on the customer’s specific requirements. Industrial/ Rental value, SEKbn 720 warehouse 5% T R A N S A CT I O N Financial occupancy rate, % 88 Other 6% Fabege’s third cornerstone is Transaction. Acquisitions and sales are an integral part of Fabege’s business model and make a significant contribution to consolidated profit. The company continuously analyses its portfolio to take advantage of Hammarby Sjöstad opportunities to increase capital growth. Fabege owns most of the commercial properties in Hammarby Sjöstad, the largest being the Luma building. The district is one of Stockholm’s most Operational key ﬁgures 2011 2010 exciting development areas, and it has become a highly attractive residential Property value, Management, SEKbn 22.8 21.5 and ofﬁce location. Read more on page 34. Property value, Development Projects, SEKbn 6.4 5.5 Invested in the proprietary Breakdown of rental value property portfolio, SEKbn 1.5 0.9 No. of properties 13 Ofﬁce 70% Acquisitions, SEKbn 0.5 – Lettable area, ‘000 sqm 130 Retail 8% Sales, SEKbn 0.9 4.4 Market value, SEKbn 2,215 Industrial/ Rental value, SEKbn 178 warehouse 19% Financial www.fabege.se occupancy rate, % 84 Other 3% More information about Fabege and its operations is available on the Group’s website. 3 Message from the CEO 2011 was a good year for Fabege! FROM RISK TO POTENTIAL IN THE P R O J E CT P O RT F O L I O As a result of positive net lettings and development We more than fulfilled our prioritised targets of increasof the property portfolio, we reduced our project risk ing net lettings and raising the pace of project developduring the year. Our five largest projects account for ment. Our three areas of operation – property mantwo thirds of the value of our project portfolio. The lettings ratio in these is 78 per cent and they will agement, property development and transactions – all all be transferred to property management in 2012. contributed significantly to our overall earnings. For the We are thus significantly reducing the number of most part, however, this year’s achievements will result non-yielding assets in our portfolio, while retaining a in revenue growth and earnings from property develophighly attractive project portfolio with the potential to create favourable conditions for new value-generment in 2012 to 2013. I am particularly satisfied to see ating projects. that our employees’ efforts are making a difference! T H E E N V I R O N M E N T – E V E RYO N E I S I N V O LV E D In today’s market, value-generating environmental work provides competitive advantages, by creating The robust demand in the lettings market and our business value and contributing to pride among emfocus on retaining customers contributed to the high ployees and the positive development of a sustainable level of net lettings. This resulted in increases in the society. I am proud of our organisation’s commitlettings ratio and rent growth, while also giving us an ment to sustainability matters. During the year, we opportunity to generate considerable value through joined the UN Global Compact, an undertaking that project development. Consequently, Fabege was able will continue to hallmark our work moving forward. to report positive earnings from all areas of operaFor a number of years, energy optimisation has been tion, whereby transaction and property-development one of the most prioritised aspects of Fabege’s envioperations also contributed approximately 50 per cent ronmental work. Again in 2011, Fabege continued of the year’s earnings (excluding changes in the value to develop properties with a distinct environmental in the property-management portfolio) – which is profile through various environment classifications completely in line with our goals. and certifications. We regard this as the right positioning for the future. By means of Green Leases, we G O O D P R O P E RT I E S I N G O O D L O CAT I O N S offer our tenants a tool for focusing and interacting Through the year’s investments and property transacon environmental issues, with the aim of reducing tions, Fabege continued to focus on its prioritised both the environmental impact and costs. sub-markets. The trend in all sub-markets was positive in 2011. The favourable trend at Arenastaden OUTLOOK 2012 was particularly gratifying. At the end of 2012, The economic outlook deteriorated during the year Swedbank Arena and Vattenfall will be relocating to and future development is subject to major uncerthis area. tainty. We already know that in one year’s time we at The recently signed agreement with Unibail Fabege will have: Rodamco concerning the establishment of the Mall increased revenues by more than SEK 200m of Scandinavia is a vital piece of the puzzle in the received a continued contribution of profit from creation of the future city district. With the best property development shopping centre in Scandinavia, people working in a more attractive project portfolio Arenastaden will have access to all the nearby serFurthermore, we know that Stockholm will experivices and shopping they will ever need. For Fabege, ence strong growth, in parallel with a low rate of new this entails faster expansion of the area and a higher production of offices in Stockholm. At the time of appreciation in value. In this regard, we have laid a writing, my perception is that demand for quality good foundation for Arenastaden becoming a comremains favourable and I believe that this trend will petitive alternative to the inner city. 4 Fabege 2011 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO also continue regardless of the economic climate. be continuing and intensifying our structured and In the current state of the market, the fact that successful work to establish excellent relationships Fabege has modern premises in attractive locations with our customers so that they will, to the extent is very valuable and bodes well for the years to come. possible, elect to stay with us. For this reason, net I also regard our well-situated project vacancies and lettings will continue to be in focus! development rights as future potential. Our geographical concentration with almost all our properties within a radius of five km from Stockholm Stockholm, February 2012 inner city creates both proximity to customers and useful knowledge of the market. Accordingly, our own efforts will be the key to capitalising on the potential represented by our projects and making us less dependent on general economic conditions. CHRISTIAN HERMELIN We are also hoping to soon have our tax cases Chief Executive Officer behind us. We still believe that we will prevail, but we are ensuring that we have the capacity to meet any negative outcome. New customers are important but our existing customers are paramount. Fabege aims to operate as an even more customer-oriented organisation with a top ranking in customer satisfaction surveys. We will 5 Strategic focus and objectives Fabege owns and manages an extensive property portfolio in the Stockholm region, the most dynamic property and rental market in the Nordic countries. The company strives to create business opportunities and generate value through all stages of the business cycle. Overriding strategies and a distinct focus steer the business toward its objectives. Business concept Fabege’s strategies Fabege’s business concept focuses on commercial properties in the Stockholm region, P O RT F O L I O S T R AT E G Y C U S T O M E R S T R AT E G Y with a particular emphasis on a limited The core of Fabege’s operations comprises Fabege is to be perceived as a customernumber of fast-growing sub-markets. Fabege commercial properties in the Stockholm oriented organisation that cultivates aims to create value by managing, improvinner city, Solna and Hammarby Sjöstad strong customer relations. Through acing and actively adjusting its property portfosub-markets. Fabege aims to strengthen tive property management by competent lio through sales and acquisitions. Accrued its position in these selected market segand customer-focused staff, Fabege seeks value should be realised at the right time. ments and endeavours to concentrate its to nurture and develop its relations with properties in management-efficient units. existing customers. Vision The company intends to acquire properThe company strives to achieve a To be the most proactive, innovative and ties offering strong growth potential in good portfolio mix by attracting stable competent commercial property company prioritised areas. The aim is to continuand financially robust customers reprein Stockholm and an important partner to ously advance the property portfolio and senting a wide range of industries. our customers and to society in general. add value through acquisitions, property The natural ﬁrst-choice provider. development and sales. B R A N D S T R AT E G Y The Fabege brand should support the Mission ST R AT E G Y F O R P R O P E RT Y D E V E L O P M E N T company’s business, add value and Through constant skills development, Fabege is working to develop and realise contribute to achieving the company’s Fabege will seek to understand customer the potential of the existing property goals. Strengthening the brand is crucial requirements and exceed expectations portfolio. New projects should generate to the company’s continued success. while strengthening our proﬁle as a socially a return on invested capital of at least 20 Fabege works consistently to strengthen responsible company. per cent and investments should raise the the company’s image among its priority status of the priority areas. 6 Fabege 2011 STRATEGIC FOCUS AND OBJECTIVES A goal-oriented business Fabege’s activities are goal-oriented at all levels of the organisation, and goals are deﬁned from several different operational perspectives. The goals are broken down, developed and established in the different business areas and at co-worker level. Measuring and reviewing performance are performed regularly at all levels. OVERALL GOAL Fabege’s overall goals are to use our size, strength and focus to create and realise values and provide our shareholders with the best overall return among property companies listed on the Stockholm Exchange. The total return on Fabege’s share in 2011 was minus 28 per cent (calculated as share price performance including reinvested dividends). stakeholders by raising awareness and commitment and individual initiative providing knowledge about our activities. through clearly defined targets, delegation FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES Developing Fabege’s intangible assets of responsibility and rewards for excelThe company’s key financial criteria also involves building strong brands in lence. Fabege places a strong emphasis on adopted by the Board are profitability, as the company’s prioritised areas, such as caring for its co-workers and on creating a measured by the return on equity, equity/ Hammarby Sjöstad, Solna Business Park safe work environment. assets ratio and interest coverage ratio. and Arenastaden in Solna, as well as for Fabege aims to be one of the most profitindividual properties or concepts. S T R AT E G Y F O R R I S K A N D E F F I CI E N CY able listed property companies long-term. To minimise risk exposure, Fabege’s busiThe target is to maintain an equity/assets H U M A N R E S O U R C E S S T R AT E G Y ness activities should be limited and, as ratio of at least 30 per cent and an interest Fabege should be the best employer for far as possible, controlled in terms of the coverage ratio of at least 2.0 including the most competent employees. A key choice of tenants and lease terms, business realised changes in value. At 31 December success factor for Fabege is its ability partners and business objects. 2011, return on equity was 9.9 per cent, to attract and retain the right staff. The The company’s funding arrangements the equity/assets ratio was 39 per cent and company works to ensure that its core should be stable, carefully evaluated and the interest coverage ratio was 2.2. values colour the way we relate to other cost-effective. people, both internally and externally Fabege should also maintain continP O RT F O L I O E F F I C I E N C Y A N D E F F I C I E NCY in relations with customers and other ued high cost efficiency and strive for O B J E CT I V E S stakeholders. continuous improvements. A key objective for Fabege is generating Our employees should be able to strong net lettings. Retaining existing work in an open environment that fosters customers through a high retention rate 7 F I N A N C I A L OBJ E C T I V E S is profitable. New lettings are important ments. The company’s 15 largest tenants in Total return for reducing the vacancy rate and for enaterms of value account for approximately SEK bling project investments in conversions 30 per cent of the total contracted lease 150 and new builds. Net lettings amounted to value, and, in most cases, its leases have a 120 SEK 130m in 2011. duration that significantly exceeds the aver90 Fabege aims to retain a high level of age in the company's proprietary portfolio. 60 cost-efficiency and to be the leading player in comparison with other Swedish propC U S T O M E R R E L AT I O N O B J E CT I V E S 30 erty companies. To improve its operational Fabege aims to increase profitability by 0 efficiency and achieve its financial goals, becoming a more customer-oriented or07 08 09 10 11 Fabege (incl. reinvested dividend) the company continuously implements ganisation. The target is to achieve a topOMX Stockholm Return Index various forms of process improvements. ranking in the satisfied customer index OMX Stockholm Real Estate Return Index Fabege aims to create an atmosphere (SCI) survey and to be the natural choice where ideas and initiatives for developing for existing and potential customers. DurReturn on equity processes and procedures are harnessed ing the year, the company conducted a % and converted into action. Work on procustomer survey that resulted in a number 30 25 cess improvements continued in 2011. of activities aimed at better meeting cus20 Another long-term aim is to improve tomers’ requests and requirements. 15 the surplus ratio to 70 per cent. In 2011, The objective is to identify and capi10 5 Fabege’s surplus ratio was 68 per cent talise on Fabege’s development potential 0 (67). Fabege believes that the target of in terms of offering customers a superior −5 70 per cent will be achieved as of 2013. product and service and thus forging −10 07 08 09 10 11 Fabege aims to annually invest about stronger customer relations. Average, competitors SEK 1,000–1,500m in the company’s project portfolio. The investment is to generE M P L O YE E S AT I S FA CT I O N G O A L S Equity/assets ratio ate a return of at least 20 per cent through Fabege aims to be an attractive em% value growth. In 2011, SEK 1,457m was ployer – where co-workers have a sense 50 invested. The return on invested capital of commitment, participation, and are 40 was 29 per cent. able to develop and grow. The boundaries 30 Fabege aims to create a high overall and objectives for each employee’s area of 20 return of its property portfolio through acresponsibility should be clearly defined quisitions, property development and sales. and established. Our employees’ activities 10 In 2011, the total return (net operating should be based on the company’s core 0 07 08 09 10 11 income and value changes in relation to the values. Target: at least 30% average property value) was 8.8 per cent. In January 2012, an employee-satisfaction survey was conducted. Fabege’s Interest coverage ratio E N V I R O N M E N TA L A N D E N E R G Y goal was to maintain the same high level times OBJECTIVES as in prior surveys. The performance 4.0 3.5 Since 2002, an overriding environmenrating was 3.9, reflecting an improvement 3.0 tal and efficiency objective has been to in comparison with the corresponding 2.5 reduce the company’s year-on-year energy survey in 2009. 2.0 1.5 consumption by an average of 5 per cent. Read more on page 51. 1.0 A future objective is to reduce energy 0.5 consumption by 20 per cent from the B U S I N E S S F O CU S I N 2 0 1 2 0.0 07 08 09 10 11 2009 level by 2014, which corresponds to • Increase profitability by becoming a Target: at least 2.0 an annual average reduction of 4 per cent. more customer-oriented company. In 2011, the accumulated reduction was • Strengthen cash flow in the investmentSurplus ratio 9 per cent. property portfolio. % • Continue to maintain a rapid pace in 80 C U ST O M E R M I X O B J E C T I V E S the development of the portfolio. 70 Fabege has about 1,500 leases in its com• Create value growth through projects 60 mercial portfolio. To minimise its risks, and “good properties in attractive 50 Fabege aims to achieve a balanced mix of locations.” 40 stable customers from various market seg• Significant improvement in overall earnings. 30 07 08 09 10 10 Target: 70% 8 Fabege 2011 OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS Opportunities and risks All business activities are associated with a certain measure of risk, which also generates opportunities. Fabege aims to limit its risk exposure and, to the extent possible, control it when it comes to choosing investment objects, tenants and lease terms, as well as financing terms and business partners. Described below are the principal areas of risk faced by Fabege in its business operations. O P PORT U N I T I E S A N D R I S K S I N T H E needs. The risk of increased vacancies Key figures in Fabege’s investmentI N V E S T M E N TP R OP E RT Y P O RT F O L I O in the investment-property portfolio is property portfolio Risks and opportunities associated with deemed minor considering the portfolio’s In 2011, the rental market in Stockholm cash flow primarily pertain to changes central locations and stable customers. was strong and the key figures with in rental income and property expenses. The lease portfolio is spread among many the greatest impact on cash flow in the The occupancy rate and rents have a sectors and companies of different sizes. investment-property portfolio improved. significant impact on rental income. The The largest tenants in terms of value The occupancy rate in the overall portfooccupancy rate in turn is dependent on are all stable companies and comprise lio, including project properties, improved net lettings. Tenant stability and their abila limited portion of the total number to 90 per cent (88). In the investmentity to pay influence the risk of customer of tenants. With the aim of limiting the property portfolio, the occupancy rate bad debts. credit risk, Fabege’s credit policy governs rose to 92 per cent (91). The rents in rethe checks and assessments that are made negotiated contracts increased 7 per cent Rental income of the customers’ ability to pay. The tenon average. Net lettings amounted to SEK Growth in the Swedish economy is the ants’ ability to pay is strong and rent losses 130m, which will have a positive impact primary engine driving demand for office are negligible. on rental flows and key figures in 2012 premises. Increased demand leads to Fabege’s portfolio of modern office and 2013. Customer bad debts totalled lower vacancies and rising rents. Vacanpremises in central locations generates a SEK 1.4m, corresponding to 0.01 per cent cies and rents are also impacted by new stable cash flow from management operaof rental income. production. tions. However, when project operations In 2011, the share of cancellable leases Fabege’s property portfolio is conare conducted, buildings are vacated, was 16 per cent, corresponding to annual centrated to sub-markets with favourwhich has an adverse impact on cash flow rent of SEK 291m, of which SEK 218m able growth potential and commercial for a period of time. was extended by existing tenants. Fabege’s premises, with an emphasis on office average remaining lease term for comspace, account for 99 per cent of operaProperty expenses mercial leases was 3.5 years at year-end. tions. Accordingly, employment figures Property expenses include regular operatAt the start of 2012, only 12 per cent of and developments in the Stockholm office ing and maintenance expenses, property leases, corresponding to a rental value of market are of considerable significance for tax, ground rent and administration SEK 232m, fall due for either cancellation Fabege’s operations. and letting expenses. Regular operating or re-negotiation. During 2012, the occuSince commercial leases have a term of expenses largely comprise tariff-based pancy rate in the portfolio will increase a certain number of years, changes in rents expenses such as heating, electricity and through a positive net of occupancies/ do not achieve full effect during a specific water. Fabege is pursuing a successful vacancies. None of the ten largest customers year. Newly signed leases generally have effort to reduce its consumption of heatare due for re-negotiation or relocation a term of three to five years, including a ing, electricity and water, with a target of in 2012. period of notice of nine months and an achieving 20 per cent lower consumption In terms of costs, work continued on index clause related to inflation. Rents for over a five-year period as of 2009. Fabege reducing energy consumption, which is the company’s lease portfolio are currently also conducts regular lease negotiations the largest cost item. In 2011, energy condeemed to be in line with market levels. and procurements aimed at reducing costs. sumption declined 6 per cent. The aim for Normally, about 20 per cent of the lease A large portion of property expenses is 2012 is an additional 4 per cent reduction. portfolio is renegotiated each year. paid for by tenants, thus reducing the Operating costs per sqm were an average Fabege works closely with its customcompany’s exposure. The standard of the of SEK 223 (239). ers and is receptive to their changing property portfolio is deemed to be high. 9 budget and on schedule. The projects are internally. Accordingly, the entire propSensitivity analysis: expected to generate a direct yield on erty portfolio is valued by an external INVESTMENT PROPERTY total capital invested of approximately 7–9 appraiser at least once a year. Changes in PORTFOLIO per cent. Fabege’s objective is for project rents, vacancies and yield requirements in • A 1-percentage point change in investments to generate value growth of the market have an impact on the value the occupancy rate generates an at least 20 per cent on invested capital. of the properties. Fabege’s properties are earnings impact of SEK 21m. In 2011, Fabege invested SEK 1,457m in concentrated to central Stockholm and • A 1-percentage point change the project portfolio, which created value its immediate surroundings. The value of in the rental value generates an growth of SEK 418m, corresponding to the property portfolio is in part a result of earnings impact of SEK 21m. a yield of 29 per cent. The remaining inhow Fabege develops its property portfo• A 1-percentage point change in come potential of the five major projects, lio through its leasing and customer strucproperty costs generates an earnafter relocations during the fourth quarture and through property improvements, ings impact of SEK 6m. ter, totals about SEK 280m, of which SEK and in part the result of external factors 187m is backed by leases. The occupancy that impact demand in Fabege’s markets. Fabege’s assessment: rate in the project portfolio was 78 per Stable customers and modern premises in Fabege believes that modern cent at year-end. prime locations provide a strong foundaproperties in good locations result The market value of the project tion for maintaining property values, also in a low risk of increased vacancies. properties was SEK 6.4bn at 31 December during economic downturns. The continCompleted projects and positive net 2011. As a result of completions, SEK ued advancement of Fabege’s project and lettings will contribute to stronger 4.4bn will transition to the management development properties is creating value cash flow and an improved occuphase in 2012 and begin generating cash growth in the portfolio. The market price pancy rate in the coming years. flow. The full impact on cash flow will not is impacted by expected future net operatbe seen until January 2013. ing income and the buyer’s yield requirements, as well as access to and the terms O P PORT U N I T I E S A N D R I S K S I N T H E and conditions of financing. P R OJ E C T P ORT F O L I O Sensitivity analysis: Opportunities and risks in the project PROJECT PORTFOLIO Key figures in Fabege’s property portfolio primarily pertain to project risks • A 1 per cent change in the cost level portfolio related to schedule and the cost level in of project investments generates an In 2011, the value of the property the procurement process for construction earnings impact of SEK 15m. portfolio increased. A higher occupancy services. A high occupancy rate in project • A 1 per cent change in the return rate and improved cash flows, as well as properties reduces the risk of vacancies on capital invested will generate an declining direct yield requirements had and lost cash flow when the property has earnings impact of SEK 15m. a positive impact on the value trend of been completed and transitions to the the properties. Unrealised value changes management phase. Fabege’s assessment: in the investment-property portfolio toCost frames and schedules will be talled SEK 675m. Meanwhile, the project Procurement of major projects adhered to in the major projects. portfolio contributed to value growth of Fabege annually conducts project-proFabege does not see any current risk SEK 418m. The average yield requirement curement processes involving significant of increasing construction costs. The in the portfolio was 5.7 per cent (5.9) at amounts. Fabege’s Project Managers, who high occupancy rate in the projects year-end. The combined market value possess extensive experience and experentails limited risk. was SEK 29.2bn at year-end, correspondtise, are responsible for these procurement ing to about SEK 26,400 per sqm. The processes, which are conducted with portfolio includes development rights the support of framework programmes, O P P O RT U N I T I E S A N D R I S K S for about 400,000 sqm with an average framework agreements and agreement I N P R O P E RT Y VA L U E S carrying amount of SEK 2,500 per sqm. templates. Properties are booked at fair value and In 2011, the direct yield on the properties value changes are included in profit or was 4.3 per cent and the total yield was Key figures in Fabege’s project portfolio loss. The value of the property is deter8.8 per cent. In 2011, Fabege conducted five major new mined according to generally accepted builds and conversion projects. The five methods. Fabege has the value of about projects will be completed successively in 25 per cent of its portfolio appraised exter2012 and will transition to the managenally at the end of each quarter. The value ment phase. All projects are within of the remaining properties is appraised 10 Fabege 2011 OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS Derivatives are recognised at fair value. Tax cases Sensitivity analysis: If agreed interest rates deviate from the Fabege is pursuing several tax cases in the PROPERTY VALUES market rate, a theoretical surplus or deficit Administrative Court and the Adminis• A 1 per cent change in the property value arises which is recognised in profit trative Court of Appeal related to property value will generate an earnings or loss. sales through limited partnerships. The impact of SEK 291m, excluding combined year-end exposure amounted deferred taxes, and SEK 214m Interest-bearing liabilities and to SEK 2.7bn, including accrued interest. including deferred taxes. financial risks On-going tax cases are described in fur• A 1 per cent change in the property The property sector is capital intensive ther detail in the Administration Report value will result in a change in the and requires a functioning capital market. on page 61. equity/assets ratio of 0.2 per cent The liquidity risk refers to the borrowand of 0.6 per cent in the leverage. ing requirement that can be covered Environment • A change in rent per sqm of SEK by refinancing or new borrowing in a Under the Swedish Environmental Code, 100 would theoretically generate a strained market scenario. Fabege aims to commercial businesses are responsible value change of SEK 2bn. strike a balance between short and longfor any contamination or other environterm borrowing divided among a number mental damages, and for the remediation Fabege’s assessment: of financing sources. Long-term credit thereof. The Swedish Environmental Code As a result of low initial values for facilities, with predetermined terms and also stipulates that even if a commercial project properties and development conditions, and revolving credit facilities business is unable to pay for the remediarights, Fabege believes that there is have been signed with lenders. tion of a property, the party who owns great potential for the creation of the property is responsible. Accordingly, value through project investments. Key figures in Fabege’s loan portfolio Fabege could be subject to such remeImproved cash flows will contribute The fixed-rate term of the loan portfolio diation requirements. However, Fabege to stronger property values movwas about 3.6 years at year-end. The averdeems this risk to be minor since its ing forward. Meanwhile, there is age fixed-term maturity period at yearproperty portfolio primarily comprises considerable uncertainty concernend was 5.9 years and available unutilised commercial office premises. ing the market’s yield requirements. facilities amounted to SEK 3,2m. In 2012, Fabege continuously investigates and Fabege believes that property values SEK 1.5bn of Fabege’s long-term facilities identifies potential environmental risks in in Fabege’s submarkets will be stable will be re-negotiated. Also refer to the its property portfolio. In the event of any in 2012. Financing section on page 12. such risks arising, action and remediation plans for these are prepared. Sensitivity analysis: O P PORT U N I T I E S A N D R I S K S FINANCING Sensitivity analysis: IN FINANCING • A 1-percentage point change in OTHER Property ownership is highly capital the market interest rate will gen• If Fabege loses its tax cases and intensive and interest expenses comprise erate an earnings impact of SEK is forced to pay the full amount, Fabege’s single largest cost item. 66m (refers to 2012). its equity/assets ratio will decline to 30 per cent and the loan-toInterest expenses and financial Fabege’s assessment: value ratio will rise to 67 per cent. instruments By interest-hedging 75 per cent Fabege can manage this risk withThe interest rate risk refers to the risk of the loan portfolio, interest-rate out contravening the covenants in that changes in market interest rates changes will have a limited impact its loan agreement with banks. will impact Fabege’s borrowing costs. on Fabege’s borrowing costs. Fabege Under the company’s finance policy, the believes that its available facilities Fabege’s assessment: fixed-rate period is to be based on the are sufficient and that the existing With a high degree of probability, estimated interest rate trend, cash flow agreements will be refinanced. Fabege believes the outcome of the and capital structure. Fabege employs tax cases will be positive for Fabege. financial instruments, mainly in the form of interest rate swaps, in order to limit the O T H E R O P P O RT U N I T I E S A N D R I S K S interest rate risk, and to flexibly influence Deferred taxes and loss carryforwards the average fixed-rate period of the loan Fabege recognises deferred tax liabilities portfolio. attributable to the difference between market value and the taxable residual value of properties. However, sales are normally conducted through packaging, resulting in a lower effective tax rate. 11 Financing Fabege’s properties represent significant values and the loan-to-value ratio, the choice of capital structure and financing policy are of the utmost importance. Fabege’s financing operations are governed by the company’s financial policy, which is established by the Board of Directors. Long-term credit lines facilitate secure and flexible financial management. The ﬁxed-rate period in the past year generates additional cash-ﬂow stability. C A P I TA L S T R U C T U R E authority and delegation of responsibility to govern the terms in the form of, for The balance between shareholders’ equity for the organisation. example, the margins that are to apply in and borrowed capital is a key issue for the the coming years. The Group’s borrowing company. Fabege aims to have a strong fiS U P P LY O F CA P I TA L requirements and its access to credit lines nancial position. The company’s objective Fabege’s supply of capital largely derives are presented in the diagram on page 13. is to achieve an equity/assets ratio of at from three sources: shareholders’ equity, During the year, a borrowing agreement least 30 per cent and an interest coverage interest-bearing liabilities and other litotalling SEK 4bn was extended. At 31 ratio of at least 2.0. abilities. December 2011, unutilised credit facilities amounted to SEK 3.2bn. Fabege’s loan F I N A N C E F UN C T I ON SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY agreements at 31 December 2011 had Fabege’s financial management departShareholders’ equity amounted to nearly an average remaining term of 5.9 years ment, which is a central unit in the Parent SEK 12bn, which, in relation to total and are renegotiated continuously well in Company, is responsible for the Group’s assets of about SEK 31bn, corresponded advance of maturity. borrowing, liquidity management and to an equity/assets ratio of 39 per cent at financial risk exposure. year-end. This is well above the company’s Commercial paper programme target of 30 per cent. As a supplement to traditional bank F I N A N C E P OL I C Y financing, Fabege is active in the Swedish Fabege’s financing operations are govI N T E R E S TB E A R I N G L I A B I L I T I E S commercial paper market, with commererned by the company’s financial policy, Access to long-term and stable financcial paper worth SEK 5bn. The company which is established by the Board of Diing is crucial to the pursuit of a sustainguarantees access to unutilised credit rectors. The policy states that the primary able business. Fabege values long-term facilities to cover all outstanding commertask of the financial management is to and trusting relations with its creditors. cial paper at any given time. At year-end, ensure that the company always maintains The company has decided to sign long SEK 1.7bn of the programme had been stable, well-balanced and cost-efficient credit agreements with some of the largest utilised. financing. The fixed-rate period must banks in the Nordic region. The largest take into account circumstances at any lenders are Swedbank, Nordea, HandelsBond programme given time. Potential currency exposures banken, SEB, Nykredit, and Realkredit In December, Fabege launched a bond must be minimised. The policy also states Danmark. The credit agreements enable program with a limit of SEK 5bn via the the counterparties that the company is the company to borrow funds as needed co-owned company Svensk Fastighetspermitted to deploy while governing the within a predetermined framework, and finansiering AB (SFFAB). Through the 12 Fabege 2011 FINANCING Credit facilities and capital requirement, 31 January 2011 Financial objectives, 31 December 2011 SEKm Goal Outcome 25,000 Equity/assets ratio, % 30 39 Interest coverage ratio, 20,000 multiple 2.0 2.2 Loan-to-value ratio, % 60 57 15,000 10,000 Supply of capital Equity 39% 5,000 0 Interest-bearing Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 liabilities 55% 11 11 11 12 12 12 12 13 13 Long-term credit facilities Short-term credit facilities Capital requirement Other liabilities 6% Fabege’s credit facilities exceed the company’s capital requirements by a healthy margin. A high equity/assets ratio and low debt/equity ratio create security. Loan maturity structure, 31 December 2011 Credit bond program Fabege borrowed SEK C O L L AT E R A L agreements, Drawn, SEKm SEKm 289m in the capital market. The bonds Fabege’s borrowing is largely guaranteed Commercial paper are secured by property mortgage deeds. by property mortgage deeds. Shares in programme 5,000 1,719 SFFAB is jointly owned by Fabege, property-owning subsidiaries are also < 1 year 2,034 1,514 Wihlborgs, Peab and Brinova. Fabege deployed as collateral to a lesser extent. 1–2 years 5,540 3,440 owns 30 per cent of the company. The aim Some unsecured borrowing is also un2–3 years 329 329 is to expand the company’s financing base dertaken. The distribution of collateral is 3–4 years 5,040 3,735 with a new source of financing. presented in the diagram to the right. 4–5 years 2,041 2,041 > 5 years 4,976 3,977 OTHER LIABILITIES F I X E D R AT E P E R I O D Total 24,960 16,755 Unutilised credit facilities totalled SEK 3,205m Other liabilities mainly comprise noninFabege’s fundamental view has traditionand the average maturity was 5.9 years. terest-bearing liabilities, such as accounts ally been that short fixed-rate periods payable, deferred tax liabilities and pregenerate the lowest interest expenses over Allocation of collateral paid expenses and accrued income. time. However, as a result of the prevailing Mortgage deeds to properties 83% situation of low interest rates and to create COVENANTS secure cash flows in potentially uncertain Fabege’s obligations concerning covenants times ahead, Fabege opted in August to Unsecured 4% are similar in the various credit agreeinterest hedge part of its loan portfolio, ments and stipulate an equity/assets ratio by entering into interest swap agreements Shares in subsidiaries 13% of at least 25 per cent and an interest totalling SEK 5bn. At 31 December 2011, coverage ratio of at least 1.5. At propthe fixed-rate period was 3.6 years. Read Most borrowing is secured by mortgage deeds to properties. erty level, the loan-to-value ratio varies more about interest-rate derivatives and between 60 and 75 per cent, depending on the valuation thereof in Note 3 on page 73. Interest rate maturity structure, the type of property and financing. per 2011-12-31 Average Amount, interest Share, SEKm rate, % % < 1 year 4,027 5.641) 24 1–2 years 1,850 3.70 11 2–3 years 1,178 2.45 7 3–4 years 0 0.00 0 4–5 years 4,200 2.71 25 > 5 years 5,500 3.36 33 Total 16,755 3.72 100 1) The average interest rate for the < 1 year period includes the margin for the entire debt portfolio because the company’s ﬁxed-rate period is established using interest rate swaps, which are traded without margins. 13 The business The Fabege organisation supports the company’s dynamic business model, which is designed to create value regardless of the economic climate. Because the emphasis of the business model varies over time in response to changing market conditions, the organisation is structured to be flexible and adaptable. Fabege’s cornerstones are Property Management and Property Development, as well as Sales and Acquisitions. Transactions Read more on page 20 Property Management Read more on page 15 Create growth Close to the customer Fabege aims to acquire properties that offer better growth Property management is Fabege’s main business area. The opportunities than existing investment properties in its properties are managed by an efﬁcient in-house organiportfolio. As a signiﬁcant player in a number of select sation, which is divided into separate property mansub-markets, Fabege has acquired in-depth experiPrope agement areas. Each area has a large degree of rty ns ence and knowledge about the markets, plans individual responsibility to ensure a high degree M itio for development, other players and individual of commitment and proximity to the customer. properties. The company continuously The company’s close-to-the-customer property Acq nt eme monitors and analyses developments with management activities are designed to supuis ag a view to exploiting opportunities to add port a high occupancy rate and encourvalue to its property portfolio. age customers to remain with Fabege. an Satisﬁed customers help to improve our Fabege’s net operating income. business model nt Adding value Concentrating the portfolio pme Property development in properties Fabege aims to sell properties that are with growth potential is a key element located outside its concentrated property elo of Fabege’s business model, with the aim management units or have limited proev of adding value. In addition to developing al yD spects for further growth. Location, condition S and improving acquired properties, Fabege es and vacancies are key factors determining the rt already has a number of development and growth potential of a property. A fully let property with modern and efﬁcient premises that is deemed P ro pe project properties in its portfolio, and seeks to develop their potential as market conditions permit. to have limited potential for rent increases and capital The volume of projects is adapted to market demand. growth could thus become a candidate for divestment. New builds and more extensive development projects are always based on the principles deﬁned in the EU GreenBuilding programme. Property Development Read more on page 17 Business model, contributions to earnings Jan–Dec Jan–Dec SEKm 2011 2010 Proﬁt from Property Management 581 768 Changes in value (portfolio of investment properties) 675 579 Contribution from Property Management 1,256 1,347 Proﬁt from Property Management –17 14 Changes in value (proﬁt from property development) 418 264 Contribution from Property Development 401 278 Contribution from Transactions (Realised changes in value) 173 237 Changes in value, derivatives and equities –413 67 Proﬁt before tax 1,417 1,929 14 Fabege 2011 THE BUSINESS Property Management Property management involves more than operating a property and making a tenant feel at home. Customers are the key to Fabege’s property management operations. Tenants are what create value in properties and the goal is for each tenant to have a friction-free existence in functioning premises. Fabege aims to be a partner to its customers and participate when their business changes. Fabege’s business is divided into geoas well as letting specialists. Property presentable entrance halls and better graphic areas where each sub-market is Management includes the Engineering information flows. managed by a separate unit with a large and Environment department, which During the year, the company condegree of individual responsibility and the comprises specialist expertise in the priducted intensive letting work to ensure a ability to swiftly take decisions to enable oritised areas of environmental issues and continued high occupancy rate. Particular new business opportunities. energy consumption. attention was paid to the project properAbout 75 of Fabege’s 122 employees ties in the Arenastaden development area work with property management. The DURING THE YEAR in Solna, where a number of major leases property management team has built a In 2011, the property-management were signed in 2011. robust platform for its activities in the organisation focused on intensifying its form of a high occupancy rate and cordial dialogue with tenants. This initiative was F O CU S I N 2 0 1 2 tenant relations. aimed at further developing customer The main focus in 2012 will continue to In each Fabege submarket, the area relationships and capturing the customers’ be our effort to advance the operations manager is responsible for the operation impression of our work. What can we do based on the on-going tenant dialogue. and development of the properties, as better? How can we achieve this? Based Surveys will continue to be conducted in well as contact and relationship building on our customers’ feedback, the property2012 to review and measure this work. with customers. In each specific business management department has identified a Furthermore, stricter requirements are area, market area managers also work number of areas that form the foundation being imposed on procurement and on designated property and customer of an improvement effort. Aspects that operations optimisation to increase cost responsibility. Each team also has operacame to light included requests for an efficiency and to develop and enhance the tions managers and building maintenance improved fault reporting system, more efficiency of internal processes. technicians with solid technical expertise, Björn Borg’s new showroom On Tulegatan 11 in Norrmalm, Björn Borg has established its new headquarters, which also act as a showroom, and the premises are designed to create inspiration and enhance the creativity of the employees. Björn Borg considered it important to put a personal touch on the ofﬁce and instil the essence of the Björn Borg brand. Those who visit the new headquarters will see that this has been successful. 15 Our profitability is based on satisfied customers The relentless pursuit of satisfied customers is something that Fabege takes very seriously. For us, this work in not a limited-time project with a set final date, but rather an ever-present element of our everyday working lives. Our work is characterised by the insight that the creation of satisfied customers is an iterative process, which constantly requires us to listen to the customers’ needs, learn what customers want, change and improve our operations and our offering and to then keep on asking the customers what they want. H IGH M A R K S F R OM O U R … B U T W E WI L L N O T L E AV E I T AT C US T OM E R S … T H AT. In 2011, we worked intently on In 2012, we will continue the intense becoming more customer-oriented. and systematic work of achieving satisL ISTEN During the year, we conducted such fied customers by maintaining an effecmeasures as a detailed customer tive customer dialogue. We continue to survey to identify ways to better meet review the customer survey from 2011 our customers’ expectations and and are working on the improvement become a better landlord. The results areas that were identified, including of the survey gave Fabege high marks procedures for fault reporting and betASK LE AR N overall, while also providing valuable ter information flows. knowledge about what areas to imAs of 2012, Fabege is engaged in prove. For example, 90 per cent of the an active change effort with the aim tenants polled responded that they of creating a more customer-oriented were satisfied with the reception they organisation. The effort is being purCHANGE experienced in contacts with Fabege. sued with the objective, in two years’ AND time, of: IMPR OVE • being ranked among the top three in the SCI and • being the natural choice of existing and potential customers. 16 Fabege 2011 THE BUSINESS Property Development Qualified development activities that add value to Fabege’s properties development projects, procurement constitute the second cornerstone of our business. For Fabege, sustainand follow-up rests with the Projects able urban development entails the development of not only individual department. Although the department properties, but also areas and districts that will remain attractive long is self-sufficient in terms of project experterm. Our development projects create a well-proportioned balance tise, construction services are procured externally. During the year, the departbetween economic, social, ecological and cultural development. This ment expanded due to an increased need results in vibrant areas featuring a favourable mix of offices, stores and for proprietary resources. residential units, as well as excellent transport opportunities and environmental consideration. DURING THE YEAR In 2011, the Projects department focused The company has vast expertise and the Group’s investment portfolio or sold. on developing value to Fabege’s existing extensive experience from running propNew builds and more extensive developproperties. Project volumes increased erty development projects, and strives to ment projects are always based on the during the year and work was dominated attract long-term tenants for properties principles of environmental building and by about ten major property developthat have not yet been fully developed and energy requirements that comfortably ment projects, including Vattenfall’s new can be redesigned based on the customer’s fulfil the criteria for the EU GreenBuildheadquarters in Arenastaden. Some SEK requirements. Fabege’s project investing programme. 1,457m was invested in existing properments are forward-looking and designed Projects aimed at adding value to land ties. The department also worked on to improve the environmental characterisand buildings run over a longer period, assuring internal processes to improve tics of the properties and reduce vacancy often 10–15 years. In many cases, the efficiency and quality. rates, thereby improving cash flows and planning work is initiated in partnership value growth. with the local authority in the area where F O CU S I N 2 0 1 2 The company’s properties are the property or land is located. Together, Project volumes are expected to rise in developed and improved in response visions are created for how to develop coming years and the activities will focus to changing demand. Project plans are the area in the best way for the residents, on developing the new Arenastaden disprepared for new builds, while properties for society as a whole and for Fabege as a trict in Solna, and on major development with development potential are acquired, company. projects in Hammarby Sjöstad and Solna developed and then either transferred to Responsibility for new builds and Business Park. A green office in the middle of it all Fabege is performing a complete renovation of the Klamparen 10 property to create greener ofﬁces close to the high tempo of the metropolis. Klamparen is located on Fleminggatan 12–14, a calm area where Norrmalm becomes Kungsholmen – only a stone’s throw from the pulse of Kungsgatan. The property is undergoing interior renovation featuring a new ﬂoor plan, new surfaces and new technical installations, including lifts. The renovation encompasses about 31,000 sqm on ten ﬂoors for forthcoming tenants including the Swedish National Agency for Education, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency and the Swedish Election Authority. Fabege has ambitious environmental and energy goals and has thus opted to plan an environmentfriendly property featuring low energy consumption. The property will fulﬁl the GreenBuilding criteria, meaning that its energy consumption will be at least 25 per cent lower than prior to the conversion. 17 Fabege in Arenastaden Fabege is passionate about the development of the new Arenastaden city district – which is possibly the Nordic region’s most exciting development project. As a major player in the property market in Solna, Fabege is deeply involved in the development Arenastaden of the municipality. Text by: Newsec Advice AB The Arenastaden project involves far more In Solna, Arenastaden is emerging as the latest, most modern and most than simply building individual office comprehensive city district in the Nordic region. An entire new arena is properties. It encompasses everything that being created featuring meeting areas such as Swedbank Arena and the is needed to create a modern, fresh and Mall of Scandinavia, combined with attractive workplaces and housing attractive area for a modern and active close to Stockholm City. lifestyle. Fabege currently owns most of As the area is developed, the Arenastaden population twice as quickly as Greater the existing commercial properties in brand will emerge and be established as London and five times faster than the Arenastaden. These properties coma famous and renowned location with Paris region. Despite increased concern prise approximately 135,000 sqm under a city centre featuring comprehensive in the Euro zone, the economy in Stockmanagement and 65,000 sqm in on-going service functions in the shape of both holm County remains strong, backed by projects. This means that Fabege has a neighbourhood and commercial sera stable services sector and a considerwide range of premises capable of meeting vices. The area will offer both large-scale able influx of residents. various customer needs, regardless of size. amenities in the form of an arena and In the past 20 years, Solna has expeIn the coming years, Fabege will have the shopping centre, which will put it on the rienced a population trend that has been opportunity to build slightly more than an map, and intimate environments such three times stronger than for Sweden as additional 180,000 sqm of ultramodern, as cafés, water contact and a pedestrian a whole and forecasts indicate an even energy-efficient office space. In line with precinct. Arenastaden will also offer an stronger trend in the coming ten-year the entire Arenastaden’s fundamental office area featuring strong public transperiod. concept, all properties will be built to port and ultramodern space-efficient The business community in the not less than the GreenBuilding standard premises, as well as newly built housing Municipality of Solna comprises more and in many cases achieve even stricter in attractive locations. The area has all of than 8,000 companies employing nearly requirements. the prerequisites for creating fascinating 70,000 individuals, most of whom comVattenfall’s new offices, Uarda 1, in environments for the eyes and soul; a mute to the municipality. Solna is an atArenastaden constitute one of Fabege’s vibrant city district with an exuberant tractive submarket for the establishment most exciting projects. Construction is street life, combined with a relaxing of operations and it has been named by proceeding at full speed and is now housing atmosphere – all of which is the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise nearing completion. When completed just six minutes from Stockholm City. as the most business-friendly municipality in autumn 2012, the office will be a topStockholm County, which is in Sweden for four consecutive years. modern and environment-friendly propSweden’s growth engine, is growing in erty comprising 43,000 sqm of floor space and 2,000 flexible workplaces. Uarda 1 is just one of many examples of Fabege’s high ambitions in terms of creating susHousing tainable properties from an environmenWhen completed, Arenastaden will feature about 3,000 new residential units, tal and business perspective. corresponding to slightly more than half of the residential portfolio in both Western Kungsholmen and the new Hagastaden. Arenastaden’s 3,000 planned residential units correspond to a three-year rise in demand in Solna. 18 Fabege 2011 THE BUSINESS Events The new Swedbank Arena will be the largest in Scandinavia and one of Europe’s most modern arenas. It will have a capacity of 50,000 seats, which can be expanded to 65,000 for concerts. The arena will serve as the stage for the largest events in Scandinavia and anticipates about 1.5 million annual visitors. The arena, which will be multi-functional, will have a retractable roof and modern technology that will attract visitors from throughout the Nordic region. Largest Nordic arenas Millions of visitors Capacity 2.0 60,000 1.8 50,000 1.6 1.4 40,000 1.2 1.0 30,000 0.8 Swedbank Arena Stockholm Globe 20,000 The Stockholm Parken Arena 0.6 New Ullevi 0.4 Arena (forecast) Arenas* 10,000 0.2 (forecast) (Denmark) 0.0 0 Retail Annual visitors Capacity *The Stockholm Arena separated. Audience ﬁgures from 2009, unless forecast. The Mall of Scandinavia, which is being built Source: Arena Information adjacent to the arena, will be Europe’s largest indoor shopping mall. The centre will feature about 100,000 sqm of ﬂoor space, 230–250 Offices stores and exhibition premises divided among three ﬂoors. Logistics and the choice of materiSolna, with Sweden’s best corporate to the underground service will be facilials will be unique and the ﬁnished complex climate, has shown an exceptionally tated by the integration of the commuter will set a new standard for the shopping exstrong employment trend. Approxitrain and underground service into a perience. Compared with existing competitors, mately 60,000 people commute daily common trafﬁc system. Several bus lines there will be slightly more than 30 per cent to Solna, including many who utilise will also operate in the local vicinity. more ﬂoor space than the largest shopping track-bound public transport to and Excellent parking facilities will be offered centre in Stockholm today, such as Täby and from work. The location of Arenastaden for cars in the area. In the future, entry Skärholmen. A full 1.5 million potential visiis strategic with excellent transport and exit slip roads to the E4 and E18 tors live within a 30-minute drive, half of them facilities, including a modern commuter highways will also be improved to within 15 minutes. The number of expected solution that will be extended to Stockincrease accessibility, thus enhancing visitors is estimated to reach 15 million anholm Arlanda Airport. The Tvärbanan activity in the area. nually and sales are anticipated to be about light rail service will also connect to Fully developed, Arenastaden will 60 per cent higher than in Täby Centrum. the station and thus offer passengers comprise approximately 360,000 sqm According to Newsec’s latest forecast, the antransverse travel options. Once the City of ofﬁce space. This size corresponds to nual purchasing power in Stockholm County Line is completed in 2017, travel time the current areas of Västra Kungsholmen, will increase by the equivalent of a new Täby to Stockholm Central Station will be Marievik or Solna Strand, but with a Centrum. shortened to six minutes. Direct transfers signiﬁcantly more modern property stock. Largest Nordic shopping centre Ofﬁce markets in inner suburbs Sqm 100,000 Travel time from the Stockholm Central Station, minutes 17 17 80,000 16 15 14 14 60,000 Mall of Scandinavia 13 12 11 11 Täby Centrum Kvadrat, NOR 40,000 10 10 Skärholmen Fields, DEN 9 Sello, FIN Emporia Nordstan 8 8 Marievik/Liljeholmen 20,000 7 6 6 5 0 5 Arenastaden Solna Strand V:a Kungs4 Retail space today Retail space 2015 3 Globen 2 Source: Newsec 1 holmen Alvik Kista 0 Source: Newsec 19 Transactions Fabege’s third cornerstone is Business Development, which focuses on transactions, analyses, valuations and portfolio and business development. Acquisitions and sales are a natural feature of what we do. The company continuously analyses its portfolio to take advantage of opportunities to increase capital growth. Fabege aims to acquire properties with good growth potential, located within the company’s sub-markets. We plan to sell the properties at the right time to realise accrued value. Location, condition and vacancies are key factors determining the growth potential of a property. A fully let property with modern and efficient premises but deemed to have limited potential for rent increases and capital growth could thus become a candidate for divestment, unless it forms a strategic part of a property cluster, for instance. As a major player in a significant market, Fabege has built good relationships with local authorities and policy-makers. We also have extensive experience and knowledge about local markets, properties, development plans and other players. This department has ten employees. Valuations of the properties are made by internal valuation experts as well as independent external valuation agencies. A model whereby all properties, 25 per cent per quarter, are subject to external appraisal every quarter ensures a realistic market valuation of the property portfolio. A CT I V I T I E S I N 20 1 1 In 2011, work on concentrating the port99 per cent of the properties are within folio was essentially completed. Some 11 properties were divested at a total value five kilometres of Stockholm inner city. of SEK 936m and five properties were acquired at a value of SEK 518m. All acquisitions were made in Arenastaden, which is a prioritised development area. See the summary of acquired and sold properties on page 24. The properties that remain outside Solna the prioritised submarkets are primarily Stockholm land properties. F OC U S 2 0 1 2 In 2012, Fabege primarily focused on monitoring and reinforcing its market position. The company will also continue to focus intently on optimising value and highlighting Hammarby the opportunities in the portfolio. During the year, we will also be open to acquisition opportunities in our strategic markets, which is entirely in line with Fabege’s business concept. 20 Fabege 2011 THE BUSINESS Investment market1) Stockholm has the most attractive and liquid transaction market in Sweden, accounting for nearly 50 per cent of the Swedish transaction volume in recent years. In 2011, transaction volumes in the Swedish property market amounted to SEK 85bn (98), of which Stockholm accounted for SEK 39bn (42) representing almost 46 per cent of the total Swedish transaction volume. Quality and secure cash flows are generally key factors for investors, which makes the majority of Fabege’s portfolio, with properties in good locations and of good quality, among the most soughtafter investment objects. S T OC K H O L M I N N E R C I T Y The yield requirements for modern office properties in central Stockholm are currently between 4.4 and 4.9 per cent. In other inner city locations outside the city centre, yield requirements range from 4.9 to 5.5 per cent. Fabege estimates that yield requirements throughout Stockholm inner city have the potential to decline Transaction volume/Yield requirements somewhat, due to expected rental growth. % SEKbn 6.5 180 160 S OL N A 6.0 140 In Solna Business Park and Arenastaden, 5.5 120 yield requirements are between 5.5 and 100 6.0 per cent. Fabege foresees increased 5.0 80 demand for office space in these areas, 4.5 60 which will have a positive effect on rental 40 levels and thereby also on the value trend. 4.0 20 In conjunction with the signing and 3.5 0 construction of the Mall of Scandinavia, 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11E 12E 13E Fabege has noted an increase in demand Transaction volume – Sweden, SEKbn Required yield – Stockholm, CBD, % Source: Newsec for premises in Arenastaden, which will have a positive impact on rents and property values. FORECAST Yield requirements, % 2011 2010 The demand for modern premises in Stockholm inner city 4.40–4.90 4.75–5.00 H A M M A R B Y S J Ö S TA D Fabege’s submarkets is favourable and Stockholm inner city, outside city core 4.90–5.50 5.25–5.75 In Hammarby Sjöstad, an office market that the supply of vacant premises is limited, Solna Business Park 5.50–6.00 5.75–6.25 remains in the development phase, yield which indicates that rents will remain Arenastaden 5.50–6.00 5.75–6.25 requirements range from 6.1 to 6.6 per favourable. Fabege’s property portfolio, Hammarby Sjöstad 6.10–6.60 6.25–6.75 cent. In this area, Fabege has also noted incharacterised by solid properties and creased demand for good products, which low risk, provides a foundation for stable Source: Newsec has a positive effect on the rent trend. property values in 2012. 1) Source: Newsec 21 Property portfolio On 31 December 2011, Fabege’s portfolio comprised Fabege's properties are concentrated to the Stockholm region 97 properties with a total lettable area of 1.1m sqm. and divided into three priority The market value was SEK 29.2bn and the rental value sub-markets: Stockholm inner city, Solna and Hammarby Sjöstad. SEK 2.1bn. The financial occupancy rate was 90 per A full 99 per cent of the property cent. Rental income for the year totalled SEK 1,804m portfolio is located within a radius of ﬁve kilometres of the center of and net operating income was SEK 1,227m. Stockholm. Rental value by category, P R O P E RT Y P O RT F O L I O account for 797,000 sqm of space and total SEK 2,098m Fabege’s properties are concentrated to the 72 per cent of the total lettable area. In Ofﬁce 83% Stockholm region and divided into three addition to offices, the portfolio includes priority sub-markets: Stockholm inner retail, industrial/warehouse and residenRetail 7% city, Solna and Hammarby Sjöstad. A full tial space and hotel and garage space. Industrial/ 99 per cent of the property portfolio is warehouse 5% located within a radius of five kilometres C H A N G E S I N T H E P R O P E RT Y P O RT FOLI O Other 5% of the centre of Stockholm. The inner city In 2011, Fabege divested 11 properties. sub-market accounts for 58 per cent of the Most of the sales were aimed at streamtotal market value and 56 per cent of the lining the property portfolio to focus on rented value. prioritised sub-markets, a concentration Lettable area by category, The portfolio mainly comprises comof the portfolio that has now essentially total 1,107,000 sqm mercial premises, mostly offices, which been completed. Five properties were acOfﬁce 72% Breakdown by lettable area, per 31 December 2011 Retail 6% Industrial/ ‘000 sqm Ofﬁce Retail warehouse Hotel Residential Garage Total Industrial/ Stockholm inner city 373 27 30 8 11 48 497 warehouse 10% Solna 325 35 35 10 2 48 455 Hammarby Sjöstad 79 13 29 0 1 8 130 Other 12% Other markets 20 1 4 0 0 0 25 Total 797 76 98 18 14 104 1,107 Property portfolio 31 December 2011 1 January – 31 December 2011 Financial Net operating No. of Lettable area, Market value, Rental value2), occupancy Rental income, Property income, properties ‘000 sqm SEKm Yield, % SEKm rate, % SEKm expenses,SEKm SEKm Property holdings Investment properties1) 70 929 22,773 5,7 1,803 92 1,600 –399 1,201 Development properties1) 9 126 3,692 5,6 235 76 169 –50 119 Land and project properties1) 18 52 2,685 6,1 60 69 19 –11 8 Total 97 1,107 29,150 5,7 2,098 90 1,788 –460 1,328 Inner city 38 497 16,809 5,4 1,181 92 1,028 –266 762 Solna 37 455 9,856 6,2 720 88 598 –137 461 Hammarby Sjöstad 13 130 2,215 6,3 178 84 144 –51 93 Other markets 9 25 270 7,0 19 88 18 –6 12 Total 97 1,107 29,150 5,7 2,098 90 1,788 –460 1,328 Expenses for lettings, project development and property administration –105 Total net operating income after expenses for lettings, project development and property administration 1,2233) 1) See deﬁnitions on page 97. 2) In the rental value, time limited deductions of about SEK 98m were not deducted. 3) The table refers to Fabege’s property portfolio on 31 December 2011. Income and expenses were recognised as if the properties were owned for the entire period. The difference between recognised net operating income above, SEK 1,223m, and net operating income in proﬁt or loss, SEK 1,227m, is due to net operating income from divested properties being excluded, and acquired/completed properties being adjusted upwards as if they were owned/completed during the period of January–December 2011. 22 Fabege 2011 PROPERTY PORTFOLIO Average remaining lease term by sub-market, 31 December 2011 No. of No. of Lease Area properties leases term Stockholm inner city 38 724 3.6 Solna 37 434 3.7 Hammarby Sjöstad 13 308 2.4 Other markets 9 15 4.1 Total/average 97 1,481 3.5 Maturity structure of commercial leases, 31 December 2011 Contracted Due, No. of Area, annual Share, year leases sqm rent, SEKk % 2012 462 132,244 231,529 13 2013 357 183,375 418,321 23 2014 328 139,438 318,964 18 quired during the year, all in Arenastaden. as planned within the set time and cost 2015 178 131,660 307,229 17 Four of the properties are undeveloped frames. At year-end, the occupancy rate in >2016 156 228,550 526,434 29 and comprise plots of about 25,000 sqm the projects was 78 per cent. Total 1,481 815,267 1,802,477 100 that can be developed, primarily for The office project in the Bocken 39 retail space but also for housing. The fifth property on Lästmakargatan is nearly Property-related key ﬁgures property is an office property with about completion. Tenants have assumed occu10,000 sqm of floor space that is a suitable pancy and the property will be transferred 2011 2010 2009 supplement to Fabege’s portfolio in the area. to the investment-property portfolio durNo. of properties 97 103 148 ing the first quarter of 2012. Lettable area, ‘000 sqm 1,107 1,138 1,429 P RO J E C T DE V E L O P M E N T In the Klamparen 10 project on FlemFinancial occupancy rate, % 90 88 90 Investments in existing properties and inggatan and the Apotekaren 22 project Rental value, SEKm 2,098 2,061 2,194 projects in 2011 totalled SEK 1,457m on Tulegatan/Rådmansgatan, the first tenSurplus ratio, % 68 67 67 (907). The investments pertained to new ants have assumed occupancy. Customisabuilds, extensions and conversions. tions for other tenants that are to assume During the first quarter of the year, the occupancy in 2012 are under way. Fair value, projects in the Fräsaren 10, Solna Business The office projects at Uarda 1 and Property portfolio changes SEKm No. Park (leased to Vectura and Axfood) and Uarda 5 in Arenastaden will be completed Property portfolio, 1 Jan 2011 26,969 103 + Acquisitions 518 5 Farao 20, Arenastaden (leased to Egmont for occupancy during the fourth quarter + New builds, extensions and and Fabege) were completed and subseof 2012. conversions 1,468 – quently transferred to the investmentDuring the year, the Board decided on – Sales/other –898 –11 property portfolio. project investments totalling about SEK +/– Unrealised changes in value 1,093 – 1.8bn. Fabege believes that the rate of Property portfolio, 31 Dec 2011 29,150 97 M A J O R O N GOI N G P R O J E C T S investment will remain high in 2012. Fabege is currently pursuing five major office projects. All projects are proceeding Occupancy Carrying Of which, Projects in progress >50 SEKm, 31 December 2011 Lettable rate, % Estimated amount Estimated accrued Property name Property type Area Completed area, sqm Floor area1) rental value2) 31 Dec 2011 investment 31 Dec 2011 Apotekaren 22 3) Ofﬁce Norrmalm Q4-2012 31,599 76 90 1,126 204 79 Bocken 39 3) Ofﬁce Östermalm Q4-2011 19,909 80 75 1,160 149 140 Klamparen 10 Ofﬁce Kungsholmen Q2-2012 22,530 72 66 713 233 140 Uarda 1 Ofﬁce Arenastaden Q3-2012 41,079 60 78 455 533 157 Uarda 5 Ofﬁce Arenastaden Q3-2012 44,500 100 106 940 1,050 642 Total 159,617 78 415 4,394 2,169 1,158 Other Land and Project Properties 577 Other Development Properties 1,406 Total Projects, Land and Development Properties 6,377 1) Operational occupancy rate at 31 December 2011. 2) The annual rent for the largest projects in progress could increase to SEK 415m (fully let) from SEK 132.4m in annualised current rent as of 31 December 2011. 3) Information regarding area, rental value and booked value pertains to the entire property. The investment amount pertains to only a portion of the property. 23 C US T OM E R S lease term was 3.5 years (3.5). In 2011, Fabege has many large, stable companies new leases were signed for 105,000 sqm Fabege’s 15 largest as customers. The customer portfolio is (98,000) of space with a total annual tenants by value well diversified with a large number of rental value of SEK 241m (211). Nasdaq OMX Stockholm tenants from a wide range of industries, Fabege also renegotiated and extended Bonnnier Dagstidningar representing a mix of private businesses existing leases with a total annual rental ICA and public sector organisations. value of SEK 64m (113). Carnegie Investment Bank On 31 December 2011, the contracted Peab Sverige rent was SEK 1,880m (1,811), of which 85 VA C A N C Y R AT I O COOP Sverige Fastigheter EDB Business Partner per cent referred to office premises. The financial occupancy rate was 90 per Praktikertjänst On the same date, the 15 largest tencent (88). The increase was the result of a Swedish Tax Agency ants by value represented a total contract successful letting effort. Svenska Spel value of SEK 559m, or 30 per cent of the Lantbrukarnas Ekonomi total contracted rental value. Cybergymnasiet Nacka The Swedish Migration Board LEASES Max Matthiessen Hotell Kung Karl On 31 December 2011, the portfolio included approximately 1,500 signed leases at a contract value of SEK 1,802m. On 31 December 2011, the 15 largest tenants by value represented a total contract value of On the same date, the average remaining SEK 559m, or 30 per cent of the total contracted rental value. Changes in the property portfolio January–December 2011 Property sales Property acquisitions Lettable Lettable Property name Area Category area, sqm Property name Area Category area, sqm Quarter 1 Quarter 1 Bocken 51 Norrmalm Residential 2,438 Pyramiden 3 Arenastaden Land 0 Grimbergen Belgien Land 0 Signalen 3 Arenastaden Land 0 Quarter 2 Quarter 4 Induktorn 33 Bromma Industrial/Warehouse 17,415 Farao 8 Arenastaden Ofﬁce 5,774 Märsta 15:5 Märsta Land 0 Farao 19 Arenastaden Land 0 Sicklaön 392:1 Danvikstull Land 0 Development Nationalarenan 8 Arenastaden right 0 Uarda 2 Arenastaden Land 0 Total property acquisitions 5,774 Quarter 3 Näsby 4:1472 Tyresö Land 0 Quarter 4 Kåkenhusen 38 Östermalm Ofﬁce/Retail 6,688 Påsen 8 Hammarby Industrial/Warehouse 3,096 Racketen 11 Alvik Land 0 Styckjunkaren 4 Huvudsta Land 0 Total property sales 29,637 24 Fabege 2011 PROPERTY PORTFOLIO Valuation of the property portfolio In 2011, the property market improved further, particularly in the sub-markets in which Fabege is active. Significant demand resulted in higher property prices and thus impacted Fabege’s portfolio in the shape of positive unrealised value changes. Letting efforts progressed favourably during the year, particularly in Fabege’s project properties. As a result, Fabege recognised considerable positive unrealised value changes in both projects and investment properties. Fabege’s ten largest properties by value P R O P E RT Y VA L U E corresponds to a value increase of about Property Area Sqm At 31 December 2011, the portfolio had 4.2 per cent during the year. The value Trängkåren 7 Marieberg 76,716 an estimated market value of SEK 29.2bn change resulted from declining yield Norra (27.0). The average discount rate for the requirements and from future cash flows. Djurgårds portfolio was 7.9 per cent (7.9) and is To this should be added value growth Ladugårdsgärdet 1:48 staden 37,765 based on the nominal interest rate on fivethrough project gains. Bocken 39 Norrmalm 19,909 year government bonds plus a premium The average yield requirement in the Apotekaren 22 Norrmalm 31,599 for general property-related risk general property portfolio declined 0.14 per cent Solna risk for properties and for object-specific compared with year-end 2010. The yield Fräsaren 11 Business Park 39,383 premiums. The weighted required yield has declined in all sub-markets. The net Uarda 5 Arenastaden 0 at the end of the calculation period was impact of the value changes increased Solna Fräsaren 12 Business Park 36,526 5.7 per cent (5.9). further as a result of improved cash flows Solna in the properties and positive results from Smeden 1 Business Park 45,693 VA L U E C H A N G E S projects. The investments made in the portBocken 35 Norrmalm 15,362 Unrealised value changes on Fabege’s folio will ultimately lead to a lower vacancy Barnhusväderproperties totalled SEK 1,093m (843) ratio and higher rents in the portfolio, thus kvarnen 36 Norrmalm 25,642 during the year. The write-up/increase bolstering cash flow and value growth. Market value and yields by sub-market Market value, 31 Dec 2011, Submarket (SEKm) % Yield, % Valuation data Stockholm inner city 16,809 58 5.4 Each property is valued separately withnormalised running and maintenance Solna 9,856 34 6.2 out taking portfolio effects into account. costs. Hammarby Sjöstad 2,215 7 6.3 External property valuations are based Information from public sources Other markets 270 1 7.0 on the following valuation data: concerning the land area of the Fabege total 29,150 100 5.7 Quality-assured information from properties, leaseholds and detailed Fabege, including each property’s development plans for undeveloped speciﬁc prospects, taking into acland and developable properties. Unrealised value changes, Properties count factors such as condition, Properties are inspected regularly SEKm location, leases, running and and all properties have been in1,600 maintenance costs, vacancies, lease spected in the past three years. The 1,200 duration and planned investments. aim of the inspections is to assess the 800 An analysis of existing tenants is also properties’ overall standard, condi400 made. tion and attractiveness. For larger 0 Current assessments of trends in conversions or other major value–400 rents, vacancies and required impacting events, new inspections –800 yields for relevant geographic and are conducted in connection with the character-deﬁned markets as well as external valuation. –1,200 –1,600 07 08 09 10 11 25 VA L UAT I O N PR I N C I P L E S Newsec Analys AB, whose appraisers investments over a fiveor ten-year All properties in Fabege’s portfolio are are authorised by ASPECT, the Associaperiod is calculated. The present value externally valued at least once a year tion for Chartered Surveying, Property of the residual value at the end of the by independent appraisers. Since 2000, Evaluation and Transactions. Valuations period is also calculated. All premises are property valuations have been conducted were performed regularly during the year. subject to an individual market-based in accordance with the guidelines estabEach quarter, internal valuations are also assessment of rents. For leased premises, lished by the Swedish Property Index. conducted of parts of the portfolio, as well an estimated market rent is used for the In 2011, the properties were valued by as an internal overall value assessment of cash flow calculations after the expirathe entire portfolio. The internal valuation tion of the lease. The assessment of such is performed using the same methodology factors as market rents, future running as the external valuations. costs and investments was performed by external appraisers using information P R O P E RT Y C AT E G O R I E S from Fabege’s organisation. Operating Valued properties are divided into the and maintenance expenses were based on The properties’ expected future cash following categories: historical results, and on budget figures ﬂow during the selected calculation Investment Properties in normal operaand statistics pertaining to similar properperiod is measured as follows: tion, for which a cash flow valuation is ties. Cash flow analyses with calculation + Rent payments performed. periods exceeding five years are applied if – Running costs (including Project Properties undergoing major deemed motivated due to long leases. property tax and ground redevelopment with contracted tenrent) ants, for which a cash flow valuation is Other Project Properties – Maintenance costs performed. Valuations of Other Project Properties are Other Project Properties and undevelbased on the prevailing planning condi= Net operating income oped land valued using the locationtions and listed price levels in connection – Less investments price method. with the sale of undeveloped land and = Cash ﬂow building rights. The value of on-going Investment and Project Properties new builds is generally deemed to corFor Investment Properties, a cash flow respond to the property’s market value model is used in which the present value plus project expenses paid at the time of of net operating income less reinvested valuation. 26 Fabege 2011 COMPETITION DESCRIPTION Competition description Intense competition and many players The markets on which Fabege is active are characterised by intense for specialisation. High geographic concentration and focus on offices generates a competition. A large number of property companies and institutional high degree of knowledge of the sub-marplayers focus on property types and geographic areas that overlap kets on which the company focuses and those of Fabege to some extent. makes it possible to develop entire areas. Another key competitive advantage is the The competitive situation can be deThe risk for many institutional property ability to satisfy customer requirements, scribed from two perspectives; the propowners could constitute potential for by offering a high degree of adaptation of erty market and the market for rentals. Fabege in the creation of value through premises to suit customer needs. Close On the Stockholm property market, property development. Consequently, proximity to customers is key. Fabege has Fabege cooperates with several major exchange transactions between Fabege and modern, efficient premises in attractive property companies, as well institutional these property owners, whereby Fabege prime locations and also builds new propplayers and many private property ownsells completed developed properties with erties when required. The organisation ers. With its focus and direction on propstable cash flows in return for properties consists of customised teams of employerty management, property development with development potential, are not ees focusing on new lettings, project and transactions, Fabege is becoming a unusual. The relatively high growth in development and property management; niche player whose operations supplethe Stockholm market ensures favourable all designed to create customer-adapted ment those who focus on institutional value growth in Fabege’s concentrated solutions and good business. ownership in Stockholm. Fabege possesses property portfolio. Environmental issues are another expertise and experience in developing When competing for customers, the increasingly important competitive tool. and improving properties, and in finding location and condition of properties are Fabege has long had a strong focus on the customers for these development projects. key competitive advantages. Fabege strives environment and sustainability. The company’s development activities are characFabege and its competitors, December 2011 terised by an environmental approach, in the form of environmental classification Degree of specialisation to type of property Catena of new buildings and the offering of green Heba Hufvudstaden leases. Fabege has several Sustainable City Sagax FABEGE development projects and also supports High Klövern the UN’s Global Compact. Castellum Atrium Ljungberg Finally, a stable balance sheet and Corem excellent relations with lenders and other Wihlborgs parties generate competitive advantages. FastPartner Fabege is a partner with the strength and Brinova ability to drive the development of the Dagon Diös offices of tomorrow. Kungsleden As a result of efforts in recent years to Low Wallenstam streamline and concentrate the property portfolio, Fabege is now one of the most Balder specialised companies in the Swedish property market. Degree of geographic concentration Source: Leimdörfer Low High Competitors, key ﬁgures 2011 Market No. of Lettable area, Rental income, Occupancy, Company Investment focus Main geographic market Owner value, SEKm properties ‘000 sqm SEKm % Fabege Ofﬁce, retail Stockholm Listed 29,150 97 1,107 1,788 90 Vasakronan Ofﬁce, retail Stockholm, Uppsala, 1–4 AP-fonden 82,370 216 2,762 6,048 93 Gothenburg, Malmö, Lund Diligentia1) Ofﬁce, retail, residential Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö Skandia Liv 30,322 135 1,305 2,246 94 Hufvudstaden Ofﬁce, retail Stockholm, Gothenburg Listed 22,300 n.a2) 365 1,437 96 AMF Fastigheter Ofﬁce, retail, residential Stockholm, Gothenburg AMF Pension 35,000 31 636 1,900 n.a2) Humlegården 1) Ofﬁce, retail Stockholm Länsförsäkringar 8,546 41 282 521 88 1) Figures pertain to 2010. 2) No information available. 27 Market review by Newsec Advice AB The Greater Stockholm office market is the most liquid market in Sweden. The country has excellent economic fundamentals, with domestic demand as the principal growth engine in coming years. The region had a stable employment trend during the recent recession, primarily due to an expanding service sector. This factor, combined with low inflation and low interest rates, is generating growth potential for office properties in the Scandinavian capital. In early 2011, expectations of a continued Macroeconomic indicators – Sweden strong economic trend were high based Per cent 6 on 2010, when Sweden strengthened its 5 strong position compared with other 4 European countries and had GDP growth 3 2 of a full 5.7 per cent. During the autumn, 1 the turbulence in the business environ0 –1 ment increased, which was followed by a –2 significant hike in risk premiums in the –3 Euro zone and notable credit restrictions, –4 –5 mainly by European banks. The turmoil –6 has not yet had any great impact on 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11E 12E 13E Stockholm’s businesses and the economic Private consumption Employment GDP Inﬂation Source: Newsec cycle in the county remains strong, but Rents and vacancies the growth rate decreased in the most SEK Per cent recent quarter. Sweden has excellent 5,500 16.0 economic fundamentals and domestic 5,000 14.0 demand will be able in part to offset the 4,500 12.0 weak conditions in the Euro zone in 2012. 10.0 4,000 Lower interest rates and an improved 8.0 3,500 household climate will generate higher 6.0 domestic demand, which is the most 3,000 4.0 significant growth engine. 2,500 2.0 2,000 0.0 G R O W I N G POP U L AT I O N A N D D I V E R S I 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11E 12E 13E FIED BUSINESS COMMUNITY CONTRIBUOfﬁce rents CDB, SEK Ofﬁce rents Inner City, SEK Vacancy rate CBD, % Vacancy rate Stockholm, % T E D T O S TA B L E G R O W T H Source: Newsec The entire Stockholm City and Stockholm tor. The largest branches are banking and of office space. A strong employment trend County is expanding, in terms of both the finance, IT and other consulting operations. is a guarantee for increased demand for number of inhabitants and companies. The service sector, which has a high degree commercial premises, a trend that was More than 20 per cent of the Swedish of office-based operations, remained strong underscored even more clearly in 2011 population lives in the Greater Stockholm in 2011 and is expected to develop relatively when demand for high-quality offices was area and the region has had nearly twice well in coming years, primarily in Stockmuch higher than for offices in secondas much growth, in terms of population holm, despite a declining total employary locations. During 2011, as a result of percentage, as the rest of the country ment trend in Sweden in 2012–2013. For the financial crisis of 2008–2009, slightly during the 2000s. It is estimated that the industry, the prospects are gloomy and this more than 40,000 sqm of office space was population increase will remain strong in is where the approaching global recession completed, which caused many project the future and that the Stockholm region will be noticed most distinctly. starts to be postponed. Approximately will also be the growth engine in the 80 per cent of the office space that reached Swedish economy in coming years, which S T R O N G O F F I CE M A R K E T T H AT D E M A N D S the market in 2011 has now been let. New will benefit the local property market. Q U A L I T Y A N D E F F I CI E N CY production for 2012 is back at a historiThe business community in Greater The Greater Stockholm office market cally normal level, of about 130,000 sqm, Stockholm is dominated by the service seccomprises approximately 12 million sqm of which more than 90 per cent is pre-let. 28 Fabege 2011 MARKET REVIEW Major leases were signed during 2011 in the regional economy in coming years. Main landlords in the Stockholm region, commercial premises for the few on-going new-development The sector’s office-based operations have projects in Stockholm that were started contributed to higher demand for modern Floor area Owner (sqm) on the basis of speculation. The number offices. A strong office market in the CBD, Vasakronan 1,790,000 of refurbishment projects has increased with high rents and low vacancy rates, is but those in progress are largely in smaller expected to favour close-to-the-city locaStockholms Kommun 1,440,000 buildings. tions. In the inner city, excluding the CBD, Fabege 880,000 During 2011, rents rose across the the vacancy rate has recently declined Atrium Ljungberg 490,000 board, although growth declined someand is estimated to amount to 7.5 per AMF Fastigheter 460,000 what late in the year. In Stockholm, office cent, while rents have risen by more than Diligentia 360,000 vacancies are down to historically low levels. 5 per cent in 2011 to about SEK 2,650/ Rodamco 330,000 Combined with the country’s excellent sqm. A more moderate rent increase is AFA Fastigheter 320,000 economic fundamentals, this is estimated expected in 2012. Activity was high in the Castellum 310,000 to generate higher rents in 2012. Tenants inner city in 2011 and attractive premises Hufvudstaden 290,000 are demanding modern and flexible were leased rapidly. New production has Source: Newsec premises, a trend that is having an adverse been concentrated primarily to Västra impact on older properties. Adaptable Kungsholmen, which continues to depital is another key to the future since the premises enable less office space per emvelop jointly with Hagastaden and Norra project will link Stockholm to Solna and ployee, generating lower total workplace Djurgårdsstaden, which will be major will create a world-leading science centre. costs, thus creating scope for higher rent expansion areas. In 2012, new space will be available in priper sqm. As a result of this, the discrepThe market rent levels for offices in marily Arenastaden. The market rent for ancy in vacancies and rents between old the CBD have risen to SEK 4,400/sqm, an modern offices in Solna Station and Solna and new portfolios is expected to increase increase of nearly 15 per cent since 2010. Business Park has remained relatively stafurther in the future. Top rents have increased to more than ble in 2011 at just under SEK 2,000/sqm. SEK 5,000/sqm and the vacancy rate has O F F I C E BA S E D I N N E R C I T Y SE R V I C E decreased to 4.5 per cent, from 7.0 per H A M M A R B Y S J Ö S TA D – M A R K E T T RE ND S E C T OR E X PA N D S cent in 2010. The rent level is expected to G E N E R AT E S R E N T P O T E N T I A L The inner city has been, and is estimated increase somewhat in 2012. Hammarby Sjöstad has been one of the to remain, the most attractive sub-market largest development areas in Greater in Stockholm. Commuting potential has S O L N A – R A P I D LY G R O W I N G M U N I Stockholm in the past decade. The office increased significantly in recent decades C I PA L I T Y, W I T H A N E S TA B L I S H E D A N D portfolio in Hammarby Sjöstad is curand has contributed to a higher number of E X PA N D I N G O F F I CE M A R K E T rently estimated at about 120,000 sqm. commuters. The T-centralen station is curSolna has an established corporate culture It is only in recent years that high-class rently the largest transfer point in Stockand an attractive office market, with exceloffice space has been added to the office holm County and will remain so for the lent transport facilities. Many commute market in Hammarby Sjöstad, which has foreseeable future, thus generating rising daily to work to a business community driven the rent trend. Despite the relademand for premises with relatively short that is benefiting from Sweden’s most tively low vacancy rate, about 20 per cent, commuting distance from there. The inner company-friendly municipality. The most activity in the rental market was high in city consists of 6.2 million sqm of office attractive sub-areas include Solna Busi2011. The market rent is about SEK 1,700/ space, of which 1.9 million sqm is located ness Park and Frösunda, which will be sqm, but could rise to SEK 2,200/sqm in in the Central Business District (CBD). supplemented by Arenastaden in a couple the modern parts of the stock. Rents are The Stockholm region has a major of years. The city-district development in expected to rise somewhat in 2012. service sector, which will generate stability Hagastaden and the New Karolinska HosSOLNA STOCKHOLM SOLNA ARENASTADEN CBD BUSINESS PARK SEK 1,500–1,900/sqm HAMMARBY STOCKHOLM SEK 3,800–4,400/sqm SEK 1,800–2,000/sqm SJÖSTAD OUTSIDE CITY SEK 1,500–1,800/sqm SEK 1,900–2,650/sqm 29 Fabege is the second largest commercial property owner in the inner city of Stockholm, with 38 properties comprising 497,000 sqm of floor space. Fabege’s share of the office market in Stockholm inner city 6% 30 Fabege 2011 FABEGE’S MARKETS Stockholm inner city Stockholm inner city is the largest office market in the Nordic Rental value by category Ofﬁce 86% region. With approximately 6.2 million sqm of space, this submarket accounts for slightly more than 51 per cent of all office Retail 7% space in Greater Stockholm. The inner city is attractive to tenants Industrial/ warehouse 2% thanks to the central location, prestigious addresses, excellent transport facilities and a high service level. Other 5% Fabege is the second largest property landsgatan–Lästmakargatan area, close to Lettable area by category owner in Stockholm inner city, with 38 Stureplan, Fabege owns a well contained Ofﬁce 76% properties comprising 497,000 sqm. The cluster of six properties. In these property Retail 6% portfolio is dominated by modern offices blocks, Fabege is conducting an extensive and retail outlets in prime locations. Curproject aimed at reinvigorating a central Industrial/ warehouse 5% rently, offices account for 76 per cent of backstreet, thus creating an attractive the portfolio, which represents a market location in the very heart of the city. share of 6 per cent of the office market in Another prioritised area for Fabege is Other 13% Stockholm inner city. Norrtull/Norra Stationsområdet, where The rental value of Fabege’s properties the company now owns five properties, Key ﬁgures 2011 in Stockholm inner city is SEK 1,181m, of which the Wenner-Gren Center is the No. of properties 38 which represents 56 per cent of the landmark property. In the Kungsholmen Market value, SEKm 16,809 Group’s total rental value. At year-end district of Stockholm, Fabege owns Lettable area, ‘000 sqm 497 2011, the occupancy rate in the area was buildings such as the DN Tower and the Financial occupancy rate, % 92 about 92 per cent. adjacent low-rise buildings. Remaining contract term, years 3,6 For many sectors, a central location is Fabege’s rents experienced a positive Rental value, SEKm 1,181 a high priority and price sensitivity is low, trend during the year. Ahead of 2012, which is reflected in high rents. Tenants a stabilisation of the rental market is in the city centre mainly comprise finance expected. Largest tenants sqm companies, law firms, management conNasdaq OMX Stockholm 34,000 Market rate and vacancy rate sultants and other consultancies. Bonnier Dagstidningar AB 28,000 Market rate, Occupancy The main concentration of properSEK/sqm rate, % Lantbrukarnas Ekonomi AB 12,000 ties in the portfolio is in the area around Stockholm inner city 3,800–4,400 95.5 Carnegie Investment Bank AB 10,000 Kungsgatan and Drottninggatan. Fabege’s Outside city 1,900–2,650 92.5 Cybergymnasiet i Nacka AB 10,000 holdings around Drottninggatan comprise eight properties. In the Kungsgatan–NorrSource: Newsec 31 Solna In 2011, Solna was named Sweden’s most business-friendly municipality for the sixth year by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. With its dynamic business climate and strong population growth, Solna is in the midst of an exciting development phase. About 60,000 people commute daily to Solna. The total ofﬁce market is about 1 million sqm. Rental value by category Fabege is Solna’s largest owner of comScandinavia, are two major landmarks Ofﬁce 82% mercial properties and thus has a unique currently being built in Arenastaden. opportunity to be involved in the renewal The emergence of the new district will Retail 7% of entire districts. generate a positive trend for rents in the Industrial/ warehouse 5% Fabege owns 37 properties in Solna area. The year-end occupancy rate was with total floor space of 455,000 sqm, about 80 per cent. of which offices account for 73 per cent. Other 6% This corresponds to a share of nearly S O L N A B U S I N E S S PA R K 35 per cent of the office market in Solna. Solna Business Park is a property area Lettable area by category The rental value is about SEK 720m, comprising an established business Ofﬁce 73% representing 34 per cent of the company’s park. For example, ICA, EDB and Coop Retail 7% total rental value. have located their headquarters in the area. Solna Business Park has excellent Industrial/ A R E N A STA D E N transport facilities and acts as a hub for warehouse 7% In Arenastaden, Fabege is building and the underground, commuter trains, longdeveloping a vibrant city district featurdistance trains, buses and the forthcoming Other 13% ing offices, retail stores, housing and an Tvärbanan light railway. attractive environment. The area has exMany tenants in Solna Business Park Key ﬁgures 2011 cellent transport facilities as a result of its are stable customers with long leases. No. of properties 37 proximity to Stockholm Arlanda Airport The occupancy rate in the area was about Market value, SEKm 9,856 and the European Route E4, as well as the 90 per cent at year-end 2011. Lettable area, ‘000 sqm 455 planned expansion of commuter trains, Financial occupancy rate, % 88 the Tvärbanan light railway and buses. OTHER AREAS OF SOLNA Remaining contract term, years 3.7 Swedbank Arena and the largest shopFabege also owns a few properties in other Rental value, SEKm 720 ping centre in the Nordic region, Mall of areas of Solna. Largest tenants sqm ICA 27,000 Peab Sverige AB 20,000 Svenska Spel AB 18,000 Swedish Tax Agency 16,000 COOP Sverige Fastigheter AB 13,000 Market rents and occupancy rate Market rate, Occupancy SEK/sqm rate, % Arenastaden 1,500–1,900 80 Solna Business Park 1,800–2,000 90 Source: Newsec 32 Fabege 2011 FABEGE’S MARKETS Fabege's Fabege is the largest share of the office commercial property owner market in Solna. in Solna with 37 properties 35% comprising a total of 455,000 sqm of space. 33 Fabege is the largest commercial property owner in Hammarby Sjöstad, with 13 properties comprising 130,000 sqm of floor space. Fabege's share of the office market in Hammarby Sjöstad. 65% 34 Fabege 2011 FABEGE’S MARKETS Hammarby Sjöstad Hammarby Sjöstad is one of Stockholm’s most interesting areas. An Rental value by category Ofﬁce 70% attractive new city district has been developed on former industrial grounds and quickly became popular for residential and business Retail 8% purposes. Hammarby Sjöstad’s ofﬁce market totals about 120,000 sqm Industrial/ warehouse 19% of floor space. Other 3% Fabege is the largest owner of commercial character of the company’s commercial Lettable area by category premises in Hammarby Sjöstad. The compremises in the area is gradually shifting, Ofﬁce 60% pany owns 13 commercial properties with from light industry to services. Fabege Retail 9% total floor space of 130,000 sqm in the has, for example, invested in upgrading area. The rental value is about SEK 178m, and developing the Luma property. DurIndustrial/ warehouse 25% representing 8 per cent of the company’s ing 2011, the Hammarby Gård 7 property total rental value. Offices account for 60 was also developed – a section of land per cent of Fabege’s premises, representhere was sold for the construction of Other 6% ing 65 per cent of the office market in housing and a unique hotel is being built Hammarby Sjöstad. At year-end 2011, the on the remaining land. Key ﬁgures 2011 occupancy rate in the area was about 80 Rents have increased over the past few No. of properties 13 per cent. years, and are expected to continue to Market value, SEKm 2,215 Hammarby Sjöstad has evolved into a rise. The proximity to the inner city, good Lettable area, ‘000 sqm 130 highly attractive city district, for residents transport links and the exclusive waterFinancial occupancy rate, % 84 and companies. The area has excellent front location all create a special character Remaining contract term, years 2.4 transport facilities through the Tvärbathat is attracting creative service-sector Rental value, SEKm 178 nan light rail line, ferries and local bus companies such as architectural firms, services. In coming years, Fabege will advertising agencies and TV production focus on further establishing Hammarby companies. Largest tenants sqm Sjöstad as an attractive office market. Upplands Motor Stockholm Söder AB 4,000 Market rents and occupancy rate As the single largest owner and manPoint Transaction Systems AB 4,000 ager of office properties in Hammarby Market rents, SEK/sqm 1,500–1,800 Vitvaruspecialisten Sjöstad, Fabege has the opportunity to Occupancy rate, % 80 Nordin & Ölwing AB 3,000 influence the landscape of the area. The Source: Newsec Wallmans Nöjen AB 3,000 WSP Sverige AB 3,000 35 Property listing Stockholm inner city 31 December 2011 28 13 1412 öv äg en ing Lid 25 Vasastaden Val h alla väg en 35 1 n ge Valh avä NORRMALM allav äge S ve n 21 lsg 2 ar rJ 38 15-16 Dro ge ttn Bir 27 Karla32 Tegnéring 31 lunden ga 17 ata n Östermalm plan tan 29 STURE36 Karla väg en 10lmes g ata Sve PLAN Nar f Pa avä Bir vavä Olo gen rJ Linn 24 23 Norrmalm 3– 7 ge gen éga tan n a 22 Norrmalms ata Vas sg 19 34 arl Kungsholmen Flemin ata n 33 an Hamngatan Sergels torg gat ggatan gsg Torg Kun KungsNy 18 trädbro olmsv. legata Kung 8 vik Drottningh n sholm s 9 gården e n Nybroviken ga Schee tan 26 37 Slottet Norr larstrand rr Mätrand Mälars n No Djurgården de Skeppsbr e le Gamla stan on Vä s Mu GAMLA ter nkbr 30 bro Riddarfjärden o le de STAN n n nd Långholmen Söder Mälarstra Vasadjupet 11 Södermalm Götg atan ● 6 en ● Sö 7 de rtä Rin gv äg lje en vä g 20 5 21 38 Bocken 46 Ladugårdsgärdet 1:48 Ynglingen 10 36 Fabege 2011 PROPERTY LISTING ar ye wa ust re rial e, ho / on qm us e, sq To As m t s ar al le m SE esse cti Re sid Pa old ,s sq en tia Ot rkin ea , s ttab tr u K d es l, sq eh il, m he g/ ns fic Ind Ho r, ’0 va q m le ta Property name Area Street Le as Co Of Re tel s, sq m sq m 00 lu INNER CITY Döbelnsg 20, 24, Kungstensg 21–23, Rådmansg 40,42, 1 Apotekaren 22 1) Norrmalm Tuleg 7 A–B 13 1902/2002 27,284 0 1,315 0 0 3,000 31,599 0 2 Barnhusväderkvarnen 36 Norrmalm Rådmansg 61–65 1963 13,889 1,253 1,535 0 0 8,965 25,642 437,000 3 Bocken 35 Norrmalm Lästmakarg 22–24 1951 14,616 301 445 0 0 0 15,362 596,000 Lästmakarg 20, 4 Bocken 391) Norrmalm Kungsg 7–15 1931 14,944 3,094 1,651 0 0 220 19,909 545,000 5 Bocken 46 Norrmalm Regeringsgatan 56 1977 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 Bocken 47 Norrmalm Lästmakarg 8 T 1929 531 665 0 0 0 0 1,196 30,800 7 Bocken 521) Norrmalm Lästmakargatan 14–16 548 0 0 1,182 0 0 1,730 41,800 8 Drabanten 3 Kungsholmen Kungsbroplan 3 m ﬂ 1907 6,478 0 73 0 0 0 6,551 129,000 9 Duvan 6 Norrmalm Klara Södra Kyrkogata 1 1975 9,579 0 85 0 0 211 9,875 308,000 10 Fenix 1 Norrmalm Barnhusgatan 3 T 1929 3,368 48 255 0 0 0 3,671 84,000 11 Fiskaren Större 3 Södermalm Götgatan 21 1930 235 993 0 1,375 0 0 2,603 52,000 12 Getingen 13 Vasastan Sveavägen 149 T 1963 10,716 610 2,855 0 0 2,415 16,600 213,000 13 Getingen 14 Vasastan Sveavägen 143–147 T 1953 11,177 0 315 0 0 1,231 12,723 166,000 14 Getingen 15 Vasastan Sveavägen 159 T 1963 12,632 2,970 7,162 0 0 0 22,764 90,980 Franzéng 6, 15 Glädjen 12 Stadshagen Hornsbergs Strand 17 T 1949 12,337 0 0 0 0 0 12,337 255,000 16 Glädjen 132) Stadshagen T 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 53,000 17 Grönlandet Södra 13 Norrmalm Adolf Fredriks Kyrkogata 8 1932 8,193 0 0 0 0 0 8,193 258,000 18 Hägern Mindre 7 Norrmalm Drottninggatan 27–29 T 1971 8,338 1,675 1,109 0 0 2,167 13,289 357,000 19 Klamparen 102) Kungsholmen Fleminggatan 12 1986 20,487 0 2,043 0 0 0 22,530 332,000 20 Kolonnen 7 Södermalm Götgatan 95, m ﬂ 1965 2,161 116 67 1,082 0 345 3,771 72,000 21 Ladugårdsgärdet 1:48 Värtahamnen Tullvaktsvägen 5–23 1930/49 37,765 0 0 0 0 0 37,765 574,532 Bryggarg 4, G:a Brog 13A, 22 Lammet 17 Norrmalm Korgmakargr 4 T 1982 5,326 317 737 0 0 479 6,859 0 23 Läraren 5 Norrmalm Torsgatan 2 A 1904/29 3,653 0 68 578 0 1 4,300 86,400 24 Läraren 13 Norrmalm Torsgatan 4 1904/29 6,837 0 0 0 0 0 6,837 189,000 Hagagatan 25 A–C, 25 Mimer 5 Vasastan Vanadisvägen 9 1957 11,672 0 75 0 0 5 11,752 0 26 Murmästaren 7 Kungsholmen Kungsholmstorg 16 1898 2,519 472 79 0 0 0 3,070 64,800 27 Norrtälje 24 Norrmalm Engelbrektsgatan 5–7 1881 6,365 0 173 0 0 526 7,064 232,000 28 Ormträsket 10 Vasastan Sveavägen 166–170, 186 1962/1967 13,381 3,706 494 0 0 2,071 19,652 281,000 Luntmakarg 18, 29 Oxen Mindre 33 Norrmalm Malmskillnadsg 47 A, B 1979 8,471 0 154 2,823 0 1,573 13,021 247,000 S Nygatan 40–42, 30 Pan 1 Gamla Stan L Nygatan 23 1929 2,326 721 0 102 0 0 3,149 74,470 31 Paradiset 23 Stadshagen Strandbergsg 53–57 1944 8,837 316 3,012 0 0 1,655 13,820 164,000 32 Paradiset 27 Stadshagen Strandbergsg 59–65 1959 20,016 4,038 1,006 0 0 2,229 27,289 377,000 33 Pilen 27 Norrmalm Bryggarg 12 A 1907 1,965 0 116 0 0 0 2,081 58,400 34 Pilen 31 Norrmalm Gamla Brog 27–29, Vasag 38 T 1988 5,148 1,134 60 0 2,577 571 9,490 249,000 35 Resedan 3 Vasastan Dalagatan 13 1929 2,473 0 0 1,007 0 2 3,482 0 36 Sparven 18 Östermalm Birger Jarlsg 21–23, Kungsg 2 1929 1,936 1,642 30 0 5,097 0 8,705 290,000 Gjörwellsg 30–34, 37 Trängkåren 7 Marieberg Rålambsv 7–15 1963 49,975 1,927 4,765 0 0 20,049 76,716 895,100 38 Ynglingen 10 Östermalm Jungfrug 23, 27, Karlav 58–60 1929 7,070 1,308 247 2,399 0 526 11,550 288,400 TOTAL INNER CITY 373,248 27,306 29,926 10,548 7,674 48,241 496,942 8,091,682 The list of properties contains all properties owned by Fabege at 31 December 2011. Unless otherwise stated, the property is classiﬁed as an investment property, meaning a property under regular and active management. 1) Development property – Properties in which a conversion or extension is in progress or planned that has a signiﬁcant impact on the property’s net operating income. Net operating income is affected either directly by the project or by limitations on lettings prior to impending development work. 2) Land & project property – Land and developable properties and properties in which a new build/complete redevelopment is in progress. 37 Property listing Solna 31 December 2011 31 Bergshamravägen Enköpingsvägen 36−37 Nöten 4 30 gen Frösunda Råstasjön Lötsjön 19 Arenastaden 21 en Uppsalaväg 10 n 11 17 ge 16 20lvä Da 7 15 1 2 14 en 3 äg 13 Rå idv Solna sun 4 Näckrosen da v äg 5 ram en 8 Py 18 Råsunda Solna dbyberg 33 station Hagalund 32 Solna Business Park v. 26 Solna ergs Centrum Soln enb 28 den Ek 25 av 19 dale 29 Frö sun äg en Uarda 1 27 et sa 23 Sv rväg 24 en Lilla Alby 22 31 Bällstaviken Hu vu Huvudsta ds tale de Stor n ga t 34–35 an Västra skogen Armégatan 21 Uarda 5 38 Fabege 2011 PROPERTY LISTING ar ye wa ust re rial e, ho / on qm us e, sq To As m t s ar al le m SE esse cti Re sid Pa ,s sq en tr u tia Ot rkin ea , s ttab K d es l, sq il, m he g/ ns fic Ind Ho r, ’0 va q m le ta Property name Area Street Co Of Re tel s, sq m sq m 00 lu ARENASTADEN 1 Farao 8 Arenastaden Dalvägen 12, Pyramidvägen 11 2001 5,218 240 316 0 0 0 5,774 68,915 2 Farao 141) Arenastaden Dalvägen 10, Pyramidvägen 7, 9 1967 9,095 406 1,020 0 0 1,174 11,695 83,400 3 Farao 15 Arenastaden Dalvägen 8, Pyramidvägen 5 1981 6,427 708 1,016 0 0 1,020 9,171 83,496 4 Farao 16 Arenastaden Dalvägen 4–6, Pyramidvägen 3 1973 2,861 1,409 1,442 0 0 540 6,252 53,600 5 Farao 17 Arenastaden Dalvägen 2, Pyramidvägen 1975 5,017 0 509 0 0 195 5,721 39,600 6 Farao 192) Arenastaden 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 Farao 20 Arenastaden Pyramidvägen 7 2010 7,260 0 127 0 0 375 7,762 103,400 8 Kairo 1 Arenastaden Pyramidvägen 2 1983 10,741 0 0 0 0 0 10,741 117,600 9 Solna Nationalarenan 8 Arenastaden 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 Pyramiden 32) Arenastaden Pyramidvägen 4–6, Magasinvägen 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,800 11 Pyramiden 4 Arenastaden Pyramidvägen 20 1960 3,019 0 70 0 0 10 3,099 43,000 12 Signalen 32) Arenastaden 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 37,168 13 Stigbygeln 2 Arenastaden Gårdsvägen 6 1955 8,898 0 0 0 0 0 8,898 102,000 14 Stigbygeln 3 Arenastaden Gårdsvägen 8 1960 4,814 0 998 0 0 0 5,812 63,400 15 Stigbygeln 5 Arenastaden Gårdsvägen 10 A, B 1964 6,820 0 0 0 0 570 7,390 83,800 16 Stigbygeln 6 Arenastaden Gårdsvägen 12–18 2001 9,113 581 271 0 0 6 9,971 174,800 17 Tygeln 3 Arenastaden Gårdsvägen 13–21 2001 4,436 0 0 0 0 5,100 9,536 74,073 18 Tömmen 2 Arenastaden Gårdsvägen 2 0 0 0 0 0 2,610 2,610 0 19 Uarda 12) Arenastaden Dalvägen 22A–C, 22–30 1987 11,741 480 4,323 0 0 0 16,544 29,600 20 Uarda 4 Arenastaden Dalvägen 14–16 1992 6,374 0 1,558 0 0 0 7,939 98,600 21 Uarda 52) Arenastaden Dalvägen 18, Magasinvägen 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 89,000 TOTAL ARENASTADEN 101,834, 3,824 11,677 0 0 11,600 128,935 1,351,252 SOLNA BUSINESS PARK 22 Fräsaren 10 Solna Business Park Svetsarvägen 24 1964 6,981 4,241 285 0 0 56 11,563 116,800 Englundavägen 2–4, 23 Fräsaren 11 Solna Business Park Svetsarvägen 4–10 1962 33,118 0 1,815 0 1,840 2,610 39,383 418,000 24 Fräsaren 12 Solna Business Park Svetsarvägen 12–18, 20, 20A 1964 19,404 10,109 173 0 0 6,840 36,526 446,000 25 Sliparen 11) Solna Business Park Ekensbergsv 115, Svetsarv 1–3 1963 1,561 0 3,204 0 0 0 4,765 17,151 26 Sliparen 2 Solna Business Park Ekensbergsv 113, Svetsarv 3–5 1964 16,827 0 2,616 0 0 3,315 22,758 210,000 Englundav 6–14, Smidesv 5–7, 27 Smeden 1 Solna Business Park Svetsarv 5–17 1967 35,427 5,009 1,081 467 0 3,709 45,693 425,406 28 Svetsaren 1 Solna Business Park Englundavägen 7–13 1964 29,655 329 3,564 0 0 6,090 39,638 345,000 29 Yrket 3 Solna Business Park Smidesvägen 2–8 1982 4,864 0 1,045 0 0 1,470 7,379 32,725 TOTAL SOLNA BUSINESS PARK 147,837 19,688 13,783 467 1,840 24,090 207,705 2,011,082 SOLNA, OTHER 30 Järvakrogen 3 2) Frösunda Enköpingsvägen 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4,098 31 Nöten 4 Solna Strand Solna strandväg 2–60 1971 38,796 670 8,452 0 0 5,779 53,697 440,000 Järnvägsg 12–20, Lysgränd 1, 32 Orgeln 7 Sundbyberg Roseng2,4, Stureg 11–19 1966 23,013 3,887 166 0 0 2,399 29,465 301,000 Planen 4 Råsunda Bollgatan 1–5, Solnavägen 102 A–C 1992 4,509 389 125 0 0 1,381 6,404 61,800 33 34 Rovan 1 Huvudsta Storgatan 60–68 1972 1,853 5,989 30 0 0 2,852 10,724 84,400 35 Rovan 2 Huvudsta Storgatan 64 1972 0 0 0 1,227 7,645 0 8,872 114,000 36 Skogskarlen 1 Bergshamra Björnstigen 81, Pipers väg 2 1971 7,064 814 689 0 0 195 8,762 104,800 37 Skogskarlen 3 Bergshamra Pipersväg 2C 1929 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,857 TOTAL SOLNA, OTHER 75,235 11,749 9,462 1,227 7,645 12,606 117,924 1,111,955 TOTAL SOLNA 324,906 35,261 34,922 1,694 9,485 48,296 454,564 4,474,289 The list of properties contains all properties owned by Fabege at 31 December 2011. Unless otherwise stated, the property is classiﬁed as an investment property, meaning a property under regular and active management. 1) Development property – Properties in which a conversion or extension is in progress or planned that has a signiﬁcant impact on the property’s net operating income. Net operating income is affected either directly by the project or by limitations on lettings prior to impending development work. 2) Land & project property – Land and developable properties and properties in which a new build/complete redevelopment is in progress. 39 Property listing Hammarby Sjöstad 31 December 2011 ar ye wa ust re rial , ho / To t on qm us e, ar al le ea m sq m , s ttab old cti ,s sq Re sid Pa q m le Ot rkin en tia eh tr u es l, As ns fic il, sq m he g/ se SE sse as ta Ind Ho tel r, sq K ’0 vad Property name Area Street Le Co Of Re s, sq m 00 lu m e HAMMARBY SJÖSTAD Hammarby 1 Båtturen 12) Sjöstad 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hammarby 2 Fartygstraﬁken 2 Sjöstad Hammarby Allé 91–95 1955 6,808 1,764 153 0 0 1 8,726 101,000 Hammarby 3 Godsﬁnkan 1 Sjöstad Heliosvägen 22–26 T 1990 7,759 0 75 0 0 24 7,858 71,959 Hammarby Allé 21, 25, Hammarby Hammarby Kajv 2–18, Hammarby 4 Hammarby Gård 71) Sjöstad Kaj 14–18 1937 9,514 586 2,198 0 0 1,230 13,528 205,600 Hammarby 5 Korphoppet 1 Sjöstad Hammarby Fabriksväg 41–43 1949 4,276 916 8,194 0 0 750 14,136 35,372 Hammarby 6 Korphoppet 5 1) Sjöstad Hammarby Fabriksväg 37–39 T 1968 604 1,127 1,771 0 0 65 3,567 11,321 Hammarby 7 Korphoppet 6 Sjöstad Hammarby Fabriksväg 33 T 1988 0 428 4,254 0 0 40 4,722 28,800 Hammarby 8 Linjefarten 1 2) Sjöstad 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ljusslingan 1–17, 2–36, Hammarby Glödlampsgränd 1–6, 9 Luma 11) Sjöstad Lumaparksv 2–18, 5–21, Kölnag 3 1930 24,223 3,911 5,970 691 0 3,843 38,638 207,425 Hammarby 10 Trikåfabriken 4 Sjöstad Hammarby Fabriksväg 25 1991 5,300 3,464 763 0 0 976 10,503 80,800 Hammarby 11 Trikåfabriken 8 Sjöstad Hammarby Fabriksväg 29–31 1930 9,988 692 4,036 0 0 12 14,728 60,400 Hammarby 12 Trikåfabriken 9 Sjöstad Hammarby Fabriksväg 19–21 1928 9,624 267 1,598 0 0 816 12,305 43,249 Hammarby 13 Trikåfabriken 121) Sjöstad Hammarby Fabriksväg 27 1942 742 0 201 0 0 205 1,148 4,355 TOTAL HAMMARBY SJÖSTAD 78,838 13,155 29,213 691 0 7,962 129,859 850,281 The list of properties contains all properties owned by Fabege at 31 December 2011. Unless otherwise stated, the property is classiﬁed as an investment property, meaning a property under regular and active management. 1) Development property – Properties in which a conversion or extension is in progress or planned that has a signiﬁcant impact on the property’s net operating income. Net operating income is affected either directly by the project or by limitations on lettings prior to impending development work. 2) Land & project property – Land and developable properties and properties in which a new build/complete redevelopment is in progress. 9 Hammarby sjö Luma 1 en 9 Sic y led kla arb ka mm na Ha l Lumaparken 2 4 3 Hammarby Sjöstad väg Hammarby Fabriks 7 6 5 11 10 12 13 40 Fabege 2011 PROPERTY LISTING Property listing Other 31 December 2011 ar ye wa ust re rial e, ho / on qm us e, sq To As m m t s ar al le SE esse old cti ,s Re sid Pa sq Ot rkin en ea tr u tia K , s ttab eh es il, l, sq he g/ d ’0 va ns fic m as ta Ind r, q m le Ho Property name Area Street Le Co Of Re tel s, sq 00 lu sq m m OTHER, NORTH STOCKHOLM Berga 6:5581) Åkersberga 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hammarby Smedby 1:4641) Upplands Väsby Johanneslundsvägen 3–5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hammarby Smedby 1:4721) Upplands Väsby Johanneslundsvägen 3–5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,600 Masugnen 7 Bromma Karlsbodavägen 18–20 1991 10,881 0 21 0 0 525 11,427 36,400 Tekniken 11) Sollentuna 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6,600 Ulvsunda 1:1 Bromma Flygplansinfarten 27 A 2004 0 0 1,241 0 0 0 1,241 0 Vallentuna Rickeby 1:3271) Vallentuna 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 293 TOTAL, NORTH STOCKHOLM 10,881 0 1,262 0 0 525 12,668 48,893 OTHER, SOUTH STOCKHOLM Pelaren 11) Globen Pastellvägen 2–6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4,208 Nynäsvägen 65, Söderbymalm 3:4051) Haninge Stores Gränd 20–22 1972 9,240 1,386 2,351 0 0 40 13,017 68,500 TOTAL ,SOUTH STOCKHOLM 9,240 1,386 2,351 0 0 40 13,017 72,708 TOTAL, OTHER 20,121 1,386 3,613 0 0 565 25,685 121,601 The list of properties contains all properties owned by Fabege at 31 December 2011. Unless otherwise stated, the property is classiﬁed as an investment property, meaning a property under regular and active management. 1) Land & project property – Land and developable properties and properties in which a new build/complete redevelopment is in progress. Söderbymalm Masugnen 7 3:405 41 Responsible enterprise Fabege is a socially aware and responsible company. The company works to proactively reduce its environmental impact and, in cooperation with customers, contributes to sustainable urban development. Fabege acts responsibly in all sectors of its business activities and relations with stakeholders within and outside the company. Fabege strives to be a positive force in society. Since properties account for an estimated High-quality premises from an environ40 per cent of the world’s total energy mental and energy perspective create consumption, their climate impact is subvalue added for existing tenants and stantial. Today, there is a sharper focus on attract new customers. In this area, energy and climate, particularly in view Fabege has a strong position based on of the on-going population growth, urits long-term, systematic and pro-active banisation and climate change. This trend environmental work. requires resource-efficient and sustainable Responsibility and sound business ethurban development. ics characterise Fabege’s relations with the As a property owner, Fabege has both world at large. The aim is that all parties an opportunity and a responsibility to impacted by Fabege’s business activities, support tomorrow’s sustainable cities. whether they are customers, employees, Offering customers the best possible suppliers or contractors, will feel that their environmental standard is another point best interests are being served and that of departure for Faberge’s activities, and Fabege is a partner they can trust. the growing awareness of customers is creating new opportunities. Sustainable highlights 2011 Fabege joined the UN Global Compact. Increased focus on business ethics. Environmental classiﬁcation became standard in new production and major redevelopments. Green leases were introduced. Energy consumption was further reduced. Green leases for the benefit of customers and CO2 emissions reduced to apthe environment proximately 4,000 tonnes from Fabege offers its tenants green leases covering energy matters, sorting at source, about 40,000 tonnes in 2002. sustainable travel and the choice of building materials. The objective is to focus on and The 2014 target in terms of cooperate in environmental matters in order to reduce both the environmental impact heating consumption was and costs. For example, while Fabege assumes responsibility for increasing the propachieved (70 kWh/sqm LOA). erty’s energy performance, its tenants impact each other positively by working together to achieve a greater reduction in the environmental impact than could be achieved working separately as individuals. 42 Fabege 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Fabege supports Global Compact Fabege supports the UN Global Compact initiative in terms of the company’s actions concerning human rights, labour rights, environmental standards and anti-corruption. Global Compact promotes responsible enterprise throughout the world and assigns greater responsibility to the business community for the challenges of globalisation. By supporting the Global Compact, Fabege is committed to the realisation and integration of the principles of the Global Compact into its operations. Fabege also has a Code of Conduct that reﬂects the principles. District heating 50 per cent below the sector average Property companies that systematically reduce their energy consumption have a much more advanced position than their competitors, as illustrated by an overview of energy consumption levels reported by seven property investment companies. All seven companies had levels below the average reported by the Swedish Energy Agency. According to the latest statistics published by the Energy Agency, energy consumption for heating and hot water in properties averaged 148 kWh/ sqm (2010) and 132 kWh/sqm (2009). The statistics pertain to heated ﬂoor space in district-heated properties in climate zone 3, which includes Stockholm County. Corresponding energy consumption in Fabege’s properties during 2011 amounted to 60 kWh/sqm, Atemp* unadjusted, which is about 50 per cent below the sector average. District heating accounts for 99 per cent of Fabege’s heating consumption. “Companies that take energy and climate issues seriously show just how much progress can be made. However, efforts that generate the best results are not necessarily the most glamorous ones, but everyday and long-term actions,” says Mia Östman, Environmental Manager at Fabege. * Fabege’s heating consumption per sqm is estimated using LOA and Atemp respectively. Atemp is used in energy declarations and comprises areas supposed to be heated to a temperature of at least 10°C. LOA is deﬁned as premises aimed for purposes other than residential, space for maintenance of buildings and general communication. 43 Environmental policy Fabege seeks to create value for the company’s shareholders, and concern for the environment should be a natural and integral part of our activities in property management, project development and property transactions. Fabege aims to offer attractive properties with a low environmental impact and high level of user comfort. To achieve this, Fabege seeks to: Ensure that energy, water and other natural resources are used in an efﬁcient and environmentally sound manner. The environment is a natural feature Offer waste management opportunities for recycling and facilitate efof Fabege’s business ﬁcient, environment-friendly methods. Reduce the total amount of waste. Pro-active environmental work is a success factor for Fabege. Fabege’s principal Set clear environmental requirements environmental measures are linked directly to the company’s core business. Since for the purchase of goods and 2002, Fabege has conducted its goal-oriented, systematic and preventive environservices. mental work. The aim is to create attractive and sustainable properties, with the Replace hazardous chemicals with energy issue regarded as the most highly prioritised environmental aspect. less hazardous alternatives where possible. Reduce the environmental impact of Climate change per se does not represent develop properties with a distinctive entransport in service assignments and a significant physical risk for Fabege, givvironmental profile. The company applies goods deliveries. en the locations of its property holdings. the GreenBuilding standard as minimum Select building methods and Due to temperature changes, however, the level both for new builds and major redematerials on the basis of environneed to control heating and cooling has velopments. The GreenBuilding criteria mental considerations and in accorchanged. The use of air conditioning and include energy, indoor environment and dance with Fabege’s environmental process cooling is increasing constantly building material selection. programme for new builds and in office premises. One reason for the Fabege’s environmental policy is the conversions. growing utilisation of air conditioning is focal point of the company’s collective Prevent the generation and the solar heat gain co-efficient (SHGC) environmental measures. When Fabege spreading of pollution. on office buildings, while another is acquires properties, energy consumption Raise the level of environmental increased tenant demand for thermal and and environmental risks are analysed. expertise among employees visual comfort. A building’s energy consumption and through training, and communicate Fabege’s efforts in this area entail improvement potential are becoming environmental issues internally and externally. continuously making active choices, increasingly important for its market Document, follow up, evaluate and enhancing operational efficiency without attractiveness. Property management improve environmental work on a comprising comfort, making environmenactivities are based on the ISO 14001 regular basis. tally safe choices of materials and increasenvironmental management system and Comply with or exceed applicable ing the quality of the indoor environprocedures, inspections and test results environmental legislation and ment. During 2011, Fabege continued to have been gathered for years in a database other regulations applying to the that enables self-control. company’s activities. 44 Fabege 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT S U S TA I N A BL E UR B AN D E V E L O P M E N T Fabege defines sustainable urban development as long-term development of attractive areas and city districts, not only individual properties. The company’s development projects create a carefully analysed balance between economic, social, ecological and cultural development, thus resulting in vibrant city districts with a favourable mix of office buildings, retail premises and housing, as well as good communications and consideration for the environment. The work includes everything from the outdoor environment, with details such as lighting and green areas, to infrastructure including service and communications. Fabege conducts its development projects in close cooperation with cities and other interests. The company also participates in several networks for which the common aim is to reduce the environmental and climate impact caused by properties and city districts. Examples of these networks include BELOK, the Sweden Green Building Council and the Climate Pact, a partnership between the City of Stockholm and Confederation Sustainable urban development – Arenastaden of Swedish Enterprise. Fabege is also a Sustainability efforts have the greatest impact when a holistic approach is taken to member of the sector-specific Property development, instead of focusing only on individual sections, and when partnerships Owners’ reference group for green leases. are initiated with companies that share our strong commitment to the environment. Environmentally classified buildings To make city districts sustainable, Fabege is focusing on the environment, energy and are a central element in sustainable urban social sustainability. Social sustainability can be achieved by integrating residences, development. Opportunities to impact workplaces, leisure activities, neighbourhood services and strong public transportapersonal travel requirements represent tion – in a single area. This creates the best conditions for living and working in another key element. In addition to close harmony and enjoying a healthy lifestyle. proximity to public transport services, Fabege thus offers pool bicycles to all tenants in the Solna Business Park. At Vattenfall’s new head office in Arenastaden, power outlets for electric cars are being installed. Fabege works continuously to reduce the environmental impact of transport, and all of the company’s service vehicles are eco-cars. In order to maintain favourable development, Fabege engages in a continuous dialogue with players that work to promote sustainable travel. Sweden Green Building GreenBuilding is a UN BRE Environmental Council is a certiﬁcation initiative for reduced enAssessment Method system based on regulaergy consumption. To gain (BREEAM) is an environmenP R OP E RT I E S W I T H A N tions from the Swedish certiﬁcation, the building tal classiﬁcation system that E N V I R ON M E N TA L P R O F I L E construction industry and must use 25 per cent less originated in the UK. The Because demand for sustainable properpublic authorities, as well energy than previously, or system encompasses project ties is continuing to grow from one year as Swedish construction compared with the requimanagement, the building’s practices. Certiﬁcation rements of the National energy consumption, indoor to the next, environmental classificaprovides a guarantee of a Board of Housing, Building climate conditions, water tions and certification systems have been building’s critical qualities and Planning. consumption and waste developed to help various target groups in terms of energy, the management, as well as land that are willing to assume a measure of indoor environment and use and the building’s impact environmental responsibility. For new materials. on the surrounding area. builds and major redevelopments, Fabege 45 Heating in Fabege premises kWh/sqm LOA 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Fabege SCB Over time, Fabege’s systematic efforts to optimise running costs have reduced energy use in our properties drastically. Fabege’s heating consumption in 2011 averaged 70 kWh/sqm LOA and 60 kWh/sqm Atemp. Uarda 5 – Vattenfall’s new head ofﬁce. Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes offers various systems of environmental easier for tenants to change their behav40,000 classification and certification, such as ioural patterns for the benefit of the en35,000 Green Building, the Sweden Green Buildvironment. Fabege’s energy experts offer 30,000 ing Council (SGBC) and BREEAM. energy-saving information and all Fabege 25,000 For Fabege’s new production and tenants are free to choose Green Leases 20,000 major redevelopments, classification in and Green Electricity Contracts, which 15,000 accordance with the SGBC principles offer the customers renewable electricity 10,000 is the minimum level. Fabege is curat a competitive price, as well as energy 5,000 rently developing three major projects advisory services that provide lower elec0 tricity costs for end-customers. 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 with SGBC as the standard: Uarda 1, Uarda 5 and Nöten 4. To date, Fabege has CO2 emissions have been reduced drastically as a result of energy optimisation, conversion classified five properties in accordance GREEN ELECTRICITY from oil to district heating, the choice of with GreenBuilding, the latest of which Environmentally certified hydroelectric environmentally declared electricity and a changed property portfolio. is Uarda 5. GreenBuilding focuses on power from Vattenfall’s Nordic plants energy efficiency and the certificate means accounts for all electricity supplied to the building uses 25 per cent less energy Fabege’s properties. Norrenergi supplies Consumption statistics, total 2011 than required according to the Swedish “Good Environmental Choice” district Water consumption, cbm 519,828 National Board of Housing, Building and heating and district cooling to the properPurchased energy, MWh1) 158,377 Planning’s regulations. ties in Solna and Sundbyberg. Some time Of which The property management industry ago, Fabege also converted its last-remainDistrict heating 74,744 has an important mission of making it ing oil furnaces to district heating. Cooling 24,005 Electricity 59,628 Renewable energy, MWh (95%) 150,499 Energy and environmental targets 2011 CO2 emissions, tonnes (heating, electricity, cooling) 4,009 To reduce energy consumption as much as possible is an important goal for Fabege. District heating 66 kWh/sqm Atemp2) Energy efﬁciency offers the best opportunity to achieve this objective. Fabege’s aims are: consumption Temperature corrected A minimum reduction of 20 per cent by 31 December 2014, based on energy con60 kWh/sqm Atemp2) Uncorrected sumption levels in 2009, with unchanged indoor climate conditions. This amounts to 70 kWh/sqm LOA3) an annual reduction of about 4 per cent. Temperature corrected To reduce energy consumption from an average of 83 kWh/sqm (2009) to 1) Figures based on identical portfolio 2011, 70 kWh/sqm LOA by 31 December 2014. 77 properties, 1,098,314 sqm. 2) Atemp district heating, identical portfolio 2011, From 2002 to 2009, energy consumption was reduced by about 5 per cent annually. 75 properties, 1,149,342 sqm. During 2011, the consumption level was reduced by 9 per cent. This success is attribu3) LOA district heating, identical portfolio 2011, table to intensive work focused on operational optimisation and investments in energy75 properties, 1,083,716 sqm. efﬁcient technology. 46 Fabege 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT E N V I R ON M E N TA L C O N T R O L O F CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT efforts focused on renewal, recycling and T H E BU I L D I N G PR OC E S S I N WA ST E M A N A G E M E N T sorting, waste volumes and, in turn, costs New builds and major redevelopments Fabege offers effective waste managehave been reduced. are conducted using the GreenBuilding ment in its properties. In connection principles as the minimum requirements. with acquisitions or tenant adaptations, FA B E G E ’ S E N V I R O N M E N TA L In projects and developments, Fabege’s Fabege explores the existence of space O R G A N I S AT I O N overriding environmental programme for sorting at source in order to optimise Responsibility for Fabege’s environmental is integrated into Fabege’s framework waste management in relation to flows policy rests with the CEO and Group programme to address factors such as of materials, transports, floor plans and management. The operational activithe selection of material, waste manageother factors. An average of five types of ties are supported by the equivalent of ment and the construction method. The waste are sorted for recycling in Fabege’s three full-time environment and energy aim is to give concrete expression to properties and the company strives to employees. The Environment & Energy Fabege’s environmental policy through recycle and recover when and wherever Department works as a resource and skills environmental control of the building possible. For the past three years, Fabege pool for the company’s Property Manageprocess. When a building is converted or has worked with a waste management ment, Projects, Business Development redeveloped, a demolition plan is drawn contractor that maintains direct contact and Communications departments. It up. In all projects, a plan for the handling with the tenants for more customised provides support for the company’s activiof waste products is prepared together tenant service. Transport needs have also ties and directs and participates in evaluwith the building and waste management been reduced by working with only one ations that contribute to the company’s contractors. In new builds and redevelopcontractor. As a result of comprehensive development. ment projects, only building materials and products with limited environmental impact may be used. P O S I T I V E R E S ULT S O F E N E R G Y E F F O RT S Fabege’s systematic environmental work has generated positive results. Between 2002 and 2011, Fabege’s CO2 emissions were reduced from 40,000 to 4,000 tonnes, or by more than 90 per cent. During the same period, energy consumption was reduced by more than 40 per cent. Fabege’s efforts have included systematic energy optimisation, conversions from oil to district heating and conversions from proprietary cooling machines to district cooling offering improved environmental performance. Conversions to Green electricity and changes in the property portfolio have also contributed to the favourable development. Fabege has reduced its heating consumption by an additional approximately 11 per cent, and is thus currently about 50 per cent below the average reported by the Swedish Energy Agency for the Stockholm County climate zone, which also makes Fabege an Vattenfall’s new head office industry leader. The result was primarily The property is owned and will be managed by Fabege, with Vattenfall and a achieved through energy optimisation, restaurant as tenants. The ofﬁce building is GreenBuilding certiﬁed and classibut also through investments in energyﬁed in compliance with SBGC GOLD. The energy requirement is half of the level efficient technology. The results have stipulated in the National Board of Housing, Building and Planning’s building been achieved mainly through energyregulations. Examples of environmental and energy adaptations include a clioptimisation measures, but also through mate shell that meets the criteria for passive buildings, sedum roofs, solar panels investments in energy-efficient technology. that generate electricity and warm water, free cooling and energy-efﬁcient light sources. The energy consumption levels of the building and the business activities housed in the building will be shown on digital displays in the reception hall. 47 Responsible procurement of goods and services In 2011, Fabege established a new purchasing organisation for increased control and more effective purchasing. Through greater clarity in requirements, Fabege intends to enhance the quality of the purchasing process. Increased focus on business ethics Business ethics is an important issue for High business ethics, consideration for extremely important, as good quality is the construction and property sector. human rights, entrepreneurship, coma critical parameter in Fabege’s efforts to Fabege’s core values form the basis for petition, objectivity and equal treatment create long-term relations with tenants the actions of all of its employees. Since comprise the fundamental principles. and suppliers. Fabege has joined the UN Global ComThe Purchasing Department has a leadBecause many Fabege tenants have pact, a new Code of Conduct has been ing role in the procurement process and direct contact with Fabege’s suppliers of adopted; visit www.fabege.se. Fabege its responsibilities include ensuring a products and services, it is important to also has a fraud policy and a whistledistinctive and transparent procurement ensure the skills and expertise of suppliblower function to facilitate the reporting function, high service levels and secure ers, good service levels and their ability of unethical behaviour or improprieties implementation. To clarify the company’s to make tenants feel safe and secure in at the workplace. All employees are position in relation to suppliers, Fabege’s Fabege’s properties. Fabege regularly also naturally welcome to attend a lecown employees and other stakeholders, conducts customer satisfaction surveys ture on bribery legislation and a group Fabege has a procurement policy describthat include questions about how the seminar on the same theme. Fabege’s ing responsibilities and regulations for company’s suppliers and contractors act in entire management team has held the procurement process. As a result of their relations with Fabege’s tenants. Reinternal ethics discussions and an ethics membership of the UN Global Compact, sults of the surveys are used in dialogues council has been established, which is suppliers receive a clearer description of with suppliers to develop their business charged with advancing work on busiFabege’s values in that Fabege’s viewpoints activities. ness ethics at the company. are now expressed in the procurement Selected suppliers are analysed before Since June 2011, the Chairman of process, for example through information contract decisions are made. The analyses the Fabege Board has been involved about the company’s code of conduct and include financial stability, credit worthiin a legal process concerning a project environmental policy. Cooperation with ness, rating, collective bargaining affiliain which Fabege is one of the part suppliers and contractors is regarded as tion, valid insurance cover, quality plans owners. Additional information will be issued as soon as the legal process has been completed. 48 Fabege 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT or ISO certification and references from addition, special regulations may apply to Our core values the suppliers’ major customers. different types of construction sites. It is Fabege is now formulating procedures the contractor’s responsibility to ensure Speed and systems to chart the sustainability that all worksites have access to expertise We are efﬁcient, we prioritise fast work and responsibilities of the various and practices required for the particular decisions, provide prompt feedsuppliers. site. Continuous audits are conducted back and offer simple solutions. Fabege purchases various types of conduring the course of all projects. We act with clarity, we make things tracting services. Since the company is enConstruction sites are risk-filled happen, and make sure deadlines are met. gaged in a very large number of projects, environments and worksite safety is one subcontractors are also used to a conof the most important issues for construcInformality siderable extent. In order to have clearly tion contractors. Fabege procures any defined procedures and uniform control construction contractor exclusively from a We show respect by being open and attentive to our colleagues, of these negotiations, Fabege pursues a corps of suppliers that meet the company’s customers and suppliers. deeply rooted and well-documented projstringent risk-management demands. We are more important than I. We ect process, which encompasses contract Despite preventive measures, there is are team players and strive to work templates, framework descriptions, adalways a risk of accidents. In 2011, a tragic together and ensure cohesion in ministrative regulations, demarcation lists accident occurred when a person died the team. and general agreements. The large number during the construction of a new building. We are humble and show courage of links in the procurement chain makes it Since the accident, Fabege has increased by daring to ask for help and shardifficult to control materials in particular its focus on work environmental issues. ing our knowledge with others. and products in general. However, it is As long as incidents, accidents and easier to monitor actual implementation other deviations from the norm occur, Entrepreneurship and conditions at worksites. there will be potential in the procurement We see opportunities and do not process to improve Fabege’s control over get hindered by problems. C O N T R OL O V E R C ON ST R U C T I O N SI T E safety, social conditions and business We are creative, encourage new ideas and dare to try unconvenACTIVITIES ethics. tional solutions. At all construction sites, all applicable We show our commitment by ensurlegislation must be complied with. In ing that adopted decisions are implemented. Business orientation We set and gain acceptance for clear goals and we actively follow them up. We act with competence and look for win-win solutions. We make sure we use all accessible resources, be it within knowledge, skills or tools. Customer proximity We build trust and long-term customer relationships by arriving in time, doing our homework and providing the best possible service based on the customer’s requirements. We get to know customers, employees and suppliers through an open, attentive and personal approach. 49 Our co-workers are Fabege's public face In most cases, property tenants meet Fabege through their everyday contacts and all measures are documented in a with building technicians and other employees who work with building mainsupport system, to which all employees tenance and operation. These meetings are the company’s most important have access. During 2011, all safety officcustomer encounters. Outside the properties that Fabege leases to customers, ers underwent safety officer training and our employees are the company’s principal asset and public face. a fire and work environment coordinator was employed. With its flat organisational structure and critical factors in any employee’s career short decision-making channels, Fabege development in the company. Fabege H E A LT H , F I T N E S S A N D B A L A N C E has empowered its employees to act strives to create a work climate that stimuFabege is committed to promoting health quickly and independently. The company lates skills development and generous and fitness, and encourages staff to exeris characterised by an entrepreneurial spirit transfers of knowledge throughout the cise and stay fit. All employees are offered that encourages personal initiative and new entire organisation. fitness checks, to be used at several differschools of thought. Fabege offers the same Individual career development ent fitness facilities. In 2012, all employees resources as major corporations, but mainplans form the basis of every employee’s are offered the opportunity of training tains the small company’s close proximity professional development. Based on the with colleagues during work hours. and personal relations to customers. company’s goals, each employee and their Fabege has a group health insurance At year-end 2011, Fabege had 122 manager jointly define a set of personal policy, which ensures that all employees employees, of whom about 62 per cent targets for the employee’s development at gain fast access to professional care in case were active in building operations and regular appraisal interviews. Fabege’s emof illness. maintenance and 38 per cent in business ployees are expected to show dedication Offering a sound balance between development, sales and administration. and initiative, and independently utilise work and leisure is a key element in All employees are covered by a collective opportunities to develop so that they may Fabege’s ambition to be an attractive bargaining agreement. contribute to Fabege’s business in the best employer. The company encourages both possible manner. women and men to take parental leave. A C A R E E R AT FA BE G E Fabege aims to develop and retain talS A F E WO RK E N V I R O N M E N T DIALOGUE AND WELL-BEING ented employees. Our employees should Fabege provides a safe and healthy work Fabege strives to ensure that all employees be able to develop and grow professionally environment. The company’s occupafeel that they have a say in the company’s through new or diversified work areas and tional health and safety committee, which development. To create an attractive and job assignments. Vacancies are often filled includes managers and employees from inspiring workplace, the company encourthrough internal recruitment. As a result, various work areas, works to ensure ages employees to engage in an active and many Fabege employees transfer between continuous progress on work environopen dialogue with their managers. In various functions within the organisament issues. This helps promote interest addition, an innovation group with reption and have opportunities to test many in issues relating to physical and mental resentatives from the various parts of the different job assignments. Their own well-being at work. Fire safety and other business meet regularly to raise new ideas, job performance and interests are often safety procedures have been improved, question and discuss future solutions. 50 Fabege 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Staff turnover, % % Human resources strategy 40 Our core values should colour the way in which we relate to others, both inter35 nally and externally, in relations with customers and other stakeholders. 30 We will focus intently on caring for our employees, well-being and a safe work 25 environment. 20 Employees are to be able to work in an open environment that fosters com15 mitment and individual initiative through clearly deﬁned targets, delegation of 10 responsibility and rewards for excellence. 5 Fabege intends to work to attract and retain skilled staff. 0 07 08 09 10 11 No. of employees, average 200 160 120 Fabege regularly conducts an extensive S T U D E N T R E L AT I O N S 80 survey to measure how the company is To safeguard future recruitment needs, viewed by the employees. The response Fabege is committed to building rela40 rate in the 2011 survey was 99 per cent. tions with students. During 2011, Fabege For the past few years, the survey has participated in labour market days and 0 07 08 09 10 11 employed a method which measures how worked to strengthen the company’s working conditions affect employees’ perimage as an attractive employer. The formance, as measured by a performance company continuously offers traineeships Absence due to illness 2011, % index. The performance rating was 3.9, and thesis projects to give young people 5 reflecting an improvement in comparison an insight into working life and the prop4 with the corresponding survey in 2009. erty industry. Fabege is actively involved The performance rating for the industry in Fastighetsbranschens Marknadsråd 3 as a whole is 3.4. (the Property Sector’s Market Council), a 2 forward-looking initiative to raise awareE Q U A L OP P ORT U N I T I E S ness among today’s youth of the property 1 Although the property industry has tradisector’s potential. The council is striving tionally been viewed as male dominated, a to develop a professional training cur0 Ages –29 Ages 30–49 Ages 50– growing number of women are currently riculum for building technicians, since the being attracted to the industry. Fabege market foresees a forthcoming shortage Women Men wants to promote a more even gender in this field, due to the large number of balance, and give women and men the retiring building technicians. Staff in each area same opportunities for recruitment to various positions in the company. HowI N C R E A SE D PA RT I CI PAT I O N T H R O U G H Property Management 62% ever, within certain job categories, such as P R O F I TSH A R I N G Projects/Business building maintenance technicians, a very To increase the employees involvement Development 17% limited number of applicants are available. in the company, Fabege has been running At year-end, one out of five members of a profit-sharing scheme since 2000. AlManagement/ Administration 21% Fabege’s Group management team was locations are made in the form of Fabege a woman, or 20 per cent (28). The total shares based on the company’s profitabilproportion of women working at Fabege ity and return on equity. Shares are tied was 35 per cent. up for five years after allocation. Gender distribution in executive positions Men 58% Age structure in the Fabege Group 2011 % Total Age 20–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 60–69 Women 42% Women 35 7 37 35 12 9 Men 65 2 37 39 18 4 Total 100 4 37 38 15 6 51 Social involvement The aim of Fabege’s social involvement is to support sustainable social development, responsible actions and a proud and committed corps of employees. Fabege takes on various types of social involvement in the local communities where the company owns properties and in projects that change living conditions for fellow human beings in the world at large. S U P P ORT T O C H I L DR E N A N D Y O U T H RETOY FA B E G E S U P P O RT S S O S I N L O C A L N E I G H BO U R H O O D S In Hammarby Sjöstad, Fabege supports CHILDREN’S VILLAGES Fabege has sponsored sports clubs in the Retoy, a project focused on sustainability The southernmost property in which company’s local areas for many years. The and human rights. The project was started Fabege is socially involved is situated in primary objective is to support activities in Hammarby Sjöstad’s City Library in the Cibitoke SOS Children’s Village in that are important for children and young the former Luma factory building; variBurundi, in Africa. Fabege has financed children. Examples of projects that Fabege ous games are used to teach children and the construction of a family house and supports include “Fair Play and Respect” parents about the Children’s Convention, the company has assumed responsibility within the Stockholm Ice Hockey Assustainable consumption and global ramifor the house and its family. In 2011, sociation and “Zero Tolerance” and “Sila fications. Retoy is active through the Play another child became part of the family, Snacket” (Mind Your Language) within for Sustainability Collection Foundation, which now consists of an SOS mother and the Stockholm Football Association. which also includes the cooperation of the 10 children ranging in age from 2 to 10. Stockholm City Library, UNICEF and the The village provides approximately 150 Museum of Science and Technology. children with a new home, a new family, education and a chance for a better life. It also includes schools and a medical clinic accessible to children living in the village and the surrounding area. Fabege’s support to SOS Children’s Villages is a way of making an extra commitment to the less fortunate people in the world. 52 Fabege 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Fabege’s heating consumption in 2011 was 50 per cent below the sector average Carbon emissions have been reduced by 90 per cent since 2002. Fabege achieved its 2014 heating-consumption target per unit area already in 2011. Fabege joined the UN Global Compact. Retoy – a project about sustainability and human rights. 2011 95 per cent renewable energy. In 2012, the pivotal sustainability effort continues with measures such as: Continued focus on environmentally classiﬁed buildings. Standardised Green Leases. 2012 Developing attractive and sustainable city districts. Increased customer focus. 53 About Fabege’s 2011 sustainability report This is Fabege’s first sustainability report Fabege has a CSR council featuring Unless otherwise indicated, the informaaccording to the GRI guidelines for volunrepresentatives from various functions tion pertains to the entire Fabege Group. tary reporting of sustainability informain the business. This CSR council has In other cases, clarifying comments tion. The sustainability report is included identified Fabege’s most significant target are provided in the GRI Index for each in Fabege’s 2011 Annual Report and group – the company’s stakeholders on indicator. pertains to the 2011 financial year. Fabege the basis of the impact relationship – and This Index includes the standard inforreports in accordance with level C, GRI based on this it has selected the informamation that is mandatory for application version 3.0. The information in the sustion to be included in the sustainability level C, additional standard information tainability report has not been reviewed report and which GRI indicators to report that Fabege has decided to report on and by a third party, although Fabege believes on in 2011. Fabege aims for the sustainall core indicators in GRI’s protocol 3.0, as that the information in the 2011 Annual ability report and the 2011 Annual Report well as the indicators from the ConstrucReport and sustainability report, along to provide a comprehensive overview of tion and Real Estate Sector Supplement with the information on Fabege’s website, Fabege’s economic, environmental and (CRESS) upon which Fabege reports. fulfils GRI’s information requirements for social work and results. application level C. Comments Standard information/indicators Reference to the index are available in the Sustainability report at www.fabege.se. Assurance 3.12 GRI Index www/GRI Index Key 3.13 Policy and current practice regarding external 54 Reference www/GRI Index = complete veriﬁcation GRI Index on Fabege’s website. 4 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS Fully reported Not reported Partly reported Not relevant to Fabege’s operations Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 81–86, 92–93 Standard information/indicators Reference 4.2 Chairman’s position 81–88 1 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 4.3 Number of independent, non-executive 83–88 Board members 1.1 Comments by the CEO 4–5 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 81 1.2 Risks and opportunities 11, 42, 48–49 provide recommendations or directions to the Board or management 2 ORGANISATION 4.8 Internally prepared policies and guidelines 44, 48–49 2.1 Name of the organization 2–3 4.12 Externally charters, principles or other initiatives 43–45 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 2–3 4.13 Memberships in associations 43, 45 2.3 Operational structure 3 2.4 Location of headquarters Cover back Stakeholder engagement 2.5 Countries where the Group operates 2–3 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 42, 54 2.6 Nature of ownership 92–93 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders 42, 54 2.6 Markets served 2–3 4.16 Approach for the stakeholder dialogue 48, 50–51 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 2–3 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 42 through stakeholder engagement, and how the 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period www/GRI Index organization has responded to these 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period www/GRI Index INDICATORS 3 REPORT PARAMETERS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Report proﬁle EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 68 3.1 Reporting period 54, www/GRI Index EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 44 3.2 Date of most recent report www/GRI Index opportunities due to climate change 3.3 Reporting cycle www/GRI Index EC3 Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned-beneﬁt 68, 74 3.4 Contact persons 95 plan obligations Scope and boundary of report EC4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from www/GRI Index government 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content 54, www/GRI Index EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on 3.6 Boundary of the report 54, www/GRI Index locally-based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of 3.7 Speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary 54, www/GRI Index operation of the report EC7 Procedures for local hiring of employees and www/GRI Index 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures Note 2, page 62 senior management team 3.10 Explanation of the reasons for and effect of any www/GRI Index EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure 45 restatements of information investments and services provided primarily 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes in the scope, boundary or www/GRI Index for public beneﬁt measurement methods compared with reports in prior years ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 54 Fabege 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Standard information/indicators Reference Standard information/indicators Reference Energy Education EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy 46 by gender, and by employee category source LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular career 50 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency 43, 46–47, 53 development reviews improvements Diversity and equal opportunity EN6 Intiatives to provide energy efﬁcient or renewable 43, 45–46 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and break51, 74, 87–88 energy based products and services down of employees per employee category by EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 46–47 indicators of diversity and reductions achieved LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 46 employee category Biodiversity Human rights EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, manHR1 Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment aged in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas agreements that have undergone human-rights of high biodiversity value outside protected areas screening EN12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, HR2 Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers that have under48–49 products, and services on biodiversity in protected gone human-rights screening, and actions taken areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Non-discrimination protected areas HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and www/GRI Index Emissions, Efﬂuents and Waste corrective actions taken EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse-gas emissions 46 Freedom of association and collective bargaining by weight HR5 Operations identiﬁed in which the right to exercise 48–49, EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse-gas emissions freedom of association and collective bargaining www/GRI Index by weight may be at signiﬁcant risk and actions taken EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 44–47, 50 HR6 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk 48–49, reductions achieved for incidents of child labour and actions taken www/GRI Index EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight HR7 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk 48–49, EN20 NO, SO, and other signiﬁcant air emissions by www/GRI Index for incidents of forced labour and actions taken www/GRI Index type and weight Society EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination www/GRI Index SO1 Design and scope of programmes and practices 45, www/GRI Index EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 47 that assess and manage the impacts of operations EN23 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills www/GRI Index on society/communities SO2 Percentage and total number of business units www/GRI Index Products and Services analysed for risks related to corruption EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of prod45–47 ucts and services, and extent of impact mitigation Corruption EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption 48, www/GRI Index materials that are reclaimed by category policies and procedures Other SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption www/GRI Index EN28 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number www/GRI Index Politics of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with SO5 Public policy positions and participation in www/GRI Index environmental laws and regulations lobbying EN29 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transportation www/GRI Index Anti-competitive behaviour SOCIAL INDICATORS SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, 48 anti-trust and monopoly practices Labor practices and decent work Compliance LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment 50–51, 74 contract, and region SO8 Monetary value of ﬁnes and number of sanctions 48, www/GRI Index LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and 51, www/GRI Index for noncompliance with laws and regulations employee turnover by age group, gender, and Customer health and safety region PR1 Life-cycle stages in which health and safety 44–49 Relation between employees and management impacts of products and services are assessed and LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 50 the percentage of products and services subject to bargaining agreements such procedures LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding signiﬁcant Product and service labelling operational changes PR3 Type of product and service information required 45 Occupational health and safety by procedures, and percentage of products and services subject to such information requirements LA6 Percentage of workforce represented in formal 50 work-environment committees Work environment – Product development Health and safety PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including 8, 16, 48 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 51 results of surveys and absenteeism, and number of work-related Market communications fatalities by region and by gender PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and 48 LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and www/GRI Index voluntary codes related to marketing communicarisk–control programs in place to assist workforce tions, including advertising, PR and sponsorship members, their families, or community members regarding serious disease CRESS CRE 8 Type and number of sustainability certiﬁcation, 42–47 rating and labelling schemes for new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment. 55 The 2011 financial year Quarter 1 Quarter 2 January–March 2011 April–June 2011 The rental market continued to develop well in early The rental market continued to develop well and market activity 2011. increased during the quarter. New lettings amounted to SEK 59m (37), while net lettings totalled New lettings amounted to SEK 40m (68), while net SEK 47m (6). lettings totalled SEK 13m (–3). Proﬁt from property management declined to SEK 157m (210) Proﬁt from property management declined to SEK 113m due to a smaller property portfolio and higher market interest rates. (181) due to a smaller property portfolio and higher The surplus ratio was 72 per cent (71). market interest rates. Four properties outside the company priority areas were sold The surplus ratio was 62 per cent (61). for a combined sales consideration of SEK 136m, generating a capital gain before tax of SEK 50m. Two sites were acquired in Arenastaden. After-tax proﬁt for the quarter amounted to SEK 278m (340). Properties were divested for a combined price of SEK The equity/assets ratio was 39 per cent (34). 160m, generating a capital gain of SEK 0m after tax (31). After-tax proﬁt for the period increased to SEK 378m (161). The equity/assets ratio was 39 per cent (33). Quarter 3 July–September 2011 The rental market remained strong in the third quarter, hallmarked by considerable activity and demand. Positive net lettings to date in 2011 have contributed to an increase in the occupancy rate to 90 per cent during the quarter. New lettings amounted to SEK 62m (52), while net lettings totalled SEK 51m (2). Several major leases were signed during the quarter, with only a few terminations. Proﬁt from property management declined to SEK 133m (209) due to a smaller property portfolio and higher market interest rates. The surplus ratio was 69 per cent (71). Due to the market’s anticipation of lower interest rates ahead, the negative fair value of the derivative portfolio increased by SEK 301m. A minor land site in Tyresö was sold. After-tax proﬁt for the quarter amounted to SEK 72m (590). The equity/assets ratio was 38 per cent (37). 56 Fabege 2011 Financial reporting 2011 Contents Page Director's report 58 Consolidated, Statement of comprehensive income 64 Consolidated, Statement of ﬁnancial position 65 Consolidated, Statement of changes in equity 66 Consolidated, Cash ﬂow statement 67 Parent Company, Proﬁt and loss acccounts 68 Parent Company, Balance sheets 68 Parent Company, Statement of changes in equity 69 Parent Company, Cash ﬂow statement 69 Notes Note 1 General information 70 Note 2 Accounting principles 70 Note 3 Financial instruments and ﬁnancial risk management 72 Note 4 Signiﬁcant estimates and assessments for accounting 73 principlesl Note 5 Reporting by segment 74 Note 6 Employees and salary expenses, etc. 74 Note 7 Rental income 75 Note 8 Property expenses 75 Note 9 Central administration and marketing 75 Note 10 Realised and unrealised changes in value, investment 75 properties Note 11 Proﬁt/loss from other securities and receivables that 75 are ﬁxed assets Quarter 4 Note 12 Interest income and interest expenses 76 October–December 2011 Note 13 Changes in value, shares 76 Note 14 Tax on proﬁt for the year 76 Note 15 Investment properties 76 The rental market remained strong in the fourth quarter, Note 16 Equipment 77 hallmarked by considerable activity and demand. Note 17 Interests in associated companies 77 New lettings amounted to SEK 80m (53). During the quarter, Note 18 Receivables from associated companies 77 Note 19 Other long-term securities holdings 77 several major leases were signed in the project portfolio. The Note 20 Other long-term recievables 78 largest tenant, Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, extended its lease Note 21 Trade recievables 78 until 2020 and simultaneously reduced its total ﬂoor space Note 22 Other receivables 78 under the lease. Despite this resulting in vacancies of SEK Note 23 Shareholder's equity 78 28m, net lettings amounted to SEK 19m (21) for the quarter. Note 24 Overdraft facility 78 Note 25 Liabilities by maturity date 78 Proﬁt from property management amounted to SEK 161m Note 26 Derivatives 78 (182) due to a smaller property portfolio and higher Note 27 Deferred tax liability/asset 79 market interest rates. Note 28 Provisions 79 The surplus ratio was 69 per cent (66). Note 29 Other liabilities 79 Note 30 Accrued expenses and deferred income 79 Due to declining long-term interest rates, the negative fair Note 31 Assets pledged as security and contingent liabilities 79 value of the derivative portfolio increased by SEK 134m. Note 32 Interest paid 79 Note 33 Changes in working capital 79 After-tax proﬁt for the quarter amounted to SEK 413m (606). Note 34 Cash and cash equivalents 79 During the quarter, four property sales were completed Note 35 Related-party transactions 80 and three properties were acquired. Note 36 Dividend per share 80 Note 37 Adoption of the annual report 80 The equity/assets ratio was 39 per cent (39). Note 38 Net turnover 80 Note 39 Operating expenses 80 Note 40 Proﬁt/loss from shares and interests in 80 Group companies Note 41 Shares and interests in Group companies 80 Note 42 Fees and compensation to auditors 80 Note 43 Events after the balance sheet date 80 Corporate Governance Report 81 The Board of Directors and Auditor 87 Goup Management 88 Signing of the Annual Report 89 Auditor's Report 90 57 Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Fabege AB (publ), company registration number 556049-1523, hereby present their 2011 report for the Group and Parent Company. THE BUSINESS REVENUES AND EARNINGS Business model contributions to earnings Fabege is one of Sweden’s leading propProfit for the year amounted SEK 1,141m Jan–Dec Jan–Dec SEKm 2011 2010 erty companies focusing on commercial (1,697). Because of a smaller property Proﬁt from Property premises. The business is concentrated to portfolio, higher market interest rates and Management 581 768 a small number of fast-growing priority a greater deficit value in the portfolio of Changes in value (portfolio of sub-markets in the Stockholm region. interest-rate derivatives, earnings declined investment properties) 675 579 Fabege manages and improves its existing compared with the preceding year. EarnContribution from Property Management 1,256 1,347 properties while continuously developing ings per share after tax amounted to SEK Proﬁt from Property its portfolio through sales and acquisi7.01 (10.38). Management –17 14 tions. Realising value is an integral and Rental income totalled SEK 1,804m Changes in value (proﬁt from key part of the business. (2,007) and net operating income SEK Property Development) 418 264 The transactions and investments 1,227m (1,348). The decline in rental Contribution from Property Development 401 278 made in 2011 continued to reflect the income was due to net sales of properties. Contribution from Transactions focus on property holdings in the subThe surplus ratio amounted to 68 per cent (Realised changes in value) 173 237 markets of Stockholm inner city, Solna (67). In a comparable portfolio, rental Changes in value, and Hammarby Sjöstad. On 31 December income increased 1 per cent while operatderivatives and equities –413 67 2011, Fabege owned 97 properties with ing income increased approximately 2 per Proﬁt before tax 1,417 1,929 a total rental value of SEK 2.1bn, lettable cent. During 2012, and in early 2013, the floor space of 1.1m sqm and a carrying positive net lettings trend will gradually TA X amount of SEK 29.2bn, of which SEK impact the occupancy ratio and growth in The tax expense for the year amounted 6.4bn refers to project properties. rental income. to SEK –276m (–232), corresponding to Commercial premises, primarily ofRealised changes in the value of prop26.3 per cent tax of continuous taxable fices, represented 99 per cent of the rental erties amounted to SEK 173m (237), and earnings. Sales of properties resulted in value. The financial occupancy rate for the unrealised changes in value totalled SEK a total deferred tax cost of SEK –7m. The portfolio as a whole was 90 per cent (88). 1,093m (843). The SEK 675m unrealised recognition of tax pertaining to previously The occupancy rate in Fabege’s portfolio change in the value of the portfolio of inunrecognised loss carryforwards resulted of investment properties was 92 per vestment properties was primarily attribin tax revenue of SEK 60m in the fourth cent (91). New lettings in 2011 totalled utable to properties with potential for an quarter. SEK 241m (211), while net lettings were increase in rent levels and a reduction in SEK 130m (27). Rents in renegotiated vacancy rates. The project portfolio conCASH FLOW contracts rose an average of 7 per cent. tributed to an unrealised value change of Profit contributed SEK 748m (1,015) to During the year, several major leases were SEK 418m, which comfortably surpassed liquidity. After a decrease of SEK 1,198m signed in project properties, the largest Fabege’s return requirement of 20 per (1,099) in working capital, which varies of which pertained to Svea Ekonomi cent on invested capital. Share in profit of primarily as a result of the impact of oc(SEK 24m), the Swedish Civil Continassociated companies amounted to SEK cupancy/final settlement for acquired and gencies Agency (SEK 18m) and Tatsinn 9m (18). Changes in the value of interestdivested properties, the liquidity of oper(SEK 18m). Several key negotiations and rate derivatives and equities amounted to ating activities changed by SEK 1,946m extensions of existing leases were conSEK –413m (67), and net interest expense (–84). Acquisitions of and investments in ducted, including one with Fabege’s largest increased to SEK –609m (–522), due to properties exceeded sales by SEK 1,527m customer, Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. higher market interest rates (refer to the (–2,837). Accordingly, the total change in Financing section below). liquidity resulting from operating activities was SEK 419m (2,753). Cash flow during the period was charged with SEK 489m (329) for the payment of dividends. Share buybacks amounted to SEK 38m 58 Fabege 2011 DIRECTORS’ REPORT (61). After the decrease in debt, consoliFastighetsfinansiering AB (SFFAB). acquired, while eleven were sold for dated cash and cash equivalents totalled Through the bond financing programme SEK 936m. The sales resulted in a profit of SEK 74m (73). Fabege borrowed SEK 289m in the capital SEK 173m (237) before tax, or SEK 166m market. SFFAB’s first issuance took the (393) after tax. FINANCING shape of a three-year bond totalling SEK Major property sales pertained to Fabege employs long-term credit lines 650m, of which SEK 400m carried fixed Kåkenhusen 38 in the city, which was subject to fixed terms and conditions. At interest at a rate of 3.65 per cent and SEK sold to Hufvudstaden for SEK 475m, and 31 December 2011, these had an average 250m was subject to variable interest Bocken 51, a newly built residential propmaturity of 5.9 years. The company’s lendrates. The bonds are secured by property erty in the city that was sold as tenanters are the major Nordic banks. mortgage deeds. SFFAB is jointly owned owner apartments for a total purchase Interest-bearing liabilities at year-end by Fabege, Wihlborgs, Peab and Brinova. consideration of SEK 139m. Other sales totalled SEK 16,755m (16,646) and the Fabege owns 30 per cent of the company. primarily pertained to land for residential average interest rate was 3.72 percent The aim is to expand the company’s purposes and non-prioritised properexcluding and 3.80 per cent including financing base with a new source of ties. Sales were one step in the continued commitment fees on the undrawn portion financing. streamlining of Fabege’s property portfoof committed credit facilities. Fabege has a commercial paper lio and realising its potential at the right Interest rates on 75 per cent of Fabege’s programme in an amount of SEK 5,000m. opportunity. loan portfolio were fixed using fixedAt the end of the year, outstanding comincome derivatives. The average fixed-rate mercial paper amounted to SEK 1,719m, I N V E S T M E N T S I N E X I S T I N G P R O P E RT I E S period was 3.6 years, taking the effect of compared with SEK 2,249m at the beginAND ONGOING PROJECTS derivative instruments into account, while ning of the year. The market for commerDuring 2011, decisions were made the average fixed-rate period for variablecial paper improved during the early part on major project investments for SEK rate loans was 52 days. In August, Fabege of 2012 and amounts outstanding at 20 1,818m (613). Investments of SEK 1,457m opted to interest hedge an additional January totalled SEK 2,115m. Fabege has (907) in existing properties and projects portion of its loan portfolio. At year-end, available long-term credit facilities coverreferred to land, new builds, extensions the company’s portfolio of derivative ining all outstanding commercial paper at and conversions. Major investments in struments totalled SEK 5,000m – of which any given time. At 31 December 2011, the 2011 included Uarda 5 and Uarda 1, SEK 1,000m was for a term of three years, company had unutilised committed lines Arenastaden, Bocken 39, LästmakarSEK 1,500m for a term of five years, SEK of credit of SEK 3,205m. gatan, Klamparen 10, Fleminggatan and 1,500m for seven years and SEK 1,000m The total loan volume includes SEK Apotekaren 22, Tulegatan/Rådmansgatan. for a term of ten years – carrying fixed in939m in loans for projects, on which The projects in the properties Fräsaren 10, terest at annual rates of between 2.18 and interest of SEK 27m has been capitalised. Solna Business Park (let to Vectura and 2.73 per cent. Fabege also holds cancellaNet interest expense includes SEK 6m Axfood) and Farao 20, Arenastaden (let to ble swaps totalling SEK 7,550m at interest in nonrecurring costs. Egmont, Nordisk Film and Fabege), were rates ranging from 2.87 to 3.98 per cent completed during the first quarter. The that mature between 2013 and 2018. FINANCIAL POSITION AND NET properties have been transferred to the The derivatives portfolio is measured A S SE T VA L U E portfolio of investment properties. at market value and the change in value Shareholders’ equity amounted to SEK is recognised in profit or loss. At 31 11,890m (11,276) at year-end and the PA R E N T C O M PA N Y December 2011, the recognised negative equity/assets ratio was 39 per cent (39). Sales during the year amounted to SEK fair value adjustment of the portfolio was Shareholders’ equity per share totalled 102m (102) and profit before appropriaSEK 664m (267). The derivatives portfolio SEK 73 (69). Excluding deferred tax on tions and tax was SEK 1,389m (66). Net has been measured at the present value fair value adjustments of properties, net financial items include dividends from of future cash flows. The change in value asset value per share was SEK 84 (77). subsidiaries of SEK 2,000m (0). Net is of an accounting nature and has no investments in property, equipment and impact on the company’s cash flow. At the A C Q U I SI T I O N S A N D S A L E S shares totalled SEK 5m (–30). due date, the market value of derivative Investments in 2011 totalled SEK 1,975m instruments is always zero. (940), of which SEK 518m (0) refers to S H A R E S A N D S H A R E CA P I TA L In December, Fabege launched a bond property acquisitions and SEK 1,457m Fabege’s share capital at year-end was financing programme with a limit of SEK (907) to investments in existing properSEK 5,097m (5,097), represented by 5,000m via the co-owned company Svensk ties and projects. Five properties were 165,391,572 shares (165,391,572). 59 All shares carry the same voting rights 31 December 2011. It shows the effects consist of tariff-based expenses such as and entitle the holder to the same share of on the Group’s cash flow and profit after heating, electricity and water. Fabege is the company’s capital. The quotient value financial items on an annualised basis pursuing a structured effort to reduce its was SEK 30.82 per share. after taking account of the full effect of consumption of heating, electricity and The following indirect or direct shareeach parameter. Earnings are also affected water, with a target of achieving 20 per holdings in the company as of 31 Decemby realised and unrealised changes in the cent lower consumption over a five-year ber 2011 represent one tenth or more of value of properties and derivates. period as of 2010. Fabege also conducts the votes for all shares in the company: lease negotiations and works continuously SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS – CASH FLOW to optimise running costs. A large share AND EARNINGS of the Group’s expenses is passed on to Shareholding 2012-12-31 Share of votes, % Effect, the tenants, which reduces the exposure. Change SEKm Brinova 14.4 The standard of the property management Rental income, total 1% 18 portfolio is deemed to be high. Financial occupancy rate, % 1%-point 21 Through Fabege’s profit-sharing fund and Property expenses 1% 6 the Wihlborgs & Fabege profit-sharing Interest expenses Interest expenses 20121) 1%-point 66.0 fund, the employees of Fabege own a total The strategic focus is to ensure stable, Interest expenses, of 406,116 shares, representing a stake of longer-term perspective2) 1%-point 167.5 well-balanced and cost-effective financing. 0.25 per cent in the company. 1) The effect of the change on interest expenses in 2012 Fabege employs financial instruments, is based on the assumption of a change in the yield mainly in the form of interest-rate swaps, curve of 1 per cent and an unchanged loan volume S H A R E BU Y BA C K PR O G R A M M E and ﬁxed-rate term, with effect from 1 January 2012. to limit interest risk and flexibly adjust The 2011 AGM passed a resolution 2) Change of 1 per cent in total outstanding loan volume. the average fixed-rate term of the loan authorising the Board, not longer than up portfolio. At year-end, the fixed-rate term to the next AGM, to buy back and transfer Rental income of the loan portfolio was about 3.6 years. shares in the company. Share buybacks Fabege’s business in property manageChanges in the value of derivatives are are subject to a limit of 10 per cent of the ment and project development is highly recognised in profit or loss. total number of outstanding shares at any concentrated to sub-markets with good time. During the period, 755,000 shares growth prospects in Stockholm inner Property values were bought back at an average price of city, Solna and Hammarby Sjöstad. Since Properties are recognised at fair value and SEK 51.03. commercial premises with an emphasis changes in value are recognised in profit At 31 December 2011, the company on office space account for the entire busior loss. Fabege’s properties are concentratheld 3,166,488 treasury shares, representness, employment and the office market ed to central Stockholm and neighbouring ing 1.9 per cent of the total number of trend in Stockholm are of considerable areas. As a result of stable customers and registered shares. significance to Fabege. As the company’s modern premises in good locations, Facommercial leases have a term of several bege’s prospects for maintaining property R I S K S A N D UN C E RTA I N T I E S years, the full impact of changes in rents values even in a weaker economic climate Risks and uncertainties relating to cash will not be felt in any single year. New are good. Continued development of projflow from operations are primarily atleases normally have a term of three to ect properties generates capital growth in tributable to changes in rents, vacancies five years and are subject to nine months’ the portfolio. The table below shows the and interest rates. Another source of notice with an index clause linked to effect on earnings, equity/assets ratio and uncertainty is changes in the value of the inflation. The lease portfolio is currently loan-to-value ratio of a 1 per cent change property portfolio. A detailed description deemed to be in line with market levels. in the value of a property. of the impact of these changes on consoliNormally, about 20 per cent of the lease dated cash flow and the company’s key portfolio is renegotiated each year. At SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS – PROPERTY VALUE figures is given in the sensitivity analyses. year-end, Fabege's average remaining Change in Impact on Equity/ Loan-toFinancial risk, defined as the risk of term for commercial leases was 3.5 years. value before earnings, assets value ratio tax, % SEKm ratio, % properties, % insufficient access to long-term funding +1 215 38.9 56.9 through loans, and Fabege’s management Property expenses 0 – 38.7 57.5 of this risk are described in Note 3. Property expenses include operations –1 –215 38.4 58.1 The sensitivity analysis refers to Fabege’s and maintenance expenses, property tax, property holdings and balance sheet on ground rent and expenses for administration and lettings. Running costs largely 60 Fabege 2011 DIRECTORS’ REPORT ASSET MANAGEMENT the properties. In case of a direct sale of share of the proceeds in full compliance Capital structure property, profit for tax purposes, defined with applicable tax rules. The sales reFabege’s asset management activities are as the difference between the selling price sulted in low income tax, but it should be designed to generate the best return for and the tax residual value of the property, pointed out that in the Tax Agency’s own shareholders among property companies is realised. If the sale is made in the form opinion it is perfectly permissible and listed on the Stockholm stock exchange. of a company, this effect can be reduced. acceptable to sell commercial properties The company seeks to optimise its equity/ It is generally expected that current tax tax-free in packaged form, i.e. the small debt ratio to ensure that its capital base will remain low over the next few years. amount of tax resulting from the sales was is sufficient in relation to the nature, neither unexpected nor controversial. The scope and risks of the business. Under its Deferred tax liability/tax asset way in which the properties were sold was adopted targets for capital structure, the On 31 December 2011, the difference bechosen exclusively for business reasons, company aims to have an equity/assets tween the book and tax residual values of and not to reduce the amount of tax ratio of at least 30 per cent and an interest Fabege’s property portfolio was approxipayable. The most immediate alternative, coverage ratio of at least 2.0 (including mately SEK 11.2bn (9.4). which was to sell the properties through realised changes in value). On 31 December 2011, net deferred limited liability companies, would not Current key figures are shown in the tax liabilities were SEK 390bn (152), as have resulted in a higher tax charge for five-year summary on page 96. shown in the following specification, see any company in the Group. The type of table. property transaction, through a trading/ Debt management limited partnership, that the Tax Agency The main task of Fabege’s debt manDeferred tax attributable to SEKm has based its tax ruling on has been comagement activities is to ensure that the – tax-loss carryforwards –1,148 mon practice in the industry. company maintains a stable, well balanced – difference between book and tax values During the spring of 2011, the Swedish and cost-efficient financial structure at all in respect of properties 1,708 Administrative Court announced verdicts times through borrowing in the bank and – deﬁcit, derivatives –175 in all of Fabege’s on-going tax cases. The capital markets. The company’s financial – other 5 Administrative Court ruled in favour of policy defines how financial risks should Net debt, deferred tax 390 the Tax Agency’s position that Fabege be managed, which is described in greater should be taxed pursuant to the Tax detail in Note 3. Ongoing tax cases Evasion Act. All of the verdicts have been The Tax Agency has in several decisions appealed with the Administrative Court Dividends announced that companies in the Fabege of Appeals and Fabege has been granted Under its dividend policy, Fabege aims to Group will have their taxable incomes inrespite for the payment of taxes until the pay a dividend to its shareholders comcreased in respect of a number of property Administrative Court of Appeals has prising the part of the company’s profit sales made through limited partnerships. issued a verdict. The Administrative that is not required for the consolidation At 31 December 2011, the total Court of Appeals has issued a stay of proor development of the business. In the increase in taxable income amounted to ceedings in all cases pending the Supreme current market conditions, this means SEK 8,368m (7,098). The decisions have Administrative Court’s hearing of the that the dividend will comprise at least 50 resulted in total tax demands of SEK National Tax Board’s preliminary verdict per cent of profit from property manage2,214m (1,874) plus a tax penalty of SEK in what is known as the “Cyprus case.” ment activities and realised gains from the 164m (164), making a total demand of During the fourth quarter of 2011, adsale of properties after tax. SEK 2,378m (2,038) excluding interest ditional tax cases were brought before the payments. At 31 December 2011, accrued Administrative Court for consideration. TA X S I T U AT I ON interest amounted to SEK 303m. Fabege considers that the Tax Agency Current tax Fabege strongly contests the tax and the Administrative Court have disTax-loss carryforwards, which are demands resulting from the Tax Agency’s regarded a number of important aspects expected to reduce the tax expense in and Administrative Court’s decisions and and that the verdicts are therefore incorfuture years, are estimated at SEK 4.4bn has appealed the decisions. rect – an assessment shared by Fabege’s (4.2). Payment of income tax can also The various partners of the limited advisors on the matters. Fabege is of the be delayed through tax depreciation of partnerships reported and declared their opinion that it is highly probable that 61 the Administrative Court of Appeal will men. A total of 32 people were employed Allocations to the fund should be based amend the Administrative Court’s rulings in the Parent Company (31). At year-end, on the achieved return on equity and are to the benefit of Fabege. the number of employees was 122 (126), subject to a ceiling of one (1) base amount Fabege is adhering to its view that the including 43 (47) women. See also page per year per employee. sales were accounted for and declared 74, Note 6. The retirement age is 65. Pension in compliance with applicable rules. benefits should be equivalent to the ITP This assessment is shared by external G U I D E L I N E S F O R R E M U N E R AT I O N A N D supplementary pension plan for salaried legal experts and tax advisors that have OTHER EMPLOYMENT TERMS FOR MANemployees in industry and commerce or analysed the sales, the arguments of AGEMENT be contribution-based with a maximum the Tax Agency and the verdicts of the The term “management” refers to the contribution of 35 per cent of the penAdministrative Court. Chief Executive Officer and other memsionable salary. Termination salary and No provision has been made in bers of executive management. The entire severance pay must not exceed 24 months Fabege’s balance sheet. However, until Board of Directors (except the CEO) is rein total. further notice, the amount is instead besponsible for drawing up a draft statement Information about remuneration paid ing recognised as a contingent liability, as of principles governing remuneration and to senior executives in 2011 is provided in previous financial statements. other terms of employment for managein Note 6. All of the transactions completed by ment and for preparing decisions on the The Board proposes unchanged printhe Fabege Group on the basis of the soCEO’s remuneration and other terms of ciples governing variable remuneration called Holland solution are now subject employment. ahead of the 2012 Annual General Meetto consideration. Since Fabege does not The 2011 AGM resolved to adopt ing. A complete version of the Board’s believe that the Tax Agency will make the following guidelines for compensaproposal will be included in the AGM further claims, it believes that the above tion and other terms of employment for documents, which will be published on figures concerning increased taxes and management: Fabege’s website. tax demands will not rise. Any changes in Remuneration should be marketcurrent assessments and any court rulings based and competitive, and should reflect OUTLOOK FOR 2012 will be announced through press releases. responsibilities and performance that are Both the rental market and transacThe status of ongoing cases is always in the interest of the shareholders. Fixed tion market strengthened during 2011. reported in interim reports. salaries should be reviewed each year. The development of the portfolio and Such remuneration could depend on the the favourable net lettings trend enable T H E W OR K O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S extent to which predetermined objecFabege to continue to generate and deliver A separate description of the work of the tives are met within the framework of contribution to profit from all parts of Board of Directors is given in the Corpothe company’s operations. The objectives its business model, meaning property rate Governance Report on page 81. encompass financial and non-financial management, property development and criteria. Remuneration in addition to property transactions. We look forward to E N V I R ON M E N T fixed salary should be subject to a ceilstrong earnings in 2012, including: Fabege does not conduct activities that are ing and tied to the fixed salary. Variable • A stronger cash flow from the portfolio subject to permit and notification requireremuneration may not exceed three (3) of investment properties. ments under Chapter 9, Section 6 of the months’ salary. Variable remuneration to • A continued high development rate in Environmental Code. Of Fabege’s tenants, company management must not exceed the portfolio. only a few conduct such activities. More a maximum total annual cost for the • Value growth through projects and atinformation about Fabege’s environmental company of SEK 2.5m (excluding social tractive properties in good locations. work is given in the Sustainability Report security fees), calculated on the basis of on page 42. the number of persons who currently conAlthough uncertainty concerning the ecostitute senior executives. Other benefits, nomic outlook is considerable, Fabege is HUMAN RESOURCES where applicable, may only constitute a well equipped with a strong balance sheet The average number of employees in the limited portion of the remuneration. and a property portfolio in good locations Group during the year was 124 (125), Fabege has a profit-sharing fund with favourable development potential. including 44 (47) women and 80 (78) covering all employees of the company. 62 Fabege 2011 DIRECTORS’ REPORT A P P R OP R I AT I O N O F R E TA I N E D E A R N I N G S proposed dividend is defensible based on incurred. Planned investments have been The shareholders are asked to decide on the criteria contained in the second and taken into account in the proposed divithe appropriation of: third paragraphs of Section 3 of Chapter dend payment. Nor will the dividend have SEK 17 of the Swedish Companies Act (nature, any significant impact on the company’s Retained earnings 571,628,675 scope and risks of the business, consolidaor the Group’s ability to make further Proﬁt for the year 1,547,150,567 tion requirements, liquidity and other commercially motivated investments in Total 2,118,779,242 financial circumstances). The Board would accordance with the adopted plans. In like to make the following comments the Parent Company, some assets and The Board of Directors and Chief Execupertaining thereto: liabilities have been measured at fair value tive Officer propose that the amount be in accordance with Chapter 4, Section 14 allocated as follows: Nature, scope and risks of the business of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The SEK The Board estimates that the company’s impact of this valuation, which decreased Dividend to the shareand the Group’s equity after the proposed equity in the Parent Company by SEK holders SEK 3.00 per dividend will be sufficient in view of the 289m (increase 77), has been taken into share 486,675,252 nature and scope of the business and the account. Carried forward 1,632,103,990 associated risks. In drawing up its proTotal 2,118,779,242 posal, the Board has taken account of the Liquidity company’s equity/assets ratio, historical The proposed dividend will not affect The dividend amount is based on the and budgeted performance, investment the company’s and the Group’s ability to total number of outstanding shares on 31 plans and the general economic environmeet its payment obligations in a timely December 2011, i.e. 162,225,084 shares, ment. manner. The company and the Group and is subject to alteration up to and have good access to liquidity reserves in including the record date, depending on Consolidation requirements, liquidity the form of shortand long-term credit. share buy-backs. and other financial circumstances Agreed credit lines can be drawn at short Consolidation requirements notice, which means that the company STATEMENT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors has made a genand the Group are well prepared to manO N T H E P R OP OS E D D I V I D E N D eral assessment of the company’s and the age variations in liquidity and any unexGrounds Group’s financial position and its ability pected events. The Group’s equity has been calculated to meet its obligations. The proposed in compliance with IFRS standards, as dividend constitutes 4.7 per cent of the Other financial circumstances adopted by the EU, the interpretations of company’s equity and 4.1 per cent of The Board of Directors has assessed all these (IFRIC) and Swedish law through consolidated equity. The stated target for other known circumstances that may the application of Recommendation the Group’s capital structure is a minibe significant for the company’s and the RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules mum equity/assets ratio of 30 per cent, Group’s financial position and that have for Corporate Groups of the Swedish and it is estimated that the Group will not been addressed in the above. No Financial Reporting Board. The Parent be able to maintain an interest coverage circumstance has been discovered in the Company’s equity has been calculated in ratio of at least 2.0 also after the proposed course of the assessment that would cast accordance with Swedish law, applying dividend. In view of the current situation doubt on the defensibility of the proposed recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for on the property market, the company dividend. Legal Entities of the Swedish Financial and the Group have a good equity/assets Reporting Board. ratio. Against this background, the Stockholm, 24 February 2012 The Board of Directors has established Board considers that the company and that the company will have full coverage the Group are in a good position to take The Board of Directors for its restricted equity after the proposed advantage of future business opportunidividend. The Board considers that the ties and withstand any losses that may be 63 Consolidated Statement of comprehensive income SEK millions Note 2011 2010 Rental income 5, 7 1,804 2,007 Property expenses 8 –577 –659 Net operating income 1,227 1,348 Central administration and marketing 9 –63 –62 Proﬁt from other securities and receivables that are ﬁxed assets 11 13 5 Interest income 12 1 2 Share in proﬁt/loss of associated companies 17 9 18 Interest expenses 12 –623 –529 Operating proﬁt/loss 1–6, 16, 18, 42 564 782 Realised changes in value, investment properties 10, 15 173 237 Unrealised changes in value, investment properties 10, 15 1,093 843 Changes in value, ﬁxed income derivatives 26 –397 106 Changes in value, equities 13 –16 –39 Proﬁt/loss before tax 1,417 1,929 Tax on proﬁt for the year 14 –276 –232 Total proﬁt/loss for the year 1,141 1,697 Comprehensive income attributable to Parent Company shareholders 1,141 1,697 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 7.01 10.38 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 7.01 10.38 No. of shares at end of period before dilution, millions 162.2 163.0 No. of shares at end of period after dilution, millions 162.2 163.0 Average no. of shares before dilution, millions 162.7 163.5 Average no. of shares after dilution, millions 162.7 163.5 64 Fabege 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of financial position SEK millions Note 2011 2010 ASSETS Investment properties 15 29,150 26,969 Equipment 16 1 3 Interests in associated companies 17 591 443 Receivables from associated companies 18 261 81 Other long-term securities holdings 19 165 152 Other long-term receivables 20 107 38 Total ﬁxed assets 30,275 27,686 Trade receivables 21 15 18 Other receivables 22 299 1,437 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 48 49 Cash and cash equivalents 34 74 73 Total current assets 436 1,577 TOTAL ASSETS 30,711 29,263 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 5,097 5,097 Other contributed capital 3,017 3,017 Retained earnings incl. proﬁt/loss for the year 3,776 3,162 Total shareholders’ equity 23 11,890 11,276 Liabilities to credit institutions 25 13,521 10,828 Derivatives 26 664 267 Deferred tax liabilities 27 390 152 Provisions 28 148 191 Total long-term liabilities 14,723 11,438 Liabilities to credit institutions 24, 25 3,234 5,818 Trade payables 151 82 Provisions 28 47 80 Tax liabilities 17 6 Other liabilities 29 181 97 Accrued expenses and deferred income 30 468 466 Total current liabilities 4,098 6,549 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 30,711 29,263 Assets pledged as security 31 14,416 15,131 Contingent liabilities 31 3,376 2,520 65 Consolidated Statement of changes in equity Minority Total Attributable to Parent Company shareholders interest equity Other Retained earnings contributed incl. proﬁt/loss SEK millions Share capital capital for the year Total Opening balance, 1 January 2010 5,096 3,017 1,856 9,969 – 9,969 Total loss for the year 1,697 1,697 1,697 Total income and expenses for the period 1,697 1,697 – 1,697 Cash dividend –329 –329 –329 Share buybacks –61 –61 –61 Cancellation of treasury shares –118 118 Bonus issue 119 –119 Closing balance, 31 December 2010 5,097 3,017 3,162 11,276 – 11,276 Opening balance, 1 January 2011 5,097 3,017 3,162 11,276 – 11,276 Total proﬁt for the year 1,141 1,141 1,141 Total income and expenses for the period 1,141 1,141 – 1,141 Cash dividend –489 –489 –489 Share buybacks –38 –38 –38 Closing balance, 31 December 2011 5,097 3,017 3,776 11,890 – 11,890 66 Fabege 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of cash flows SEK millions Note 2011 2010 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net operating income and realised changes in the value of existing properties excluding depreciation 1,407 1,600 Central administration –63 –62 Interest received and dividend 10 37 14 7 Interest paid 32 –610 –527 Income tax paid/received 0 –3 Cash ﬂow before change in working capital 748 1,015 CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL Current receivables 1,142 –800 Current liabilities 56 –299 Total change in working capital 33 1,198 –1,099 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 1,946 –84 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments and acquisition of properties –1,986 –940 Sale of properties, carrying amount at beginning of year 15 756 3,978 Acquisition of interests in associated companies 17 –37 –103 Acquisition of interests in other companies 19 –29 –77 Sale of interests in other companies 0 7 Other tangible ﬁxed assets –1 –2 Other ﬁnancial ﬁxed assets –230 –26 Cash ﬂow from investing activities –1,527 2,837 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Dividends –489 –329 Share buybacks –38 –61 Loans received/repayment of loans 109 –2,463 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities –418 –2,853 Change in cash and cash equivalents 1 –100 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 34 73 173 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 34 74 73 67 Parent Company Parent Company Profit and loss accounts Balance sheets SEK millions Note 2011 2010 SEK millions Note 2011 2010 Net turnover 38 102 102 ASSETS Operating costs 39 –193 –190 FIXED ASSETS Tangible ﬁxed assets Operating loss 1–3, 6, 16, 42 –91 –88 Equipment 16 1 3 Total tangible ﬁxed assets 1 3 Proﬁt/loss from shares and interests in Group companies 40 2,065 216 Financial ﬁxed assets Proﬁt from other securities and receivables that are ﬁxed assets 11, 13 455 368 Shares and interests in Group companies 41 13,328 13,328 Receivables from Group companies 38,815 37,524 Changes in value, ﬁxed income derivatives 26 –397 106 Other long-term securities holdings 19 9 6 Interest income 12 1 1 Deferred tax asset 27 261 103 Other long-term receivables 20 4 33 Interest expenses 12 –644 –537 Total ﬁnancial ﬁxed assets 52,417 50,994 Loss before tax 1,389 66 TOTAL FIXED ASSETS 52,418 50,997 Tax on proﬁt for the year 14 158 –28 CURRENT ASSETS Proﬁt/loss for the year 1,547 38 Current receivables Trade receivables 0 0 No statement of comprehensive income has been prepared because the Parent Company has no transactions that should be included in other comprehensive Other receivables 136 5 income. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 25 20 Total current receivables 161 25 Cash and cash equivalents 34 69 64 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 230 89 TOTAL ASSETS 52,648 51,086 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity 23 Restricted equity Share capital 5,097 5,097 Reserve fund/Share premium account 3,166 3,166 Unrestricted equity Retained earnings 572 1,062 Proﬁt/loss for the year 1,547 38 Total shareholders’ equity 10,382 9,363 Provisions Provisions for pensions 28 68 63 Total provisions 63 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 25 13,072 10,847 Derivatives 26 664 267 Liabilities to subsidiaries 25,156 24,676 Total long-term liabilities 38,892 35,790 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 25 3,219 5,799 Trade payables 2 4 Other liabilities 4 7 Accrued expenses and deferred income 30 81 60 Total current liabilities 3,306 5,870 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 52,648 51,086 Assets pledged as security 31 13,107 12,627 Contingent liabilities 31 3,532 3,452 68 Fabege 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company Parent Company Statement of changes in equity Cash flow statement UnSEK millions Note 2011 2010 Share Reserve restricted Total OPERATING ACTIVITIES SEK millions Note capital fund equity equity Operating loss excl. depreciation –91 –87 23 Interest received 457 398 Equity, 31 December 2009 5,096 3,166 1,452 9,714 Interest paid 32 –629 –535 Proﬁt for the year 38 38 Income tax paid – – Total income and expenses for the period 38 38 Cash ﬂow before change in working capital –263 –224 Cash dividend –329 –329 Change in working capital Share buybacks –61 –61 Current receivables –136 38 Cancellation of treasury shares –118 118 0 Current liabilities 7 –6 Bonus issue 119 –119 0 Total change in working capital 33 –129 32 Equity on 31 December 2010 5,097 3,166 1,099 9,362 Cash ﬂow from operating activities –392 –192 Proﬁt for the year 1,547 1,547 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Total income and expenses Acquisition of interests in Group companies – – for the period 1,547 1,547 Sale of interests in Group companies – – Cash dividend –489 –489 Acquisition and sale of interests Share buybacks –38 –38 in other companies –4 4 Equity on 31 December 2011 5,097 3,166 2,119 10,382 Other tangible ﬁxed assets 0 –4 Other ﬁnancial ﬁxed assets 738 –270 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 734 –270 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Dividends paid –489 –329 Group contributions received and made 65 217 Share buybacks –38 –61 Loans received/repayment of loans 125 538 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities –337 365 Change in cash and cash equivalents 5 –97 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 34 64 161 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 34 69 64 69 Notes (SEK million, unless otherwise speciﬁed) Note 1 General Information ciﬁc provisions which prohibit this. Rental income from investment properties is recognised on a straight-line basis in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable leases. In cases where a lease provides for a discounted rent Fabege AB (publ), company registration number 556049-1523, with regisduring a certain period that is offset by a higher rent at other times, the resulttered ofﬁce in Stockholm, is the Parent Company of a corporate group with ing deﬁcit or surplus is distributed over the term of the lease. subsidiary companies, as stated in Note 41. The company is registered in Interest income is distributed over the term of the contract. Dividends on Sweden and the address of the company’s head ofﬁce in Stockholm is: Fabege shares are recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive payment is AB, Box 730, 169 27 Solna. Visiting address: Pyramidvägen 7. deemed to be secure. Fabege is one of Sweden’s leading properties companies, with a business that is concentrated to the Stockholm region. The company operates through Leasing – Fabege as lessee subsidiaries and its property portfolio consists primarily of commercial premises. Leasing agreements in which the risks and beneﬁts associated with ownership of the assets are in all material respects borne by the lessor are classiﬁed as operating leases. All of the Group’s leases are classiﬁed as operating leases. Note 2 Accounting policies Lease payments are recognised as an expense in proﬁt or loss and distributed over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with Investment properties the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the International Financial Reporting StanAll properties in the Group are classiﬁed as investment properties, as they dards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the interpretations of the International are held for the purpose of earning rental income or for capital gains or a Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), at 31 December 2011. combination of the two. The Group also applies Recommendation RFR 1 (Supplementary AccountThe concept of investment property includes buildings, land and land improveing Rules for Corporate Groups) of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, ments, new builds, extensions or conversions in progress and property ﬁxtures. which speciﬁes the supplementary rules that are required in addition to IFRS Investment properties are recognised at fair value at the balance sheet under provisions contained in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The annual date. Gains and losses attributable to changes in the fair value of investment accounts of the Parent Company have been prepared in accordance with the properties are recognised in the period in which they arise in the income and Annual Accounts Act, Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities of expense item “Unrealised changes in value, investment properties”. the Swedish Financial Reporting Board and statements issued by the Swedish Gains or losses from the sale or disposal of investment properties consist Financial Reporting Board. The Parent Company’s accounts comply with the of the difference between the selling price and carrying amount based on the Group’s principles, except in respect of what is stated below in the section most recent revaluation to fair value. Gains or losses from sales or disposals entitled Differences between the accounting policies of the Group and the are recognised in the income and expense item Realised changes in value, Parent Company. Items included in the annual accounts have been stated at investment properties. Projects involving conversion/maintenance and adaptacost, except in respect of revaluations of investment properties and in respect tions for tenants are recognised as an asset to the extent that the work being of ﬁnancial instruments. The following is a description of signiﬁcant accounting undertaken adds value in relation to the latest valuation. Other expenses are policies that have been applied. charged to expense immediately. Sales and acquisitions of properties are recognised at the time when the risks and beneﬁts associated with ownership are Consolidated ﬁnancial statements transferred to the buyer or seller, which is normally on the contract date. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those companies in which the Group directly or indirectly holds Tangible ﬁxed assets more than 50 per cent of the votes or in other ways exercises a controlling Equipment is recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairinﬂuence. Controlling inﬂuence means that the Group has the right to draw up ment. Depreciation of equipment is expensed by writing off the value of the ﬁnancial and operational strategies. The existence and effect of potential voting asset on a straight-line basis over its estimated period of use. rights that can currently be used or converted is taken into account in assessing whether the Group exercises a controlling inﬂuence. Subsidiaries are included Impairment in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements as of the time when the controlling In case of an indication of a decrease in the value of an asset (excluding inﬂuence is transferred to the Group and are excluded from the consolidated investment properties and ﬁnancial instruments, which are measured at fair ﬁnancial statements as of the time when the controlling inﬂuence ceases. The value), the recoverable amount of the asset is determined. If the carrying acquisition of a subsidiary is recognised in accordance with the purchase amount of the asset exceeds the recoverable amount the asset is written down method. The purchase consideration for the business combination is measured to this value. Recoverable amount is deﬁned as the higher of market value and at fair value at the acquisition date, which is calculated as the total of the fair value in use. Value in use is deﬁned as the present value of estimated future values at the acquisition date for the assets acquired, assumed or acquired lipayments generated by the asset. abilities, as well as equity shares issued in exchange for control of the acquired business. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in proﬁt or loss as incurred. Loan expenses For business combinations in which the sum of the purchase consideration, any In the consolidated ﬁnancial statements loan expenses have been recognised in non-controlling interests and fair value at the acquisition date of prior share proﬁt or loss in the year to which they refer, except to the extent that they have holdings exceeds the fair value at the acquisition date of identiﬁable acquired been included in the cost of a building project. Fabege capitalises borrowing net assets, the difference is recognised as goodwill in the statement of ﬁnancial costs attributable to the purchase, construction or production of an assets that position. If the difference is negative, it is recognised as proﬁt on a bargain takes a considerable amount of time to complete for its intended use or sale. purchase directly in proﬁt or loss following retesting of the difference. The interest rate used to calculate the capitalised borrowing cost is the average interest rate of the loan portfolio. In the accounts of individual companies the Interests in associated companies main principle – that all loan expenses should be charged to expense in the A company is recognised as an associated company if Fabege holds at least year to which they refer – has been applied. 20 per cent and no more than 50 per cent of the votes or otherwise exercises a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the company’s operational and ﬁnancial control. In Income tax the consolidated ﬁnancial statements associated companies are recognised The income and expense item “Tax on proﬁt for the year” includes current in accordance with the equity method. Interests in associated companies are and deferred income tax for Swedish and foreign Group units. The current recognised in the balance sheet at cost after adjusting for changes in the tax liability is based on the taxable proﬁt for the year. Taxable proﬁt for the Group’s share of the associated company’s net assets, less any decrease in the year differs from recognised proﬁt for the year in that it has been adjusted fair value of individual interests. In transactions among Group companies and for non-taxable and non-deductible items. The Group’s current tax liability is associated companies that part of unrealised gains and losses which represents calculated on the basis of tax rates that have been prescribed or announced at the Group’s share of the associated company is eliminated, except as regards the balance sheet date. unrealised losses that are due to impairment of an assigned asset. Deferred tax refers to tax on temporary differences that arise between the carrying amount of assets and the tax value used in calculating the taxable Minority interest proﬁt. Deferred tax is recognised in accordance with the balance sheet liability For each business combination, the non-controlling interest in the acquired commethod. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for practically all taxable tempany is either measured at fair value or at the value of the proportional share porary differences, and deferred tax assets are recognised when it is likely that of the non-controlling interest of the acquired company’s identiﬁable net assets. the amounts can be used to offset future taxable proﬁts. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is tested for impairment at the end of each ﬁnancial year Recognition of income and an impairment loss is recognised to the extent that it is no longer probable All investment properties are let to tenants under operating leases. Rental that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts will be available against which the deferred tax income from the company’s property management activities is recognised in asset can be fully or partially offset. Deferred tax is recognised at the nominal the period to which it refers. Gains or losses from the sale of properties are current tax rate with no discount. Deferred tax is recognised as an income or recognised at the date of contract unless the purchase contract contains speexpense in proﬁt or loss, except in those cases where it refers to transactions or events that have been recognised directly in equity. In such cases the deferred tax is also recognised directly in equity. 70 Fabege 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Note 2 cont.) Current deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are offset against one another Trade receivables when they refer to income tax payable to the same tax authority and when the Trade receivables are categorised as “Loans and receivables”, which means Group intends to settle the tax by paying the net amount. that the item is recognised at amortised cost. Fabege’s trade receivables are recognised at the amount that is expected to be received after deducting for Foreign currencies uncertain receivables, which are assessed individually. The expected maturity Transactions in foreign currencies are translated, upon inclusion in the acof a trade receivable is short, and the value is therefore recognised at the counts, to the functional currency at the exchange rates applying on the transnominal amount with no discount. Impairment of trade receivables is recogaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated nised in operating expenses. at the balance sheet date at the exchange rates applying on the balance sheet date. Any resulting foreign exchange differences are recognised in proﬁt or Long-term receivables and other receivables loss for the period. Long-term receivables and other (current) receivables primarily consist of In preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the balance sheets of the promissory note receivables relating to sales proceeds for properties that have Group’s foreign operations are translated from their functional currencies into been sold but not yet vacated. These items are categorised as “Loans and Swedish kronor based on the exchange rates applying at the balance sheet receivables”, which means that the items are recognised at amortised cost. date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rate Receivables are recognised at the amount that is expected to be received for the period. Any resulting translation differences are recognised in equity after deducting for uncertain receivables, which are assessed individually. and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. The accumulated translation Receivables with short maturities are recognised at nominal amounts without difference is transferred and recognised as part of a capital gain or loss in discounting. cases where the foreign operation is divested. Derivatives Cash ﬂow statement Fabege does not apply hedge accounting of derivatives and therefore categoFabege reports cash ﬂows from the company’s main sources of income: net rises derivatives as “Financial assets or ﬁnancial liabilities held for trading operating income from the property management business and gains or losses purposes”. Assets and liabilities in these categories are stated at fair value and from sales of properties in the company’s day-to-day activities. changes in value are recognised in proﬁt or loss. Information about related parties Trade payables For information about the company’s transactions with related parties, see Trade payables are categorised as “Other liabilities”, which means that the Note 6 in respect of compensation to senior executives and Note 35 for other item is recognised at amortised cost. The expected maturity of a trade payable related-party transactions. is short, and the liability is therefore recognised at the nominal amount with no discount. Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised when the company has a commitment and it is likely Other liabilities that an outﬂow of resources will be required and the amount can be reliably Fabege’s liabilities to credit institutions and holders of Fabege commercial estimated. paper and other liabilities are categorised as “Other liabilities” and measured Contingent liabilities are recognised if there exists a possible commitment at amortised cost. Long-term liabilities have an expected maturity of more than that is conﬁrmed only by several uncertain future events and it is not likely that one year while current liabilities have a maturity of less than one year. an outﬂow of resources will be required or that the size of the commitment can be calculated with sufﬁcient accuracy. Remuneration to employees Remuneration to employees in the form of salaries, holiday pay, paid sick Financial instruments leave, etc. as well as pensions are recognised as it is earned. Pensions and A ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the other compensation paid after termination of employment are classiﬁed as company becomes a party to the commercial terms and conditions of the instrudeﬁned contribution or deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans. The Group has both dement. A ﬁnancial asset is removed from the balance sheet when the rights inherﬁned contribution and deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans. Pension costs for deﬁned ent in the agreement are realised or expire or if the company loses control over contribution plans are charged to expense as they are incurred. For deﬁned them. A ﬁnancial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the obligation beneﬁt plans the present value of the pension liability is calculated using an acarising from the agreement has been met or is extinguished for other reasons. tuarial method known as the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and Transaction date accounting is used for derivatives while settlement date losses are recognised in proﬁt or loss insofar as they exceed the higher of 10 accounting is used for spot purchases and sales of ﬁnancial assets. per cent of the Group’s pension assets and pension liabilities at the beginning In connection with each ﬁnancial report the company assesses whether of the reporting period. Amounts outside this band are recognised in proﬁt or there are objective indications of impairment of ﬁnancial assets or groups of loss during the employees’ estimated average remaining period of service. Emﬁnancial assets. ployees in the former Fabege have deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans. As of 2005, Financial instruments are recognised at amortised cost or fair value, deno further accrual of this pension liability has been made. pending on the initial categorisation under IAS 39. Segment reporting Calculation of fair value of ﬁnancial instruments Segment information is presented from the perspective of management and that Fair value of derivatives and loan liabilities is determined by discounting future operating segments are identiﬁed based on the internal reports submitted to the cash ﬂows by the quoted market interest rate for each maturity. Future cash company’s chief operating decision maker. The Group has identiﬁed the CEO ﬂows in the derivatives portfolio are calculated as the difference between the as the chief operating decision maker, which means that the internal reports ﬁxed contractual interest under each derivatives contract and the implied Stockused by the CEO for monitoring the business and making decisions on the holm Interbank Offered Rate (STIBOR) for the period concerned. The present allocation of resources have been used as a basis for the presented segment invalue of future interest ﬂows arising there from is calculated using the implied formation. Based on the company’s internal reporting, two operating segments STIBOR curve. For the callable swaps included in the portfolio the option have been identiﬁed: Property Management and Property Development. Rental component has not been assigned a value, as the swaps can only be called at income and property expenses, as well as realised and unrealised changes par value and thus do not have an impact on earnings. Decisions to call swaps in value including tax, are directly attributable to properties in each segment are made by the banks. (direct income and expenses). In cases where a property changes character Shareholdings have been categorised as “Financial assets held for tradduring the year, earnings attributable to the property are allocated to each seging”. These are measured at fair value and changes in value are recognised ment based on the period of time that the property belonged to each segment. in proﬁt or loss. Quoted market prices are used in determining the fair value Central administration and items in net ﬁnancial expense have been allocated of shareholdings. Where no such prices are available fair value is determined to the segments in a standardised manner based on each segment’s share of using the company’s own valuation technique. the total property value (indirect income and expenses). This also applies to tax For all ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, unless otherwise stated in the Notes, that is not directly attributable to earnings from property management activities the carrying amount is considered to be a good approximation of fair value. or sales. Property assets are attributed to each segment pursuant to the classiﬁcation on the balance sheet date. Set-off of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset against each other and the net amount Differences between the accounting policies of the Group and is recognised in the balance sheet when there is a legal right of set-off and the Parent Company there is an intention to settle the items by a net amount or to simultaneously The ﬁnancial statements of the Parent Company have been prepared in acrealise the asset and settle the liability. cordance with the Annual Accounts Act, Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board and statements Cash and cash equivalents issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. Tax laws in Sweden allow Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash assets held at ﬁnancial institutions. companies to defer tax payments by making allocations to untaxed reserves Cash and cash equivalents also includes short-term investments with maturities in the balance sheet via the income and expense item appropriations. In the of less than three months from the date of acquisition that are exposed to insigniﬁcant risk of ﬂuctuations in value. Cash and cash equivalents are recognised at their nominal amounts. 71 (Note 2 cont.) consolidated balance sheet these are treated as temporary differences, i.e. To be applied to ﬁnancial a breakdown is made between deferred tax liability and equity. Changes in Interpretations years commencing: untaxed reserves are recognised in the consolidated proﬁt and loss account and broken down into deferred tax and proﬁt for the year. Interest during the IFRIC 20 1 January 2013 or later period of construction that is included in the cost of the building is only recogStripping Costs in the Production Phase of nised in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. a Surface Mine* A Group contribution received by the Parent Company from a subsidiary is * Not yet approved for application within the EU. recognised under the same policies as traditional dividends from subsidiaries, i.e. as ﬁnancial income. Group contributions paid from the Parent Company The aforementioned new and amended standards and interpretations have yet to a subsidiary are recognised as a ﬁnancial expense in proﬁt or loss. The to be applied by the Group. amendment to RFR 2 concerning Group contributions requires the company to The amendment to IFRS 9 Financial instruments that was issued in December now recognise Group contributions as ﬁnancial income/ﬁnancial expense. 2011 requires IFRS 9 to be applied to ﬁnancial years commencing 1 January Deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution pension plans are recognised in 2015 or later. The most signiﬁcant impact of IFRS 9 in terms of the classiﬁcaaccordance with hitherto applicable Swedish accounting standards, which tion and measurement of ﬁnancial liabilities relates to changes in fair value are based on the provisions of the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act that arise from changes in the credit risk of a ﬁnancial liability (identiﬁed at (“Tryggandelagen”). fair value in proﬁt or loss). Under IFRS 9, for ﬁnancial liabilities that are clasExecutive management does not believe that the new and amended stansiﬁed at fair value in proﬁt or loss, the amount of the change in fair value that dards and interpretations will have any impact on the Group’s 2011 ﬁnancial results from the change in credit risk for the liability must be presented in other statements. comprehensive income. IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement establishes a framework for measurement New and revised standards and interpretations for 2011 at fair value when so required by other standards. The standard is applicable The following new and amended standards and interpretations have come into when measuring ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial items at fair value. Fair value is effect and apply for the 2011 ﬁnancial year: deﬁned as the price that would be received in the event of a sale of an asset or the compensation that would be received to transfer a liability in a normal Standards: transaction between market players at the time of measurement, known as the Amendment to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures exit price. IFRS 13 requires several quantitative and qualitative disclosures Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Classiﬁcation concerning measurement at fair value. Improvements to IFRSs 2011, a change package featuring improvements to various Executive management’s assessment is that the application of IFRS 9 and standards and interpretations. The changes that have come into effect and apply IFRS 13 could affect the recognised amounts in the ﬁnancial statements in terms for the 2011 ﬁnancial year include clariﬁcations concerning IFRS 7 disclosures of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. The executive management has and clariﬁcations concerning the statement of changes in equity in IAS 1. yet to conduct a detailed analysis of the impact of the application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 13 and is thus presently unable to quantify its impact. Interpretations Amendments to IAS 19 change the recognition of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension Amendments to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – the limit on a deﬁned beneﬁt asset, minimum plans and severance pay. The most signiﬁcant amendments pertain to the recfunding requirements and their Interaction ognition of deﬁned-beneﬁt obligations and plan assets. The amendments require IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments actuarial gains and losses to immediately be recognised in other comprehensive income, which entails the elimination of the corridor method. Executive manageExecutive management does not believe that the new and amended standards and ment believes that the application of the amendments to IAS 19 will impact interpretations will have any impact on the Group’s 2011 ﬁnancial statements. the amounts recognised in the ﬁnancial statements and entail more extensive disclosures than before. Executive management has yet to conduct a detailed New and amended standards and interpretations that have yet to come into effect analysis of the impact of the application of IAS 19 and is thus presently unable Will be applied to the to quantify its impact. When the Group begins to apply the amendments to IAS Standards ﬁnancial year commencing: 19, it will no longer apply UFR 4 Accounting for special employer’s contribution and tax on returns, which has been rescinded by the Swedish Financial Amendments to IFRS 7 1 July 2011 or later Reporting Board. The Group will instead recognise a special payroll tax and tax Financial instrument: Disclosure (Disclosures related on returns according to the rules stipulated in IAS 19, which will require the acto transfers of ﬁnancial assets) tuarial assumptions that are to be made during the calculation of deﬁned-beneﬁt IFRS 9 1 January 2015 or later pension plans to also include taxes that accrue to pension beneﬁts. Executive Financial Instruments and subsequent amendments management believes that the change concerning a special payroll tax and tax to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7* on returns could impact the recognised amounts in the ﬁnancial statements. It has yet to conduct a detailed analysis of the impact of the application of the IFRS 10 1 January 2013 or later change and is thus presently unable to quantify the impact. Consolidated Financial Statements* The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements require IFRS 11 1 January 2013 or later additional disclosures in other comprehensive income so that items in other Joint Arrangements* comprehensive income are grouped in two categories: a) items that will not be transferred to proﬁt or loss, and, b) items that will be transferred to proﬁt or IFRS 12 1 January 2013 or later loss provided that certain criteria are fulﬁlled. Executive management believes Disclosure of Interests of Other Entities* that the amendments to IAS 1 only impacts presentations and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements. IFRS 13 1 January 2013 or later Executive management does not believe that other new and amended stanFair Value Measurement* dards and interpretations will have any signiﬁcant impact on the consolidated Amendments to IAS 1 1 July 2012 or later ﬁnancial statements in the period in which they are ﬁrst applied. Presentation of Financial Statements (Presentation of items in other comprehensive income)* THE PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING POLICIES Amended accounting policies Amendment to IAS 12 1 January 2012 or later The amendments to RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities that came into effect Income taxes (Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying and apply to the 2011 ﬁnancial year entail that Group contributions are no Assets)* longer recognised in equity. A Group contribution that the Parent Company Amendments to IAS 19 1 January 2013 or later receives from a subsidiary is recognised under the same principles as tradiEmployee Beneﬁts* tional dividends from subsidiaries and recognised as ﬁnancial income. Group contributions paid from the Parent Company to a subsidiary are recognised Amendments to IAS 27 1 January 2013 or later in proﬁt or loss as a ﬁnancial expense. The amendments to RFR 2 concerning Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements* Group contributions have resulted in the company now recognising Group Amendments to IAS 28 1 January 2013 or later contributions as a ﬁnancial income/expense. Other amendments to RFR 2 have Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures* had no signiﬁcant impact on the Parent Company’s ﬁnancial statements. Amendments to IFRS 7 1 January 2013 or later Financial instruments: Disclosures (Offsetting of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities)* Note 3 Financial instruments and ﬁnancial risk Amendments to IAS 32 1 January 2014 or later management Financial instruments: Classiﬁcation (Offsetting of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities)* Principles for ﬁnancing and ﬁnancial risk management. As a net borrower, Fabege is exposed to ﬁnancial risks. In particular, Fabege * Not yet approved for application within the EU. is exposed to ﬁnancing risk, interest risk, currency risk and credit risk. Operational responsibility for the Group’s borrowing, liquidity management and 72 Fabege 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Note 3 cont.) ﬁnancial risk exposure rests with the ﬁnance function, which is a central unit in are secured by property mortgage deeds. SFFAB is jointly owned by Fabege, the Parent Company. Fabege’s ﬁnancial policy, as adopted by the Board of DiWihlborgs, Peab and Brinova. Fabege owns 30 per cent of the company. The rectors, speciﬁes how ﬁnancial risks should be managed and deﬁnes the limits aim is to expand the company’s ﬁnancing base with a new source of ﬁnancing. for the activities of the company’s ﬁnance function. Fabege aims to limit its risk Net interest expense includes SEK 6m in nonrecurring costs. exposure and, as far as possible, control the exposure with regard to choice of Interest expenses linked to the liabilities are incurred over the course of investments, tenants and contract terms, ﬁnancing terms and business partners. the remaining maturities and cash ﬂows from the derivatives are synchronised with the loan cash ﬂows. Trade payables and other current liabilities mature Financing and liquidity risk within 365 days of the balance sheet date. Fabege’s obligations arising from Financing and liquidity risk is deﬁned as the borrowing requirement that can these ﬁnancial liabilities are largely met by rent payments from tenants, most of be covered in a tight market. The borrowing requirement can refer to reﬁnancwhich are payable on a quarterly basis. ing of existing loans or new borrowing. Fabege strives to ensure a balance between short-term and long-term borInterest rate maturity structure, 31 Dec 2011 rowing, distributed among a number of different sources of funding. Fabege’s Average interest ﬁnancial policy states that unused credit facilities must be available to ensure Year, maturity SEKm rate, % Share, % good liquidity. Agreements on committed long-term credit lines with deﬁned terms and conditions and revolving credit facilities have been concluded with < 1 year 4,027 5.64* 24 a number of major lenders. Fabege’s main credit providers are the Nordic commercial banks. 1–2 year 1,850 3.70 11 The Group’s borrowing is secured mainly by mortgages on properties. 2–3 year 1,178 2.45 7 Since autumn 2004 the Group has been active in the Swedish commercial paper market with a commercial paper programme of SEK 5,000m. The company 3–4 year 0 0.00 0 is aiming to become a signiﬁcant player in this market. At year-end 2011, 4–5 year 4,200 2.71 25 Fabege had unused credit facilities of SEK 3,205m excluding the commercial paper programme. > 5 year 5,500 3.36 33 Total 16,755 3.72 100 Committed lines of credit, 31 Dec 2011 *The average interest rate for the < 1 year period includes the margin for the entire Year, maturity Utilised amount, SEKm Committed amount, SEKm debt portfolio because the Company’s ﬁxed-rate period is established using interest rate swaps, which are traded without margins. Commercial paper programme 5,000 1,719 Currency risk < 1 year 2,034 1,514 Currency risk refers to the risk that Fabege’s proﬁt and loss account and balance sheet will be negatively affected by a change in exchange rates. Under 1–2 year 5,540 3,440 Fabege’s policy, property holdings are to be ﬁnanced in the local currency. 2–3 year 329 329 Accordingly, exchange-rate ﬂuctuations only impact net proﬁt for the property. During the year, Fabege sold a site in Belgium and now owns no assets abroad. 3–4 year 5,040 3,735 4–5 year 2,041 2,041 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of loss as a result of the failure of a counterparty to > 5 year 4,976 3,977 fulﬁl its obligations. The risk is limited by the requirement, contained in the Total 24,960 16,755 company’s ﬁnancial policy, that only creditworthy counterparties be accepted in ﬁnancial transactions. Credit risk arising from ﬁnancial counterparties is Interest risk limited through netting/ISDA agreements and was deemed to be non-existent at Interest risk refers to the risk that changes in interest rates will affect the year-end. As regards trade receivables, the policy states that customary credit Group’s borrowing expense. Interest expenses constitute the Group’s single assessments must be made before a new tenant is accepted. The company largest expense item. Under its adopted ﬁnancial policy, the company aims also assesses creditworthiness in respect of any promissory note receivables to ﬁx interest rates based on forecast interest rates, cash ﬂows and capital arising from the sale of properties and businesses, as well as concerning loans structure. Fabege employs ﬁnancial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps, to associated companies. The maximum credit exposure in respect of trade to limit interest risk and as a ﬂexible means of adjusting the average ﬁxed-rate receivables and promissory note receivables is the carrying amount. term of its loan portfolio. The sensitivity analysis in the Directors’ Report shows how the Group’s short-term and long-term earnings are affected by a change Parent Company in interest rates. Interest-bearing liabilities at 31 December were SEK 16,755m Responsibility for the Group’s external borrowing normally rests with the Parent (16,646) with an average interest rate of 3.72 per cent (3.45) excluding the Company. The company uses the funds raised to ﬁnance the subsidiaries on cost of committed lines of credit, or 3.80 per cent (3.57) including this cost. Of market terms. total liabilities, SEK 1,719m (2,249) referred to outstanding commercial paper. The total loan volume at 31 December includes loans for works in progress of SEK 939m, on which interest of SEK 27m has been capitalised. In August, Fabege opted to interest hedge part of its loan portfolio, by Note 4 Signiﬁcant estimates and assessments entering into interest swap agreements totalling SEK 5,000m – of which SEK for accounting purposes 1,000m was for a term of three years, SEK 1,500m for a term of ﬁve years, SEK 1,500m for seven years and SEK 1,000m for a term of ten years. On The valuation at fair value of the company’s investment properties involves these terms, Fabege pays ﬁxed interest at annual rates of between 2.18 and the use of estimates and assessments that are to be regarded as signiﬁcant 2.73 per cent. The company already holds cancellable swaps totalling SEK for accounting purposes (see also Note 15). The estimates and assessments 7,550m, of which SEK 2,700m was extended for an additional three years made in connection with the realisation of investment properties, primarily with in August. The extensions entail an annual improvement in the cash ﬂow of respect to rental guarantees and promissory note receivables, are also deemed the derivatives portfolio of SEK 27m through 2013. Following the extensions, signiﬁcant. For rental guarantees an assessment is made of the probability of Fabege holds cancellable swaps totalling SEK 7,550m at interest rates ranging payment and of any investment costs for preparing the premises for lets during from 2.87 to 3.98 per cent. The average ﬁxed-rate term of the loans, including the remaining term of the guarantee. Rental guarantees etc. are included in the the effects of exercised derivatives, was 44 months (23) at 31 December. The balance sheet item “Other provisions”. When performing property transacaverage maturity was 5.9 years (5.3). Average leverage at year-end was 57 tions an assessment of risk transfer is made. This serves a guideline when the per cent (62). The derivatives portfolio is measured at fair value in accordance transaction is to be recognised. As for promissory note claims an assessment with IAS 39. The value of the portfolio is SEK –664m (–267). Realised changes shows which amount can be expected to ﬂow in. in value in proﬁt for the year were SEK 0m (0) and unrealised changes in value Upon acquisition of a company the company makes an assessment of SEK –397m (+106). Changes in market value occur as a result of changes in whether the acquisition is to be regarded as an asset acquisition or a business market interest rates and volatility, since the company holds structured derivacombination. The acquisition of a company that only contains properties and tive products in its portfolio. A market valuation of the loan portfolio (excl. has no property management organisation/administration is normally classiﬁed derivatives products) shows a deﬁcit of SEK 5m (0). For all other ﬁnancial as an asset acquisition. assets and liabilities, unless otherwise stated in the Notes, the carrying amount In measuring loss carryforwards, the company makes an assessment of the is considered a solid approximation of fair value. probability that the loss can be used to offset future taxable proﬁt. Conﬁrmed In December, Fabege launched a bond ﬁnancing programme with a limit tax losses are used as a basis for calculating deferred tax assets if it is highly of SEK 5,000m via the co-owned company Svensk Fastighetsﬁnansiering AB likely that they can be used to offset future proﬁt. (SFFAB). Through the bond ﬁnancing programme Fabege borrowed SEK 289m As regards Fabege’s on-going tax cases, the company has taken the view in the capital market. SFFAB’s ﬁrst issuance took the shape of a three-year bond that no provision is required. For more information, also refer to the description totalling SEK 650m, of which SEK 400m carried ﬁxed interest at a rate of of tax cases on page 61 of the Directors’ Report. 3.65 per cent and SEK 250m was subject to variable interest rates. The bonds 73 Note 5 Reporting by segment Property Development Property Development Management Projects Total Management Projects Total SEKm Jan–Dec 2011 2011 Jan–Dec 2011 Jan–Dec 2010 2010 Jan–Dec 2010 Rental income 1,618 186 1,804 1,806 201 2,007 Property expenses –507 –70 –577 –573 –86 –659 Net operating income 1,111 116 1,227 1,233 115 1,348 Surplus ratio, % 69 62 68 68 57 67 Central administration and marketing –51 –12 –63 –50 –12 –62 Net interest expense –468 –123 –609 –432 –90 –522 Share in proﬁt/loss of associated companies 7 2 9 17 1 18 Operating proﬁt/loss 581 –17 564 768 14 782 Realised changes in value, properties 88 85 173 215 22 237 Unrealised changes in value, properties 675 418 1,093 579 264 843 Proﬁt/loss before tax per segment 1,344 486 1,830 1,562 300 1,862 Change in value, ﬁxed income derivatives and equities –413 67 Proﬁt/loss before tax 1,417 1,929 Properties, market value 22,773 6,377 29,150 21,453 5,516 26,969 Occupancy rate, % 92 75 90 91 69 88 Segments are recognised from the point of view of management, divided into property value (indirect income and expenses). Property assets are attributed two segments: Property Management and Development Projects. Rental income directly to the respective segments in accordance with the classiﬁcation at the and property expenses as well as realised and unrealised changes in value balance sheet date. During the ﬁrst half of the year, three project propertiesincluding tax are directly attributable to properties in each segment (direct were transferred from Property Development to Property Management. income and expenses). In cases where a property changes character during the year earnings attributable to the property are allocated to either segment based on the period of time that the property belonged to the segment. Central administration and items in net ﬁnancial expense have been allocated to the segments in a standardised manner based on each segment’s share of the total Note 6 Employees and salary expenses, etc. Compensation for senior executives The term Other senior executives refers to the four persons who together with the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer made up executive management in 2011. During the year, Group management was restructured and one woman and one man Of which, Of which, stepped down. As of 1 April 2011, the executive management team consists of Average no. of employees 2011 men 2010 men the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (CEO), Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Parent Company 32 12 31 11 Ofﬁcer (CFO), Director of Business Development, Director of Properties and Director of Projects. The compensation paid to senior executives is based on Subsidiaries 92 68 94 67 market terms in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the AGM. For the Group, total 124 80 125 78 current composition of executive management, see page 88. Fabege has a proﬁt-sharing fund covering all employees of the company. Allocations to the proﬁt-sharing fund are based on the achieved return on equity Salaries SocialSalaries Socialand are subject to a ceiling of one base amount per year per employee. For and other security and other security 2011, provisions of about SEK 6,6m, which is equivalent to 100 per cent of compensacontribucompensacontribuone base amount per employee including payroll tax, have been made. Other tion 2011 tions 2011 tion 2010 tions 2010 beneﬁts refer to company cars, household-related services and health insurance. Parent Company 25 261) 24 20 Pension Pension expenses refer to the expense recognised in proﬁt or loss for the year. – of which, pension The retirement age for the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer is 65 years. A pension preexpenses 12 9 mium of 35 per cent of the CEO’s pensionable salary is paid during the term Subsidiaries 42 21 47 21 of employment. For other senior executives the ITP supplementary pension plan for salaried employees in industry and commerce or an equivalent plan applies – of which, pension and the retirement age is 65 years. expenses 5 5 Severance pay Group, total 67 47 71 41 The contract between the company and the CEO is subject to six months’ notice – of which, total by either party. In case of termination by the company the CEO is entitled to pension expenses 17 14 18 months’ severance pay. The employment contracts of other senior executives are terminable on three to six months' notice and provide for severance pay 1) The cost increase was mainly due to longer life expectancy in the pension calculation. of up to 18 months. Severance pay is only paid in case of termination by the company and is offset by other income for all persons in senior positions. Breakdown by gender, Directors and senior executives Basis of preparation The Board of Directors with the exception of the CEO is responsible for preparSenior Senior ing a proposal for compensation and other terms of employment for the CEO Board Board executives executives and a set of principles for compensation and other terms of employment for 2011 2010 2011 2010 other senior executives. Men 7 6 4 5 The Board of Directors The Directors are paid Directors’ fees in accordance with the decisions of the Women 2 1 1 2 Annual General Meeting. In 2011, total Directors’ fees of SEK 2,755,000 Total 9 7 5 7 (2,420,000) were paid. Out of this amount, the Chairman of the Board received SEK 400,000 (375,000) plus a separate fee of SEK 835,000 (835,000) for assisting the management team on two projects, and the other Directors, excluding the CEO, received a total of SEK 1,520,000 (1,210,000). No other fees or beneﬁts were paid to the Board. 74 Fabege 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Note 6 cont.) Compensation and other beneﬁts to senior executives, SEK ‘000 Note 9 Central administration and marketing Other Refers to executive management expenses, expenses attributable to the public Group management 2011 Salary/Fee beneﬁts Pension Total nature of the company and other expenses connected to the company type. Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 2,719 152 946 3,817 Propertyand property management-related administration expenses are not included, as these are treated as property expenses. Executive Vice President 1,550 89 490 2,129 Other senior executives 5,020 294 1,022 6,336 Note 10 Realised and unrealised changes In 2011, extra compensation/bonuses totalling SEK 1,154,000 (1,067,000) in value, investment properties in total were paid to other senior executives. No other variable or share pricerelated compensation was paid to executive management. Group Other 2011 2010 Group management 2010 Salary/Fee beneﬁts Pension Total Realised changes in value: Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 2,324 151 854 3,329 Sale proceeds 936 4,350 Executive Vice President 1,595 88 520 2,203 Carrying amount and expenses –763 –4,113 Other senior executives 5,806 404 1,540 7,750 173 237 2011 2010 Unrealised changes in value: Fee, Fee, The Board of Board Fee, Audit Board Fee, Audit Changes in value relating to properties Directors Director Committee Total Director Committee Total owned at 31 Dec 2011 1,088 829 Erik Paulsson Changes in value relating to properties (Chairman) 1,235 – 1,235 1,210 – 1,210 divested during the year 5 14 Göte Dahlin 200 30 230 185 25 210 1,093 843 Oscar Engelbert 200 – 200 185 – 185 Eva Eriksson 200 – 200 – – – Total realised and unrealised changes in value 1,266 1,080 Märta Josefsson 200 60 260 185 50 235 Fair value and the resulting unrealised changes in value are determined quarterly based on valuations. If a property is sold in the second to fourth quarPär Nuder 200 30 230 185 25 210 ters, the sale will give rise, in addition to the unrealised change in value, to a Svante Paulsson 200 – 200 185 – 185 realised change in value based on the selling price in relation to conﬁrmed fair value for the last quarter. Mats Qviberg 200 – 200 185 – 185 In measuring the results for the full year, the following breakdown is instead Total 2,635 120 2,755 2,320 100 2,420 obtained, irrespective of revaluations during the year: Group Note 7 Rental income 2011 2010 Gain from property sales, full year: Operating leases – the Group as lessor All investment properties are let to tenants under operating leases and generate Sale proceeds 936 4,350 rental income. A breakdown by remaining maturity of future rental income attributable to non-cancellable operating leases is shown in the following table: Carrying amount and expenditure (based on value at beginning of year) –758 –4,099 178 251 Group Unrealised changes in value: 2011 2010 Changes in value relating to existing properties 1,088 829 Maturity: 1,088 829 Within 1 year 232 290 Total realised and unrealised changes in value 1,266 1,080 1 to 5 years 1,219 1,139 Later than 5 years 352 304 Breakdown between positive and negative results Residential, garage/parking 77 79 Positive 1,466 1,471 Total 1,880 1,811 Negative –200 –391 The difference between total rents at 31 December 2011 and income, as stated Total 1,266 1,080 in proﬁt or loss for 2011, is due to bought/sold properties, renegotiations and changes in occupancy rates in 2011. Leases relating to residential premises and garage/parking spaces remain in force until further notice. Note 11 Proﬁt/loss from other securities and receivables that are ﬁxed assets Note 8 Property expenses Group Group Parent Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Operating expenses, maintenance and tenant adaptations –301 –374 Dividends 0 0 0 0 Property tax –129 –138 Interest income, Group companies – – 455 394 Ground rent –29 –34 Interest income, promissory notes 13 5 1 3 VAT expense –13 –15 Total 13 5 456 397 Property/project adm. and lettings –105 –98 Total –577 –659 75 Note 12 Interest income and interest expenses and regular maintenance are based on experience of comparable properties and information on historical costs provided by Fabege. Expenses are expected to increase in line with the assumed inﬂation rate. Ground rents are calculated on the basis of agreements or, alternatively, in reference to market Group Parent Company grounds rents if the ground rent period expires during the calculation period. 2011 2010 2011 2010 Property tax is estimated on the basis of the general property taxation for the most recent taxation year. Interest income 1 2 1 1 The discount rate used is a nominal required return on total capital before Total 1 2 1 1 tax. The required rate of return is based on previous experiences from assessments of the market’s required returns for similar properties. The discount rate for Fabege’s property portfolio is 7.9 per cent (8.0) and is based on the nominal Interest expenses –623 –529 –644 –537 yield on ﬁve-year government bonds plus a premium for property-related risk. The risk premium is set individually based on the stability of the tenant and the Total –623 –529 –644 –537 length of the lease. The residual value is the market value of the leasehold/property at the end of the period of calculation, which is estimated on the basis of All interest income is attributable to ﬁnancial assets measured at amortised cost. forecast net operating income for the ﬁrst year after the calculation period. The Interest expenses are mainly attributable to ﬁnancial liabilities measured at weighted required yield at the end of the calculation period is 5.7 per cent (5.9). amortised cost. The market assessments were performed in accordance with guidelines issued by the Swedish Property Index. Note 13 Changes in value, shares Valuation assumptions The loss of SEK 16m (–39) derived from unrealised losses of SEK 0m (–6) and SEK 16 (–10), respectively, on shares in AIK Fotboll AB and Swedish Arena Annual inﬂation, % 2.0 Management AB as well as a realised loss of SEK 0m (–23) on shares in Sveland Weighted discount rate, % 7.9 Sakförsäkringar AB. Weighted required yield, residual value, % 5.7 Note 14 Tax on proﬁt for the year Average long-term vacancy, % 4.6 Group Parent Company Operations and maintenance 2011 2010 2011 2010 Commercial, SEK/sqm 312 Current tax on proﬁt for the year –1 –3 – – Adjustment for current tax from Market values, 31 December 2011 previous years – – – – Weighted Change in Total current tax –1 –3 – – 2011 yield, % value, % Deferred tax –275 –229 158 –28 Stockholm inner city 16,809 5.4 4.8 Total tax –276 –232 158 –28 Solna 9,856 6.2 2.7 Nominal tax (26.3%) on proﬁt Hammarby Sjöstad 2,215 6.3 6.1 after ﬁnancial items –373 –507 –365 –18 Other markets 270 7.0 –0.2 Tax effects of adjustment items 29,150 5.7 4.2 – Adjustment for deﬁcits and temporary differences from Group previous years 62 32 – –1 2011 2010 – Dividends from subsidiaries – – 526 – Opening fair value 26,969 29,193 – Tax-exempt proﬁt/loss from sale of properties 39 217 – – Property acquisitions 518 – – Deﬁcit acquired companies – 15 – – Investments in new builds, extensions and conversions 1,468 940 – Other –4 11 –3 –9 Changes in value, existing property portfolio 1,088 829 Total tax –276 –232 158 –28 Changes in value relating to properties divested during the year 5 14 Sales and disposals –898 –4,007 Note 15 Investment properties Closing fair value 29,150 26,969 All properties in Fabege’s portfolio are externally valued at least once a year The carrying amount/fair value and the resulting unrealised changes in value by independent external appraisers with recognised qualiﬁcations. The properare determined quarterly based on valuations. If a property is sold in the secties are valued at fair value, i.e. at their estimated market values. The property ond to the fourth quarter, the sale will give rise, in addition to the unrealised appraiser in 2011 was Newsec Analys AB. Fabege provides information about change in value, to a realised change in value that is based on the selling existing and future rental agreements, operations and maintenance expenses price in relation to conﬁrmed fair value for the most recent quarter. and estimated investments based on maintenance plans and estimated future vacancies to the appraisers. On-site inspections were carried out in all properties on at least one occasion during the period 2009–2011. The properties Assessed value of Swedish properties 13,538 13,817 have also been inspected on site in connection with major investments or other changes that affect the value of a property. The property valuation is based on cash ﬂow statements, in which the Fabege has mortgaged certain properties, see also Note 31 “Assets pledged present value of net operating incomes during a ﬁve-year calculation period as security and contingent liabilities”. and the residual value of the property at the end of the period are calculated. Long-term vacancies are estimated on the basis of the property’s location and condition. The appraisers’ assessments of outgoing payments for running costs 76 Fabege 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 16 Equipment Summary of proﬁt and loss account and balance sheet for associated companies, SEKm (100%) Group Group Parent Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Proﬁt and loss account Cost at beginning of year 21 19 7 4 Rental income 203 160 Investments 0 4 0 5 Net operating income 80 –54 Sales and disposals –1 –2 –1 –2 Proﬁt for the year 415 327 Cost at end of year 20 21 6 7 Balance sheet Fixed assets 11,517 11,039 Opening depreciation –18 –17 –4 –4 Current assets 987 541 Sales and disposals 0 0 0 0 Total assets 12,504 11,580 Depreciation charge for the year –1 –1 –1 0 Shareholders’ equity 9,297 9,084 Allocations – – Closing accumulated Other liabilities 3,207 2,496 depreciation –19 –18 –5 –4 Total equity and liabilities 12,504 11,580 Carrying amount 1 3 1 3 The Group has operating leases to a small extent for cars and other technical equipment. All agreements are subject to standard market terms and conditions. Note 18 Receivables from associated companies Receivables from associated companies primarily pertain to receivables for Note 17 Interests in associated companies1) the Projekbolaget Oscarsborg AB of SEK 87m (81) and for Råsta Holding AB of SEK 159m (0). These are subject to interest rates at market terms and conditions. Group Parent Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 Cost at beginning of year 443 307 – – Note 19 Other long-term securities holdings Acquisition/contribution/loss 148 136 – – Group Parent Company Cost at end of year 591 443 – – 2011 2010 2011 2010 Carrying amount 591 443 – – Cost at beginning of year 152 122 6 39 Acquisitions/Investments 29 77 4 4 Capital Book Name/Org.no. Regd. ofﬁce share, % 2) value Changes in value –16 –16 –1 –6 Järla Sjö Exploatering AB Sales – –31 – –31 556615-3952 Stockholm 33.3 –2 Cost at end of year 165 152 9 6 Råsta Holding AB 556742-6761 Stockholm 37.5 59 Carrying amount 165 152 9 6 Råsta Administration AB 556702-8682 Stockholm 20.0 0 Shareholding Carrying amount Projektbolaget Oscarsborg AB 556786-3419 Stockholm 50.0 0 Parent Company TCL Sarl 199824012273) Luxemburg 45.0 339 AIK Fotboll AB – Fabege’s capital share is 18.5 per cent and the number of shares 4,042,649 7 Centralbadet HB 916609-6017 Stockholm 50.0 117 AIK Hockey AB – Fabege’s capital share is 2 per cent and Värtan Fastigheter KB 969601-0793 Stockholm 50.0 5 the number of shares 41,000 0 Visio Exploaterings AB Stockholm 50.0 0 Interests in tenant-owner’s associations 1 Nyckeln 0328 SE 517100-00694) Stockholm 30.0 73 Subsidiaries 591 Arenabolaget i Solna AB – Fabege’s capital share is 1) Read more about associated companies in Note 35. 16.7 per cent and the number of shares 167 173 2) Applies also to the share of votes for the total number of shares. 3) Fabege's holding in Fastighets AB Tornet is indirectly owned through TCL Sarl. Swedish Arena Management AB – Fabege’s capital share is 4) Fabege’s holding in SFFAB is indirectly owned by Nyckeln 0328. 16.7 per cent and the number of shares 167 –16 Fabege conducts ﬁnancial operations in an associated company. Total 165 In 2010, Fabege divested its shares in Svelands Sakförsäkring AB; also refer to Note 13. 77 Note 20 Other long-term receivables Note 25 Liabilities by maturity date Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 Interest-bearing liabilities 2011 2010 2011 2010 Maturity: Maturity up to 1 year from 1 to 5 years after balance balance-sheet date 3,234 5,799 3,219 5,799 sheet date 107 38 4 33 Maturity 1 to 5 years from later than 5 years from balance balance sheet date 9,545 7,867 9,096 7,867 sheet date – – – – Maturity later than 5 years from Total 107 38 4 33 balance sheet date 3,976 2,980 3,976 2,980 Total 16,755 16,646 16,291 16,646 Group Other long-term receivables refer to promissory note receivables arising from the Non-interest-bearing liabilities are expected to become due for payment within sale of properties. During the year a provision of SEK 0 (63) was recognised. one year. For the interest rate maturity structure, see Note 3. Note 21 Trade receivables Note 26 Derivatives Group Group Parent Company Age structure of overdue trade receivables 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 0 – 30 days 10 15 Short-term excess value – – – – 31 – 60 days 2 0 Long-term excess value – – – – 61 – 90 days 4 1 Total excess value – – – – > 90 days 7 12 Short-term deﬁcit – –3 – –3 Of which, provisions –8 –10 Long-term deﬁcit –664 –264 –664 –264 Total 15 18 Total deﬁcit –664 –267 –664 –267 Note 22 Other receivables Total –664 –267 –664 –267 In the consolidated ﬁnancial statements the item includes sale proceeds of The Group does not apply hedge accounting, see “Financial instruments” SEK 71m (1,360) for properties that have been sold but not yet vacated, in Note 2 Accounting policies. Derivatives are classiﬁed as interest-bearing a current receivable from the associated company Visio of SEK 130m (0) liabilities in the balance sheet and measured at fair value in compliance with and promissory notes that mature within one year SEK 0m (12m). level 2, IFRS 7, Section 27a, with the exception of the closable swaps and performance swaps, measured in accordance with level 3, IFRS 7. See also Note 2, page 70. Changes in value are recognised in proﬁt or loss under a Note 23 Shareholders’ equity separate item, Changes in value, ﬁxed income derivatives. IAS 39 has been applied also in the Parent Company since 2006. Outstanding shares Registered shares Group Parent Company No. of shares at beginning of year 162,980,084 165,391,572 IFRS, level 3 2011 2010 2011 2010 Cancellation of repurchased shares – – Acquisition value at beginning Repurchase of treasury shares –755,000 – of year –250 –360 –250 –360 Total 162,225,084 165,391,572 Acquisitions/Investments –56 – –56 – All shares carry equal voting rights, one vote per share. Changes in value –282 110 –282 110 The quotient value of a share is SEK 30.82. Matured 56 – 56 – Proposed dividend per share: SEK 3.00. For other changes in shareholders’ equity, see the consolidated and Parent Acquisition value at end of year –532 –250 –532 –250 Company statements of changes in equity. Carrying amount –532 –250 –532 –250 The change in value of SEK –282m (110) was attributable in its entirety to Note 24 Overdraft facility derivative instruments held by the company at the end of the year as shown in the statement of comprehensive income. Group Parent Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 Available credit limit 120 120 120 120 Unused share –120 –69 –120 –69 Unused share 0 51 0 51 78 Fabege 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 27 Deferred tax liability/asset Note 29 Other liabilities Group Parent Company In 2011, the item primarily included liabilities related to the acquisition of Interest-bearing liabilities 2011 2010 2011 2010 a property for SEK 67m (0). Deferred tax has been calculated on the basis of: Note 30 Accrued expenses and deferred income – Tax losses –1,148 –1,104 –86 –33 – Difference between the carrying Group Parent Company amounts and tax bases of 2011 2010 2011 2010 properties 1,708 1,321 – – Advance payment of rents 279 280 – – – Derivatives –175 –70 –175 –70 Accrued interest expenses 53 39 52 39 – Other 5 5 – – Other provisions 136 147 29 21 Net deferred tax asset/liability 390 152 –261 –103 Total 468 466 81 60 Negative amounts above refer to deferred tax assets. Total recognised tax-loss carryforwards in the Group, which have been taken into account in calculating deferred tax, are approximately SEK 4.4bn Note 31 Assets pledged as security and (4.2). See also the section on tax in the Directors’ Report, page 61. contingent liabilities Group Parent Company Note 28 Provisions Assets pledged as security 2011 2010 2011 2010 Out of total provisions of SEK 195m (271), SEK 78m (146) refers to obligaProperty mortgages 12,439 13,404 – – tions relating to rental guarantees for divested properties and SEK 83m to Shares in subsidiaries 1,977 1,727 – – pension provisions. Other amounts refer to stamp duties on properties that are payable upon the sale of a property, SEK 34m (43). Promissory notes – – 13,107 12,627 Total 14,416 15,131 13,107 12,627 Rental Other Provisions guarantees provisions for pensions Total Contingent liabilities At 1 Jan 2011 146 43 82 271 Guarantees on behalf Provisions for the year 1 1 of subsidiaries – – 2,967 3,019 Used/paid during the year –68 –9 – –77 Ongoing tax cases 2,680 2,038 – – At 31 Dec 2011 78 34 83 195 Guarantees and undertakings for the beneﬁt of associated companies 472 294 472 225 Provisions comprise Other provisions 224 188 244 208 Long-term component 31 34 83 148 Total 3,376 2,520 3,683 3,452 Short-term component 47 – – 47 Total 78 34 83 195 The Group has pension commitments of SEK 34m (41), which are secured through a pension fund. The collective funding ratio for the pension fund is Rental guarantees 126 per cent (128). No provision has been made, as the pension commitment The rental guarantees have remaining maturities of up to two years. The criteria is fully covered by the assets of the fund. for assessing the size of provisions are described in Note 4. For more information about ongoing tax cases, see the section on tax in the Directors’ Report, page 61. Provisions for pensions Obligations relating to deﬁned contribution pension plans are met through payments to the government agencies or companies administering the plans. Note 32 Interest paid A number of Fabege employees have deﬁned beneﬁt pensions under the ITP supplementary pension plan for salaried employees in industry and comInterest paid during the year in the Group was SEK 636m (542), of which merce for which regular payments are made to Alecta. These are classiﬁed SEK 27m (13) has been capitalised in the investment business. No capitalisation as deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans covering several employers. As there is not of interest has been made in the Parent Company. sufﬁcient information to report these as deﬁned beneﬁt plans, they have been recognised as deﬁned contribution plans. It is unclear how a surplus or deﬁcit in the plan would affect the size of future contributions from each participating Note 33 Changes in working capital company and for the plan as a whole. Alecta is a mutual insurance company that is governed by the Swedish Insurance Business Act as well as by agreeGroup Parent Company ments between employers and unions. Fees for pension insurance policies provided by Alecta in 2011 are ap2011 2010 2011 2010 proximately SEK 3m (3). Alecta’s surplus can be distributed to the policy ownChange acc. to balance sheet 1,210 –1,097 –120 34 ers and/or insured parties. At year-end 2011 Alecta’s surplus, as expressed by the “collective funding ratio”, was 113 per cent (146). The collective funding Change in assets and liabilities ratio is deﬁned as the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of its in respect of interest income, commitments to policyholders calculated using Alecta’s actuarial assumptions, dividends and interest expenses –12 –2 –9 –2 which do not comply with IAS 19. Total 1,198 –1,099 –129 32 Fabege has a PRI (Pensionsregistreringsinstitutet) liability, which is a deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plan. However, no new payments are being made to PRI. Deﬁned-beneﬁt pension obligations recognised in the balance sheet comprise the present value of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension obligations. Any actuarial Note 34 Cash and cash equivalents gains/ losses are recognised through proﬁt or loss to the extent that they are Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash assets and bank balances. The Group outside the band. has unused overdraft facilities, which are not included in cash and cash equivaThe Parent Company’s pension provision refers to a PRI liability. lents, of SEK 120m (69). 79 Note 35 Related-party transactions Note 41 Shares and interests in Group companies Erik Paulsson, with his family and companies, holds controlling inﬂuence in Parent Company Hansan AB. In 2011, consulting services totalling SEK 3m (3) were procured. Hansen paid SEK 1m (0) in rent for premises to Fabege. 2011 2010 Receivables from Projektbolaget Oscarsborg AB totalled SEK 87m (81) at Cost at beginning of year 14,319 14,319 31 December 2011. In 2011, a decision was taken to approve the sale of part of the Hammarby Gård 7 property to Oscar Properties, which is represented Acquisitions and additions – – by Fabege Director Oscar Engelbert. The purchase consideration was SEK 265m Sales – – with an expected profit of SEK 140m. The transaction is expected to be ﬁnalised in 2012. Cost at end of year 14,319 14,319 Svensk Fastighetsﬁnansiering AB (SFFAB) is jointly owned by Fabege, Wihlborgs, Peab and Brinova. Fabege owns 30 per cent of the company. The intention is to expand the Fabege’s ﬁnancing base with a new source of ﬁnancOpening depreciation –991 –991 ing. In December 2011, Fabege launched a bond programme with a total limit Impairment – – of SEK 5bn. Through the bond programme, Fabege borrowed SEK 289m in the capital market. The bonds are secured by property mortgage deeds. Carrying amount –991 –991 A loan of SEK 130m was issued to the associated company Visio. Closing accumulated depreciation 13,328 13,328 Fabege has a promissory note receivable of SEK 159m (150) from the associated company Råsta Holding. Fabege also purchased the 3D property Nationalarenan 8, which will be built on the Mall of Scandinavia, from Råsta Directly owned subsidiaries Holding. The property’s market value at the date of acquisition was SEK 7m. Fabege has a promissory note receivable of SEK 103m (0) from Arena bolaget Regd. Capital Carrying i Solna KB, as well as a promissory note receivable of SEK 22m (0) from SwedName/Corporate identity no. ofﬁce share, % 1) amount ish Arena Management KB. Hilab Holding Stockholm AB 556670-7120 Stockholm 100 10,126 LRT Holding Company AB 556647-7294 Stockholm 100 3,126 Note 36 Dividend per share Fabege Holding Solna 556721-5289 Stockholm 100 0 Fabege V12 AB 556747-0561 Stockholm 100 76 The dividends that were adopted at Annual General Meetings and paid out in 2011 and 2010 were SEK 3.00 per share and SEK 2.00 per share, respec13,328 tively. At the AGM on 29 March 2012 the Board will propose a dividend for 1) Applies also to the share of votes for the total number of shares. 2011 of SEK 3.00 per share, resulting in a total dividend payment of SEK 486,675,252. The dividend amount is based on the total number of outstandThe stated capital share includes shares from other Group companies. The Group ing shares at 2 February 2011, i.e. 162,225,084 shares, and is subject to comprises 184 (223) companies. alteration up to and including the record date, depending on share buybacks. Note 42 Fees and compensation to auditors Note 37 Adoption of the annual report The Annual Report was adopted by the Board of Directors and approved for The following fees have been paid to the company’s auditors: publication on 24 February 2012. The Annual General Meeting will be held on 29 March 2012. Fees and expenses, SEK ‘000 Group Parent Company Note 38 Net turnover 2011 2010 2011 2010 Deloitte The Parent Company’s income consists primarily of intra-Group invoicing. audit assignments 1) 3,183 3,355 3,183 3,355 Note 39 Operating expenses other auditing activities 245 379 245 379 tax advisory services 531 770 531 770 Parent Company other services 17 78 17 78 2011 2010 3,976 4,582 3,976 4,582 Employee expenses –61 –50 1) Auditing assignments pertain to the auditing of the Annual Report and ﬁnancial Administration and running costs –131 –139 statements, as well as the administration of the Board and the CEO, other tasks required by the company’s auditors and advisory services and representation brought Depreciation of equipment –1 –1 on by observations during such audits or such other tasks. Total –193 –190 Note 43 Events after the balance sheet date Note 40 Proﬁt/loss from shares and interests in There were no signiﬁcant events to report. Group companies Parent Company 2011 2010 Group contributions 65 216 Anticipated dividends on shares 2,000 – Total 2,065 216 80 Fabege 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Report Fabege is a Swedish public limited-liability company with registered office in Stockholm. The company’s corporate governance is based on its Articles of Association, the Swedish Companies Act and other applicable laws and regulations. Fabege applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), whose main purpose is to improve standards of governance among Swedish businesses. The Code is based on the principle of “comply or explain”. The reasons for Fabege’s departures from the Code are explained in greater detail at the end of this report. Responsibility for the governance, manFabege’s Articles of Association is availA full set of minutes from the AGM is agement and control of Fabege’s activiable at www.fabege.se. available on Fabege’s website, www.fabege.se. ties is shared among the shareholders at The following are the principal resolutions the Annual General Meeting, the Board ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2011 adopted at the AGM: of Directors and the Chief Executive The AGM is the company’s highest Officer. Fabege works continuously to decision-making body. Shareholders who Amendment to the Articles of Association achieve a more efficient and appropriate would like to participate in the busi(proposed by the Board) governance of the company. ness of the AGM must be registered in The AGM resolved on minor amendthe transcript of the entire share register ments to the Articles of Association S H A R E H O L DE R S pertaining to the conditions prevailing requiring the number of Board members Fabege’s shares are listed on Nasdaq OMX five days prior to the AGM and notify to be increased to nine and for the notifiStockholm. The company’s share capital is the company of their intention, and that cation process to be simplified. SEK 5,097m, represented by 165,391,572 of no more than two advisors, to attend shares. Of these, 3,166,488 are treasury the Meeting no later than 4:00 pm on the Election of Directors and resolution on shares, representing 1.9 per cent of the day stipulated in the notice convening the Directors’ fees (proposed by the Nomitotal number of shares. In Fabege all AGM. nating Committee) shares carry the same voting rights, which The 2011 AGM was held in Stockholm The AGM resolved that the Board should means that opportunities to exercise on 30 March 2011. Erik Paulsson was consist of nine Directors and approved influence as an owner are consistent with elected to chair the meeting. The AGM the re-election of Göte Dahlin, Oscar each shareholder’s capital share in the was attended by shareholders holding a Engelbert, Christian Hermelin, Märtha company. The following shareholders, total of 68.2m shares, representing 41.2 Josefsson, Pär Nuder, Mats Qviberg, Erik directly or indirectly hold shares that per cent of the votes. Paulsson and Svante Paulsson to the represent one tenth or more of the votes for all shares in the company: ORGANISATION Shareholding Share of votes, % Nominating AGM Committee Brinova 14.4 Fabege’s ownership structure is described Board of Directors Audit Committee on page 92. A RT I C L E S O F A S S O C I AT I O N CEO Fabege’s Articles of Association state that the company shall seek to acquire, manGroup management age, add value to and divest properties. Accounting/Finance assistant The Board of Directors has its registered office in Stockholm. In other respects, the Articles of Association contain provisions on the number of shares, the number of Property Business Directors and auditors, and the Annual Projects General Meeting (AGM). The full text of Management Development 81 Board. Eva Eriksson was elected to the per cent of the total number of outstandThe Committee has also discussed and Board as a new Director. Erik Paulsson ing shares at any time. taken account of issues relating to the was elected Chairman. The AGM resolved independence of Directors (see below for that a total of SEK 2,755,000 (2,445,000) Resolution on property sale to a description of the Board). be paid in Directors’ fees in 2011. Oscar Properties The Nominating Committee’s report The AGM resolved to approve the sale of on its activities and proposals to the 2012 Cash dividend (proposed by the Board) part of the Hammarby Gård 7 property AGM are available on the company’s webThe dividend was fixed at SEK 3.00 and to Oscar Properties, which is represented site. The Committee’s proposals are also the record date was set at 4 April 2011. by Fabege Director Oscar Engelbert. The described in the notice for the 2012 AGM. purchase consideration was SEK 265m Principles for the appointment of the with an expected profit of SEK 140m. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Nominating Committee (proposed by the Under the Swedish Companies Act, the Nominating Committee) T H E N O MI N AT I N G C O M M I T T E E Board of Directors is responsible for the The AGM adopted a set of principles The Nominating Committee is the AGM’s company’s organisation and the adminfor the appointment of the Nominating body for preparing decisions relating to istration of the company’s affairs. The Committee and the proposals that the appointments. The Committee’s task is to Board is required to continuously assess Nominating Committee is required to draw up proposals for the appointment the financial situation of the company and prepare. The Nominating Committee will of the AGM chairman, Chairman of the Group. Its main task is to manage the comconsist of representatives for the four largBoard and Directors, Directors’ fees, the pany’s activities on behalf of the owners in est owners. appointment of auditors, auditors’ fees a way that secures the owners’ interest in a and any amendments to the principles strong long-term return on capital. Remuneration to management governing the election of the Nominating The AGM resolved on guidelines for the Committee. The proposal for Directors’ Composition remuneration of management. Remufees must specify a breakdown between Nine Directors were elected to the Board neration is to be in line with market the Chairman, other Directors and comat the 2011 AGM, thus increasing the terms and competitive. Responsibility mittee work. Board by one new Director. The AGM and performances that coincide with In accordance with the AGM’s decialso elected Erik Paulsson as Chairman shareholders’ interested are to be reflected sion, the four largest shareholders have of the Board. Fabege’s Chief Financial in the remuneration. The fixed salary is to been offered one seat each on Fabege’s Officer, Åsa Bergström, acts as the Board’s be re-evaluated annually. Remuneration Nominating Committee, and on 29 secretary. beyond the fixed salary, which rewards September 2011 a Nominating CommitFabege’s Board of Directors includes target-related performances, may be paid. tee was announced that represents about members that have skills and experiSuch remuneration is to be contingent on 28.4 per cent of the votes in Fabege. The ence of great significance for the support, the degree to which predetermined targets Nominating Committee consists of the monitoring and control of the operations were fulfilled within the framework of following members: Bo Forsén (Brinova of a leading property company in Sweden. the company’s operations. The targets enFastigheter AB), Fredrik Grevelius (InvestThe Board aims to retain members with compass both financial and non-financial ment AB Öresund), Eva Gottfridsdotterexpertise in areas such as properties, the criteria. Any remuneration beyond the Nilsson (Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltproperty market, funding and business fixed salary is to be maximised and related ning) and Anders Rydin (SEB Fonder). development. Collectively, the members to the fixed salary. Variable remuneration The Nominating Committee held of the Board have significant personal may not exceed three (3) months’ salary. two minuted meetings and remained in shareholdings in Fabege, directly or indiManagements’ variable remuneration may contact during the intervening periods. rectly. Fabege’s Board meets the requirenot exceed an annual cost for the comAs a basis for its work, the Committee ments on independent Directors provided pany totalling SEK 2.5m (excluding social has met with the Board Chairman and for in the Code. security fees), calculated on the basis of listened to his views on the work of the the number of individuals who currently Board. The Committee has also contacted Nominating Committee's proposals hold executive positions. Other benefits the other Directors, the Audit Committee The Nominating Committee proposes reare to comprise a limited portion of the and the company’s auditors to obtain a electing Oscar Engelbert, Christian Herremuneration where applicable. clear idea of the work of the Board. It has melin, Märtha Josefsson, Pär Nuder, Erik also studied the company’s strategy, risk Paulsson, Svante Paulsson, Mats Qviberg Authorisation on share buybacks (promanagement and control functions. The och Eva Eriksson, thus proposing eight posed by the Board) Nominating Committee has discussed Directors. Of the proposed Directors, Erik The AGM decided to authorise the Board, the size and composition of the Board of Paulsson is to be regarded as dependent for a period ending no later than the next Directors in respect of industry experiin relation to the company, the Group AGM, to acquire and transfer shares. ence, expertise, and the need for continumanagement and in relation to major Share buybacks are subject to a limit of 10 ity and renewal of the work of the Board. shareholders, Svante Paulsson as depen82 Fabege 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT dent in relation to major shareholders, Audit Committee. In addition to these, the members are always given the opportunity Oscar Engelbert as dependant in relation Board has addressed a number of specific to read, submit opinions on and approve to the company, and the CEO, Christian issues, as follows: all reports before they are published. In Hermelin, as dependent in relation to 1. February, scheduled meeting: Year2011, the Board made decisions on several the company and the executive manageend financial statement 2010, Annual major transactions and investments in the ment. The other proposed Directors are, Report 2010, evaluation of the work company’s existing property portfolio. In according to the definitions stipulated in of the Board, follow-up of compliance 2011, Fabege sold eleven properties for the Code, independent in relation to the with guidelines on compensation for SEK 936m. Five properties were acquired company, the executive management and senior executives for SEK 518m. Decisions were made on major shareholders. 2. March: Per capsulam investments of about SEK 1.8bn relating 3. March, scheduled meeting: Briefing to the development and improvement of Rules of procedure and instructions prior to the AGM properties in the company’s existing portEach year, the Board of Directors of 4. March: Statutory meeting after the folio. At the end of the year, an assessment Fabege adopts a set of rules of procedure, AGM, signing for the company, comwas made of the Board, which showed including instructions on division of mittees that the Board was operating in a highly labour and reporting, to supplement the 5. May: Per capsulam satisfactory manner. Profit was discussed provisions of the Companies Act, Fabege’s 6. May, scheduled meeting: Interim at the Board meeting in February 2012. Articles of Association and the Code. In report for the first quarter, rules of The Directors are paid Directors’ fees addition to the general provisions of the procedure for the Board and Audit in accordance with the resolutions of the Companies Act, the Rules of Procedure Committee, Code of Conduct Annual General Meeting. For 2011, total regulate the following: 7. August: Per capsulam fees of SEK 2,755,000 were paid, of which 8. August, scheduled meeting: Interim the Chairman received SEK 400,000 plus • The number of Board meetings (norreport for the second quarter extra remuneration of SEK 835,000 for mally six scheduled meetings in addi9. November, scheduled meeting: Interim project work. The other Directors received tion to the statutory meeting) report for the third quarter, evaluation SEK 200,000 and SEK 120,000 for work • The forms for extra meetings and teleof the CEO’s performance, issues relaton the Board’s Audit Committee, of which phone meetings ing to management remuneration the chairman received SEK 60,000 and the • Items to be included in the agenda at 10. November: Per capsulam other members SEK 30,000. each meeting 11. December, scheduled meeting: Strategy Information on Directors’ attendance • When Board material should be made plan for 2012, budget for 2012 at meetings is provided in the table below. available The table also shows which Directors are • Minute-taking The year-end report is addressed by members of the Audit Committee. • The duties of the Board the Board at a Board meeting held on • The special role played by the Chairman the same date on which the report is Attendance, number of meetings in the Board and the specific duties published in the market. Other interim During the period 11 Board meetings and arising from that role reports are addressed at the immediate four meetings of the Audit Committee • The appointment of an Audit Commitfollowing Board meeting. However, Board were held. tee and a specification of the tasks to be Attendance performed by the Committee Independent/ Board fee, Audit The Board 2011 Elected dependent SEK’000 Board Committee • The forms for preparing issues relating to compensation Erik Paulsson, Chairman 1998 4) 1,235 11 • Delegation of decision-making powers Göte Dahlin, Director 2000 1) 230 11 4 by the Board Eva Eriksson, Director *) 2011 1) 200 7 • Reporting by the auditors and meetings Oscar Engelbert, Director 2010 2) 200 11 with the auditors Christian Hermelin, Director 2007 3) – 11 Märtha Josefsson, Director 2005 1) 260 11 4 Board meetings Pär Nuder, Director 2010 1) 230 9 4 In 2011, the Board held six scheduled Svante Paulsson, Director 2007 5) 200 11 meetings of a total of eleven meetings, Mats Qviberg, Director 2001 1) 200 11 including one statutory meeting, one 1) Independent in relation to the company, its executive management and major shareholders according to the Code. 2) Dependent in relation to the company, and independent in relation to its executive management and major extra meeting and four per capsulam shareholders according to the Code. meetings. There are a number of standing 3) Dependent in relation to the company and its executive management, and independent in relation to its major shareholders according to the Code. agenda items: financial and operational 4) Dependent in relation to the company, its executive management and major shareholders according to the Code. reporting, decisions on acquisitions, 5) Independent in relation to the company and its executive management, and dependent in relation to and major shareholders according to the Code. investments and sales, current market *) Assumed the position at the 2011 AGM. issues, HR issues and reporting by the 83 The Audit Committee Issues relating to management • the CEO’s duty and obligation to ensure The Board has appointed an Audit Comremuneration that Fabege fulfils its obligations in mittee from among its own members In accordance with the principles of comrespect of disclosure, etc. under the consisting of Märtha Josefsson (Chairpensation and other terms of employment company’s listing agreement with the man), Göte Dahlin and Pär Nuder. The for management adopted by the AGM, Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. Audit Committee acts as an extension of the Board has adopted a decision on The rules of procedure also contain a the Board for the monitoring of issues reremuneration and other terms of employseparate reporting instruction, which govlating to accounting, auditing and financial ment for the Chief Executive Officer. All erns the content and timing of reporting reporting. Its remit includes addressing members of the Board except the CEO to the Board. issues relating to operational risks and risk perform the tasks incumbent on a remumanagement, internal control (environneration committee and thus participate Group Management ment, design and implementation), acin the process of drafting and making The CEO directs the work of Group counting policies and financial follow-up decisions on remuneration issues. During management and reaches decisions in and reporting, and the performance of the year the Board reviewed compliance consultation with the other members audits. The Committee regularly meets with the principles of remuneration for of management. Group management with senior executives to discuss and form senior executives. jointly conducts the operational control an opinion of the state of the company’s Remuneration and other benefits and and manages the business and engages essential pro cesses from an internal conterms of employment for the CEO and in daily management in accordance with trol perspective. Board members review management are described in Note 6 the Board’s guidelines, instructions and all interim reports. The year-end report, on page 74. The company’s principles of resolutions. the corporate governance report and the remuneration and terms of employment The key to success is having motivated administration report are discussed specifiwill also be presented at the 2012 AGM. employees. With the aim of creating the cally at the Committee’s meeting early each best conditions for this, Fabege’s Group year. The Committee meets regularly with MANAGEMENT management has to establish a clear the company’s auditor to obtain informaThe Chief Executive Officer framework and objectives for the operation on the focus, scope and results of audit The Chief Executive Officer is responsible tion. Group management must create the activities. It operates according to separate for operational governance and for the conditions for employees to achieve the rules of procedure, which are reviewed day-to-day management and leadership established objectives by: and adopted annually by the Board. of the business, in accordance with the • Clearly communicating the company’s Fabege’s Audit Committee meets the guidelines, instructions and decisions course and objectives Code’s requirements on composition and adopted by the Board of Directors. • Establishing an approach based on the its members possess skills and experience In addition to the general provisions company’s collective expertise on accounting and other issues within the relating to division of responsibility con• Coaching, inspiring and creating workCommittee’s area of responsibility. tained in the Swedish Companies Act, the place satisfaction and positive energy In 2011, four meetings of the Audit rules of procedure governing the work of • Regularly reviewing and providing Committee were held. During the year, the CEO specify: feedback on the established objectives. considerable emphasis continued to be • the CEO’s duty and obligation to ensure Until 31 March 2011, Group manageplaced on the company’s internal control that the Board of Directors receives inment comprised seven persons. Followsystem. During the year, the Audit Comformation and the necessary documening a restructuring, Group management mittee addressed areas such as the Group’s tation on which to base decisions. comprised four persons, in addition to work on ethics and the Code of Conduct, • the CEO’s role of presenting reports at the CEO: a review of essential policies and guideBoard meetings. Chief Financial Officer/Executive lines concerning that services that may be • the CEO’s duty and obligation to ensure Vice President procured from the elected auditors, the that the necessary information is reDirector of Properties procurement of major projects and the trieved on a continuous basis from each Director of Projects and Development company’s transactions and interactions company in the Group. Director of Business Development with associated companies, as well as the • the CEO’s duty and obligation to letting process. Year-end accounts and monitor compliance with the Board’s Operational Group management meetings valuation matters were addressed, as were decisions in respect of goals, business are held on a weekly basis. Once a month, operational and auditing risks. At each concept, strategic plans, ethical and minuted decision-making meetings are meeting, the company’s auditors submitted other guidelines, and, where necessary, held, during which strategic and operaa report of their review during the year. request a review of the same by the tional matters such as property transacThe minutes from the Audit CommitBoard. tions, letting, market trends, organisation tee’s meetings were shared with all Board • issues that must always be submitted to and monthly and quarterly reviews are members, and the Committee’s Chairman the Board, such as major acquisitions addressed. The CEO’s assistant also parsubmitted regular reports to the Board. and sales or major investments in existticipates in these meetings. ing properties. 84 Fabege 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT R E PORT O N I N T E R N A L C O N T R O L I N R E pany are in charge of each defined critical of division of responsibility, risks and S P E C T O F F I N A N C I A L R E P O RT I N G process, function or area. controls. The necessary instructions, Internal control is a process that is The company’s financial reporting is procedures and manuals are produced, influenced by the Board of Directors, governed by a set of policies and guideupdated and communicated to the management and the company’s employlines. The company has defined policies for relevant staff to ensure that they have ees and that has been designed to provide matters such as funding, environmental up-to-date knowledge and adequate tools. a reasonable assurance that the company’s issues, equal opportunities and disclosure, The measures are aimed at integrating risk goals are achieved in the follow categories: accounting policies and instructions for the management in the company’s day-to-day • that the company has an appropriate closing of the accounts and authorisation procedures. Compliance with policies, and efficient organisation for its busiof payments. In 2010, Fabege implemented guidelines and instructions is monitored ness operations a comprehensive evaluation and update on an ongoing basis. Employees are • that the company produces reliable of its policies, which are subsequently regugiven frequent training to ensure that financial statements larly reviewed and updated. All policies they have required expertise. In 2011, all • that the company complies with apwere discussed and decided on by Group of the company’s critical processes were plicable laws and regulations. management. Information concerning subject to an internal review. In addition The company applies the established resolved policies was also disseminated to the external audit performed in 2011, COSO (Internal Control – Integrated throughout the organisation. In addition, the company also performed an internal Framework) framework in its work. more detailed guidelines and instructions assessment of compliance and controls in are reviewed and updated regularly. In critical processes. Control environment early 2011, Fabege joined the UN Global A central controller function supports Fabege has a geographically well conCompact and thus pledged to comply with work on the follow up the operating units tained organisation and homogenous opthe ten principles in the areas of human – Property Management and Projects. erational activities but its legal structure is rights, labour rights, the environment The control department is in charge of complex. The business is capital-intensive and anticorruption. As part of its work on operational reporting. The operating and is characterised by large monetary the UN Global Compact, the company units, Property Management and Projects, flows, including rental income, expenses established an ethics council and adopted have a separate controller function which for project activities, acquisitions/sales of a new Code of Conduct. The first status resupplements the central controller funcproperties and financial expenses. port will be submitted in March 2012 and tion at Group level. Operational reports Overall responsibility for ensuring good comprises part of the company’s Annual are prepared monthly and quarterly based internal control and efficient risk manageReport. During the year, work on reporting on a standardised reporting package and ment rests with the Board of Directors. To according to GRI was also initiated. submitted for comments/approval to be able to perform its work in an appropriexecutives with operational responsibilate and efficient manner, the Board has Risk assessment ity. Reviews and updates with executives adopted a set of rules of procedure. The Risks and critical processes, functions with operational responsibility are made Board’s rules of procedure are aimed at and areas are defined on the basis of the throughout the year. Performance is ensuring a clear division of responsibilcontrol environment, significant results assessed against budgets and forecasts, ity between the Board of Directors (and and balance sheet items as well as signifiwhich are updated twice a year. Since its committees) and the Chief Executive cant business processes. The following 2009, the company has been producing Officer (and his management team) with processes, functions and areas have been rolling 12-month forecasts. a view to achieving efficient risk managedefined as critical for Fabege: A central function prepares conment in the company’s operations and in • Acquisitions and sales solidated financial statements and other financial reporting. The rules of procedure • New lettings and renegotiations financial reports in close collaboration are updated annually. In 2011, the Board • Projects with the controller function/operating performed its annual review and adopted • Closing of the accounts and reporting units and the finance function. This work rules of procedure for the Board, rules of • Funding includes integrated control activities in procedure for the Audit Committee and • Valuation of properties the form of reconciliation with standalone the company’s Code of Conduct. • Rent payments systems/specifications of outcomes for The management team is responsible • Purchasing income and expense items and balance for designing and documenting and for • Tax sheet items. maintaining and testing the systems/ Fabege conducts annual reviews and processes and internal controls that are evaluations of risk areas for the purpose of Information and communication required to manage significant risks in the identifying and managing risks in consulManagement is responsible for informing accounts and the company’s day-to-day tation the Board and the Audit Committhe staff concerned about their responsiactivities. Operational responsibility for tee for review by the auditors. bility to maintain good internal control. internal control rests with the company’s The company Intranet and briefing sesmanagement and with those individuals Control activities sions are used to ensure that employees who by virtue of their roles in the comCritical processes, functions and areas are described and documented in respect 85 are kept up-to-date on the company’s reviews and evaluations of internal conChief Executive Officer. After the end of governing policies and guidelines. trols in respect of critical processes and each financial year, the auditor is required Responsibility for external information regularly studies the results of the external to submit an audit report to the Annual rests with the Communications departauditors’ examinations of the company’s General Meeting. The appointment and ment. The company’s Investor Relations accounts and internal controls. remuneration of auditors is based on the activities are based on principles for The auditors examine the company’s AGM’s resolutions on proposals submitregular and accurate information in acfinancial reporting in respect of the full ted by the Nominating Committee. cordance with Nasdaq OMX Stockholm’s year financial statements and review all At the 2009 AGM, the auditing firm, Rule Book for Issuers. The aim is to imquarterly interim reports. Deloitte, was appointed as the company’s prove knowledge of and build confidence The Board regularly evaluates the auditors with the authorised public acin the company among investors, analysts information submitted by management countant Svante Forsberg as chief auditor and other stakeholders. In 2011, the efand the Audit Committee. Of particular for the period up to the 2013 AGM. In fort to improve information and access significance, when required, is the Audit addition to Fabege, Svante Forsberg has to information on the external website Committee’s task of monitoring manageaudit assignment for the following major continued. The communications department’s work on developing the internal companies: Alliance Oil, Anticimex, Black ment was strengthened by the recruitment controls and of ensuring that measures Earth Farming, Cinnober, Diligentia, of an additional employee with the aim of are taken to address any problems and Skandia Liv and Swedbank. He has no further improving and clarifying the disproposals that have been identified in other assignments for companies that are semination of information to the market. the course of examinations by the Board, closely related to Fabege’s major owners or Audit Committee or auditors. the CEO. In addition to its assignment as Follow-up The Board of Directors has informed Fabege’s appointed auditors, Deloitte has The internal control system also needs to itself through its members and through performed audit-related assignments relatchange over time. The aim is to ensure the Audit Committee on risk areas, risk ing primarily to tax and accounting issues. that this is monitored and addressed on management, financial reporting and The auditors reported their observaan ongoing basis through management internal control and has discussed risks tions and simultaneously presented their activities at various levels of the company, for errors in financial reporting with the views on the quality of internal controls in both through monitoring of the individuals external auditors. Fabege at the Board meeting in February responsible for each defined critical process, In the course of its work on examining 2012. The auditors have participated in and function and area and through ongoing and evaluating internal control in respect presented reports at all meetings of the Auevaluations of the internal control system. of critical processes in 2011, the Audit dit Committee (four in 2011). Reports were In addition to financial reporting to Committee found no reason to alert the also presented to management in 2011. the Board, more detailed reports are preBoard’s to any significant issues in respect Fees paid to the company’s auditors are pared, at more frequent intervals, in supof internal control or financial reporting. described in Note 42 on page 80. port of the company’s internal governance and control activities. Monthly reports are Internal auditing D I F F E R E N CE S I N R E L AT I O N T O T H E COD E presented and discussed at meetings of To supplement the external auditing The application of the Code is based on Group management. activities, Fabege is working to facilitate the principle of ‘comply or explain’, which The company’s management reports internal evaluations of critical processes. means that a company is not obliged to regularly to the Board based on the adAs a result of this work, and in view of the follow all rules without exception and that opted instructions for financial reporting, homogenous and geographically limited deviations from one or several individual which are designed to ensure that the innature of the company’s activities and its rules do not constitute a breach of the Code formation provided is relevant, adequate, simple organisational structure, the Board if there are reasons for this and explanations up-to-date and appropriate. has not found reason to set up a separate are provided for such deviations. The Audit Committee also reports to internal audit unit. The Board believes the All members of the Board of Directhe Board. It acts as the extended arm of monitoring and examination described tors have met with the company’s auditors, the Board in monitoring the formulaabove, coupled with the external audits, but not without the presence of the Chief tion and reliability of financial reports. are sufficient to ensure that effective Executive Officer or another member of the In addition to examining the content of internal control in respect of financial management team. After consulting with and methods used in preparing financial reporting is maintained. the auditors, the Board has not found it reports, the Audit Committee has studied necessary to arrange such a meeting, partly the way in which the more detailed and AUDITING because the auditors have, on several occafrequent internal reporting is used in Under the Swedish Companies Act, the sions, presented reports to the Audit Comevaluating and managing different areas company’s auditor is required to exammittee without the presence of the CEO. of activity, which provides an indication ine the company’s Annual Report and of the quality of the control environment. accounts as well as the management Stockholm, 24 February 2012 The Committee also performs regular performed by the Board of Directors and The Board of Directors 86 Fabege 2011 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR Board of Directors and Auditor Erik Paulsson Born 1942. Chairman of the board since 2007 och Director since 1998. Other directorships: Chairman of the Board of Backahill AB, SkiStar AB and Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB. Director of Brinova Fastigheter AB, Nolato AB and Klövern AB. Education: Lower secondary school. Business manager since 1959. Shareholding: 66,596 and via Brinova. Göte Dahlin Oscar Engelbert Eva Eriksson Born 1941. Born 1976. Born 1959. Director since 2011. Director since 2000. Director since 2010. Other directorships: Chairman of BWG Homes ASA. Other directorships: Other directorships: Director of ByggPartner AB, Fortin AS and Strategisk Deputy Chairman of CEO of Oscar ProperArkitektur AB. RBS Nordisk Renting ties AB. Director of Education: M.Sc. in Engineering. AB, Director of Rezidor Bonniers konsthall. Shareholding: 0. Hotel Group AB and Education: Secondary Svensk Inredning School, Boston UniverViking AB. sity and Economics for Education: B.Sc. in Entrepreneurs. Natural Science. Shareholding: 0. Shareholding:15,000 through personal endowment policy. Christian Hermelin Pär Nuder Mats Qviberg Born 1964. Director Born 1963. Born 1953. since 2007. CEO of Director since 2010. Director since 2001. Fabege AB. Other directorships: Other directorships: Employed since: 1998 Chairman of SundbyChairman of the Board and in current position bergs Stadshus AB of Bilia AB and Investsince 2007. and Third AP-fund. ment AB Öresund. Director of SkiStar AB, Education: Bachelor's Director of SkiStar AB. Märtha Josefsson AUDITOR Nyx Security AB and degree in Administration. Education: Born 1947. Svante Forsberg Swedegas AB. Senior Shareholding: 186,917. Bachelor's degree in Director since 2005. Authorised Public accountant, Director Albright StoneBusiness Administration. Other directorships: Deloitte. bridge Group. Shareholding: Director of Luxonen Born 1952. Education: LL.M. Shareholding: 0. 2,917,686. S.A, Cityhold Property, Auditor at Fabege since 2005. Second AP Fund and Other directorships: Skandia Fonder AB. Auditing assignments in the Education: Bachelor's following major companies: Svante Paulsson degree in Economics. Alliance Oil, Anticimex, Black Born 1972. Director since 2007. Shareholding: 78,000. Earth Farming, Cinnober, Other directorships: Responsible for strategy and projects Diligentia, Skandia Liv and in Backahill AB. Deputy Chairman of the Board of Backahill Swedbank. AB. Director of Bilia AB, PEAB AB and AB Cernelle. Education: Lower secondary school, High School in the US. Shareholding: 166,918. For information on independence/dependence, fees, etc. refer to page 83. Shareholding at 31 December 2011. 87 Group Management Christian Hermelin Klaus Hansen Vikström Åsa Bergström Klas Holmgren Urban Sjölund Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Director of Business Deputy CEO, Chief FinanDirector of Project and Director of Properties. Born 1964. Employed since Development. Born 1953. cial Ofﬁcer. Born 1964. Development. Born 1962. 1998, in current position Employed since 2006, in Emloyed since 2007, in Born 1970. Employed since 1991, in since 2007. current position since 2009. current position since 2008. Employed since 2001, in current position since 2007. Previous employment: Previous employment: Previous employment: current position since 2010. Previous employment: Project Manager, Fastighets Managing Director of StockSenior Manager at KPMG, Previous employment: Construction and Project AB Storheden. holm Modecenter, MD and CFO positions at property Platzer Bygg, Peab and JM. Manager at JCC AB, Education: Bachelor's founder of Brubaker AS. companies, including Granit Education: Engineer. Arsenalen AB and degree in Administration. Education: Diploma in & Betong and Oskarsborg. Shareholding: 19,517. MacGruppen AB, Property Shareholding: 186,917. Specialized Business Education: M.Sc. in Manager at BPA Fastigheter Studies. Economics and Business. AB and various executive Shareholding: 39,517. Shareholding: 41,317. positions at Bergaliden AB, Storheden AB and Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB. Education: M.Sc. in Engineering. Shareholding: 49,517. Shareholding at 31 December 2011. 88 Fabege 2011 SIGNING OF THE ANNUAL REPORT Signing of the Annual Report The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer hereby The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer furthermore certify that: certify that: the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Recommendation RFR 2 of accordance with the International Financial Reporting Stanthe Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Board, dards (IFRS), as referred to in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 the Annual Report provides a true and fair view of the comof 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting pany’s financial position and results, and standards, the Directors’ Report provides a true and fair overview of the the consolidated financial statements provide a true and fair development of the company’s business, position and results view of the Group’s financial position and results, and and describes significant risks and uncertainties faced by the the Directors’ Report for the Group gives a true and fair overcompany. view of the development of the Group’s business, results and position and describes significant risks and uncertainties faced by the companies included in the Group. Stockholm 24 February 2012 Erik Paulsson Chairman Göte Dahlin Oscar Engelbert Eva Eriksson Märtha Josefsson Director Director Director Director Pär Nuder Svante Paulsson Mats Qviberg Christian Hermelin Director Director Director Director Chief Executive Officer We presented our audit report on 24 February 2011 Deloitte AB Svante Forsberg Authorized Public Accountant 89 Auditor’s Report To the annual general meeting of the shareholders of Fabege AB Corporate identity number 556049-1523 R E P ORT O N T H E A N N U A L A C C O U N T S A N D the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of C ON S O L I D AT E D A C C O U N T S material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk of Fabege AB for the financial year 2011-01-01 – 2011-12-31, assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to with the exception of the Corporate Governance Report on pages the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual 81–86. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit company are included in the printed version of this document on procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for pages 58–89. the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableDirector for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts ness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are rethe Managing Director, as well as evaluating the overall presentasponsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these tion of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. annual accounts and consolidated accounts in accordance with We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufInternational Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the ficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the Managing Director determine Opinions is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in acconsolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, cordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all whether due to fraud or error. material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2011 and of its financial performance and its Auditor’s responsibility cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the AnOur responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual nual Accounts Act, and the consolidated accounts have been preaccounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conpared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present ducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. as of 31 December 2011 and of their financial performance and Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirecash flows in accordance with International Financial Reporting ments and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated The statutory administration report is consistent with the other accounts are free from material misstatement. parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit eviWe therefore recommend that the annual meeting of sharedence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts holders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the and consolidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on parent company and the group 90 Fabege 2011 AUDITOR’S REPORT R E PORT O N O T H E R L E G A L A N D R E G U L AT O RY R E Q U I R E M E N T S ined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the accounts, we have examined the proposed appropriations of the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. company’s profit or loss and the administration of the Board As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liabilof Directors and the Managing Director of Fabege AB for the ity, in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and confinancial year 2011-01-01 – 2011-12-31. We have also performed solidated accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions a statutory review of the Corporate Governance Report. taken and circumstances of the company in order to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Director is liable to the company. We also examined whether any Managing Director member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director has, The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for in any other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufadministration under the Companies Act and and for ensuring ficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. that the Corporate Governance Report on pages 81–86 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Opinions We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the Auditor’s responsibility profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable asstatutory administration report and that the members of the surance on the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We confrom liability for the financial year. ducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing A Corporate Governance Report has been prepared and its standards in Sweden. statutory information is compliant with the provisions of the As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proCompanies Act and the other features of the annual accounts posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examand consolidated accounts. Stockholm, 24 February 2012 Deloitte AB Svante Forsberg Authorized Public Accountant 91 Share information Fabege’s share is listed on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Nordic Exchange and included in the Large-Cap list under the Real Estate sector. At year-end 2011, the company had market capitalisation of SEK 8.7bn and a net asset value of approximately SEK 11.9bn. The property sector performed somewhat compared with 62 per cent in 2010 and 84 was SEK 80.05, on 4 January, and the lowest better than the stock market as a whole per cent in 2009. price paid was SEK 45.00, on 8 August. during 2011, although some decline in During the year, a total of 296,000,000 share prices was noted. The property (297,000,000) Fabege shares were traded, S H A R E CA P I TA L index declined by 14 per cent and the of which 149,000,000 (185,000,000) were Fabege’s share capital is SEK 5,097m Nasdaq OMX Stockholm was down 17 traded on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm (5,097), represented by 165,391,572 shares per cent. The Fabege share declined by 31 Nordic Exchange. The total value of the (165,391,572). All shares carry the same per cent from SEK 78.55 to SEK 53.90. traded shares was SEK 18.1bn (15.6), voting rights and entitle the holder to the of which SEK 9.1bn (9.7) was traded in same share of the company’s capital. T UR N O V E R A N D T R A D I N G Stockholm. On an average trading day, The 2011 AGM resolved to authorSince the introduction of EU’s MiFiD 1,168,000 Fabege shares (1,173,000) were ise the Board of Directors to buy back directive, which allows shares to be traded traded in 541 transactions. shares during the period leading up to the in marketplaces other than the markets The average turnover rate for Fabege 2012 AGM. Acquisitions may be made where they are listed, a growing percentshares was unchanged at 182 per cent (182), by means of purchases on Nasdaq OMX age of Swedish shares are being traded calculated based on the total share turnover. Stockholm and are subject to the provision outside Stockholm. This trend is parThe average turnover rate for all companies that the company’s share of the total numticularly noticeable for the most actively on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Nordic ber of outstanding shares not exceed 10 traded shares of the companies on the Exchange was 95 per cent (95), which was per cent. During the year, 755,000 shares Large Cap list, for which other marketin line with the preceding year, while the (1,411,488) were repurchased at an average places usually account for 50 per cent or average turnover on the Large-Cap list rose price of SEK 51.03 (43.04). At 31 Decemmore of trading in these shares. somewhat to 101 per cent (99). ber 2011, Fabege’s total holding of treasury Trading in the Fabege share also shares was 3,166,488, or 1.9 per cent of the reflects a trend toward more fragmented SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE total number of registered shares. trading, with sales in a growing number The total return on Fabege’s shares, i.e. of marketplaces; during 2011, the shares the share price performance including OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE were traded in more than 10 marketplaces. reinvested dividends of SEK 3.00 per share, At 31 December 2011 Fabege had 32,156 The Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Nordic was minus 28 per cent. At year-end, the shareholders (33,792). The largest Exchange accounted for 50 per cent of company had market capitalisation of about shareholder was Brinova, which held 14.4 all trading in Fabege shares during 2011, SEK 8.7bn. The highest price paid in 2011 per cent of the total number of outstandProfit/loss per share and dividend Dividend per share and direct yield The largest listed property companies SEK 10 SEK bn 16 35 14 8 12 30 10 6 25 8 20 6 4 4 15 2 2 10 0 –2 0 5 –4 07 08 09 10 11 0 07 08 09 10 11 Fabege Castellum HufvudKungsleden Wihlborgs Dividend per share, SEK Earnings per share, SEK Yield, % staden Dividend per share, SEK Market value of properties at 31 Dec 2011, SEKbn Market capitalisation at 31 Dec 2011, SEKbn 92 Fabege 2011 SHARE INFORMATION Distribution by size of shareholding, 31 December 2011 15 largest shareholders1) 31 Dec 2011 No. of Share of Share of Share of no. of Share of capital shares capital, % votes, % Size of shareholding No. of shareholders shareholders, % No. of shares and votes, % Brinova AB 23,291,092 14.1 14.4 0–500 21,447 66.7 4,096,973 2.5 Öresund Investment AB 10,793,144 6.5 6.7 501–1,000 4,941 15.3 3,856,768 2.3 BlackRock funds 8,938,454 5.4 5.5 1,001–5,000 4,574 14.2 9,906,837 6.0 SEB funds 6,876,374 4.2 4.2 5,001–10,000 568 1.8 4,092,012 2.5 Länsförsäkringar funds 5,724,416 3.5 3.5 10,001–100,000 474 1.5 13,547,520 8.2 State of Norway 4,031,647 2.4 2.5 100,001–1,000,000 127 0.4 44,974,377 27.2 Swedbank Robur funds 3,098,233 1.9 1.9 1,000,001– 25 0.1 84,917,085 51.3 Mats Qviberg and family 2,917,686 1.8 1.8 Total 32,156 100.0 165,391,572 100.0 SHB funds 2,704,220 1.6 1.7 ENA City AB 2,670,000 1.6 1.6 Fourth AP-fund 2,600,342 1.6 1.6 Second AP-fund 1,830,612 1.1 1.1 Breakdown of ownership by category Distribution by country AMF Försäkring & Fonder 1,630,000 1.0 1.0 Swedish institutions 32% Country 2011 2010 2009 Third AP-fund 1,402,672 0.8 0.9 Swedish equity funds 13% Sweden 65.7 67.6 70.2 Skandia Liv 1,165,293 0.7 0.7 USA 15.8 17.3 5.7 Other foreign shareholders 43,858,085 26.5 27.0 Swedish private individuals 21% UK 5.0 2.3 9.9 Other Swedish shareholders 38,692,814 23.4 23.9 Other countries 13.5 12.8 14.2 Total no. of outstanding shares 162,225,084 98.1 100.0 Foreign owners 34% Treasury shares 3,166,488 1.9 0.0 Total no. of shares 165,391,572 100.00 100.0 1) Certain shareholders may have had a different shareholding in the nominee registration than that stated in the share ledger. Source: SIS Ägarservice AB, according to data from Euroclear Sweden AB at 31 December 2011. Total yield 2007–2011 Share price performance 2007–2011 Share price performance 2011 SEK SEK million shares SEK million shares 150 160 400 90 90 140 350 80 80 120 70 70 120 300 60 60 90 100 250 50 50 80 200 60 40 40 60 150 30 30 30 40 100 20 20 20 50 10 10 0 0 0 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Juli Aug Fabege (incl. reinvested dividend) Sep Oct Nov Dec OMX Stockholm Return Index Fabege Fabege OMX Stockholm Real Estate Return Index OMX Stockholm All Share OMX Stockholm All Share OMX Stockholm Real Estate OMX Stockholm Real Estate Source: Trust No. of shares traded, million No. of shares traded, million Source: Trust and Fidessa Source: Trust and Fidessa 93 ing shares, followed by Investment AB Öresund which held 6.7 per cent and BlackRock funds which held 5.5 per cent. The 15 largest owners jointly controlled 49.1 per cent of the total number of outstanding shares. Foreign owners held 34.3 per cent of the share capital. Of the portion held by Swedish investors, amounting to 65.7 per cent, institutional owners held 32.5 per cent, equity funds 12.6 per cent and Swedish private investors 20.6 per cent of the share capital. N E T A S S E T VA L U E PE R S H A R E Equity per share at 31 December 2011 was SEK 73 (69). Net asset value per share excluding deferred tax on fair value adjustments to properties was SEK 84 (77). At year-end, the share price thus represented approximately 64 per cent of net asset that the dividend will comprise at least The Board proposes that a dividend of value. A margin of error in property valu50 per cent of the profit from property SEK 3.00 per share (3.00) be paid to the ations of +/– 1 per cent has an impact on management activities and realised gains shareholders. The dividend represents net asset value of +/– SEK 215m, or SEK from the sale of properties after tax. approximately 43 per cent of earnings per 1.33 per share. See the sensitivity analysis In drawing up its dividend proposal, share and slightly more than 65 per cent on property value on page 60. the Board assesses whether the company’s of distributable earnings in accordance and Group’s equity after the proposed with the dividend policy. D IV I DE N D T O S H A R E H O L D E R S dividend will be sufficient in view of the The proposed record date for the right According to its dividend policy, Fabege nature and scope of the business and the to receive a dividend is 3 April 2011. If the aims to pay a dividend to its shareholdassociated risks. The Board takes account AGM adopts the proposed decision, it is ers comprising the part of the company’s of the company’s equity/assets ratio, expected that the dividend will be paid profit not required for the consolidation historical and budgeted performance, inthrough Euroclear Sweden AB (formerly or development of the business. Under vestment plans and the general economic VPC AB) on 10 April 2012. current market conditions, this means environment. Analysts covering Fabege Key ﬁgures 2011 2010 Financial ABG Sundal Collier: Fredric Cyon Return on capital employed, % 7.2 8.7 ABN Amro Bank N.V.: Jan Willem van Return on equity, % 9.9 16.0 Kranenburg Interest coverage ratio, multiple 2.2 3.0 Carnegie Investment Bank: Tobias Kaj Equity/assets ratio, % 39 39 Danske Bank: Peter Trigarszky Leverage properties, % 57 62 Deutsche Bank: Fredrik Skoglund Debt/equity ratio, multiple 1.4 1.5 DnB NOR: Siemen R Mortensen Per share data Erik Penser AB: Johan Edberg Earnings per share for the year, SEK 7.01 10.38 Goldman Sachs International: Julian LivingstonEquity per share, SEK 73 69 Booth Cash ﬂow per share, SEK 4.49 6.13 Handelsbanken Capital Markets: Albin Sandberg No. of outstanding shares at end of period, ‘000 162,225 162,980 Kempen: Robert Woerdeman Average no. of shares, ‘000 162,719 163,504 Morgan Stanley: Bart Gysens Dividend, SEK 3.001) 3.00 Yield, % 5.6 3.8 Nordea Bank: Jonas Andersson Pareto Öhman: David Zaudy 1) Proposed dividend 2011. Swedbank: Andreas Daag SEB Enskilda: Bengt Claesson UBS Investment Bank: Howard Lesser 94 Fabege 2011 INFORMATION TO SHAREHOLDERS Information to shareholders Fabege publishes its annual report and interim reports in Swedish and English. In addition to the printed versions, all publications are available as PDF ﬁles on the company’s website, fabege.se. All shareholders of Fabege have received an offer to receive financial information from the company. Fabege sends interim reports and the annual report by post to shareholders that have requested this. All financial reports and press releases are available in Swedish and English on the company’s website. Fabege also provides Monitor Fabege’s performance at information via a subscription service on fabege.se its website, through which anyone with an interest in the company can access press The Internet is one of our main information channels. The aim for our website is to continuously provide shareholders, investors and other capital market releases, interim reports, annual reports players with relevant, up-to-date information on the Group’s operations and and other information. activities. The website provides information on the company and its operaThe company’s website also provides tions and strategies. Here you can also ﬁnd ﬁnancial information, share data information about Fabege’s share price. and information about the AGM as well as a great deal of additional data. Fabege provides quarterly presentations in connection with each interim report. Contact information Annual General Meeting Bo Nilsson The Annual General Meeting of Fabege AB (publ) will be held at 5 pm CET Director of Communications on Thursday 29 March 2012 at Norra Latin, Drottninggatan 71B, Stockholm, +46 (0)8-555 148 20 Sweden. Registration for the AGM begins at 4 pm CET. bo.nilsson@fabege.se The notice of the AGM has been any advisors they wish to invite, no published in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar later than 4:00 pm CET on Friday 23 and Svenska Dagbladet and on the comMarch 2012. pany’s website. Shareholders wishing to Notice of attendance at the AGM may Gunilla Möller participate in the AGM must: be made in one of the following ways: IR Coordinator be registered in the share register In writing to: Fabege AB (publ), +46 (0)8-555 148 45 maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB “Fabeges Årsstämma”, Box 7839, gunilla.moller@fabege.se (formerly VPC AB) on Friday 23 March 103 98 Stockholm 2012, By telephone: +46 8-402 90 68 notify the company of their intention On Fabege’s website, www.fabege. to participate, stating the names of se, where additional information about the AGM is available. Dividend Financial calendar The Board proposes that a dividend of SEK 3.00 per share be paid to the shareInterim report Jan–March... 26 April 2012 holders. The proposed record date for the right to receive a dividend is 3 April Interim report Jan–June ......... 6 July 2012 2012. If the AGM adopts the proposed resolution, it is expected that the dividend Interim report Jan–Sept...... 16 Oct 2012 will be paid through Euroclear Sweden AB (formerly VPC AB) on 10 April 2012. Year-end report 2012 ............ 4 Feb 2013 Annual Report 2012 ............ March 2013 95 Five-year summary1) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Proﬁt and loss accounts, SEKm Rental income 1,804 2,007 2,194 2,214 2,066 Net operating income 1,227 1,348 1,465 1,438 1,312 Realised changes in value/Gain from property sales 173 237 57 143 446 Unrealised changes in value, properties 1,093 843 –310 –1,545 893 Proﬁt/loss from property management 564 782 838 568 703 Proﬁt/loss before tax 1,417 1,929 680 –1,340 2,066 Proﬁt/loss after tax 1,141 1,697 425 –511 1,812 Balance sheets, SEKm Investment properties 29,150 26,969 29,193 29,511 30,829 Other tangible ﬁxed assets 1 3 2 3 6 Financial ﬁxed assets 1,124 714 620 586 387 Current assets 362 1,504 704 388 458 Cash and cash equivalents 74 73 173 54 75 Equity 11,890 11,276 9,969 9,873 11,415 of which minority share of equity 2) – – – – – Provisions 585 423 439 624 1,393 Interest-bearing liabilities 16,755 16,646 19,109 18,902 17,210 Derivatives 664 267 373 471 – Non-interest-bearing liabilities 817 651 802 672 1,737 Total assets 30,711 29,263 30,692 30,542 31,755 Key ratios 3) Surplus ratio, % 68 67 67 65 64 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 2.2 3.0 2.6 1.9 2.8 Capital employed, SEKm 29,309 28,189 29,451 29,246 28,625 Equity/assets ratio, % 38.7 39 32 32 36 Debt/equity ratio, multiple 1.4 1.5 1.9 1.9 1.5 Leverage, properties, % 57.5 62 65 64 56 Return on equity, % 9.9 16.0 4.3 –4.8 15.4 Return on capital employed, % 7.2 8.7 4.2 –1.7 9.9 Average interest rate on interest-bearing liabilities, % 3.72 3.45 2.48 3.27 4.28 Property acquisitions and investments in existing properties, SEKm 1,986 907 1,138 2,164 4,984 Property sales, selling price, SEKm 936 4,350 1,234 2,095 2,919 Average no. of employees 124 125 139 149 146 Data per share, SEK 3) Earnings 7.01 10.38 2.59 –3.07 9.98 Equity 73 69 61 60 67 Dividend 3.004) 3.00 2.00 2.00 4.00 Yield, % 5.6 3.8 4.4 6.7 6.0 Share price at year-end 5) 53.90 78.55 45.20 30.00 66.25 No. of shares at year-end before dilution, millions 162 163 164 164 171 Average no. of shares after dilution, millions 163 163 164 168 182 1) The years 2007–2011 have been prepared and, where appropriate, remeasured in accordance with IFRS. 2) Under IFRS, minority shares are to be recognised as part of shareholders’ equity. Under previous Swedish rules, shareholders’ equity was recognised excluding minority shares, which were recognised separately as minority interest instead. 3) Key ratios based on the average number of shares, shareholders’ equity, capital employed, and interest-bearing liabilities have been calculated on a weighted average basis. For 2007–2008, the dilution effects of convertible debentures outstanding have been taken into account when calculating key data per share. 4) Cash dividend 2011 as proposed. 5) Last paid. Deﬁnitions on page 97. 96 Fabege 2011 History Definitions When the current Fabege was 1990 CASH FLOW PER SHARE. Proﬁt before tax plus created in spring 2005, it was the 1990 depreciation, plus/minus unrealised changes in third property company to bear the value less current tax, divided by average number Wihlborgs’ B shares are listed on the O List of the Stockholm Stock of shares. name. The company name, Fabege, originates in a company created by Exchange. CAPITAL EMPLOYED. Total assets less non-interest Birger Gustavsson, one of the leadbearing liabilities and provisions. ing property players in the 1970s CONTRACT VALUE. Stated as an annual value. and 1980s. Originally, Fabege was Index-adjusted basic rent under the rental agreement short for Fastighetsaktiebolaget plus rent supplements. Birger Gustavsson. The then Fabege 1993 was acquired by Näckebro, which in Bergaliden becomes the new main DEBT/EQUITY RATIO. Interest-bearing liabilities owner of Wihlborgs. divided by shareholders’ equity. turn was bought by Drott, which was later split into two companies, one of DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES. Properties in which which was given the name Fabege. a conversion or extension is in progress or planned This company was then acquired by that has a signiﬁcant impact on the property’s net Wihlborgs Fastigheter in 2004, and 1995 operating income. Net operating income is affected either directly by the project or by limitations on the following year, they changed lettings prior to impending improvement work. their name to Fabege. 1997 EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO. Shareholders’ equity In the spring, Wihlborgs completes the ac(including minority share) divided by total assets. quisition of M2 Fastigheter. In September the 1998 EQUITY PER SHARE . Parent Company shareholdBoard of Wihlborgs submits a public offer to At the beginning of the year, Wihlborgs acquire Klövern Fastigheter AB. ers’ share of equity according to the balance sheet, completes the acquisition of Klövern divided by the number of shares at the end of the Fastigheter AB. On 13 April 1998, period. Wihlborgs puts in an offer for Fastighets AB Storheden. The merger is carried out FINANCIAL OCCUPANCY RATE. Contract value in late summer the same year. divided by rental value at the end of the period. 2000 INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO. Proﬁt/loss before High voting A shares are tax plus ﬁnancial expenses and plus/minus unreal2001 converted into B shares. 2000 ised changes in value, divided by ﬁnancial expenses. The main owner, Bergaliden, sells its entire shareholding of 30.2 per cent in Wihlborgs. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES. Properties that are Wihlborgs acquires Postfastigheter along with being actively managed on an on-going basis. its portfolio of 73 properties. In December, 2002 Wihlborgs’ shares are listed on the O List of the LAND & PROJECT PROPERTIES. Land and develWihlborgs sells 60 properties in Stockholm Stock Exchange. opable properties and properties in which a new non-priority locations to Adcore, which build/complete redevelopment is in progress. is reorganised into a property company 2003 under the name of Klövern AB. In June, Wihlborgs acquires shares in Drott AB (later LEVERAGE, PROPERTIES. Interest-bearing liabilities Wihlborgs effects a 1:5 reverse split. divided into Bostads AB Drott and Fabege divided by the carrying amount of the properties at AB), and becomes the company’s largest the end of the period. shareholder during the year. At year-end, Wihlborgs sells Klara Zenit for SEK 2,950m, NET LETTINGS. New lettings during the period less 2004 terminations to vacate. generating a proﬁt of SEK 400m. Wihlborgs completes its acquisition of Fabege AB after a public offer to other PROFIT/EARNINGS PER SHARE. Parent Company shareholders of the company, adding about 2005 shareholders’ share of proﬁt after tax for the period 150 commercial properties to its portfolio. 2005 The Öresund business is distributed to the sharedivided by average number of outstanding shares In December, the company announces its holders and listed on the O List of the Stockholm during the period. proposal to spin off its Öresund properties Stock Exchange under the name of Wihlborgs to the shareholders and concentrate the Fastigheter AB. “Old” Wihlborgs is thus concenRENTAL VALUE. Contract value plus estimated business to the Stockholm region. trated to the Stockholm region and changes its annual rent for vacant premises after a reasonable name to Fabege AB. In December, the company general renovation. concludes an agreement to acquire 82.4 per cent of the shares of Fastighets AB Tornet. RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED. Proﬁt before 2006 tax plus interest expenses, divided by average Fabege acquires Fastighets AB Tornet capital employed. In interim statements the return 2007 along with its portfolio of 104 properties. is converted to its annualised value without taking Other acquisitions include the WennerGren Fabege continues to concentrate its business to account of seasonal variations. Center and Solna Business Park. Fabege’s its main markets, Stockholm Inner City, Solna property holdings in Kista and Täby are and Hammarby Sjöstad. Some 17 properties RETURN ON EQUITY. Proﬁt for the period/year sold to Klövern. are sold and eight are acquired. In June, the divided by average shareholders’ equity. In interim company effects a 2:1 share split, doubling the statements the return is converted to its annualized number of shares. 2008 value without taking account of seasonal variations. Fabege increases the tempo of projects 2010 SURPLUS RATIO. Net operating income divided by where existing properties are processed 2009 rental income. and developed in order to increase cash Fabege continues to concentrate its property ﬂ ow and value growth. YIELD, SHARE. Dividend for the year divided by the portfolio. Some 92 per cent of the portfolio is found in a ﬁve kilometre radius of downtown share price at year-end. Stockholm. Towards the end of the year, work is initiated in the new district, Arenastaden, in Solna. Production Fabege in cooperation 2010 with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson AB Fabege essentially completes the con2011 Translation The Bugli Company centration of its property portfolio. The The concentration of the property portfolio Photographers Per-Erik Adamsson, property portfolio is now concentrated continues and Fabege continues to focus on the Erik Lefvander, Magnus Fond, to Stockholm inner city, Solna and Hamdevelopment of projects. The new Arenastaden Conny Ekström, Mina Sigurdson, marby Sjöstad. Continued focus on develcity district is growing and developing, with the Archus, Tenjin Visual 35 ,1 7 (5 opment of the new Arenastaden district. Mall of Scandinavia and Swedbank Arena as Printing åtta45, Solna ( '0 $ 7 7 major landmarks. 97 FABEGE AB (PUBL) BOX 730, 169 27 SOLNA, SWEDEN VISITING ADDRESS: PYRAMIDVÄGEN 7, 169 56 SOLNA, SWEDEN TELEPHONE: +46 (0)8-555 148 00 FAX: +46 (0)8-555 148 01 E-MAIL: INFO@FABEGE.SE INTERNET: WWW.FABEGE.SE CORPORATE REGISTRATION NUMBER: 556049-1523 BOARD REGISTERED OFFICE: STOCKHOLM
