CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2011 REPORT Table Tableof ofContent content 03. MESSAGE from our C.E.O. 04. Executive Summary 05. Our CSR approach 06. HUMAN RIGHTs AND Working relationships 08. Environment 10. Social commitment 11. Consumer issues 14. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND Business ethics 15. Corporate Governance 16. Steps moving forward 02 Message from our C.E.O Welcome to our first annual sustainable report ! Our company joined the United Nations Global Compact in November 2011 and is a member of the French network of the Global Compact. We confirm our commitment to supporting and implementing the Ten Principles of UN Global Compact relating to human rights, labor standards and the fight against corruption. At the heart of our ambition is an entrepreunarial and human adventure which is based on our belief in talent and recognition. Our corporate citizenship is part of who we are and what we do in our core business and goes to the heart of our 5 values Entrepreneurship Agility Proximity High standards Respect Our signature performance from nature places naturality at the heart of our mission and our growth. The use of our products in the food and pet food markets combined with our desire to achieve excellence, wellbeing and quality of life for our stakeholders and consumers have led us to commit and publish our CSR progress every quarter. Our vision depends first and foremost on meeting amibitious economic goals which provides for achieving sustainable growth and delivering the Group’s financial results. Our company has gone through unprecedented challenges, always driven by its dedicated ambition to participate in creating a better world, and thanks to employees involvement in maintaining progress. We now want to share the results of our dedication with you. Olivier Caix, President and C.E.O 03 Executive summary DIANA’s main achievements for 2011 2011 key figures Implemented in 22 countries 392M€ sales Rating and awards: 1500 employees of Identified by AXA Private Equity as a best Divided its Frequency Rate of work which more than practices actor on Corporate Governance accidents (TF1) by 5 over the past 3 years. 200 dedicated to R&D 2011 TF1 is 5.4. 21 industrial sites Received the 2011 First Innovation Award at SIRHA Fair for the Products category 2 sites ISO 14 001 certified or certification 18 sales offices reconducted in 2011 Received the Award for Innovation and 27M€ industrial CSR approach at the Global Pets Forum 11 sites ISO 22 000 or FSSC 22 000 or BRC investments certified or certification reconducted in 2011 24 nationalities among the employees 04 Our CSR approach Committed to sustainable performance for a better life Holistic approach Combine strategic vision with local initiatives for a shared CSR commitment Social Human at the core of our company’s culture A CSR committee , created commitment rights in 2010, has determined te govern the pillars and priority ora commitments for the Cor an Born with the willingness to valorise natural raw materials, DIANA p ce Working Group. Environment Organisation relationships Group has since its origins integrated a sustainable dimension along and conditions its activities. In 2011, DIANA decided It appeared clear to become a member of the United Nations Global to launch its CSR strategy Compact. DIANA’s CSR approach is structured around concrete and began to implement Consumers Business commitments that include performance indicators. the first actions. issues ethics That approach is split into 6 pillars for which a progress road map has been designed and applied to each division. In order to pursue progress in our CSR policy, DIANA has identified concrete actions to be undertaken within a 5-year road map and check points for each pillar of progress (working relationships and conditions, environment, corporate commitment, ING EMEN T WORK VIRONN consumer issues, IONSH IPS EN RELAT E business ethics and ORAT AND ESS CORP CE organisation governance). TIONS BUSIN OVERNAN CONDI CS G Progress is monitored by ETHI LOCAL key indicators. CONSUMER ISSUES PMENTS 05 DEVELO Human rights and working relationships HR and employer/ employee relationships Protection and social link Working conditions, health and safety at work Human Rights The company supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our policy is outlined in our Business Ethical Guinelines. Protection of internationally recognized principles including Human Rights and labor standards is expressly part of DIANA Business Ethical Guidelines which will be distributed to all employees in EMPLOYER IMAGE TRAINING PARTNERSHIPS the Group, and made available to third parties via DIANA’s web site. We formalised our employer brand by creating several We are committed to long term relationships with Food tools in order to attract new talents to the Group and to high quality schools in France and abroad. No complaint regarding human rights make new recruits loyal to our organisation. or labour standards was reported in DIANA participates in job fairs and maintains strong the period covered by this report. partnerships with schools and universities. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Each year, we participate in the event One day, one job by inviting disabled people on our sites in order to present them our know-how. We also participated in an annual job fair for disabled people. Source: DIANA, Staff and geographical distribution 06 Human rights and working relationships HR and employer/ employee relationships Protection and social links Working conditions, health and safety at work 2011 key figures frequency rate = 5.4 (-78% compared to 2008) Safety Since 2008, The health & safety issue has become a recurrent topic within the instances of the Group Number of days-off due to accidents management. Accident frequency rate In 2011, DIANA implemented systems on its sites, invested in infrastructures, carried out benchmarking studies, organised safety days within its divisions, integrated safety KPI in profit-sharing agreements and set ambitious targets. These measures contributed to performance improvement across the whole Group. 2011 has been an excellent year regarding the Group accident frequency rate. DIANA is dedicated to Source: DIANA, Accident frequency rate trend 2008-2011 maintaining high level of safety. 07 Environment Operational waste control Sustainable use of resources Control of the impact on climate change Environnement Control of Environment existing Environmental issues are integrated plants DIANA is committed to 4 main environmental areas: within the Group CSR policy, with Design Benchmark natural inputs and consumption optimisation, waste objectives and KPIs cascading into of plant of alternative control linked to the industrial cycle, reduction of the standards solutions the divisions. Besides, the regulatory impact on climate change and preservation of the screening is structured by divisions, naturality concept linked to meat, vegetable and marine taking into account the local regulatory raw materials. Excellence specificities. approach Certifications Protection of internationaly recognized principles including Environment is Within our Pet Food division, a level 1 ISO 14001 Source: DIANA, Environmental excellence approach expressly part of DIANA Business certified Environment Management system protects Ethical Guidelines, which will be 65% of employees. This system is applied to all Pet Food Energy distributed to all employees in the division sites and it is planned to extend by third parts Group in 2012, available to third each year. Reducing the Group’s energy consumption is part of the parties via DIANA’s website. DIANA excellence approach. The Group is committed to progressing in its energy management to long term. In 2011, DIANA ensures sustainability by DIANA set up a continuous improvement plan to reduce its managing all its activities and is energy consumption and find alternative solutions. committed to minimising its impact For exemple, our Food division saved 168 500m3 of water, on the environment. 6000 To of steam and 465 000kwh of electricity in 2010 and 2011. 08 Environment Operational waste control Sustainable use of resources Control of the impact on climate change Eco-friendly Buildings In 2011, the Pet Food division dedicated two new buildings to receive new panels of dogs and cats in France. These DIANA has initiated the roll out of premises have been built according to Low-Energy its ISO 14001 certified environment Standards, both in terms of construction techniques management standard into its and choice of materials. Particular attention was paid divisions. The Group aims are to have to insulation, air renewal and the buildings’ setting in a 30% of its sites certified by the end natural, wooded park. of 2015. IT technologies DIANA has started to deploy remote conferencing Employee awareness technologies in its main offices and plans to develop these In 2011, DIANA Corporate teams created an into remote areas in 2012. In 2011, 50% of DIANA sites environmental responsability guide. A real teaching were equipped. In 2012, one more site is programmed to tool, this guide offers office employees guidelines be equipped. and advice on adopting simple measures to raise awareness on waste reduction, travel optimisation or resource consumption. In 2012, this guide will start to be adapted to the divisions sites and operational employees working in factories. Source: DIANA, Environmental responsability guide 09 Social commitment Local commitment Skills commitment As for the Food division, it develops partnerships with universities, private schools and institutes participating in the Research progress. Grant guidelines Sponsoring events In 2011, DIANA sponsored an animal In 2011, the DIANA group formalised its Grant guidelines shelter in Thaïland and a guide dogs whose mission is to settle a policy on DIANA grants offered association in Brazil. to local projects. Global player locally committed The Group commits to fund projects that benefit the community, employees or environment on a local scale. Local commitment is an important element of the Projects that commit DIANA to its local ecosystem on the internationalisation strategy of the DIANA group. long term, involving local people and by being disconnected In our growth conduct, we systematically look for dialogue from direct business interests. with stakeholders and socio-economic development in the local areas where we are implanted. DIANA Grant Guidelines is an operational tool which DIANA has expressly indicated its contribution to defines the eligibility of funding community economic development in particular by projects, the method to use recruiting and training individuals from the countries in for monitoring the results of which the Group operates. future investments and also The Pet Food division has developed partnerships with the decision-making method the Animal Protection Corporation and canine & feline to settle a funding project. breeders. The division participates on ethics committees in order to validate testing protocols carried out by the Panelis research centre (dog and cat expert panels). Source: DIANA, Grant guidelines 10 Consumer issues Protection of consumers’ health and safety Information sharing and marketing ethics OHSAS 18001 is an international occupational health and safety management system specification. This standard SITE ISO BRC BABYHALAL KOSHER SEDEX ORGANIC PESTICIDE was created via the concerted effort from a number of the 9001 FSSC 22000 FOOD REGISTRATION CONTROLLED world’s leading national standards bodies, certification Cossé, France 2012 bodies and specialist consultancies. ISO 14001 is an environmental management standard. It Antrain, France defines set of environmental management requirements Villers, France for environmental management systems. The purpose FOOD of this standard is to help companies to protect the Chacé, France 2013 environment, to prevent pollution and to improve their DIVISION Berric, France 2012 overall environmental performance. Pleucadeuc, France ISO 9001 defines world class standards for effective Quality Management Systems and is integral with management, Holbeach, UK documentation and manufacturing practices organisationSilverton, Oregon 2013 wide. This standard specifies a process-based approach with value added, customer-focused activities on which Buin, Chili 2012 personnel, planning, resources and metrics are built to assure product quality, continuous improvement and SITE SAFETY ISO ISO BRC GMP SEDEX SITE SAFETY ISO BRC GMP GRAS business strategy are optimised. OHSAS 14001 9001 ISO 22000 REGISTRATION OHSAS 9001 ISO 22000 ISO 22000/ BRC specifies requirements for a food safety Elven, France Portland, Oregon NOVA management system where an organisation in the food DIVISION Linguidic, France Duran, Ecuador 2015 2013 2014 N/A chain wishes to demonstrate its ability to control food safety hazards in order to ensure that food is safe at the Doncaster, UK 2013 Guanacaste, 2015 2013 2014 2012 N/A time of human consumption. Costa Rica Beled, Hongria 2013 2014 GMP: Good Manufacturing Practice Animal Feed Ribera d’Ondara, Spain GRAS: Generally Recognised As Safe Belgorod, Russie 2015 2013 2014 The terms halal and kosher refer to dietary rules Saint-Blaise, Canada 2014 2015 2012 2013 followed by religiously observant Muslims and Jews. The PET FOOD aim of certification is to give halal and kosher consumers Mondovi, Wisconsin 2015 2012 DIVISION confidence that the products comply with the complex Hodges, South Carolina 2015 2012 rules governing what is permissible for them to eat. Food division Guymon, Oklahoma 2013 2015 2013 2014 Pet Food division SEDEX, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange provides an Nova division independant platform on which companies can enter Descalvado, Brazil 2012 information about their social accountability policies and El marques, Mexico 2013 performance. Buenos Aires, Argentina 2014 Samut Sakhon, Thailand 2015 2012 2013 2012 Cape Town, South Africa 2015 2015 2013 2014 11 Beresfield, Australia 2014 2015 2013 Consumer issues Protection of consumers’ health and safety Information sharing and marketing ethics In order to monitor the risk management policy, a dedicated mapping has been created by the Group General Counsel, in collaboration with operational managers. Allocated responsibility and management Number 1 procedures, deployed on high risks areas (health risk, priority : Business food safety), can attest to a high level of control over Food safety continuity the activity. Food safety Products Process The Group’s main operational risk is in food safety, both within the sourcing process in the internal organisation and in the traceability measures. People Systems These risks are widely apprehended through the mapping and audits from our suppliers, but also through Employee Continuity and operational excellence model implemented on our sites health and confidentiality safety (MODUS model) and a methodology for analyzing specific risks such as HARE tool Risk and Hazard Assessments. Source : DIANA, operation risks mapping 12 Consumer issues Protection of consumers’ health and safety Information sharing and marketing ethics Green technology for clean products Within the Nova division, DianaPlantSciences, dedicated to plant cell culture, has developped, through significant investment, clean products respecting nature : Natural products obtained through biotechnology without any genetic manipulation Absence of pesticides, metals and other pollutants for an optimal contribution to well-being Drastic reduction in consumption of natural resources and in production of processing-related waste Preservation of biodiversity and soil quality Sustainable agriculture In partnership with the Institute of Sustainable Agriculture, the Food division of the DIANA group has developed a referential of evaluation on seven topics broken down into 20 criteria that allows suppliers to compare their performance to other farmers in their area on the performance pair economic / environmental and social impact of activities. DIANA is committed to setting up a core-model of evaluation to help farmers with a continuous improvement. 13 Anti-corruption and business ethics Fight against corruption and promotion of fair competition Protection of internationally recognized principles including Fair competition Fight against corruption fighting corruption, is expressly part of DIANA business Ethical Guidelines The Group integrated several control systems of its In its Business Ethical Guidelines, DIANA formally which will be distributed to all actions (Muddy Boost, SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data expresses its commitment to fight against corruption in employees in the Group in 2012, and Exchange), Control Union...), allowing its customers to the Group business conduct. made available to third parties via check DIANA’s commitments in terms of durability. In this way, DIANA forbids to give or receive bribes or DIANA website. other improper advantages for business or financial gain, No claim or request for monetary encouraging its employees to report to management any sanction for corruption was reported Business ethics non ethical behaviour from any part. in the period covered by this report. In 2011, the DIANA group Management Board DIANA considers that no gifts or other benefits including formalised Business Ethical Guidelines to be available entertainiment may be offered to government officials to all employees of the Group. These guidelines aim to and will train its managers not to expose themselves to a help exposed positions such as sales and purchasing potential conflict of interest. positions to increase awareness of ethics in their business and to protect them from fraud by others. Finally, the DIANA group In 2012, it will be issued to the whole Group through strenghten the need for its training sessions with managers. employees to pay attention and report any behaviour from any stakeholder which exceeds the common practice associated with usual business conduct. Source: DIANA, Business ethical guidelines 14 Corporate governance CSR integration in the Group’s governance instances 2011 key figures Rate of external administrators: 33% Rate of employees DIANA’s CSR committee shareholding 29.9% CSR Committee Two-tier Board Rate of average The CSR committee pilots its policy on an ongoing basis As per the French (AFEP-MEDEF) and OECD corporate attendance in Board throughout the year. On a quaterly basis, it meets up in governance recommendations, our Company has put meetings order to review the actions being implemented and suggest in place a two-tier Board system. It ensures, through 94% new actions. its supervisory and management Boards, a separation between Control and Management. In addition, the Group has established two special committees, Regular audits composed of executive and non-executive Directors together with members of the Management Board Since 2008, the DIANA group has been evaluated by (Remuneration Committee and Strategic M&A an external company (Ethifinance) as part of our main Committee). shareholder requirements in managing its funds. 15 DIANA’s management Board is committed to moving forward Committed to sustainable performance for a better Life Since its origins, DIANA has been paying attention to the environment, to local development, and to the respect of People and Nature. Early 2010, DIANA began to formalize its commitment and values through a CSR Improvement approach. This report is the result of 12-month work over our CSR approach. It outlines our CSR culture and our achievements in line with the UN Global Compact Ten From left to right: Jean-Pierre Rivery, Christine Ropers, Jorge Morros, Olivier Caix, Steve Lawson, Miriam Fedida and Jean-Yves Parisot Principles. Committed to improve our operations and our people management, By 2015: respecting all stakeholders, a CSR 2012 and onwards: Certify 100% of DIANA sites in food safety committee was created late 2010. Train managers and their teams in Business either FSSC 22000 or IFS/BRC Ethical Guidelines through the circulation Through its working groups, the and the explanation of the existing document Reduce Carbon Footprint such as a commitee provides the Company with reduction of 25% of greenhouse gas a consistent platform and approach emissions thanks to innovations between the UN Global Compact and its culture and business requirements. Save 10% of water 16 THANKS DIANA thanks its shareholders for supporting and encouraging sustainable practices and CSR development. DIANA also thanks its clients, supliers, partners and all stakeholders who helped DIANA to design better practices, processes and projects. DIANA is grateful to all its employees for their every-day commitment and support in the Group and its divisions CSR actions. © DIANA Designed by DIANA
