CLEAR THINKING United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress April 2012 Statement of continued support from Partner Phillip Cornwell – Chair of the Allens Pro Bono and Footprint Committees Over the past year, Allens Arthur Robinson (Allens) has continued to support and promote the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. As a firm, we recognise that we have broad responsibilities to our people, their families and the communities in which we live. We have nurtured close relationships with many community groups and engage with these groups through our pro bono, charity and environmental programs and by complying with the UN Global Compact. Our firm has maintained its focus on the plight of our indigenous people and on human rights, in particular for asylum seekers, while also prioritising equal opportunity and anticorruption issues, and further minimising our footprint. We have made good progress in all these areas and some highlights are outlined below. • Won the Law Award at the Australian Human Rights Commission Human Rights Awards 2011 for our work on the M61 and M70 cases, both pro bono matters on which we worked with the Refugee and Immigration Legal Centre, Debbie Mortimer SC and Richard Niall SC. • Awarded the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency’s Employer of Choice for Women citation for the eighth consecutive year. • Celebrated the second anniversary of our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). In the second year of our RAP, we deepened the impact of the work we do in relation to Indigenous rights, access to justice and Indigenous enterprise, and brought to a successful conclusion a ‘stolen generation’ claim on behalf of an Aboriginal Australian. • Undertook pro bono work that averaged almost 50 hours of pro bono work per lawyer for the year. I am pleased to present this Communication on Progress, which outlines not only our commitment to the UN Global Compact but also the efforts of our people in honouring that commitment. Partner Phillip Cornwell, Chair of the Allens Pro Bono and Footprint Committees Cover Image: Allens’ support of Ian Thorpe’s Foundation for Youth enabled the provision of ‘literacy backpacks’ to more than 50 Indigenous students. 1 Introduction Allens is an international law firm with more than 900 legal staff throughout 14 offices in Australia and Asia. The firm provides a full range of commercial legal services to many of the region’s leading corporations and government organisations, including 77 of Australia’s top 100 public companies, and 55 of the world’s largest 100 companies. Allens was the first organisation in Australia to become a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and this is something the firm is very proud of. Allens’ internal and external practices, including our workplace and environment policies and community activities, have regularly met the criteria set by the Global Compact. Working to fulfil the Global Compact means businesses like ours can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. 3 Human Rights Principle 1 Commitment Every human being is entitled to basic human rights – that is, freedom, equality, Businesses should support justice and the right to life. However, not everyone has the access to help or finances and respect the protection required to uphold these rights, both in Australia and Asia, and around the world. of internationally proclaimed human rights Allens has developed lasting relationships with non-government organisations and others within the community who are working to advance human rights. We Principle 2 recognise that these groups are often in the best position to identify the issues, while Business should ensure that we have the commitment, resources and expertise to assist. they are not complicit in human rights abuse Systems Allens has a number of systems in place that support human rights. The firm’s Reconciliation and Pro Bono systems are outlined below. Reconciliation In 2009, Allens became the first top-tier law firm in Australia to institute a Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), designed to help close the gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians. The firm took the decision that we had a vital role to play on this issue. We decided that the steps we would take under the plan would be long-term and would be based on the premise that the best results emanate from relationships of equal trust that, in turn, lead to real opportunities. RAPs are about turning good intentions into real actions. A RAP is a business plan that uses an holistic approach to create meaningful relationships and sustainable opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians. We are proud of what we have helped achieve through our RAP and we are excited at the possibilities for the future. ‘Allens has demonstrated through its RAP the many ways in which an organisation from the legal profession can positively impact on the lives of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, while also achieving great success as a firm. We congratulate Allens on their outstanding commitment, which shows a truly genuine and collaborative effort to achieve great outcomes for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians and Allens alike.’ – Reconciliation Australia Allens held a media conference to mark the Victorian State Government’s apology to Indigenous man Neville Austin and his family. 5 The first case (M61) established that the Australian Government is obliged to act Pro Bono lawfully and fairly when handling claims by asylum seekers who arrive on Christmas Allens’ pro bono practice provides free legal assistance to a range of not-for-profit Island. The case established that any failure to afford procedural fairness can be and charitable clients as well as to individuals in need. Pro bono matters are treated reviewed by the courts. in the same way as fee-paying matters, except that the client is not billed. The second case (M70) established that asylum seekers could not be deported Allens was a foundation signatory to the National Pro Bono Resource Centre Target from Christmas Island to Malaysia for the processing of their refugee claims because for pro bono work, and has made a commitment to provide at least 35 hours of pro Malaysia did not meet certain international standards in its treatment of asylum bono work per lawyer per year. Our goal was to exceed this target significantly, and seekers and refugees. we have done that this year. The high-profile matters, which were important for the firm and the wider In FY 2011-12, Allens: community, involved lawyers from the firm’s Sydney and Melbourne offices. • completed 40,700 hours of pro bono work; Activities • assisted 255 organisations; and AIME blue hoodie day, Brisbane. Allens works hard to promote human rights via reconciliation. Below is a snapshot of • helped 409 individuals. what we’ve been doing in the space during the past year. Allens is prepared to take on challenging and complex human rights cases. Below • More than 200 Allens employees, across the firm’s Australian offices, wore blue are descriptions of some highlights of the firm’s pro bono practice from the past hoodies for a day in support of Australian Indigenous Mentoring Experience financial year. (AIME), an organisation that seeks to close the gap between Indigenous and Neville Austin non-Indigenous high school completion rates. Allens staff also participated in AIME’s professional mentoring program. Allens and a team of barristers worked with Neville Austin, an Aboriginal Australian, since 2007, to assist him to seek redress from the Victorian State Government, • The Melbourne RAP committee hosted an Indigenous Women and Community which wrongfully separated him from his mother when he was a young child. Leadership forum in April 2011. Guests from Westpac, NAB, Transfield, Australia Mr Austin alleged that the State Government failed the duty of care owed to him, Post, St.George Bank, Richmond Football Club and Teach for Australia joined by failing adequately to investigate the suitability of his mother’s home, ignoring her employees from across the Melbourne office to hear Indigenous women Emily continued requests for contact, and refusing her demands for custody. Carter and June Oscar talk about their experiences with leadership and change. Indigenous Women and Community • As part of the newly established Jawun secondment program, Allens sent four Leadership forum, Melbourne. The matter was resolved by mediation in June 2011. The terms of settlement of the firm’s senior leaders to work with Indigenous businesses – in Cape York, are confidential but exceeded expectations. The Department of Human Services Cairns, Shepparton and Redfern – on key projects over a four to six-week period. provided Mr Austin with a letter of apology that acknowledged the harm caused by Jawun forms partnerships to benefit both corporate and Indigenous Australia Neville Austin, speaking at the media the Government’s actions. and works to improve the lives of Indigenous people by supporting Indigenous conference that marked the Victorian State communities on the ground. In June, at Mr Austin’s request, a media conference was held at Allens’ Melbourne Government’s apology. office, to mark the Victorian State Government’s apology to Mr Austin and his family. ‘Not only was I able to spend time getting to know the organisations ‘To the team of lawyers at Allens, you gave voice to a story that may I worked with, but I was able to talk and listen to many people in have never been heard. On behalf of my mum, myself and my family, the community and learn from their experiences.’ – National Graduate I say thank you.’ – Neville Austin. Resourcing & Development Manager Bryony McCormack. Asylum seeker cases • Allens hosted the Australian Indigenous Education Foundation (AIEF) annual report launch, facilitated development workshops, and undertook extensive pro In 2010 and 2011, Allens, the Refugee and Immigration Legal Centre (RILC), Debbie bono legal work for the private sector-led, non-profit organisation. AIEF is focused Mortimer SC and Richard Niall SC (together, the M61/M70 team) worked together on on empowering Indigenous children, in financial need, to build a future through two landmark High Court cases that upheld human rights and the rule of law. quality education and career pathways at Australia’s leading schools, universities and companies. 6 7 • The Perth RAP Committee hosted a film night for staff where four short Indigenous films were shown. The films were created through the Deadly Yarns initiative, a joint initiative by ScreenWest, ABC Television and the Film and Television Institute WA. Proceeds from the night were donated to Many Rivers Microfinance, which helps Indigenous Australians develop small businesses. • The Brisbane RAP Committee hosted a stall at the Musgrave Park Family Fun Day. The event is one of the largest held during the National Aborigines and Islanders Day Observance Committee (NAIDOC) week in Brisbane each year. • The Sydney office and Reconciliation Australia hosted a panel discussion called ‘Indigenous Australians and the Constitution: recognition, rights and reconciliation’. As well as hosting the forum, Allens made a submission to the Federal Government’s Expert Panel on Constitutional Recognition of Indigenous Australians Enquiry. Allens’ submission features heavily in the Recognising Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples in the Constitution report, which is now in the hands of the Prime Minister of Australia, Julia Gillard. ‘The report is an incredibly important piece of work that embodies the national conversation about the unique place of Indigenous Australians in our nation.’ – Lawyer Alison Matthews. • Guest Relations Supervisor Josephine Bryant assisted Tooth Mob with the administrative work involved in recruiting and sending volunteer dentists and dental assistants to spend two weeks working at a clinic in an Aboriginal community in the Northern Territory. ‘Having grown up in the Northern Territory, I’ve seen the huge gap in health and life expectancy between Aboriginal and non-Indigenous Australians. By volunteering with Tooth Mob, I don’t feel so overwhelmed by the problem.’ – Josephine Bryant. • Allens sponsored two employees to represent their communities at the UN Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues in New York and Geneva. • The firm’s two-week Winter Indigenous Legal Internship was continued, with 13 Indigenous interns commencing across all Australian offices in 2011. The program has been running since 2006 and is designed to give students exposure to a commercial environment and to provide learning and development opportunities. • Allens initiated an Indigenous cadetship program within the corporate services department. • Adrian Craig from SBS and Bevan Mailman from National Australia Bank completed reverse secondments at Allens. • Lawyer Hayden Teo represented Allens during a Native Title Internship. The internship was part of The Aurora Project, which oversees a number of programs that work with Australia’s Indigenous communities and organisations to facilitate prosperity through capacity building. Allens has been involved in The Aurora Project since 2006. AURORA Lawyer Hayden Teo on his Native Title Internship. 9 • The Sydney RAP committee hosted a morning tea for the members of the Marthakal Homelands Resource Centre leadership program. The morning tea Performance was an opportunity for the young leaders to experience an office environment. Allens works hard to achieve its human rights-related goals, as set out by the firm’s • Chief Executive Officer Michael Rose was among 22 senior leaders who attended various community committees. Our goals have been exceeded during the past the Jawun Senior Executive visit in Cape York. Michael also continued his role as year and revised targets for the coming year have been set. Our commitment to Chair of the Business Council of Australia Indigenous Taskforce and his role as improving and protecting human rights, and our desire continually to push our part of the recently established reference group for constitutional recognition. human rights agenda, has been widely recognised within the broader community. In FY2011-12, Allens was named the recipient of the following awards: • Allens supported Ian Thorpe’s Fountain for Youth, which focuses on advocacy for the needs of children living in great disadvantage. The firm’s support enabled Queensland Reconciliation Awards the provision of ‘literacy backpacks’ to more than 50 students within these communities. In 2011, Allens was nominated as a finalist in the Queensland Reconciliation Awards’ business category. The awards, run by the Queensland Government, • The firm continued its work with the Australian Indigenous Minority Supplier recognise businesses, organisations, educational institutions and partnership Council (AIMSC), which is Australia’s premier business-to-business membership projects that are paving the way for reconciliation. body dedicated to growing diversity within the supply chain. • Allens strengthened its relationship with Indigenous technology, communications Human Rights Awards win and media service provider Message Stick. Allens – with the Refugee and Immigration Legal Centre (RILC), Debbie Mortimer • The firm worked with RMIT to host a symposium on the issue of constitutional SC and Richard Niall SC – was the recipient of the Law Award at the Australian Allens’ support of Ian Thorpe’s recognition for Indigenous people. Held in November 2011, the event catered to Human Rights Commission Human Rights Awards 2011 for the team’s work on the Foundation for Youth enabled the law students and the legal community. M61 and M70 cases. provision of ‘literacy backpacks’ to more than 50 Indigenous students. • Allens worked with Arnold Bloch Leibler to establish the Legal Professional The same team was awarded two other important awards for this work – the Reconciliation Forum for law firms and legal bodies to work together for Federation of Community Legal Centre’s prestigious Tim McCoy Award and the Law reconciliation. Institute of Victoria’s President’s Honorary Award. Allens has also engaged in a wide range of other activities in support of Partner Malcolm Stephens, who led the Allens team, said that the matters involved human rights in Australia and overseas during the past year. An overview lawyers from the firm’s Sydney and Melbourne offices. of these activities is below. ‘Our lawyers worked very hard on these matters and it was an honour • Allens assisted the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights with its Corporate for the firm to receive these awards alongside RILC, Debbie Law Tools project by advising on and drafting a Hong Kong chapter for a larger Mortimer and Richard Niall.’ – Malcolm Stephens. report that addresses corporate laws and corporate social responsibility across the region. Business Council of Australia • The firm worked on a number of projects with the UN Special Representative that Allens’ work on engagement and measurement relating to reconciliation was are aimed at protecting human rights. Allens advised on social, legal and policy highlighted as a case study of best practice in the Business Council of Australia’s issues surrounding the corporate responsibility to respect human rights. Vision and Values: Working Together to Close the Gap report. • We researched laws regarding economic, social and cultural rights. Woor-Dungan Pro Bono Service Provider Partnership Award • The firm worked for the Mental Health Legal Centre and participated in the Mental Health Review Boards appearance roster. Allens was the winner of 2011 Woor-Dungan Pro Bono Service Provider Partnership • Allens participated in Homeless Persons’ Legal Clinics in Melbourne, Sydney, Award for the partnership between Allens and Ganbina. Brisbane and Perth. Allens Partner Steve Clifford and Gabina CEO Adrian Appo. 10 11 Labour Principle 3 Commitment Allens maintains employment arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit Business should uphold the or discourage freedom of association or collective bargaining. The firm opposes all freedom of association and the forms of forced and compulsory labour and seeks to abolish child labour. The firm is effective recognition of the right also active in its endeavour to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment. to collective bargaining Principle 4 Systems Business should uphold the Allens has a number of systems in place that are designed to UN Global Compact elimination of all forms of forced principles relating to labour. A number of these systems are highlighted below. and compulsory labour Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Principle 5 Allens is committed to the principles of EEO and takes a zero tolerance approach to Business should uphold the discrimination, harassment and bullying in the workplace. effective abolition of child labour Providing a safe and supportive workplace for our partners and employees is critical to our business. We value the diversity of our workforce, respect the differences Principle 6 between employees, and recognise that each person has individual talents and Business should uphold the skills to bring to their role. All partners and employees work in an environment elimination of discrimination in which they can enjoy their work and relationships with colleagues, free from in respect of employment and discrimination, harassment and bullying. occupation In November 2011, the firm rolled out compulsory online EEO training for all partners and staff. Face-to-face EEO training for all partners, directors, senior managers, special counsel and senior associates is also planned for the second half of FY12. Diversity Strategy Allens’ diversity strategy is built on four key pillars: gender, flexibility, reconciliation and family. Broader areas of focus for the firm include disability, ethnicity and sexual orientation. Our diversity strategy is supported by the creation of a Diversity Advisory Board, which is made up of both internal and external members and chaired by Michael Rose. The Diversity Advisory Board met in April and November in 2011, and made recommendations for diversity actions within the firm. Lesbian Gay Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Interest Group In May 2011, Allens started a LGBT interest group. The group is open to employees who identify as LGBT and their supporters, associates, parents and friends. This group is regularly invited to attend external LGBT events. In November 2011, Allens sent representatives to the Pride in Practice: LGBT Workplace Conference, held in Sydney. Allens has also booked a table at the Annual Pride in Diversity business luncheon and awards celebration, which will be held in May 2012. 13 Gender Activities The firm’s Women at Allens program regularly provides the opportunity for In 2011, Allens conducted a range of activities that demonstrate its commitment to employees to attend events related to the development and progression of women the United Nations Global Compact principles on labour standards. A snapshot of in business. The firm also supports external organisations, including Chief Executive some recent work in this area is below. Women and United Nations Women, by hosting seminars and events at our offices. Each Australian office has a Women at Allens committee and, in 2011, the four • Allens hosted the launch of the Progress of the World’s Women: Access to committees delivered a total of 21 events. Women at Allens includes a mentoring Justice report. This report is the first major publication from the newly formed program. United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women and identifies effective strategies to expand women’s access to justice and rights. Women at Allens ties in to the firm’s 2010 commitment to provide corporate leadership for gender equality. • In November 2011, Allens produced its annual Equality and Diversity Report, which focused on gender equality for legal professionals in the firm. Allens was one of the first organisations in Australia to sign the The expanded 2011 report was structured in line with the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles and detailed achievements since the 2010 report; how Women’s Empowerment Principles, produced and disseminated we performed against our FY11 equality and diversity objectives; and key areas Chief Executive Partner Michael Rose by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the of focus for FY12. attends the launch of the • Last year, Allens conducted two engagement projects to gain feedback from our Empowerment of Women, and the United Nations Global Compact. Progress of the World’s Women report. lawyers about what drives their engagement and to identify perceived barriers to career progression. Recommendations from the projects were included in our Flexible work arrangements annual Equality and Diversity Report. An internal flexibility engagement project Allens’ goal is to create an engaging work environment that inspires our people to also commenced in October 2011, to uncover what our partners and staff see give their very best. We are committed to enabling our people to balance their work as the challenges of flexible working and how we can more effectively manage and other responsibilities. flexibility. • In 2011, Allens conducted a number of programs relating to unconscious bias. Policies such as purchased annual leave, part-time work, job share, flexible These included a three-part development program with the firm’s Executive hours, working from home and a graduated return from parental leave have been Leadership Team and a number of sessions targeted at our recruiting teams, introduced across the firm. All programs are supported by coaching, tools and partners and lawyers. information kits. The programs are led by the Head of Flexibility and Diversity, Jacqui Abbott. The firm is continuing to improve awareness and understanding of ‘Bring your kids to work’ morning Managing the Transition unconscious bias in the workplace. tea, Melbourne Allens recognises that employees’ flexibility needs will vary at different life stages, particularly when family circumstances change. Performance The premise behind the Managing the Transition program is to acknowledge EOWA citation for eighth consecutive year that flexibility will be different for each individual and may change over time. The In March 2012, Allens was awarded the Equal Opportunity for Women in the program enables women and men to achieve and maintain a balance between Workplace Agency’s Employer of Choice for Women citation for the eighth year in their professional and personal commitments. a row. The firm was one of 125 organisations awarded the citation, which is given to non-government organisations with more than 100 employees that have policies One component of the Managing the Transition program is access for all partners and practices supporting women across the organisation. and staff to information kits. These kits cover topics such as families and work, eldercare, mental illness and next phase/retirement. Martin Seligman Award for Health and Wellbeing Allens, along with law firms Freehills, Mallesons, Blake Dawson & Clayton Utz, won the Martin Seligman Award for Health and Wellbeing, which was part of the 2011 AHRI National Awards. The firm was nominated for its role in developing the Resilience@Law leadership initiative, which raises awareness and understanding of the nature and impact of stress, depression and anxiety across the legal profession in Australia. 14 15 Environment Principle 7 Committment What we do today to be sustainable is important for tomorrow. As a law firm, Business should support a we recognise that our impact is not so much about a headline number. True precautionary approach to sustainability comes from consistency in best practice, ranging from our environmental challenges procurement practices and the education of staff, to the way our offices are Principle 8 managed and maintained. Business should undertake Allens has been committed to sustainability and to supporting the environment for initiatives to promote greater more than a decade. Our commitment to being sustainable leaders is driven, and environmental responsibility formally monitored, by the Footprint Committees, which are made up of employees whose innovative ideas, enthusiasm and passion assist the firm to reduce its impact Principle 9 on the environment. Below is an outline of some of the environmentally-friendly systems that have been implemented by the Footprint Committees. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Systems technologies Sustainable transport Travel has a huge impact on an organisation’s sustainability balance – especially with international organisations where interactions are required on a global scale. Apart from sending a strong message about sustainability, implementing innovative sustainable transport practices makes economic sense. During the past year, Allens has been working on a formal transport policy and, in doing so, has asked employees whether they can avoid the need to travel, reduce the distance travelled (or use a more otherwise environmentally-friendly means of transport) and offset emissions where travel cannot be avoided. The firm has also invested in innovative communication tools, such as video phones and conferencing facilities, to help reduce the need for transport. Fairtrade The Fairtrade label guarantees that a third-world farmer has received a fair price for their produce, that no child labour or forced labour was used, and that employment and environmental standards were met. Allens was one of the first Australian organisations to become a certified Fairtrade workplace. Under the Fairtrade certification, kitchens in our Australian offices have been stocking Fairtrade tea, coffee, drinking chocolate, chocolate and sugar. As part of Fairtrade week, all Australian offices hosted morning teas that featured a range of Fairtrade products. Recycling Recycling is an excellent way to help solve the growing environmental issue of waste in landfill sites and its negative impact on the natural environment. It also saves money and those who receive the donated goods can give them a second life. Allens provides employees with a suite of recycling options, ranging from battery recycling, to confidential paper recycling. Employees are constantly reminded to ‘reduce the use’ and then recycle what’s left. One creative example of recycling at Allens is the annual Stationery Amnesty, where unwanted office supplies are recovered and redistributed throughout the firm. 17 Going vegetarian Hong Kong’s ‘Stationery Amnesty’ and charity drive Since 2008, National Vegetarian Week (NVW) has been promoting the idea of During Hong Kong’s ‘Stationery Amnesty’, the office collected excess office vegetarianism, with participants sharing their resources and experiences. According products, and then donated these items to a small orphanage outside Ulaanbaatar to NVW, reports show that animal-based diets are having a significant impact on in Mongolia. The Hong Kong office also ran a clothing drive to mark Chinese New global warming, therefore, they promote the idea of going vegetarian – even for Year. The donations went to local Hong Kong charity Crossroads Foundation, which just one week of the year. In 2011, many organisations, in more than 13 countries, distributed the items to people in need. participated in NVW, in an effort to promote a healthier, more humane and environmentally sustainable lifestyle. This year, Allens’ Footprint Committee marked Going Green in Perth the event by supplying vegetarian catering for the day. Last year, Allens’ Perth office held its annual Community Day. Community Day is an important event on the Perth office calendar as it is a great opportunity to make a On a permanent basis, our catering staff always ensure that at least non-legal pro bono contribution to the community. This year, Allens staff helped to 10 per cent of all meals supplied at the firm are vegetarian. rehabilitate a large reserve via tree planting, built enclosures for injured native birds, performed gardening duties and helped clean cages for injured ducklings and other Activities small animals. Trigeneration Riding, not driving There is a building in North Sydney that is the first of its kind in Australia to use Every year, the firm gets behind causes aimed at decreasing pollution by increasing natural gas powered engines to heat and cool the building. Allens’ Sydney office at the number of people riding to work. Last year, 13 members of Allens’ Melbourne Deutsche Bank Place buys some of its energy from this building. office represented the firm by riding in Around the Bay in a Day. A breakfast was also held to celebrate the event and fellow riding initiative, Ride to Work Day. The Sports and Charity Committees sold baked goods to morning tea attendees and Aside from moving into a building that is capable of Trigeneration, Legal Secretary Kara Seymour pedals the donated the proceeds to The Smith Family charity. The Smith Family’s Rebecca organisations can explore different ways to benefit from this riding, not driving message. Christian said the firm’s contribution will be put towards important initiatives. technology, including buying off-peak energy from these buildings. ‘Allens’ fundraising has been invested to help disadvantaged Sustainable Gardening Australia Australian children with the essentials they need for school. Allens Melbourne staff enjoyed two eco-friendly workshops by Sustainable Gardening is making a world of difference to the lives of disadvantaged Australia (SGA). SGA is a not-for-profit, non-government organisation, dedicated children.’ – Rebecca Christian, The Smith Family. to changing the way Australians garden. Over the two sessions, staff learnt about organic pest control and how to best grow plants in containers and pots. Sydney’s recycling campaign Earth Hour The Sony Foundation provides envelopes that can be used to dispose of discarded Hundreds of millions of people, businesses and governments around the world unite electronic goods. Shoes, books, cosmetics, batteries and ink cartridges were each year to support the largest environmental event in history, Earth Hour. Earth collected from the office’s recycling campaign. Around 20 phones were collected Hour was celebrated in a record 150 countries and territories and 6494 towns and and delivered to Sony. The remainder of items (excluding batteries and ink cities in 2012, including at Allens’ Australian offices, where lights were switched off cartridges) were delivered to a women’s shelter. to send the message that our combined efforts are needed to change our future to one that is sustainable. The firm marked the event with competitions and candlelit dinners for staff. 18 19 Fitted for Work • Subsidised barista-standard reusable coffee cups and BPA-free water bottles for staff. Since 2005, Fitted for Work has transformed the lives of 6,500 women. Their • A stationery amnesty to encourage staff to recycle or reuse surplus stationery. mission is to assist disadvantaged women to get work and keep it. They do this by providing free interview-appropriate clothing, and via mentoring programs. Last year, • The Hanoi office turns off lights during daylight hours. the firm ran a clothing drive, where garments were collected and recycled for use by • The Ho Chi Minh City office turns off lights during sunny days and sets the air underprivileged women. conditioning to 26 degrees. • The Hong Kong office uses recycled water for all toilets. Planet Ark’s Plant a Tree Day • Replacing magazine and newspaper subscriptions with online subscriptions, Planet Ark’s National Tree Day is Australia’s biggest community tree-planting event. where possible. It provides an opportunity to plant and care for native trees and shrubs, to improve • Cleaning with ‘green products’. the environment. The Footprint Committee celebrated National Tree Day by planting Dr Haydn Washington and • Free public transport tickets for staff to go to meetings. This reduces the need for trees and hosting morning teas in the firm’s Brisbane and Perth offices. John Cook, Climate Change Denial: Heads taxiss and subsequently lessens pollution. in the Sand, Earthscan, UK, 2011. Climate Change Denial: Heads in the Sand • Donating leftover food to OzHarvest. Dr Haydn Washington is an environmental scientist, who has been researching • Waterless urinals in all Australian offices. climate change since his 1991 book, ‘Ecosolutions’. He is co-author of the recently • Prepared a Sustainability Policy published book, Climate Change Denial: Heads in the Sand. In 2011, the Footprint • Completed Green IT survey Committees hosted a lunchtime session where Dr Washington detailed the debate surrounding global warming. The Footprint Committees assisted Allens to substantially reduce its environmental impact during the past year. Some of the year’s best achievements are listed below. The Perth Green Fair • Saved 150 million pages of paper since 2004. The Perth Green Fair was initiated by the firm in conjunction with the Perth office’s building management, QV1. • Saved enough water over four years to fill 8.5 Olympic-sized pools. • Saved 785 MWh a year, which is equivalent to 90 one-bar radiators on all day, all The event is in its third year, and aims to encourage landlords year. to make environmentally sound changes to the office and to • Saved $3.9 million over six years via ‘green’ initiatives. • Emitted 31 per cent less greenhouse gases than in 2006. This equates to taking highlight what each of us can do from within the office to 2459 cars off the road each year. Allens’ Sydney office hosted a candlelit benefit the environment. dinner to mark Earth Hour 2012. • Received a six-star NABERS energy rating in Sydney. Performance Last year, our Footprint Committee created its own Charter. One of our commitments is to share our experience with other organisations, including peers and suppliers. Below is a list of some of the sustainable initiatives that have been implemented. • Installation of Tandberg video phones for videoconferencing, reducing the need to fly. • Roll out Project Cheetah, which means PCs have much faster load times and much quicker logins after rebooting (on average, two minutes now compared to 15 minutes on the old drives). Staff now find it far more convenient to turn their computers off at night, which helps save power. • Swipe card and ‘confidential’ printing to stop uncollected printing. • Electronic leave forms for corporate services and secretarial staff. • Installation of T5 lighting in the Brisbane office. These globes require about 40 per cent less electricity than standard T8 tubes. 20 21 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Commitment As a leading law firm, Allens is committed to ensuring that our employees abide by Business should work against the law. Our clients have strict anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and they corruption in all its forms, impose those obligations on us as a service provider. including extortion and bribery Systems Aside from adhering to client’s anti-bribery and anti-corruption directives, Allens has its own policies that prevent corruption in all its forms, including a Fraud and Corruption Prevention Policy. Two of the firm’s systems that relate to anti-corruption are outlined below. Fraud and Corruption Prevention Policy Fraudulent activities, executed internally or externally, may result in large losses of money or assets and can seriously harm the reputation and long-term financial viability of our firm. Allens remains vigilant about protecting its resources and reputation, ensuring all employees have the opportunity to enjoy a workplace free from dishonest activities. The firm aims to manage and protect itself from fraudulent activities that pose a risk to its resources, both tangible and intangible, including assets, finances, physical and intellectual property, reputation, precedents and documents. The Fraud and Corruption Prevention Policy is intended to protect Allens from corruption. Ethics Committee Allens’ Ethics Committee continues to help our people deal with ethical issues encountered during the course of their work, including situations where it might be suspected that a party to a transaction is engaging in corrupt conduct. The Ethics Committee is closely involved in a wide range of training at the firm, covering the issues of ethical conduct, professional responsibility and anti-corruption. Activities During the past year, Allens engaged in a range of activities that demonstrated support for the Global Compact principle on anti-corruption. These included: • holding seminars for clients detailing compliance requirements according to Australian and overseas anti-bribery laws; • supporting the work of an anti-bribery working group that brings together members of the Global Compact’s Australian arm and civil society stakeholders such as Transparency International; and • providing extensive advice to a range of clients on establishing anti-bribery policies and compliance programs in Australia and overseas. 23 www.aar.com.au
