Overview Fina Financia nciall Financial Com Company pany Corporat Corp Corporate orate e Our commitment to corporate responsibility G Governance Group Group R Review i off operations i Petrofac Petrofac 50 Annual report and accounts 2011 Annual report and accounts 2011 How we operate Managing social and environmental risk 51 responsibility p y Our people Keeping people safe ﬁnancial statements ﬁnancial statements performance and risk Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 6 65 107 153 Section 4 Corporate Our commitment to responsibility corporate responsibility Petrofac’s success is built on responsible business practices, respect and support for the communities in which we operate. 51 Our commitment to corporate responsibility Our success is built on responsible business practices, This responsible approach is manifested in All these factors are good for business, respect and support for the communities in which we the corporate values that are at the heart of fundamental to obtaining licences to operate. all of our activities, and embedded in the operate around the world, and help deliver core business systems and processes better returns for our shareholders. supporting our global operations. 52 How we operate It is particularly important that a company Petrofac’s values, of being safe, ethical, innovative, For a service company like Petrofac, acting like Petrofac, which is often a ‘guest’ in a responsive, quality and cost conscious and driven to deliver, responsibly is not only ethical but it makes country for a relatively short period, has a are core to the way we operate. good business sense. It helps us to: targeted, effective approach to corporate responsibility (CR). As project life cycles • build strong relationships with our customers, which we achieve, for may mean we are only in an area for two to 54 Managing social and environmental risk example, by employing and training three years, we have a short time to make We aim to be a force for good but realise our activities can local workforces a positive impact. have negative impacts. The identiﬁcation, assessment and management of social and environmental risk is therefore • develop trust in our reliability and core to our CR strategy. integrity, which we are reinforcing, For a service company for instance, by developing a global compliance network like Petrofac, acting 57 Our people responsibly is not only • manage risks more effectively, as we do Our ambitious plans for growth require an expanding with the social and environmental impact ethical but it makes number of exceptional people across all levels of our assessments that we carry out in good business sense. business. all geographies • establish strong employee engagement, In recognition of the importance of 60 Keeping people safe which we can demonstrate by the fact corporate responsibility and as Petrofac that the 2011 PetroVoices survey of our builds on three decades of tremendous Many Petrofac people work in challenging locations, carrying staff scored us around or above global growth, we are continuing to develop a out potentially hazardous activity. Wherever we operate, we high performance norms aim to provide a safe and secure environment for everyone more robust approach to CR. For example, who comes in contact with our operations. • create positive impressions with investors in 2011, we developed a new community – as we hope to have done with the investment standard and introduced risk signiﬁcant improvement in our 2011 screening as a routine part of our due 62 Safeguarding the environment Carbon Disclosure Project score diligence assessment for third-party We are committed to protecting the environment and suppliers. We also began developing more improving our environmental performance: this reﬂects both effective systems to measure the value of responsible corporate behaviour and good business sense. our approach, as a means of improving what we do, in every area – from environmental protection to community 64 Our ethical core investment. Petrofac is known for its technical capability and track record for delivery. We aim to be equally known for our ethical values As we continue to grow, we are determined and behaviour. that the strength and impact of our CR will increase in tandem. Overview Fina Financia nciall Financial Company Com pany Corporate Corp Corporat orate e Our commitment to corporate responsibility Governance G Group Group Review R i off operations i Petrofac Petrofac 52 Annual report and accounts 2011 Annual report and accounts 2011 How we operate Managing social and environmental risk 53 responsibility p y Our people Keeping people safe ﬁnancial statements ﬁnancial statements performance and risk Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 6 65 107 153 Corporate responsibility continued How we operate A new Petrofac training centre in Turkmenistan is delivering essential construction skills Petrofac’s values – of being safe, ethical, innovative, and health and safety training responsive, quality and cost conscious and driven to to the local workforce. deliver – are core to the way we operate. The facility, in Turkmenistan’s third largest city, Mary, in the vast Karakum Desert, is developing staff for Petrofac’s South Yoloten contract, for which Petrofac is the EPC contractor for Turkmengas. The well-equipped centre, which opened in April 2011, has six classrooms and ofﬁces and capacity for up to 250 students and 40 staff. Reﬂecting these values, we manage our More widely, as a services business, the In its ﬁrst nine months of operation, the centre had business ethically and transparently, in a quality of Petrofac’s human capital is vital to Petrofac supports and trained 906 delegates in such skills as welding, pipe fabricating and erecting, driving, scaffolding, way that complies with international laws, its success. Our ambitious growth plans respects the protection and steel structural fabricating and erecting. In 2012, regulations and best-practice standards. make this even more fundamental: by 2016, we plan to increase this number by 1,054. In 2011, we launched a global employee we need to recruit an extra 7,000 highly of internationally Petrofac is committed to employing and developing training programme on our new standard skilled people. Effective employee recognised human people from communities around its operations. The Mary centre will help meet the Company’s for the prevention of bribery and corruption, recruitment, development and retention rights. pledge to recruit 70% of its Turkmenistan team in line with the UK Bribery Act. are critical to our operations around the locally. world. We are committed to looking We are committed to protecting the Employing and developing local workers is after our people and following fair and environment and achieving a good one of our key differentiators and central to transparent recruitment and performance environmental performance. We therefore our strategy. In 2011, we reinforced our management procedures. seek to minimise and mitigate any negative emphasis on hiring local people, particularly in areas where we intend to establish a impact of our operations, including long-term presence, such as south-east Identifying and managing risks reducing our environmental footprint. Asia and Romania. We take the safety of our people and our In 2011, we advanced towards a more plant extremely seriously and invest accurate picture of our total impacts by Employing and signiﬁcant resources in identifying and developing a standardised environmental developing local managing the risks they face. In 2011, data collection tool for all our businesses. we again strengthened the processes and workers is one of our systems we use to maintain asset integrity Our corporate governance systems and processes are aligned to the key differentiators and and security. At the same time as we International Finance Corporation’s central to our strategy. improved our corporate contingency respected performance standards, peer and customer best practice and In 2011, stakeholder engagement activity In 2011, we carried out a gap analysis of planning, we encouraged our people to to the principles of the UN Global included one-to-one meetings, our current human rights compliance, take personal responsibility for their own Compact (UNGC). In January 2011, presentations, roadshows, community in regard to our employees, to how security safety by relaunching our global employee we communicated our progress to the meetings and surveys. As Petrofac grows, is provided for our operations and to safety campaign, Horizon Zero. UNGC, which can be found on its website. we realise that the range and expectations our interactions with host communities. In order to raise awareness of of our stakeholders will widen. We are We are currently piloting a system to the UNGC principles, in 2012 therefore developing a more strategic ensure that human rights concerns, we will be developing training approach to stakeholder engagement, including consultation with stakeholders, for our employees. enabling us to monitor perceptions are factored into the wider social impact more effectively. and risk assessment process. We will Engaging with stakeholders Petrofac supports and respects the continue to draw on the expertise of Maplecroft, a global risk and strategic Petrofac engages actively with local protection of internationally recognised consultancy ﬁrm, to develop our human communities from the earliest stage of human rights. This commitment is rights processes further in 2012. contract tendering and throughout the demonstrated in our Code of Business lifespan of a project. Our aim is always to Conduct, in our ethical, social, regulatory create real, long-term opportunities and and equal employment opportunities Above Where possible, we employ and develop beneﬁts for our host communities. policies, in our promotion of diversity and local workers. We establish and maintain effective in our Group community investment Left Stakeholders include investors, analysts, relationships with interested and affected and security standards. governments, customers and employees. stakeholders, including investors, analysts, governments, customers and employees. Overview Financial Fina Financia nciall Corporate Corp Corporat orate e Our commitment to corporate responsibility Governance G Gro Group up Company Com pany R Review i off operations i Petrofac Petrofac 54 Annual report and accounts 2011 Annual report and accounts 2011 How we operate Managing social and environmental risk 55 responsibility p y Our people Keeping people safe ﬁnancial statements ﬁnancial statements performance and risk Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 6 65 107 153 Corporate responsibility continued Community investment • initiatives in the UK to encourage young investment standard and our new Managing social and Our community investment focuses on three main areas: education and people to pursue science and engineering careers. These included Petrofac engineers being involved in sixth-form investment evaluation tool. In 2012, we aim to improve the effectiveness environmental risk employment, infrastructure, and enterprise. In 2011, the Group donated more than US$3.7 million to community projects; around 60% of this total was directed to our mentoring programmes and ‘science ambassador’ school visits and our continued sponsorship of the Royal Academy of Engineering fellowships of our community investment approach by implementing the standard and complementary training in all our businesses, further training on the London Petrofac aims to be a force for good in its operations. We realise, Benchmark Community Investment Tool to strategic focus areas, with the remainder • sponsorship of a Sharjah Government however, that our activities can have negative as well as positive being discretionary funding. In 2012 we aim public education campaign – ‘Your Child, improve our data gathering, and developing impacts and that, as we grow, the extent of such potential to decrease the amount of discretionary Your Responsibility’ – to raise awareness a social performance toolkit to support our impacts will increase. The identiﬁcation, assessment and spending and direct community of the need for child car-safety seats management of social risks and impacts. management of social and environmental risk are therefore contributions to areas where we can make Once again, our people proved generous a core part of our CR strategy. the greatest impact. in raising money for good causes. Managing environmental risk In 2011, community investment included: In the UAE, for example, employees The recent history of the oil & gas sector donated US$88,000 to support reminds us that our industry has inherently • the development of a comprehensive humanitarian relief for Somalia. high risk potential. Petrofac is tireless in its programme to support the community around our Chergui Gas Concession In 2011, an independent consultancy efforts to ensure the technical integrity of in Tunisia. This includes a signiﬁcant Corporate Citizenship, reviewed our the plants we design, build and operate, contribution to employment development community activity and benchmarked us in order to minimise the risk of major Managing social risk The standard requires all Petrofac Total contribution analysis schemes and support for targeted accidents, such as ﬁre, explosion and spills. businesses to identify and assess the against our peers. Having judged that Our community investment strategy  Education & employment US$658,919 projects to create alternative income impacts they have on communities,  Infrastructure US$1,515,872 streams for local ﬁshermen and farmers Petrofac is currently in the fourth quartile In 2011, we again improved the robustness spearheads our efforts to protect the from pre-award throughout the life cycle of  Discretionary US$1,547,297 of our peers, the consultancy suggested of the systems and processes we use to Company from social risk. In line with our a project. In 2011, as described in the case Total US$3,724,188* • a partnership with the University of Malay we could move to the ﬁrst quartile if – monitor and maintain the safety of our plant. overall business strategy, we aim to support study on the next page, we carried out an 18% to establish a geo-science development as we are planning – we improved our This focus is particularly important as we sustainable economic development in our centre and to sponsor two MSc/PhD KPIs, data gathering and CR reporting. initial social and economic assessment 41% grow and absorb assets that have not host countries not only by maintaining graduates, in support of the Malaysian immediately after our award of two This consultancy subsequently participated previously been managed by us. effective relationships with our stakeholders Government’s Economic Production Enhancement Contracts in Transformation Programme in Petrofac’s ﬁrst workshop for our network Such assets often require intensive and managing the negative impacts of our central Mexico. Following each social of CR representatives. Training focused on assessment, inspection and monitoring operations, but also through focused impact assessment, Petrofac project plans stakeholder engagement, the community until they reach Petrofac standards. community investment programmes, are developed with the aim of avoiding or where we can create additional training and mitigating identiﬁed risks. This information, employment opportunities. complemented by consultation with local Petrofac is taking careful In 2011, we made progress in delivering communities and stakeholders, is used to 41% account of local social this strategy and aligning community develop structured community investment needs as we embark on the investment in support of our overall plans as, at the beginning of 2012, we were *Total includes US$2,100 for Enterprise initiatives reactivation and development business strategy. A key step was the doing in Tunisia and Romania. of two mature oil ﬁelds, the development of the Petrofac Community Another signiﬁcant initiative in our Magallanes and Santuario Investment Standard, which embeds a management of social risk was our blocks in Tabasco State, clear framework for achieving our strategic implementation of the London Benchmark Mexico, following the 2011 community investment aims in our core Community Investment Tool. This tool will award of two Production business processes. enable Petrofac to evaluate its overall Enhancement Contracts. contribution to the community, taking into As is customary, Petrofac is striving to have a positive Another signiﬁcant account cash, time and in-kind donations impact in the area around our operations in Mexico by creating jobs, boosting community revenues and initiative in our and management costs. It will also help providing opportunities for local suppliers. record the outputs, and longer term management of community and business impacts of our In Tabasco, we conducted an initial assessment of local economic, environmental and social social risk was our community projects. We are harnessing our circumstances, which we will follow with a more implementation of the international network of CR representatives detailed social impact assessment survey in 2012. This included identifying local stakeholders and to record each of our speciﬁc activities London Benchmark around the world, to help us build up an beginning a dialogue to explain the nature of the project and, in consultation with the community, Community accurate global picture. The ﬁndings will considering initial opportunities for investment. enable us to establish robust key Investment Tool. performance indicators to help us measure We also ran a workshop for our project team, focusing on Petrofac’s sustainability commitments as a signatory of the UN Global Compact. Participants and improve future performance. learned how to build effective stakeholder engagement and developed a set of guiding sustainability principles for the operation. The project requires the deployment of a 150-strong workforce and we are now recruiting in the area, in line with our strategic commitment to local content. Overview Fina Financia nciall Financial Com Company pany Corporat Corp Corporate orate e Governance G Group Group Our commitment to corporate responsibility Review R i off operations i Petrofac Petrofac 56 Annual report and accounts 2011 Annual report and accounts 2011 How we operate Managing social and environmental risk 57 responsibility p y Our people Keeping people safe ﬁnancial statements ﬁnancial statements performance and risk Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 6 65 107 153 Corporate responsibility continued Our people Petrofac’s ambitious plans for growth require an expanding number of talented people across all levels of our business. Above Petrofac is tireless in its efforts to ensure the technical integrity of the plants we design, build and operate. In 2011, we continued to invest signiﬁcant Petrofac is a diverse business. We increased our overall headcount by efforts in ensuring we have a sustainable Our employees represent more than 80 10%, made several new executive organisation that will support our growth nationalities and, wherever we operate, appointments, including a new Chairman plans. Our human resources (HR) function, we aim to recruit and develop local staff. and Group CFO, the Chief Executive of our working closely with the business, is In 2011, we reinforced our emphasis on IES division, and our ﬁrst female Nonfocused on the essential task of attracting, local content, particularly in areas where executive Director, along with many other Above Our UK Emergency Response Service Centre in Aberdeen offers a 24-hour integrated response capability. developing and retaining the very best we intend to build and maintain a long-term important senior hires. Our graduate intake people for our business. presence, such as south-east Asia was a third up on 2010. and Nigeria. Our strategy demands strong collaboration Attracting the talent we need We work to ensure both men and women across our businesses and geographies. To be prepared for growth, we need a clear have equal opportunities to develop To support this, we are working to improve Each of our operations carries out regular Our Asset Integrity Review Board (AIRB), The application of our Group standard for successful careers with Petrofac. our global mobility programmes to enable picture of the number and type of people asset integrity assessments. These report which is co-chaired by our Offshore integrity management, introduced in 2010, We welcomed the Davies Report efﬁcient and timely cross-border transfer of required to meet both our short and against around 30 measures covering plant Projects & Operations Managing Director was a key focus of all communication. The recommendations on women on boards staff. The global roll-out of Petrofac’s new long-term goals. To help achieve this, we reliability and condition, management of and our Group Director, Health, Safety, standard has 12 principles, ranging from and committed to develop an inclusion and Oracle system will help introduce more developed a strategic forecasting template maintenance and assurance activities Security, Environment and Integrity audit systems to response procedures, and diversity policy, which will be launched in consistent and efﬁcient people for the entire business and developed and and organisational matters, such as Assurance (HSSEIA) continued to meet is mandatory across all our operations. 2012, and to monitor closely the numbers management processes and reporting implemented stafﬁng plans for new competence assurance. In 2011, we again monthly. The AIRB involves operations and development of women in, and capabilities, particularly around Petrofac proactively shares best practice locations, such as Mexico. improved the metrics we use to help us managers from all our operated sites. entering, the business at all levels, and to performance management, compensation with its peers to help reduce risk. We are assess performance and analyse We continue to concentrate on the act on the ﬁndings. We also require and learning management. It provides a forum for peer review and members of the UK Oil Spill Prevention and trends better. processes and systems needed to ensure recruitment agencies to consider the support and helps anticipate potential Response Advisory Group and support the we attract the best talent in a resourcediversity of candidates when sourcing staff. Additionally, following the development of issues. From 2012, due to Petrofac’s UK oil & gas industry safety initiative, Step challenged industry. a new software tool, we now have a more international expansion, the AIRB will Change in Safety, and its working groups. comprehensive overview of the integrity meet twice monthly, enabling dedicated Our safety expertise offers particular reviews carried out across all our meetings for both the eastern and western insights: Petrofac Training Services is a international projects, from design and hemispheres. leading emergency response trainer and New talent build to operations and maintenance. our UK Emergency Response Service During the year, we conducted detailed Engaging employees Centre in Aberdeen offers a 24-hour audits of ﬁve major sites to assess their in asset integrity integrated response capability. 2,600 98% 5% protection against, and preparedness new staff joined of graduates hired of Petrofac for, major accidents, as part of a rolling We continued to engage all levels of our Petrofac in 2011 since 2008 are still employees left by programme of major hazard-prevention people in asset integrity. Our annual safety working for Petrofac choice in 2011 visits across all our locations. In addition, seminar focused on safety leadership and Ayman Asfari personally conducted safety maintaining plant integrity and was again Graduates recruited focused visits to ﬁve operational sites attended by our Group Chief Executive Numbers during the year. and Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, now President. Our Group Director, 2007 115 HSSEIA led integrity assurance training 2008 104 in our Indian ofﬁces and we communicated 2009 120 to the wider Petrofac workforce via 2010 107 roadshows, videos and e-learning. 2011 146 Overview Fina Financial nciall Financia Com Company pany Corporat Corporate Corporate e Gro Group up Our commitment to corporate responsibility Governance G R Review i off operations i Petrofac Petrofac 58 Annual report and accounts 2011 Annual report and accounts 2011 How we operate Managing social and environmental risk 59 responsibility p y Our people Keeping people safe ﬁnancial statements ﬁnancial statements performance and risk Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 65 6 107 153 Corporate responsibility continued Developing our talent events in the UK and UAE were supported and the PetroVoices survey showed an by individual follow-up sessions to increase in the number of respondents Graduate recruitment Developing our people feeds into and reinforce learning and conﬁrm future who felt the Company ‘did a good job in is crucial to establishing strengthens our talent pipeline and, development needs. Other programmes retaining its most talented people’. future generations of by building employee satisfaction, are being run or developed across Petrofac leaders. boosts retention. The Company’s growth and recent the business. In 2011, we increased our efforts to recruit in reorganisation provides the opportunity to emerging markets and in regions where we have In 2011, we placed a strong emphasis on We are continuously working to ensure our develop our workforce in the best way for long-term ambitions. our performance management process to experienced, mature staff coach and the business. Petrofac’s HR team, like other improve continuously the performance of We targeted more than 40 universities in the Middle mentor engineers and graduates who are core functions, is being systematically East, North Africa, CIS, Asia and the UK to identify individuals and the organisation by ensuring just embarking on their careers. developed and strengthened to provide the promising young people. Our recruitment that the work undertaken by all our people calibre of operational and functional support programme included regular communication with academic institutions, participation in careers fairs, fully contributes to the goals of their teams Retaining key staff our strategic growth ambitions demand. and presentations to faculties and student groups. and the wider business. We ran a As part of a signiﬁcant internship programme, in performance management training Petrofac continuously focuses on ensuring we retain talent in an industry with clear Our differentiating values collaboration with partner universities, we also programme across the Group, with offered eight-week placements to a number of separate modules for appraisers and shortages. Placing an ongoing emphasis Our strong values are one of the key things undergraduates to allow them to experience Petrofac and to enable us to assess the students as possible appraisees, in dozens of tailored events. on improving our people management that differentiate us: the 2011 PetroVoices recruits. This strong emphasis on performance processes is key, as is listening to our survey found that 94% of respondents ‘fully Following such concerted efforts, during the year we management will continue into 2012 employees. In 2011 we ran our third support’ our values, with 89% believing recruited 146 graduates – up a third on 2010 – and beyond. all-employee survey (PetroVoices). they are ‘solid enough to act on every day’. including our ﬁrst intakes from Algeria, Kazakhstan, Nigeria and China. This had its highest ever participation rate In 2011, to demonstrate the business In 2011, staff at all levels beneﬁted from and showed clear improvements in all beneﬁts our values deliver and to recognise improved development opportunities. key areas. Localised action plans will be employees who embody them, we The number of development days increased, implemented in 2012. launched the Petrofac EVE Awards, which moved to a new platform, is more In 2011, communications activity supported company-wide, for both technical and Communications stand for Excellence, Values and Energy. accessible and enables greater employee a programme of major business activity, non-technical skills. The ratio of people in Petrofac is also crafting tailored tools and Strong applications were received from Effective communication is essential to interaction and collaboration. It will be rolled including the launch of our two-divisional the 2011 PetroVoices employee survey processes to support and retain speciﬁc around the Group, with 170 individuals and achieving our business goals. In 2011, out to our key geographies in early 2012. structure, the Company’s Capital Markets who thought Petrofac ‘did a good job of groups. Graduates, for example, each teams going through the regional judging we focused on internal communication Day, the relaunch of our Horizon Zero safety developing people so they can reach their now have a bespoke progression and During the year, we strove to ensure that all process and 40 entries reaching the ﬁnal and engagement, which was particularly programme and the third PetroVoices full potential’ rose. development plan, while a social mediacommunications, external and internal, judging stage to determine our ﬁnalists and important during the transition to our new employee survey. There was also extensive style professional development tool is convey clear, consistent messages about Around 90 people took part in the winners. The emphasis our management two-divisional organisation. activity around Petrofac’s 30th anniversary, being trialled to meet the communication the Company, its strategic direction and Company’s Senior Leadership Excellence team places on our values was reinforced including a Walk the World challenge that preferences of younger recruits. Communicating with a dispersed, multiwhat differentiates us. Internal teams and Programme, run in conjunction with the by the EVE awards ceremony taking place inspired teams of employees to walk a total cultural workforce, many of whom are external advisors participated in our ﬁrst London Business School. Face-to-face Despite aggressive competition from other in conjunction with Petrofac’s annual of 294,000 miles. ofﬂine, requires a bespoke and integrated strategic communications summit; we employers, attrition remained broadly ﬂat leadership conference. approach. Face-to-face communication is a rearticulated Petrofac’s vision and values; The communications team also continued critical part of the mix and, during the year, began development work on the Company to deliver Petrofacts, our quarterly we rolled out our Team Talk team brieﬁng brand, and revised our tone of voice employee magazine, and again held the tool across Petrofac. guidelines. To ensure coherent corporate Picture Petrofacts employee photography Team Talk was developed and piloted in messaging, communication teams across competition, attracting stunning entries 2010 in response to demand in the previous the business were realigned under the from across the business. year’s PetroVoices employee survey for corporate function. Complementing Communications recorded the greatest greater communication between managers Group-wide channels, the divisions are area of improvement in the 2011 and their teams. We are pleased that it has also developing their own tailored PetroVoices employee survey, with 77% become so quickly embedded that 79% of communications, including new of all responses being favourable – 3% respondents to our 2011 survey say they internal newsletters. above our global high performing now get Company information through As well as refreshing our intranet, we norm benchmark. We believe this face-to-face communication. worked on the relaunch of our external strong performance reﬂects the high Above We work to ensure that both men and women Our intranet, PetroNet, is likely to become online presence. Our new website, which priority Petrofac managers place on have equal opportunities to develop successful careers our primary internal communications launched in February 2012, is more communicating with their people. with Petrofac. channel in the future. In 2011, we developed representative of Petrofac’s position as an We are committed to improving further and redesigned PetroNet to make it more international company and includes such the professionalism, impact and value of relevant and engaging. The site has been new features as regional hub sections, all our communications. with more local content. Above Team Talk team brieﬁng was rolled out across the business in 2011. Overview Fina Financia nciall Financial Com Company pany Corporat Corp Corporate orate e Governance G Group Group Our commitment to corporate responsibility Review R i off operations i Petrofac Petrofac 60 Annual report and accounts 2011 Annual report and accounts 2011 How we operate Managing social and environmental risk 61 responsibility p y Our people Keeping people safe ﬁnancial statements ﬁnancial statements performance and risk Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 65 6 107 153 Corporate responsibility continued Security Robust evacuation procedures are in place Keeping people safe Security was a key focus in 2011, as we continued to work in some volatile regions. for sensitive areas of operation. In 2011, employees were evacuated smoothly from two perceived trouble spots. Many Petrofac people work in challenging locations, carrying out The Petrofac Board had monthly security potentially hazardous activity while others work in modern ofﬁces in brieﬁngs and we introduced a Group Employee health and welfare major cities. Wherever we operate, we aim to provide a safe and security standard setting out mandatory As a responsible employer, Petrofac aims to secure environment for everyone who comes in contact with our principles and procedures for all our promote high standards of staff health and workplaces and operations. locations. welfare. Senior managers receive health We expanded and strengthened our and ﬁtness checks and comprehensive security resource, introducing country medical assessments are provided for security managers in several countries. those at risk, particularly if located offshore We also strengthened our systems for or in a remote location. Most of our assessing and monitoring national security, locations have exercise and recreational with systematic security scrutiny now a facilities, and our remote and offshore Our goal is to have no safety routine component of risk assessment and facilities have on-site medical teams and lapses at all, an aspiration management in both new markets and occupational health support. captured in the name of our continuing operations. Group safety campaign – Horizon Zero. The campaign aims to unite all our people in a safer way of working through the constant application Above Many Petrofac people work in challenging of Petrofac’s eight ‘Golden rules of safety’. locations, carrying out potentially hazardous activities. Engagement channels include workshops, internal magazine articles, an animated video on the requirements of our golden rules and, reﬂecting the fact that driving is one of the biggest risk areas for our employees, a ﬁlm focusing on the speciﬁc rule of safe driving. Man-hours worked Recordable incident frequency rate In 2011, we relaunched Horizon Zero – which was Million man-hours completed by employees and subcontractors Per 200,000 man-hours ﬁrst introduced in 2005 – with a new identity, to reﬂect the changing needs of our increasingly 2007 60 2007 0.35 expanding and diverse organisation. 2008 67 2008 0.32 To maintain consistency and improve best practice 2009 70 2009 0.36 sharing and learning across the Group, Horizon Zero is now the umbrella for all new and existing Petrofac 2010 76 2010 0.18 safety campaigns and plans. 2011 143 2011 0.14 Lost time injury frequency rate Driving incident frequency rate Per 200,000 man-hours Incidents per million km driven This safe working environment is delivered and our lost time injury frequency rate was several years. Both the Kittiwake platform 88 million km in partnership with our employees. 0.018 (2010: 0.026). We had 24 ‘major and Bacton onshore terminal sites, where 2007 0.067 To complement the action the Group takes potential incidents’ (2010: 13). It is important we are Duty Holders for Centrica and 2008 0.033 to reduce risk, as with our unremitting to note that this apparent increase reﬂects Eni Hewett, respectively, have been lost 2009 0.020 focus on maintaining asset integrity, we also the fact that our man-hours worked almost time incident free for six years and in 2011 We drove 88 million km or almost 2,200 times around the world 2010 0.026 encourage our people to play their part. doubled year-on-year and that the criteria our onshore Asab oil ﬁeld construction 2011 0.018 Our Horizon Zero Group-safety campaign, for reporting such incidents is the potential project in Abu Dhabi reached the milestone for instance, emphasises each individual’s for harm so that, although very few resulted of 25 million man-hours worked without lost 2007 0.98 personal responsibility for their own safety in personal injury or damage, each was time incident. 2008 0.22 and that of their colleagues. reviewed in great detail. 2009 0.29 During the year, Petrofac’s safety All incidents and accidents are assessed Both the Kittiwake 2010 0.03 2011 0.11 performance, measured according to and guidance from lessons learned is platform and Bacton Occupational Safety and Health widely circulated. In line with our Horizon Administration rules, showed some Zero campaign, our aspiration is to have onshore terminal sites signiﬁcant improvements on 2010. no incidents of any kind. In 2011, we were have been lost time The recordable incident frequency rate was pleased that many of the sites we manage incident free for 0.14 per 200,000 man-hours (2010: 0.18) achieved this: indeed, certain locations have reported no lost time incidents for six years. Overview Fina Financia nciall Financial Com Company pany Corporate Corp Corporat orate e Our commitment to corporate responsibility Governance G Group Group R Review i off operations i Petrofac Petrofac 62 Annual report and accounts 2011 Annual report and accounts 2011 How we operate Managing social and environmental risk 63 responsibility p y Our people Keeping people safe ﬁnancial statements ﬁnancial statements performance and risk Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 6 65 107 153 Corporate responsibility continued Safeguarding From road cleaning in Romania and cleaning beaches in Sharjah to the environment constructing ﬂora-friendly footpaths in the UK, more than 1,000 of our employees Petrofac is committed to protecting the environment joined with local people to and improving our environmental performance: make a difference during this reﬂects both responsible corporate behaviour Petrofac’s November 2011 and good business sense. Environment Month. Environment Month encourages staff to realise how individual steps, both inside and outside work, can reduce our impact on the environment. This year, appropriately, the theme was ‘Be part of the solution’. Managing the environmental impact of Strengthening data under the Petrofac incident classiﬁcation Staff, management and contractors from 17 different our operations, and engaging our measurement systems standard related to the theft of a section of Group locations, and their families, took part in communities and employees in protecting a small-diameter oil pipeline from the Ticleni activities around the world. They were joined by their local areas, helps build positive During the year, we brought greater ﬁeld in Romania in February 2011, which representatives from our customers, environment consistency to the way we monitor and groups, schools, charities and other groups from relationships with customers and the resulted in the release of approximately Petrofac’s host communities. societies in which we operate; controlling manage environmental impacts with the 500 litres of oil to the ground. We track energy consumption both limits our carbon development of a new data collection all releases and impacts for internal footprint and keeps our costs low; and system. This standardises environmental investigation, to ensure that lessons preventing spills and leaks protects oceans reporting practice across the Group, learned help to prevent future incidents. and coastline, but also demonstrates the enabling us to track more accurately our We appreciate that effective environmental and measurement of company-speciﬁc employees with compost for their home total energy consumption, waste, travel, reporting requires not only measurement risks and opportunities related to climate gardens made from their composted ofﬁce efﬁciency and reliability of our operations. water-use and air emissions. This will allow A new recycling but also the tracking of progress against change’. We continued to participate in the waste. The programme, which won a 2011 Our carbon footprint us to extend beyond measuring our carbon programme at our agreed targets. In 2011, we worked with UK Government’s Carbon Reduction Petrofac EVE (Excellence, Values, Energy) In 2011, our operations – including joint footprint, to understand better what we can Aberdeen ofﬁces our business units to develop targets for Commitment Energy Efﬁciency Scheme award, is being rolled out to other Group do to reduce our environmental impact. improving our environmental performance. and are actively looking for opportunities to locations. In another successful initiative, a venture operations but excluding customerreduced landﬁll waste improve our performance in this area. programme to improve the energy In 2011, Petrofac recorded 127 incidents Petrofac’s new environment steering group owned facilities – emitted 227,390 tonnes worldwide of unplanned releases into the by more than 80% and met twice during 2011, with our future We also continued to measure emissions efﬁciency of our ofﬁce buildings led to a of CO2 (2010 revised ﬁgure: 214,121). 16% reduction in energy consumption at This increase of 6% was due to the environment, the majority of which, were of delivered annual environmental strategy a key focus. for our customers, as well as for our our Sharjah ofﬁce tower. expansion of our operations. relative minor nature and none resulted in savings of £110,000. The group, which includes both senior operations, including providing extensive ﬁnes or penalties. However, one incident operations managers and functional monitoring under the Oslo-Paris Convention Our fourth Planet Petrofac Environment which was classiﬁed as medium impact environmental heads, led a revision of our environmental management requirements Month again engaged employees and local environmental policy, helped frame our new and the European Environmental Emissions people in practical steps to enhance their data collection system and assessed peer Monitoring System. surroundings. performance as a means of setting future In further partnership with our communities, goals and standards. Reducing environmental we maintained our membership of the We once again shared our carbon impacts international Arab Forum for Environment Carbon emissions generation data with the worldwide Carbon We acted further to control waste and and Development and worked closely with Disclosure Project (CDP) and were pleased carbon emissions and improve energy the Emirates Environmental Group. 227,390 Tonnes of carbon emissions generated in 2011 to achieve an increased rating, rising from 36 to 53 out of a possible score of 100. This takes us into the CDP’s midrange category, which it classiﬁes as efﬁciency. A new recycling programme at our Aberdeen ofﬁces reduced landﬁll waste by more than 80% and delivered annual savings of £110,000. The scheme involves Going forward, we will continue to strengthen the robustness and transparency of our reporting and the consistency of the Group’s environmental processes to demonstrating ‘increased understanding removing all waste bins and installing ﬁxed improve our performance further. Tonnes of CO2 emitted recycling points in all departments, as well Thousands as the innovative option of providing 2007 120 2008 185 2009 208 2010 214 2011 227 Above A poster from our new recycliing campaign in Aberdeen.
