PERNOD RICARD ITALIA Communication On Progress August 2012 Page 1/11 SUMMARY The United Nations Global Compact * Short description of the company * Pernod Ricard Italia’s CEO statement * Communication On Progress Covered areas Page 2/11 The United Nations Global Compact ten Principles The United Nations Global Compact, also known as Global Compact or UNGC, is a strategic policy initiative but also the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship. Announced in 1999 by Kofi Annan and officially launched by the United Nations in 2000, it aims at encouraging businesses to commit themselves in adopting responsible and sustainable policies, in line with ten core principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Since 2003, one of the Global Compact commitments establishes that, every year, all participating companies have to publish a Communication On Progress (COP). This disclosure expects businesses to share their efforts in implementing the United Nations Global Compact and its principles. Pernod Ricard Italia, who joined the Global Compact in 2008, is now fulfilling its duty, and communicating on its own efforts and accomplishments trough its third COP. Global Compact 10 Principles: * Human Rights * Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. * Labour Standards * Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. * Environment * Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. * Anti-Corruption * Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 3/11 Description of Pernod Ricard Italia  Presentation: Pernod Ricard Italia is the Italian subsidiary of the French group Pernod Ricard, world’s co-leader in Wines and Spirits, and number one in Premium Spirits. The company resulted from the evolution of the Distillerie Fratelli Ramazzotti, a company established in 1815 which grew up steadily to finally become leader on the Italian market. In 1985, it joined Pernod Ricard Group and kept on developing itself in Italia. A strong commercial network allowed an international success for some of its brands, among which the original Ramazzotti, number one of imported spirits in Germania; or the Sambuca Ramazzotti, number one of the Sambuca market in Canada. The plant of the company is based in Canelli (Piedmont), where 26 persons are working to produce all the Ramazzotti’s range (4 products). Headquarters though are based in Milan, gathering 90 people, plus 30 more dispatched on the territory (sale forces). Apart from its brand, the Italian affiliate distributes key international brands on the Italian market such as Havana Club, Absolut Vodka, Chivas Regal, Ballantine’s, G.H. Mumm, Malibu, Perrier-Jouët, Ricard, Wodka Wyborowa, Beefeater, Jameson, or The Glenlivet.  History: 1815 Birth of the Amaro Ramazzotti with the creation of the Distillerie Fratelli Ramazzotti 1985 Ramazzotti joins Pernod Ricard’s Group 2001 Acquisition of Seagram. Chivas Regal, Martell and the Glenlivet are included into the Italian portfolio 2005 Acquisition of Allied Domecq. G.H Mumm, Perrier-Jouët, Ballantine’s and Malibu are included into the Italian portfolio 2008 Acquisition of V&S Group (Vin & Sprit). Absolut Vodka is included into the Italian portfolio Page 4/11 Statement of Michel MAURAN Chief Executive Office After serving for 16 years within Pernod Ricard Group in General Management position in countries as diverse as China and Sweden, I have been appointed CEO of PR Italia as of September 1st, 2011. It has not taken me long to realize that, largely thanks to the dedication of my predecessor, Noel Adrian, this entire Company is fully committed to developing sustainably and helping make the World a better place for us and for the next generations. I have found among all our employees a good understanding and a strong support for the Global Compact initiative and its ten principles, and I have witnessed that this commitment translates into both a permanent mindset and many daily actions. Needless to say, I have immediately and entirely embraced the shared vision and enthusiastically taken steps to lead PR Italia towards further progresses in each of the four issues areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. The outcome of our actions is tangible and our key targets for the past year have all been met. It is therefore with much pride and satisfaction that, together with the Management Committee of Pernod Ricard Italia and all our employees, I renew our commitment to the Global Compact initiative and undertake to continuously support the initiative and its principles. Michel MAURAN CEO Pernod Ricard Italia Page 5/11 Global Compact Principle Our commitments Progress and Results → Objectives Human Rights Principle 1: To support and respect the protection of international law on Human rights within its sphere of influence. With regard to the respect of International law on human rights, Pernod Ricard Group bases its strategy on three pillars: promoting and requiring ethical behaviours on its employees’ side; promoting the Responsible Drinking; promoting an entrepreneurial spirit. In line with these policy, Pernod Ricard Italia has implemented the following actions: 1. New Code of Ethics In 2012, Pernod Ricard Italia introduced a new Ethical Code, including: rules of behaviour to stakeholders; rules of transparency in business activities and relations with public authorities; rules of respect of safety, environment and security regulatory. This new code of ethics has been approved by the management and it will be hand out to all employees who will be trained on its contents by the end of the year. This will be added to the Pernod Ricard Chart of Values which is already handed by all the employees. → Objective for next year: Training all the employees about the new code of ethics and regularly check the awareness of it and the respect of rules 2. Promote Responsible drinking Responsible drinking has always been a priority for Pernod Ricard, as with a key component of its values and ethics. It is one of the main pillars of the Pernod Ricard’s CSR platform. All subsidiaries are committed to promoting responsible alcohol consumption. This year Pernod Ricard Italia carried out two main initiatives on this subject, to make young people aware of the potential risks linked to alcohol misuse. 1/ Responsible Party: As last year, Pernod Ricard Italia, continuing his collaboration with ESN (the Erasmus Student Network), a voluntary organization involving 40.000 students in Italy, has contributed to organizing 6 parties in 5 Italian cities, with the aim of promoting the Responsible Drinking among young adult people. The mechanic of the initiative included hostess, bus service, breathalyzers distribution and gadgets. Key Results: 9.000 participants, 18 buses rented, 2.000 breathalyzers distributed. 2/ Responsible Drinking Tour: An initiative that has addressed, with a familiar language and tone-of voice, to young adult consumers, during night club events. The main objectives of this project were: to make young people aware of responsible drinking and prevent dangerous behaviours to self and others; to obtain the involvement of external stakeholders, like local authorities and media. The programme was a 5 months activity held in 30 strategic Italian night bars and clubs, with a summer wave covering 15 clubs in Puglia and a winter wave in 15 cocktail bars in Lombardia. Key Results: 22.000 participants, 5.000 breathalyzers distributed. Page 6/11 Furthermore, Pernod Ricard Italia joined the Pernod Ricard Responsib’all Day 2012. It was a day in which all employees of the Group played a role as educators to their relatives and friends about the risks related to the “Alcohol & Youth” topic. During the day Pernod Ricard Italia organised a party on which relatives and friends of the employees were invited. Aim of this initiatives was to push all the employees to be direct witnesses of the Alcohol & Youth campaign starting from their own inner circle. The families and friends had the opportunity to visit the offices in Milan and the plant in Canelli experiencing all the efforts to promote the campaign at first hand. In this context, the Communication Manager of Pernod Ricard Italia acted as a “mentor” in a meeting arranged with the headmasters of Canelli, explaining them the Pernod Ricard policy on Alcohol and Youth → Objective for next year: Realizing further activities to promote responsible drinking among the young adult people. 3. Responsible and sustainable sourcing Pernod Ricard Italia, with a view to extent its commitment to the sustainable development within its sphere of influence, in 2009 entered into partnership with PlaNet Finance, an NGO dedicated to micro finance, and GIZ (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH), a German agency promoting international cooperation, to develop a new supply of spices, directly bought from Fair Trade and organic certified small producers of South of India. The results achieved in FY 2011 were the following: Small spice farmers have been provided with new international market opportunities, with Pernod Ricard and its affiliates and other international buyers The participating spice farmers have been strengthened in their capacities to diversify their crops, according to organic and fair trade principles (50 farmers involved) A new cultivation (vetiver) has been introduced to counter soil erosion and farmer women have been trained to produce vetiver handicrafts as an additional source of income (20 farmers involved) The participating farmers are able to better manage and plan their finances, since at least 500 farmer women have participated in a financial education program. → Objective for next year: Organizing an “ad hoc” specific event to offer Indian spice producers the opportunity to take part in international trade fairs. Principle 2: To ensure that business is not complicit in human rights abuses 1. Suppliers evaluation process In line with the Pernod Ricard’s commitment to responsible procurement, PRI has developed three different tools to share with the partners its own strategy concerning Sustainable Development: the questionnaire “Involvement in the respect of Sustainable Development”, that is a part of suppliers qualification process; this year it has been enriched with new questions and it will be resent to all the suppliers, in order to check their improvements; “Purchasing meetings”, an encounter involving the main suppliers to share with them the Pernod Ricard Italia purchasing model and discuss about experiences and practices related to the Sustainable Development approach “Purchasing third part audit plan”, focused on strategic areas (raw materials, packaging, maintenance and services, logistics). The suppliers are audited and evaluated in respect of key Pernod Ricard CSR stakes: respect of employees, respect of environment, responsibility on products or services, entrepreneurship and culture promotion. Last year, 8 audits have been carried out on the following areas: raw materials (1); packaging materials (5); logistics (2).The most part of the audited suppliers has reached a total score between 60 and 70%. → Objective for next year: To keep on implementing the audit programme. Page 7/11 Labour Standards Principle 3: To uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Bargaining Respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining and promotion of labour relations is of a great importance for Pernod Ricard Italia. Collective bargaining in Italy is mainly focused on remuneration, organization, working-hours and pensions. At company level, the main subjects of bargaining are production bonus, time management (particularly in case of motherhood), and personal health of employees. Pernod Ricard Italia has a positive and constructive relationship with the all the trade unions both with the internal representatives and the external ones. Furthermore, Pernod Ricard Italia aims to offer a comfortable working environment for its employees and to respect labour standards. 1. Improve the working environment In june 2011 Pernod Ricard launched a comprehensive opinion survey of all Group employees. At the end of the year, Pernod Ricard Italia communicated its local results to all employees through specific meetings involving the different branches (head office, operations, sales force). The main identified areas of improvement were: People management (development, motivation, recognition); Organization and communication (internal interactions, one-to-one feedback. As first action to answer to these needs, Pernod Ricard Italia has defined for each role a job profile which summarises the main tasks and the managerial and technical competencies requirements. Furthermore specific training for these topics have been organized both for managers and non-managers. → Objective for next year: Involving all employees, through active participation in functional meetings, in generation of proposals to work together on our areas of development. 2. OHSAS18001 certification In September 2010, the Health & Safety management system of Pernod Ricard Italia has been certified according to OHSAS18001 standard. This certification scheme supports the company to improve continuously the standards in use and also to increase more and more the participation of the employees and their representatives in the implementation of an efficient Health&Safety management system. In 2012 different training session has been offered to all employees to make them aware of the work-related risks. Particularly, in order to prevent the risk relevant for their working environment, the sales force employees have been trained on Safety Driving. → Objective for next year: Completing the training programme on Health&Safety at work. Principle 4: To eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour As indicated in the Pernod Ricard Policy on Responsible Procurement, each Group affiliates has to select and monitor its own suppliers regarding the respect for the fundamental human and social rights defined in the ILO agreements. Therefore, the suppliers evaluation in Pernod Ricard Italia includes the self-assessment of the labour Page 8/11 standards adopted by each company, particularly referred to working hours, wages management, freedom of association, disciplinary rules, and the evidences of the same topics are checked on site in case of third party audit. (See Principle 2) Furthermore, each contract, agreed between Pernod Ricard Italia and its suppliers contains a rescinding clause that occurs in case of non respect of the international labour standards. Principle 5: To ensure the effective abolition of child labour Pernod Ricard Italia requires its main suppliers to provide guarantees regarding the non-recourse to child labour through: the signing of the social responsibility clause included in each contract; the compilation and validation of the questionnaire “Involvement in the respect of Sustainable Development”; the on-site assessment by third part audits (only for main suppliers), started last year. This assessment includes also an analysis of the implementation of regulated form of under-age labour, like the apprenticeship. (See Principle 2) Principle 6: To eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Pernod Ricard Italia considers people development the leading way to ensure to all its employees equal opportunities. 1. Improvement of performance appraisal process The finalization of the appraisal process in Pernod Ricard Italia has been fully implemented in 2012, and now it ensures a mid-year and an year-end review, concerning objectives and development, for the hole company population. Furthermore, the principles of appraisal process has been explained in dedicated training sessions involving all employees. They received also a self-development tool to make them aware of the expectations of their managers and support them in building a managerial self-development path. 2. Development and equal opportunities Pernod Ricard Italia dedicates a lot of efforts on people development by designing training plans based on input highlighted by employees themselves through performance appraisal process. In 2012, the company launched the “PRI Academy” program: half-a-day training sessions “from colleague to colleague” on various professional subjects prepared with HR support and held by employees from different function. The aim of the project was to share internal expertise and improve cross-functional knowledge. → Objective for next year: Developing the second edition of the “PRI Academy”. Page 9/11 Environment Principle 7: To support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pernod Ricard published in January 2011 an environmental road map that defines for each area organization/certification, agriculture, water, energy, CO2, waste, eco-design directions and priorities for coming years. Pernod Ricard Italia, that has been certified its Environmental Management System according to ISO14001 since 2006, is willing to meet the Group requirements, defined in the environmental road map. 1. Packaging and eco-design 1/ Packaging weight reduction: Since 2010, Pernod Ricard Italia started a strategy of packaging weight reduction of its products. After the glass bottle weight reduction, that enabled a saving per year of around 1.000 tons of glass, the weight of cardboard cases has been reduced by 20%, obtaining around 85 tons of cardboard savings per year. → Objective for next year: Continuing to analyse the opportunities of ressources savings. 2/ Special Offers: Pernod Ricard Italia assesses the environmental impact of each special offers project, considering the weight and composition of materials and the logistics issues (distances, trip number…). In 2012, Pernod Ricard Italia reinforcedits approach by using an electronic tool that allows an assessment of the environmental impact of alternative packaging solutions. The tool works by comparing its estimated carbon emissions. → Objective for next year: Implementing regular environmental impact analysis through the electronic tools on each packaging project and monitoring the specific contribution of each solution implemented with regard to CO2 emission savings. 2. Reduction of water consumption In 2011 the rate of net water consumption per kiloliters of finished product was 0,82. Pernod Ricard Italia fixed a target of 10% reduction of net water consumption to reach by June 2015. In 2012 the rate of netwater consumption per kiloliters of finished product increased of 40% in reason of the switching of demineralization system to Reverse Osmosys. However, to reach the target set for 2015, Pernod Ricard Italia will have been putting in place an action plan to reuse the reverse osmosis concentrate output as cooling and cleaning water, in order to obtain a strong reduction in the consumption. → Objective for next year: Obtaining a 20% reduction in net water consumption per kilolitre comparing by the past year. Page 10/11 Principle 8: To undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Sustainable Development week at Canelli For the 5th consecutive year, Pernod Ricard Italia, 28 others companies of Canelli’s district and 15 local institutions, including the municipality of Canelli, schools, the fire brigade, met up to share trainings, presentations and information on sustainable development. The event covered several subjects in different ways: round-table conferences, educational at schools, meetings with institutions. This year, the main topics were:  Emergency and First Aid  Alcohol & Youth  Business continuity  Environmental protection  Safety at work Particular attention has been focused on educational events, organized in schools of Canelli. → Objective for next year: Repeating the event and enlarging the participation of private companies and institutions. Principle 9: To encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Water remediation In collaboration with the Commune of Canelli and 23 other institutions and companies, Pernod Ricard Italia is taking part in a large project called “Seven” (Sostenibilità sociale, ambientale ed Energetica in Viticoltura ed Enologia), aiming at developing a sustainable wine growing and oenology industry. Among others, the company is involved in 2 projects promoting specifically environmental friendly technologies: experimentation of a phytoremediation system, to be implemented on a agricultural area. reduction of wastewaters total suspended solids thanks to a discontinued flotation process. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: To work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Organization Model As declared in the previous CoP, in order to prevent the risk of crimes of fraud, committed or attempted, in the interests or to the advantage of the organization by a member of Pernod Ricard Italia staff, this year Pernod Ricard Italia implemented a project to introduce a structured Organization, Risk Management and Control Model. The main result were:  Realization of a complete risk assessment about legal compliance  Definition of rules and procedures to prevent the risks of fraud  Definition of a disciplinary system → Objective for next year: Installation of a Control Committee in charge of verifying the correct enforcement of rules and procedures. Page 11/11
