Communication on Progress UN Global Compact cowi 2011 Communication on Progress 3 UN Global Compact contentS 4 Commitment from our CEO 5 Sustainability and CSR in COWI 6 Key achievements in 2011 8 Human rights 12 Labour rights 16 Environment 20 Anti-corruption 24 About Global Compact Commitment from our CEO The UN Global Compact with its ten principles is a natural framework for our commitment to sustainability and corporate social responsibility (CSR). As an international corporation, we value the global nature of the initiative and support the wide-ranging principles focusing on human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. In 2011, we launched a number of internal policies on sustainability and CSR and we developed new tools to engage in a dialogue with our customers on how to further integrate sustainability in our project-related activities. The Global Compact is of great value to COWI which is why we have supported it since 2006 and continue to support it in 2012, says CEO Lars-Peter Søbye. Communication on Progress 5 UN Global Compact Sustainability and CSR in COWI Definitions Our main contribution to sustainable development lies in the services we We define CSR as ‘the responsibilprovide to our customers. ity of enterprises for their impact on society’, which is aligned with the EU definition. We therefore strive to integrate social, environmental, ethical and human rights concerns in our external projects as well as in our internal business processes. We define sustainability as Through this approach, we aim to create shared value for our company, integrating social, environmental, ethical and human rights concerns customers, key stakeholders and society at large. in our business operations. This is an ongoing process and we continue learning new ways of dealing with the opportunities and dilemmas faced in this area. The figure shows that CSR and sustainability in COWI B U SI N E S S > is about integrating concerns for the people, planet OUR and profit in our business, our operations as well as our surrounding society. PLANET Environment Climate change Water O Y PROFIT PEOPLE IE T U R Anti-corruption Health and safety OC OP Business ethics Diversity > Human rights >ERATI Engagement S UR O O NS Key activities and achievements in 2011 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY* Corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability form an integral part of COWI’s vision to create coherence in tomorrow’s sustainable societies and of our mission to create value for customers, society and environment. COWI has developed the web-based tool known as the sustainability dialogue tool for opening dialogues about sustainability with customers. The objective is to integrate considerations for sustainability into projects as early as possible. *The section is an extract from the 2011 annual report Communication on Progress 7 UN Global Compact At COWI, CSR has been integrated into many parts of the company, for instance evidenced in 2011 by a new web-based dialogue tool and an overview of CSR policies in the Group. COWI’S SUSTAINABILITY CSR INTEGRATED INTO MANY PROJECTS AND CSR POLICIES AND Being a knowledge-based company, we can help create a more sustainable TOOLS society in cooperation with our customers. Sustainability and CSR thus form an ›› Sustainable development ›› Business integrity integral part of a large number of our projects. Moreover, COWI is a member ›› Health and safety of the UN Caring for Climate initiative and the UN Global Compact, whose ›› Diversity and inclusion ten principles constitute the foundation of our sustainability activities. Further ›› Whistleblower hotline ›› Sustainable supply chain. information about our membership of Global Compact is available at www.cowi. com/sustainability. SUSTAINABILITY IN THE BUSINESS Sustainability is a driver of business and innovation, and in 2011 we developed a web-based tool for integrating sustainability into all our projects. Thanks to our new sustainability dialogue tool, we apply our 360° approach to sustainability in the context of economy, environment and social aspects. We use the tool in cooperation with our customers to identify the sustainability parameters that should be given priority in a project and to establish how ambitious the customers wish to be. COMMON LANGUAGE IN CSR In 2011, we created a joint overview of all the Group’s CSR policies, thereby ensuring that all business units have the necessary CSR guidelines. This means that we now have a common language in sustainability and CSR, and in the course of 2012, we will be introducing a manual that supports and specifies the relevance of the guidelines to the individual employee. COWI’s Whistleblower hotline, which was used four times in 2011, ensures that employees and partners can report cases that they consider unethical. We constantly aim at ensuring that this hotline is known throughout the Group. COWIFONDEN SUPPORTS SOCIETY Every year, COWIfonden (the COWIfoundation) donates funds for promoting research and development projects in COWI’s fields of activity. In 2011, we donated a rather large amount for an ambitious cradle-to-cradle pavilion, the initiative to which was taken by COWI. The vision is to create a pavilion that is not only 100 per cent sustainable, but also has a positive influence on its surroundings by creating more energy than it consumes. If final funding can be arranged, the pavilion will be in place in the course of 2012. Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Working with human rights The human rights principles in UN Global Compact are related to COWI’s external activities, meaning the people that we impact in our project-related activities. We believe that respect and support for human rights is rooted in the company culture and reflected in one of our five guiding values of ‘respect’, which states: We respect those we work with, nature and society. We respect each other in decision-making and implementation. We respect friendship across the organization, independent of the hierarchy. One of the ways we integrate respect for human rights in our operations is through our policy on Sustainable Development. In the policy, we commit ourselves to taking social aspects into consideration when performing assignments for our customers. This includes human rights considerations. We also direct our employees’ attention to and enhance their knowledge of social conditions in order to further the consideration for sustainable development in all our activities. By incorporating this policy into our risk assessment systems and our training systems, we continue to make our employees aware of the relevance and importance of human rights protection in our external activities. Key activities in 2011 In 2011, we developed a group-wide policy on health and safety and an employee manual, which explicitly states that our employees have an obligation to act and inform their manager if they find human rights abuses on projects they are involved in. Communication on Progress 9 UN Global Compact This obligation covers both our own projects, as well as projects that we are only indirectly involved in as sub-consultants. The manager will then take due action in relation to the relevant customer or business partner. Policies and principles relating If the employee experiences that the manager does not react to the problem, to Human Rights they can use the COWI Whistleblower. All policies are available at www.cowi.com/sustainability ›› COWI’s value on Respect New Group policy on health and safety Policy ›› Policy for Sustainable Development COWI strives for a safe and healthy working environment, both in ›› Policy for Health and Safety our own operations and in our assignment-related activities. (HSE) ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI. To meet our objectives, we will: ›› Ensure that a safe working environment is not compromised for economic or productivity reasons. ›› Ensure that project managers instruct their staff on specific project-related health and safety risks and necessary preventive measures. This includes the use of personal protective equipment. ›› Provide employees with an opportunity to influence their own working environment in dialogue with management. ›› Comply with relevant health and safety legislation and standards. ›› Inform our customers and business partners if we find violations of health and safety standards, labour rights, human rights or unnecessary or illegal environmental degradation on projects in which we are involved. Key challenges in 2011 The key challenge in relation to human rights is that the main risk of human rights abuses most often lies outside our sphere of influence. Within our industry, we see the main risk of human rights abuses in countries where migrant labour is used during construction. To avoid complicity in human rights abuses, we have the following practices: ›› If we are in charge of health and safety supervision during the construction phase of the project, we have a chance to influence the human and labour rights conditions at the construction site and act if they are not aligned with national and international ratified legislation. ›› If we are not in charge of any supervision of the project, we do not necessarily have access to the building site, and as such are not aware of the human rights or labour rights standards. We do, however, make our employees aware that they have an obligation to act and inform their manager if they see human rights violations on projects that we are only indirectly involved in as sub-consultant. If the employees experience that the manager does not react to the problem they can use the COWI Whistleblower. ›› We have contacted the International Confederation of Consultant Engineers and suggested that they adopt a guideline that encourages everyone in the construction industry to comply with international ratified treaties. Communication on Progress 11 UN Global Compact LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Working with labour rights The labour rights principles in UN Global Compact are related to COWI’s internal activities, meaning the 6,100 people working in COWI. The most relevant principle in relation to labour rights is the principle on elimination of discrimination of employment and occupation. In COWI, we translate this as working with diversity and equal opportunities and our activities are described below. The principles of freedom of association, forced labour and child labour are less relevant in the COWI Group as our employees are already free to unionise and enter into collective bargaining with management across the COWI Group. They are also free to leave the company and seek other employment opportunities. Child labour is not a risk as our jobs require a certain level of education that children do not have. We see two main tools in our strive towards equal opportunities, the first being a transparent career system and the second striving for gender balance in our succession planning. Key activities in 2011 Transparent career system We believe that equal opportunities and diversity start with transparent employment practices and a transparent career system. In 2011, we finalized the implementation of the group-wide COWI career system that creates coherence and transparency across the COWI Group in relation to employment, career and promotion. Communication on Progress 13 UN Global Compact The system outlines four distinct career paths within project management, line management, professionals and specialists, and business development. Within each career track, it is clearly defined what is required at the different career steps ranging from assistant to chief executive officer. The roll-out of the system Policies, principles means that almost all our 6,100 employees now have a better understanding of and tools relating what level they are at and what is required from them if they wish to step up to to labour rights the next level. All policies are available at www.cowi.com/sustainability To ensure the continuous development of our employees and to discuss the ›› COWI‘s value on respect progress of their career, managers across the COWI Group are responsible ›› Policy for Sustainable for developing Personal Development Plans (PDPs) with their employees on a Development ›› Policy on Health & Safety (HSE) bi-annual basis. This is a transparent way of ensuring equal development and ›› Policy on Diversity & Inclusion career opportunities for all employees. ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI ›› COWI Whistleblower. Women in management In 2008, COWI joined the ‘Charter for more women in management’ developed by the Danish Ministry of Gender Equality. As part of our efforts to increase the number of women in management, COWI Denmark established a network for female managers. In 2011, the network organised a very well-attended event, focusing on typical differences in the rhetoric used by men and women as well as the flexibility required on the part of both men and women when it comes to understanding and appreciating the benefits of this. The network has also focused on mentoring programmes for leadership talents and will continue this work in 2012. New policy on Diversity and Inclusion In 2011, COWI developed a new group policy on diversity and inclusion to ensure similar standards across the entire organisation. Policy COWI views diversity as a competitive advantage that helps us achieve the best results for our customers. To meet our objectives, we will: ›› Aim to have a diverse workforce that mirrors the diversity in our business and markets. ›› Give equal opportunities to everyone, regardless of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political and sexual orientation. ›› Ensure that our employment and recruitment practices adhere to local legislation, wherever we work in the world. ›› Continuously improve equal opportunities in our employment and recruitment practices. ›› Work towards creating a culture of tolerance and appreciation of difference. Communication on Progress 15 UN Global Compact EMPLOYEES AND SUCCESSORS IN THE COWI GROUP 2010-2011 EMPLOYEES IN PER CENT 2011 2010 Key challenges in 2011 Men 66 66 Women 34 34 One of our key diversity challenges is that the engineering sector has traditionally attracted more men than women. The proportion of female to male COWI employees remained the same in 2011 as in 2010, while the proportion of SUCCESSORS IN PER CENT female successors increased slightly in 2011. COWI’s objective remains to 2011 2010 ensure that its pipeline of leadership talents is improved so that the gender Men 71 72 balance of the pool of successors reflects the staff composition of the individual Women 29 28 business areas. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Working with the environment All the environmental principles in UN Global Compact are of paramount importance to COWI’s activities. Through our business-related activities, we can make the biggest difference. We do, however, strive to also continuously improve our own environmental footprint. It is at the core of COWI’s business to develop and diffuse environmentally friendly technologies. We continue to upgrade our skills in this area and suggest new and more environmentally friendly solutions to our customers. From a risk mitigation point of view, COWI Denmark’s screening procedure helps us take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. In terms of environment, the screening procedure focuses on landscape, nature, culture and recreational areas, consumption of resources in the project period, environmental impact and emissions, and climate change. Communication on Progress 17 UN Global Compact To ensure high-level performance in the area of climate change, COWI is committed to the following strategic goals: ›› COWI will actively evaluate potential for and contribute to optimum climate Policies, principles solutions in our projects in partnership with our customers. and tools relating to environmental ›› COWI will reduce its in-house climate effects through carbon-conscious protection policies and potential carbon off-setting in respect of the efficiency needs of All policies are available at www.cowi.com/sustainability our organization. ›› COWI’s value on Respect ›› COWI will in partnership with our employees promote voluntary participation in ›› Policy for Sustainable Development our climate initiative and provide tools for improved individual climate behav›› Policy on Sustainable iour. Supply Chain ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, Key activities in 2011 adopted by COWI ›› COWI Whistleblower. Sustainability Dialogue tool The main activity in 2011 was the development of a web-based tool for opening dialogues about sustainability with customers. The objective is to integrate consideration for sustainability into projects as early as possible. Through the tool, we hope to encourage customers to integrate sustainability in their projects. Guideline on Sustainable Supply Chain In 2011, we developed a guideline on sustainable supply chain to ensure that we leverage our influence down the supply chain. The guideline states: Guideline COWI procures goods and services at the best terms, assessing total costs, quality and sustainability. To meet our objectives, we will: ›› Integrate sustainability requirements in our supplier and sub-consultants approval process. ›› Give preference to waterand energy-efficient products to reduce consumption rates. ›› Give preference to environmentally-friendly products and products that can be recycled. ›› Avoid products with hazardous substances. ›› Consider the emission of CO2 when booking business trips. ›› Consider if the business trip can be replaced by a videoconference or other information and communication technology. Communication on Progress 19 UN Global Compact CLIMATE IMPACT PER EMPLOYEE* IN DENMARK, TONNES CO2 5,0 4,6 4,5 4,1 4,0 3,6 3,5 3,5 3,0 2,5 Sustainability in infrastructure 2,0 In 2011, COWI enhanced its focus on infrastructure and sustainability and 1,5 launched two initiatives to detect the most relevant sustainability techniques and 1,0 tools within infrastructure. We look forward to applying the lessons learned on 0,5 up-coming projects in the coming year. 0,0 New environmentally friendly techniques 2011 2010 In 2011, COWI helped develop a number of new, environmentally friendly 2009 2008 technologies within the two focus areas, climate change and cradle-to-cradle. It is worth highlighting the storm water mapping tool and the heat mapping tool as well as the design of a cradle-to-cradle building. Many more examples can CLIMATE IMPACT DISTIBUTED be found on www.cowi.com ON CATEGORIES, TONNE CO2-EQ 2011 Green accounts 2011 2010 2009 Every year, COWI Denmark publishes green accounts covering its environmen9500 tal footprint. The figure to the right shows how the CO2 emissions per employee in Denmark decreased from 4.6 tonnes CO2 in 2008 to 3.6 tonnes CO2 in 2011. 8500 The CO2 emissions did, however, increase by 0.1 tonnes from 2010 to 2011. The slight increase in 2011 is due to more international air travel in Scandinavia 7500 as a result of our expansion in Sweden and the acquisition of a large Swedish company in 2009. 6500 From an environmental point of view, air travel continues to be our biggest challenge. It is difficult to make a drastic cut in air travel as it is an integral part 5500 of our business model to work closely with our customers, wherever they are in the world. In 2011, we did, however, adopt the Guideline on Sustainable Supply 4500 Chain that highlights that employees should always consider if the business trip can be replaced by a videoconference or other information and communication technology. At the same time, we continue to invest in information and com3500 munication technology and thereby hope to reduce our travelling in the future. 2500 Key challenges in 2011 The main environmental challenge is that the best environmental solutions may be more expensive in the short run. This can make it more difficult for custom1500 ers, especially during a global economic crisis, to invest in environmentally friendly solutions. 500 We hope that the sustainability dialogue tool can help our customers understand the relevance of environmentally friendly solutions and help them -500 acknowledge the long-term benefits of these more sustainable solutions. Natural gas Water Driving in total Recycling in total Hazardous waste in total District heating Paper consumption Domestic Incineration in total Electricity Mail items Air travel in total A full version of COWI Denmarks green accounts Disposal in total can be found at www.cowi.com/sustainability. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Working with anti-corruption The principle of anti-corruption is very relevant in a COWI context as a large number of our customers are in the public sector. Anti-corruption is an integral part of our culture, and business integrity is one of our five guiding values saying: “We act with credibility and integrity in all aspects“. Our policy on business integrity states that: We will not in our services or in any other activity, directly or indirectly, accept bribery, extortion, fraud, collusion or any other undue business activity.” Anti-corruption training is included in COWI‘s on-boarding programme, which means that all employees will be trained in the internal policies and guidelines on anti-corruption. Anti-corruption is furthermore integrated in COWI’s quality system and we ask sub-contractors to comply with our policy on business integrity. COWI has established a whistleblower system, which employees and external stakeholders can use to report any violations of our principles on business integrity and sustainable development. Key activities in 2011 Whistleblower guideline In 2011 we developed a whistleblower guideline, which reads as follows: Communication on Progress 21 UN Global Compact Guideline COWI wishes to maintain a high standard of business ethics and encourages anyone to talk to their line manager on concerns regarding business ethics. If they feel uncomfortable doing so, they can use the COWI Policies, principles Hotline on anti-corruption and business ethics also called the Whistleblower. and tools relating to principle 10 To meet our objectives, we will: All policies are available at www.cowi.com/sustainability ›› Ensure that any concerns raised through the Whistleblower ›› COWI‘s value on Integrity are investigated and appropriate action taken. ›› Business Integrity Policy ›› COWI Whistleblower Guideline ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, ›› Allow everyone, including employees, former employees, sub-contractors, adopted by COWI. agency staff and business partners to use the Whistleblower. ›› Allow Whistleblower notifications within: Violations of law, regulations and internal policies Misbehaviour with regard to accounting and auditing Fraud, theft and conflict of interest Improper giving or receiving gifts Discrimination and harassment Violation of environmental protection, health and safety law. ›› Make the Whistleblower publicly available. ›› Continuously train our employees in maintaining our culture of integrity and honesty and inform them of the Whistleblower. The Whistleblower was used on four occasions and all notifications were found relevant and investigated. The cases focused on wrongful dismissals and regional compliance with internal COWI policies and practices. Key challenges in 2011 One of the challenges in COWI is to reach all 6,100 employees working in more than 30 countries. It is important that our employees have a common understanding of our business integrity policy and are familiar with the Whistleblower. To enhance awareness of internal policies and tools, COWI plans to expand internal training on anti-corruption and relaunch the Whistleblower through an internal campaign in 2012. We recognise that internal communication on our policies and procedures is an on-going process and we constantly have to train and educate our staff to ensure compliance. Communication on Progress 23 UN Global Compact About Global Compact Global Compact is an initiative launched by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in January 1999. It is a call to businesses worldwide to help build social and environmental frameworks that ensure open and free markets and assist people everywhere secure a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses ten principles spanning everything from international declarations on human rights and labour rights to environment and corruption issues. Communication on Progress 25 UN Global Compact March 2012. Photos: COWI/Claire Lake, Erik Miller, Niels Aage Skovbo, Ulrik Jantzen, Jan Edvardsen. address Parallelvej 2 DK 2800 Kongens Lyngby Denmark Phone +45 56 40 00 00 mail cowi@cowi.com www www.cowi.com
