2011 Sustainability Report 01 02 Energize . Harmonize . Realize CONTENTS From the Chairman of the Board Dialogue with the President About Us Operation with Credibility and SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY Consolidating Resource Base Optimizing Layout of Refining Accelerating Construction of Developing Alternative Energy Extending International SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCImproving HSE Management Reinforcing Safe Production Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Cooperation Emissions Reduction Addressing Climate Change and Chemicals Pipeline Network Compliance TION AND OPERATION 2 4 6 10 15 18 19 21 22 25 28 30 32 33 14 24 100% 1,286 75 7 th exceeded million barrels billion cubic meters the 10 Mt/a refinery base The replacement ratio Annual domestic production We supplied over 75 billion Significant progress was of oil and gas reserve of oil equivalent reached 1,165 cubic meters of natural gas, achieved in the adjustment of equivalents continued million barrels, and overseas net up by 19.5% year on year. strategic refinery layout. Since its to exceed 100%, which production rose to 121 million launch, Liaoyang Petrochemical consolidated and barrels, which ensures energy Company has become the strengthened Company’s security for the sake of stable Company’s seventh 10 Mt/a resource base. economic development. refinery base. 2011 Sustainability Report 01 CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET Guaranteeing Market Supply Advancing Quality Management Focusing on Research and Providing High Quality Products Delivering Thoughtful Services “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” EMProtect Employees’ Rights Occupational Health Growth Platform Local Staff Training Security in Overseas Operations Promoting Development Poverty Alleviation Support for Education Volunteer Activities Contributions to Overseas Objectives and Plans Appendices GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY Development of Local Economies Communities SERVICE PLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 35 37 39 40 41 43 45 46 48 49 51 52 54 55 56 58 60 34 42 50 8,704 km 2,000 billion RMB 96.7% 1.13 million tons 2 achievements The trunk line of the 8,704 Sales of the Company The ratio of high grade We conserved 1.13 million tons of Two achievements were km-long Second West-East exceeded 2,000 billion RMB gasoline rose 12.2 Standard Coal Equivalent, 17.44 awarded the first prize Gas Pipeline, with a designed according to international percentage points to million cubic meters of water, and for National Scientific annual transportation capacity financial reporting 96.7%. We provided reduced COD and SO2 emissions by and Technological of 30 billion cubic meters was standards. more quality products 5.4% and 2.5%, respectively. Deaths Advancement. commissioned. Hence, natural gas to our customers. caused by industrial accidents from Central Asia was transported dropped 47.1%. The safety and to the Pearl River Delta in 2011. environmental protection situation has been improving. 02 Energize . Harmonize . Realize FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD In 2011, committed to the mission of “Caring for Energy, Caring for You”, we ensured oil and gas supply, boosted economic growth, protected the environment, and promoted social development. We also set our sights on building “a green, international and sustainable PetroChina” in the coming five years, to deliver the commitment we made to investors and the public. Promoting Green Energy Green energy is booming around the globe. As the world’s largest emerging economy, China has become an important energy consumer, which is also faced with the dual challenges of rising energy demand and a commitment to reduce CO 2 emissions. As one of the major energy suppliers in China, we strategically accelerate natural gas development while continuing to increase crude oil production, expand refining capacity and enhance the quality of our oil products. In 2011, we continued our strategy of increasing resources based on major oil & gas basin exploration and achieved important discoveries in the Sichuan Basin and Bohai Bay. Our gas supply experienced substantial growth as a result of well-organized gas supply measures, such as, coordinating the development of conventional and non-conventional gas, and domestically produced and imported gas. To enhance natural gas utilization, we encouraged power generation and other industries to replace coal with natural gas, and oil with LNG, to reduce carbon emissions. At the same time, we have committed more efforts to exploiting alternative and clean energy, including ethanol fuel and non-grain based aviation bio-kerosene. We have reinforced our efforts in saving energy and reducing emissions to sustain harmony between economic growth, social development and environmental protection. We believe that with concerted efforts from the government, enterprises and consumers, the development of green energy will lead us to a higher quality living environment. Strengthening International Cooperation Meeting humankind’s ever-increasing demand for clean energy and adapting to more complicated exploration conditions are Jiang Jiemin, Chairman of the Board common challenges faced by the players in the global petroleum industry, which call for closer cooperation among international energy companies, service companies and cooperation host countries. Win-lose competition is being replaced by win-win cooperation, a realistic option that emphasizes complementary advantages and mutual benefits. PetroChina is committed to strengthening international cooperation, and a relatively integrated industry chain has taken shape in its international business, from exploration and development to refining and 2011 Sustainability Report 03 chemicals, pipeline storage and distribution, and sales and with local communities, and have integrated our advantages trade. Five overseas oil and gas cooperation zones and three with local opportunities and resources to deepen strategic international oil-gas operating hubs have been established. cooperation. We have been seeking new business models for the common benefit of all parties, and deepened multi-dimensional strategic Looking to the future, we will, as always, fulfill our duties and cooperation with our peers, service providers and host countries strive to deliver better returns to our shareholders, employees to tackle energy and environmental challenges. In 2011, we and society. In this way, PetroChina aims at becoming a loyal, cooperated with BP in the Rumaila project in Iraq, taking the trustworthy and respected corporate citizen. lead to substantially increase output. Overseas oil-gas net output Thank you very much for reading this report for your interest in exceeded 121 million barrels. PetroChina. Your comments and suggestions are of great value to us. Transforming the Development Pattern Technological advantages and managerial exper tise are critical to enhancing core competitiveness. PetroChina relies on the transformation of its development pattern to sustain growth, in particular, on safer and cleaner operations, as well as technological and management innovations. In 2011, we adopted tertiary recovery technology and maintained crude yields of 40 million tons at Daqing Oilfield despite the high water cut. We researched and developed matching technologies, including horizontal well staged fracturing, to develop the ultralow permeability reservoir, dramatically boosting oil-gas output at Changqing Oilfield to over 40 million tons. Two LNG projects in Dalian and Jiangsu have been commissioned and connected to the gas supply network s. We reinforced management in institutions, process and standards, and conducted fine management in operations. Consequently, we achieved progress in safe production, environmental protection and resource conservation while keeping our entire production process under control. We took advantage of the information system with ERP at the core to facilitate operations and management. We are convinced that PetroChina is capable of bringing more benefits to society through innovative technologies and management solutions. Boosting Socio-economic Development Being a listed company on three stock markets at home and abroad, PetroChina strives to bring handsome returns to its shareholders, and bring mutual growth and benefits to local communities and its employees in the scope of its business. Wherever we operate, we have been enthusiastically involved in public welfare endeavors. We have shown great enthusiasm in public welfare work, such as supporting education, alleviating poverty, and building public facilities and infrastructure. More efforts have been made to boost local socio-economic growth, for example, purchasing local products and services, hiring local labor, etc. We have strived to build up the benefit sharing system 04 Energize . Harmonize . Realize DIALOGUE WITH THE PRESIDENT What is your take on the future development trends of the global petroleum industry? Looking to the future, I envision three trends for our industry as follows: First, oil and natural gas are expected to remain dominant energy sources, while natural gas will see its share in the energy mix rise to that of oil or coal before 2030. Second, our overall E&D conditions are getting much more challenging and the quality of reserves is gradually deteriorating. As a matter of fact, such areas and resources as deepwater, polar regions, tar sands and oil shale are becoming an increasingly important replacement of strategic resources and the main focus of our technological innovation. Third, Due to the global climate change, a carbon-emission constrained era is around the corner and a green energy revolution is under way. New energy and renewables are getting more attention. Therefore, the industry is faced with the double challenges of energy supply and environmental protection. PetroChina is rapidly developing into an international energy company. How do you view international competition and cooperation? In the contex t of economic globalization, oppor tunities and challenges are ubiquitous, and so are competition and cooperation, both of which are very common in business activities. Facing severe challenges, one player alone cannot win a game. But we will work it out with concerted efforts. It has been proven that IOCs’ long-term success depends on whether and how their own interests are tied up with the sustainability issues of local communities. NOCs have to learn advanced technologies and management experience from their rivals. The kind of partnership offering access to markets, technology, capital and resources is much more likely to achieve the target of win-win. Mutual respect and trust is the cornerstone of cooperation. A forward-looking approach is also needed to seek innovative cooperation models. Cooperation along the entire value chain is conducive to obtaining more access to resources and markets, sharing risks and maximizing returns for shareholders and host countries. Our cooperation with partners Zhou Jiping, Vice Chairman of the Board and President such as Shell and ExxonMobil in China has been fruitful. Winwin Partnerships with NOCs of host countries have also fostered local economic growth and social development. As PetroChina becomes increasingly localized, it will provide more common ground for shared interests and opportunities. 2011 Sustainability Report 05 The industry is faced with severe challenges posed by we have launched joint operations with strong and competent global climate change and carbon emission restrictions. partners to share both achievements and risks with the host What’s PetroChina’s role in the international green energy countries and partners. Second, we further optimized our revolution? portfolios and focus on our priorities. Third, we have devised flexible and practical operations strategies to adapt to political, PetroChina has foreseen and embraced the green energy economic and environmental changes. Fourth, we have hired revolution. In early 2011, we proposed the objective of building more local employees. Fifth, we have strictly complied with a green PetroChina to embark on a greener track. First, we are the laws and regulations of the host countries, respected local accelerating the development of natural gas from exploration culture, and honored our social responsibilities, for instance, and development, pipeline storage and transportation, to supporting and participating in public welfare endeavors, marketing and downstream utilization. Second, we are speeding protecting the environment, and bringing benefits to local up the construction of gas transportation infrastructure and communities. Lastly, we have established early warning and increase gas imports. Third, we will proactively develop nonemergency response mechanisms, and improved risk control conventional natural gas by boosting mass exploration of coalsystems. Our emergency handling capabilities have enhanced bed methane, pressing ahead with exploration and cooperation to secure the operation of overseas projects and the safety of in shale gas, and launching tight gas evaluation. Fourth, we are employees. Our policies and measures were proven effective, promoting the research and development of biomass fuels such and we will persist with such practices and strive to make further as fuel ethanol and aviation bio-kerosene. improvements. Technological innovation is the major driving force for sustainable development. How does PetroChina build its technological innovation capabilities? Over the past five years, we have constantly improved our innovation system and brought our proprietary innovation capabilities to a new level, giving support to the sustained and effective growth of our business. In the future, we will seek high-end strategic alliances with our peers and forge ahead with exchanges with domestic and international scientific and technological circles. We will also encourage and support more participation of our technical experts in international academic organizations, conferences and projects. More efforts will be made to enhance our technological innovation, including strengthening training and building up innovation bases, expanding growth channels for our technical experts, and attracting more talents. In recent years, PetroChina has expanded its international operations. However, when exposed to uncertainties and risks in countries and regions with turbulent political situation, volatile policies and legislation or even wars and terrorist attacks, how does the Company effectively prevent and control these situations? PetroChina is experiencing rapid business development both at home and abroad. Most of our overseas projects are located in high risk countries and regions, exposing us to uncertainties, unexpected factors and safety risks. Given that, we have adopted a number of prevention and control countermeasures. First, 06 Energize . Harmonize . Realize ABOUT US Headquarters of the Company Company Profile Total Assets (RMB 108)* 19,176 16,565 PetroChina Company Limited (PetroChina) was established 14,503 on 5 November, 1995, under the restruc turing of China 11,962 National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). PetroChina was listed 10,696 respectively on the NYSE (ADS code: PTR) and the HKSE (stock code: 00857) in April 2000 and on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (stock code: 601857) in November 2007. By 31 December, 2011, the total market value of PetroChina on the A-share market 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 reached 1577.121 billion RMB, and CNPC holds 86.507% of shares in PetroChina. PetroChina adheres to the corporate policy of “Caring for Energy, Turnover (RMB 108)* 20,038 Caring for You” and the core operation principles of “Honesty, Innovation, Performance, Harmony and Safety”. PetroChina aims 14,654 to conduct its business in an effective, safe and environmentally 10,726 10,193 friendly manner, in pursuance of harmony between the 8,375 economy, the environment and societ y, and providing sustainable energy for economic and social development to create a better life for all. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 Sustainability Report 07 Core Businesses Net Profit (RMB 108)* PetroChina is engaged in a broad range of businesses in relation 1,468 1,400 to oil and natural gas, which mainly include the exploration, 1,330 1,145 development and production of crude oil and natural gas, 1,034 refining, transportation, storage and sales and marketing of crude oil and refined products, the production and sales and marketing of primar y petrochemical products, extended chemical products and others, and the transportation and sales and marketing of natural gas. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Development Strategies Taxes (RMB 108)* 3,744 Through a scientific approach, we implement the three strategies related to resources, markets and internationalization, 2,870 and focus on the transformation of business growth models, 2,227 2,045 the enhancement of proprietary innovative capabilities, the 1,722 establishment of a long-term mechanism for work safety, environmental protection and energy conservation, all with a view to creating a harmonious enterprise. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 *Under International Financial Reporting Standards Major Appraisals and Awards in 2011 Agencies Appraisals and Awards Constituent stock of SSE Social Responsibility Index Shanghai Stock Exchange 2011 Award for Board of Directors (the only petrochemical company nominated) Ranked 1st in Internal Control Index of China’s Listed Companies (2011) Hang Seng Indexes Company Limited Constituent stock of Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index Dow Jones Indexes Company Constituent stock of Dow Jones Asia Indexes Forbes Ranked 6th among the world's 2,000 largest public companies Petroleum Intelligence Weekly Ranked 5th among the world’s Top 50 oil companies Ranked 4th among top 250 global energy companies Platts Best integrated oil and gas company in Asia Fortune Ranked 2nd among Fortune 500 China Financial Times Ranked 2nd among FT Global 500 Corporate Governance Asia Recognition Awards 2011 Corporate Governance Asia Best Investor Relations Award (Chinese enterprise) The only petrochemical company in China nominated as BrandZ “Top 100 Most Valuable Global Brands 2011” 08 Energize . Harmonize . Realize Stakeholders PetroChina is able to evolve and develop based on the foundation of trust and support of our stakeholders. We are dedicated to improving quality and efficiency to maximize our long-term value. We are also committed to delivering achievements to stakeholders to maximize the common interests of the Company and its stakeholders so as to achieve harmonious and mutually beneficial growth. Stakeholders Communication approach (1) Participate in discussion on formulation of policies, regulations and standards, and offer enterprise expertise (2) Attend to public concerns and improve corporate behavior Government (3) Launch strategic cooperation with relevant departments (4) Attend seminars and forums (1) Disclose information as required by law (2) Roadshow activities Shareholders (3) Issue reports and announce results performance on a regular basis (4) Create a mailbox to Secretary of Chairman to receive public opinions (1) Employee representatives in the Board of Directors and Supervisory Committee (2) The establishment of trade unions at all levels Employees (3) Convene employee representatives' meeting (4) Organize various staff training (5) Set up complaints and feedback system (1) Carry out activities to protect consumers’ interests (2) Publicize commitment to quality services Consumers (3) Provide hot-line services (4) Carry out customer satisfaction survey (1) Hold tender meetings (2) Hold large cross-border business negotiations and technical exchange meetings (3) Use of the e-transaction platform Business partners (4) Share management expertise and technical standards (5) Contract negotiation and routine meetings (6) Hold training for business partners (7) Hold business exchange meetings (1) Contribution of the Company’s experience NGOs (2) Participate in related activities (3) Facilitate international exchanges (1) Hold dialogues with local communities (2) Community visits to enhance communication Community (3) Society assessment and environmental evaluation (4) Publicize the promotion of education (5) Increase information disclosure 2011 Sustainability Report 09 Key activities Key performance indicators (1) Abide by laws and regulations and operate with integrity and in compliance with the requirements (1) Fees and taxes paid (2) Stabilize oil and gas supply (2) Oil and gas output (3) Pay close attention and participate in government’s policy discussion on climate change, energy(3) Performance in energy-saving and saving and emission reduction emission reduction (4) Promote local employment and cultivate local talents (5) Pay tax to host countries according to local laws (1) Operate in a responsible manner to maintain good reputation (2) Convene annual general meetings Dividend payout ratio (3) Equal treatment of shareholders, value opinions of small and medium-sized shareholders (4) Hold dialogues with investors and shareholders in various forms (1) Number of employees (1) Carry out employee skills’ training and hold skills competitions (2) Rate of the occupational health (2) Occupational health check examination (3) Promote labor localization for overseas projects (3) Staff training (4) Strengthen basic building and set up platform for employee development (4) Ratio of local employees in overseas (5) Safety guarantees for overseas employees projects (1) Strengthen quality management (2) Hold “Quality Month” activity (1) Oil products supply (3) Carry out appraisal for quality management system (2) Natural gas supply (4) Launch activities such as “ Serve the public and strive for excellence” to improve quality service (3) Quantity of chemical products at gas stations (4) Number of gas stations (5) Provide a “speedy change of engine oil” service at gas stations (5) Percentage of high-standard fuel (6) Increase supply of clean fuel such as natural gas, high-standard gasoline and diesel (7) Ensure oil supply for disaster relief and rescue as well as for agricultural production (1) Use www.energyahead.com as a transaction platform and strengthen centralized procurement management to provide suppliers with equal opportunities and establish PetroChina strategic supplier system (1) Total quantity of e-commerce (2) Emphasize communication and coordination with suppliers, strengthen HSE management of procurement contractors by creating a safe and healthy working environment for operators (2) Number of business partners (3) Improve security measures and emergency response network (1) Attend Global Compact Leaders Summit and UN Global Compact High Level Forum China and submit COP (2) Undertake and participate in the 23rd Annual Meeting of Natural Gas Technology Committee of (1) Number of institutions attended International Standardization Organization (ISO/TC 193) (2) Number of international forums and (3) Participate in 2011 API Exploration and Production Summer Standards Conference conferences attended (4) Hold various forms of dialogues on external concerns (5) Participate in and support international environmental standardization (6) Participate in related forums and conferences (1) Disaster relief, rebuilding disaster-hit areas, financial support for education, poverty alleviation (2) Support and drive local economic growth through large projects (1) Investment in social welfare (3) Supply clean energy such as natural gas to remote regions (2) Number of volunteers (4) Hold staff volunteer activities (3) Local purchase expenditure (5) Procure locally where the business is carried out (4) Number of local supplier and contractors (6) Provide job opportunities and trainings for communities 10 Energize . Harmonize . Realize OPER ATION WITH CREDIBILIT Y AND COMPLIANCE Following the legal concepts for governing modern enterprises such as supremacy of law, equal rights and responsibilities, compliance with procedures, honesty and accountability with a sense of fairness and justice, and protection of rights according to law, we focus on operating with credibility, in compliance with laws and regulations, as well as business codes and corporate regulations. We deal with suppliers, customers, government agencies, business partners and competitors under the principles of fairness and credibility, and endeavor to improve our intrinsic quality and value through operation of credibility and compliance. Organizational Structure General Meeting Audit Committee Evaluation and Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Supervisory Committee Investment and Development Committee Health, Safety and Environment Committee Management Team Secretariat Secretariat General Office International Department Foreign Cooperation Department President’s Office Planning & Designing Department Finance Department Human Resources Department Budgeting Management Department M&A Department Legal Department HSE Department Quality Management & Energy Science & Technology IT Department Procurement Department Supervision Department Auditing Department Internal Control & Risk Management Department Management Department Corporate Culture Department Conservation Department Exploration & Production Refining & Chemicals Natural Gas & Pipeline China National Oil and Gas Exploration and Company Company Marketing Company Company Development Corporation Petro China International Investment Co. Ltd Research Institute of Petroleum Planning and Engineering Institute Petrochemical Research Institute PetroChina International Co. Ltd IT Service Center Chinaoil (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd 16 Subsidiary 29 Subsidiary 37 Subsidiary 9 Subsidiary Enterprises Enterprises Enterprises Enterprises Exploration and Development 2011 Sustainability Report 11 Corporate Governance We have stringently followed the requirements made by domestic and foreign regulators, constantly standardize and improve our corporate governance structure, set up Annual General Meetings, a Board of Directors and relevant Board Committees, a Supervisors Committee and a management team with the CEO taking responsibility. All these agencies are operating in accordance with standards and efficiencies. We have been standardizing internal management and operations according to laws and regulations. In addition, we also provide timely, accurate, complete and reliable information on the Company to all market participants and supervision departments so as to enhance our value. Annual General Meeting (AGM) for all shareholders, Supervisory Committee supervises and monitors the compliance of finance officials, directors and The Company hosts the Annual General Meeting, exercising other senior management of the Company, and also proposes its functions and powers in accordance with the law. We hold recommendations for business operations and investment shareholders’ meeting annually to ensure all shareholders enjoy projects. By the end of 2011, there were 8 members of the equal rights that can be exercised effectively. In order to ensure Supervisory Committee, including 3 employee representative the fairness and reasonableness of a connected transaction, supervisors and 1 independent supervisor. CNPC as a controlling shareholder, avoids voting at the AGM. Our independent non-executive directors review our full Executive Body disclosure on detailed contents and executions of a connected transaction. The management under the leadership of the President including the Vice President and the Financial Controller is Board of Directors and Board Committees the executive body of the Company. It is appointed by and is accountable to the Board of Directors. In accordance with Our directors and Board of Directors have diligently carried the provisions set out in the Articles of Association and the out governance in order to be responsible to shareholders. authorization of the Board of Directors, this executive body All directors participate in board meetings in an earnest implements the resolutions of the Board of Directors and and responsible manner and perform their responsibilities organizes business activities such as production and operations. assiduously to determine the Company’s major decisions, The Company has adopted an administrative system containing appointments, dismissal and super vision of members in two-levels of administrative management (headquarters executive agencies and communicate with shareholders. The regional companies) and three-levels of business management Board of Directors has four board committees, namely the system (headquar ters professional branches regional Audit Committee, Investment and Development Committee, companies). The Company’s main business consists of four Evaluation and Remuneration Committee, and the Health, major segments, namely exploration and production, refining Safety and Environment Committee, which support the Board and chemicals, marketing, and natural gas & pipelines. These of Directors for decision making. segments are operated by four branch companies, respectively. The Board of Directors always stick to the principle of being Our international businesses are operated by China National Oil scientific, democratic and responsible, which has been a solid and Gas Exploration and Development Corporation (CNODC) guarantee of the continuous and stable improvement of our and PetroChina International Investment Company Limited. operating performance. The Board of Directors was granted the “2011 Award for Board of Directors” by Shanghai Stock Exchange. By the end of 2011, there were 13 directors on our board, including 5 independent non-executive directors and 1 employee director. Independent non-executive directors Our connected transaction with CNPC has been agreed during general protect rights and interests of small shareholders in an objective and daily business operations according to articles of treating shareand independent manner, and also carry out a supervisory role holders equally and rationally, and guided on the basis of general comin the decision making process. mercial terms (if similar agreement is not available, then the conditions should not be inferior to an independent third party term). Our indepenSupervisors and Supervisory Committee dent auditors carry out auditing of connected transactions between CNPC and PetroChina annually and confirm that all transactions are As specified in laws and administrative regulations, the conducted according to agreement terms. Supervisory Committee is responsible for carrying out the Please visit http://www.petrochina.com.cn/PetroChina/tzzgx/gszljg/ for duties of the AGM such as following procedures, attending more information on the corporate governance structure. supervisory committee meetings, participating in all board meetings and reporting to the AGM. In order to be responsible 12 Energize . Harmonize . Realize Corporate Governance Developments in 2011 Held 2010 Annual General Meetings, deliberated and approved 10 resolutions including 2010 Report of Board of Directors, 2010 Report of Supervisory Committee, 2010 Financial Report and 2010 Profit Allocation Plan, etc. Annual General Held 2011 Extraordinary General Meetings, deliberated and approved 2 resolutions including ResoluMeeting tion on Applying for Updating Limit of Sustainable Connected Transaction among PetroChina, CNPC and Companies with common shares, etc. Held 4 routine meetings, listened to 1 special report presentation and Audit Committee proposals, deliberated and approved 22 resolutions including 2010 Resolution on President’s Work Report, Resolution on 2010 Operation Performance of President’s Team and 2011 President’s Performance on Contract Formulation, Resolution on Internal Control Report and Resolution on Sustainable Development Report, etc. Held 6 temporary meetings, deliberated and approved 8 resolutions including Resolution on ImpleBoard of Directors mentation Plan of Internal Control Regulation of PetroChina Company Limited, Resolution on Approving 20-F Annual Report 2010 and Resolution on 2011 Third Quarter Report, etc. Held 6 meetings, listened to reports made by relevant departments, deliberated and approved 15 proposals and completed review of the Company’s annual report, completed reappointments and chairman election of Supervisory Committee, provided relevant materials for information disclosure according to the requirements of supervision departments. Attended 4 meetings of Board of Directors, listened to 23 proposals and reports including 2010 President’s Work Report deliberated by Board of Directors, released 5 proposals including 2010 Proposal on Supervisory Committee Financial Report Reviewed by Supervisory Committee. Participated in Annual General Meetings and Extraordinary General Meetings and delivered 4 proposals which were approved by the meetings including Proposal on Reappointments of Supervisory Committee, etc. Launched a financial survey through sampling, identified 95 problems, proposed 52 suggestions, drafted 2010 Financial Sampling Survey Report and Mid-2011 Financial Sampling Survey Report, launched inspection on supervisors and conducted reports to provide suggestions for improvement. Control Systems We have been constantly improving the control system, strengthening the integrated application of the information system with ERP at the core, and enhancing source and process control by utilizing information technology, so as to fulfill our corporate social responsibility and realize sustainable development. Internal Control & Risk Management System internal control audits conducted by external auditors for six We pay great attention to internal control and risk management. consecutive years and ranked 1st in the “Internal Control Index of In 2011, we progressed in the building of our internal control China’s Listed Companies (2011)”. We launched risk evaluations system and regulating business processes to constantly in order to improve management strategies for 5 major risks improve our risk managing capacity. The Company has passed including health, safety and environmental protection. We 2011 Sustainability Report 13 compiled and completed risk management reports for 24 Emergency Response System affiliates, standardized business processes, sorted out procedures of 13 depar tments, and released 19 professional process With risk management as the core of the operation, we focus standards covering 60% of our main businesses. In addition, on enhancing the emergency response capacity of grassroots we promoted the internal control system of the overseas units to improve emergenc y response management. In business and strengthened risk control for overseas projects. We 2011, we improved the emergency plan system from the established regulations for management self-evaluation, built a headquarters to grassroots site based on the categorization of management evaluation mechanism, improved testing quality, natural disasters, accidents, public health problems, and social arranged testing plan according to actual management needs, security issues. Based on the plan model of “general + special and enhanced supervision and system execution by self-testing, items”, we improved emergency response plan, making onmanagement testing and evaluation testing. site disposal procedures simpler and clearer. We continuously strengthened the emergency response system model, reinforced Anti-corruption System the building of the commanding agency and working agency so as to strengthen the working system that encompasses We have steadily enhanced the building of anti-corruption system “unified leadership, divided accountability and departmental by deepening education, improving the system, strengthening coordination”. We established an emergency response team supervision and imposing tougher punishment standards. In dealing mainly with operational protection and rescue within the 2011, we launched an education campaign to encourage loyalty, Company as well as in the community. We set up the emergency responsibility, strong work ethics and integrity. We improved response centre for pipeline management and further reinforced operation and management systems of all kinds with significant the construction of corporate-level emergency rescue centers achievements made in the supervision system of key areas which can handle problems from fire control, hazardous including investment, purchasing, bidding and sales of oil chemicals, oil & gas pipelines, blowout control to offshore products. We also carried out special supervision and inspection emergency rescues. in project management, purchasing management and marketing management to prevent management loopholes. We also Scientific Innovation System improved the level of corporate governance by implementing strict punishment regulations on management violations and also Science and technology constitute a primar y productive conducted special activities to prevent commercial bribery and force. We have been constantly improving the scientific strengthened punishment to other irregularities and violations. and technological management system in order to provide a foundation for innovation. In 2011, we k icked of f the HSE Management System implementation of “the 12th Five-Year” scientific plan to promote the building of a scientific and technical innovation system, In 2011, we promoted the building of Health, Safety & Environment launched on-site experiments for major national scientific management system (HSE) to strengthen the management of safety and technical projects, strengthened project management to and environmental protection. Safety and environmental protection facilitate implementation of major projects. Through these efforts, has become stable and has been improving (see page 25). the realization of the expected goals could be achieved. We established key laboratories/experiment bases, which provided Quality Management System a gateway for innovative capabilities. We enhanced cultivation, introduced scientific and technical talents, organized exchanges We have earnestly implemented the concept of “emphasis on programs and attended important international conferences so the environment and safety, high quality and people-oriented” as to better understand and learn the development trends of and adhered to the principle of “honesty and quality excellence” advanced technologies in the global energy industry. to achieve the goal of “zero defects, zero accidents, and being a leader in China and first-class in the world” to constantly promote the building of quality, measurement and standardization system. In 2011, we continued the foundation management building project with quality, measurement, standardization, process management and institutional improvement being the top priorities. We formulated the Promoting Plan for Quality Management System Building and launched quality management system certification and improved quality and measurement inspection agencies (see page 37). 14 Energize . Harmonize . Realize SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY Energy is essential for human survival and development. As an integrated energy company, it is our mission to meet increasing energy demands, fuel economic growth and promote social progress. We strive to enhance energy supply capabilities and optimize the energy mix through technology and management innovation, so as to ensure stable energy supply and facilitate economic and social development. 2011 Sustainability Report 15 1. Consolidating Resource Base Oil and gas resources are the primary basis to safeguard energy supply and the foundation for the Company’s sustainable development. Oil and gas exploration is our top priority. Since most of the world’s remaining resources are constrained in economically marginal reservoirs featuring low permeability, ultra-thin, heavy oil and super heavy oil, we strengthened technology R&D, promoted management innovation, reduced costs and improved efficiency to further consolidate and expand the resource base so as to enhance energy supply capability. Major Exploration Achievements In 2011, we continued to deepen comprehensive Proven Crude Reserves (106 barrels) geological research, promote integrated exploration and 11,706 11,221 11,263 11,278 11,128 development, strengthen oil exploration and highlight natural gas exploration. As a result, a number of major exploration achievements were made in Ordos, Tarim, Sichuan and Bohai Bay basins. According to independent reserve assessment agencies, our replacement ratio of oil and gas equivalent reserves was 103%. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Proven Gas Reserves (108 ft3) 655,030 666,530 632,440 611,890 571,110 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 A major oil discovery was made in the Ordos Basin. 16 Energize . Harmonize . Realize Stable Production in Major Oilfields Case Study Technological Innovation Enabled Daqing to In 2011, we launched the Oilfield Development Year Campaign Maintain Annual Oil Production at 40 Million Tons for the third consecutive year, with waterflood as the core development method to maintain stable production in mature More than 50 years of exploration and development has oilfields. Focusing on Jiyuan in Changqing, Xinglongtai in Liaohe pushed Daqing into its later development stage with an uland Tazhong in Tarim, we accelerated the building of production tra high water cut and recovery percentage of reserves. To capacity and pushed forward new field development. Over mitigate the production decline year after year, a series of key 1,000 horizontal wells were drilled, and the techniques for multitechnological research projects, including waterflood, polymer stage fracturing of horizontal wells and multi-layer fracturing flooding, and ASP flooding for heterogeneous multi-layer conof vertical wells were improved to increase single well output tinental sandstone reservoirs, were carried out to help stabilize in low permeability and extremely-low permeability reservoirs. oil production. As a result, our crude oil production maintained stable growth. Daqing Oilfield produced 40 million tons of oil for the ninth In 2011, Daqing Oilfield achieved the goal to maintain its oil consecutive year, and Changqing Oilfield produced over 40 production at 40 million tons through fine reservoir descripmillion tons of oil and gas equivalent for the first time. tion, sophisticated waterflood, carefully designed stimulation measures and fine management. Over the past 50 years, the Rapid Growth of Natural Gas Production cumulative proven oil reserves of Daqiang Oilfield totaled over 6 billion tons, and the cumulative oil production of the In 2011, we continued to strengthen the development of natural field exceeded 2 billion tons, accounting for over 40% of the gas fields with a focus on six production capacity building country’s total. Since 1976, Daqing had maintained an annual projects including Sulige and Gaoqiao. Domestically, we oil production of 50 million tons for 27 consecutive years, and produced over 2 trillion cubic feet of marketable natural gas. then maintained the figure at 40 million tons for nine years in a row. This is a miracle among peer oilfields worldwide and has greatly safeguarded China’s energy security. Crude Oil Production (106 barrels) 886 871 858 846 844 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Marketable Natural Gas Output (108 ft3) 23,964 22,212 21,122 18,642 16,277 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 Sustainability Report 17 Case Study Large-Scale Application of Horizontal Wells Helped Changqing Produce over 40 Million Tons of Oil and Gas Equivalent Most of the producible oil and gas at Changqing Oilfield is deposited in reservoirs with low permeability, low pressure and low abundance. A package of technologies, represented by multi-stage fracturing of horizontal wells, have been developed after years of study and testing, making it possible to tap these resources economically and efficiently from tight reservoirs with extremely low or ultra low permeability. In the past three years, 210 horizontal oil wells and 281 horizontal gas wells were drilled in Changqing. Multi-stage fracturing of these wells boosted the average single well output to 3~5 times that of vertical wells, saving 50% of land use. In 2011, Changqing produced 5 million tons more oil and gas equivalent than in 2010, including 13 bcm of natural gas yielded from Sulige, up by 30%, a considerable part of the field’s 40 million tons annual oil and gas equivalent production. Sketch map of a horizontal well Separate layer fracturing of horizontal wells is a major stimulation measure in the development of low permeability thin reservoirs, which can increase single well controlled reserves and enhance per well productivity. Significant breakthroughs and mass application of this technology will convert those oil and gas reserves unrecoverable into recoverable, facilitate economically viable and efficient development of extremely low permeability oil and gas reservoirs, and provide technical support for the commercial development of unconventional gases such as shale gas and tight gas. In 2011, we fractured 2,634 layers in 503 horizontal wells, which lead to a reduction of 1,000 vertical wells and a saving of land use by over 133 hectares. The average production per fractured horizontal well is three times of that of a vertical well. 18 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2. Optimizing Layout of Refining and Chemicals Regionally, the distribution of China’s refining and chemical seven 10Mt/a refinery bases, four ethylene production bases, business is uneven. Oil products supply in some regions relies on and two aromatic production bases, which further improve transportation from north to south or from east to west, pushing our supply capabilities in the refining and chemicals markets. the cost to a high level. Additionally, more inferior crude oil and increasing demand for better quality oil products have posed growing challenges. These have forced us continue to optimize resource allocation and strategically adjust the layout and structure of our refining and chemical business. In 2011, transformation and expansion of Liaoyang Petrochemical’s refining project was put into operation, boosting its capacity to 10Mt/a. Karamay Petrochemical and Jinzhou Petrochemical completed their oil products quality upgrading projects. A number of projects, including refining and chemicals integration project at Sichuan Petrochemical, the 5Mt/a refining capacity expansion project at Hohhot Petrochemical, the refining upgrade project at Urumqi Petrochemical, Fushun Petrochemical’s 10Mt/a refining project and 1Mt/a ethylene project, etc, were well underway. By the end of 2011, PetroChina had established Guangxi Petrochemical fuels the economic growth of the Beibu Gulf. Case Study Improving Energy Supply Pattern in Southwest China With the implementation of China's western development the Lanzhou-Chengdu crude pipeline become operastrategy, the economy in southwest China has been develtional, the energy supply pattern in Southwest China will oping gradually and energy demand has skyrocketed. To be further improved. meet increasing demand for oil products and chemicals in the region, we have strengthened refining capacity building and the construction of oil and gas pipelines network in the region. The 10Mt/a refining project at Guangxi Petrochemical, the first large-scale refining project in Southwest China, has Sichuan Chengdu processed over 12 million tons of crude, produced 11 milChongqing lion tons of refined products and paid approximately RMB 10.2 billion in taxes since it became operational in 2010. This Guizhou effectively alleviated the oil product supply and demand refined products issues in the regional market and promoted economic pipelines Yunnan development in the Beibu Gulf area. After the refining and crude oil pipelines chemicals integration project at Sichuan Petrochemical and refineries Guangxi 2011 Sustainability Report 19 3.Accelerating Construction of Pipeline Network To tackle the bottleneck caused by uneven oil and gas resource Diversified Resource Import Channels distribution, and the long distance between resources and markets, we steadily pushed forward the construction of key oil We are building cross-border oil and gas pipelines and LNG and gas pipelines to establish effective links between resources terminals to diversify our resource import channels. Line C of and markets. In 2011, the construction of our oil and gas pipeline the Central Asia-China Gas Pipeline was kicked off in an orderly network progressed in an orderly manner, which fur ther manner. The Russia-China Crude Pipeline has delivered more strengthened our capability in oil and gas transportation and than 15 million tons of crude oil to China since it became allocation, and guaranteed the energy needs of civilians, public operational. LNG terminals in Jiangsu and Dalian were put into facilities and key industrial users. operation and began to supply gas to the West-East Gas Pipeline and Liaoning pipeline network, which serves as a new guarantee Improved Domestic Pipeline Network for energy supply to the Yangtze River Delta and Northeast and North China. Construction of the Tangshan LNG Terminal and its The trunk line of the Second West-East Gas Pipeline was supporting projects has commenced. completed, delivering natural gas from Central Asia to the Pearl River Delta region, which further improved China’s energy supply structure. The operation of the Zhangshu–Xiangtan branch line eased the gas shortage in Hunan and Hubei. Natural gas pipeline networks in Shandong and Liaoning are about to be completed and deliver additional gas supply to the t wo provinces. Construction of the third Shaanxi-Beijing gas pipeline, Lanzhou– Chengdu crude pipeline, and Nanning-Liuzhou oil products pipeline was well underway. Furthermore, we have continuously strengthened the build of underground gas storage to enhance our capacity of peak shaving and mitigate supply imbalances among different seasons and regions (see page 35). A LNG carrier at the special terminal in Dalian harbor 20 Energize . Harmonize . Realize Special Topic Energy Artery Propelling Economic and Social Development Route of the Second West-East Gas Pipeline Huo’erguosi Lunnan Shanshan Zhongwei Jingbian Tai‘an Pingdingshan Shiyan Zaoyang Shanghai Nanchang Xiangtan Zhangshu Guangzhou Shenzhen Nanning Hong Kong With a length of 8,704 km, the Second West-East Gas Pipeline substance emissions – including sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and consists of one trunk, eight branches and 26 compressor stations. industrial dust – by 2.46 million tons. The pipeline travels across China from west to east and is designed to transport 30 bcm of gas each year. In 2011, the whole trunk was Building a platform for innovation and driving investment in completed. relevant industries. The Second West-East Gas Pipeline project has provided a platform for technological innovation in relevant Building gas pipeline network and benefiting more people industries, and created new supplydemand balance in the market. The debut of the Second West-East Gas Pipeline will effectively The platform has brought direct investment of RMB 300 billion into balance supply and demand in the Pearl River Delta, Yangtze River domestic machinery, electronics, metallurgy, building materials, Delta, and South Central China. Natural gas from Central Asia was construction and natural gas utilization industries. During the delivered to Guangzhou in June and will arrive in Hong Kong in construction of the pipeline, we coordinated with related research 2012. In addition, the Second West-East Gas Pipeline has been institutions, steel enterprises and pipeline manufacturers to linked to the First West-East Gas Pipeline, Sebei-Xi’ning-Langzhou conduct R&D, and realized domestic production of high grade steel pipeline, Shaanxi-Beijing pipelines and Zhongxian-Wuhan pipeline, line pipe such as X80. The project has also provided development which form a gas trunk line network and benefit 15 provinces (cities, opportunities for China’s large equipment manufacturing industry. autonomous regions) and Hong Kong SAR. Protecting the environment during project construction Providing clean energy and improving atmospheric PeroChina has always strived to be an environmentally friendly environment. With the full operation of its trunk and branches, the enterprise. We developed our own ecological restoration plans Second West-East Gas Pipeline will accelerate the improvement of during pipeline construction, and our soil and water conservation energy mix of the 15 provinces along the pipeline, increasing the efforts are leading among the nation’s major construction projects. proportion of natural gas in China’s primary energy consumption On March 1, 2011, the Second West-East Gas Pipeline (west section) by 1~2 percentage points. Using natural gas would not only bring was nominated by the Ministry of Water Resources as a Model convenience to people’s lives, but also improve the environment. Project for Water and Soil Conservation , with its six soil and water Experts estimate that, every year, 30 billion cubic meters of natural conservation indicators for engineering construction reaching gas imported from Central Asia could replace 76.8 million tons of national standards. coal, reduce CO2 emissions by 130 million tons, and cut hazardous 2011 Sustainability Report 21 4. Developing Alternative Energy As conventional, easy-to-tap and superior oil and gas resources are New Energy Technology Research depleting, unconventional energy such as CBM, shale gas and tight gas has become the most realistic choice to supplement supplies We have been strengthening R&D and utilization of unconventional of conventional energy. With a view to future energy supplies, we energy technology. In 2011, we achieved major breakthroughs in strengthened the development and utilization of unconventional the development of bio-kerosene for civil aviation, and launched hydrocarbon resources and renewable energies so as to promote a successful test using bio-kerosene. Subsequently, we signed sustainable economic and social development. cooperation memorandums with eight domestic enterprises to jointly promote the sustainable development of the aviation Unconventional Energy Development biofuel industry. Domestically, we have stepped up our efforts in developing CBM and shale gas. In 2011, Fanzhuang CBM field in Shanxi Province was approved, the first large-scale digital CBM field Shale gas, referring to gases extracted from shale beds, is an important unin China. We produce 420 million cubic meters of commercial conventional natural gas resource. Currently, China is still at the resource CBM in the year, up 49.5% year-on-year. Construction of shale evaluation and technology research stage for shale gas development. In gas demonstration areas in Changning of Sichuan Province and 2009, PetroChina selected two blocks, i.e. Changning-Weiyuan in Sichuan Zhaotong of Yunnan Province is well underway. China’s first Province and Zhaotong in Yunnan Province, to conduct pilot development horizontal shale gas well – well Wei 201-H1 located in Weiyuan, of shale gas. Meanwhile, we launched shale gas evaluation at FushunSichuan – was completed and tested for gas production. Five Yongchuan block jointly with Shell. Two years of efforts have helped us wells were drilled at the Fushun-Yongchuan shale gas project successfully yield shale gas and testified that there are shale gas potentials in Sichuan, a joint project with Shell. Well Yang 101, one of the in China. We will continue to explore supporting technologies and manfive wells, produced 50,000 cubic meters of gas per day during agement methods to facilitate the mass development of shale gas . formation test. Abroad, we have invested in heavy oil projects in Venezuela, oil sands projects and unconventional gas projects in Canada, and develop CBM in Australia with Shell as our partner. Case Study Expanding the Development of CBM Coal Bed Methane (CBM) refers to methane associated with coal and absorbed into the solid matrix of the coal. It is clean unconventional gas because of its lack of hydrogen sulfide. In the Qinshui basin in Shanxi Province, we have identified the resource base of CBM and realized large-scale development of CBM fields through digital measures such as remote data acquisition and transmission, remote control and video monitoring of wells and stations. In 2011, we delivered 580 million cubic meters of commercial CBM (including the 156 million cubic meters purchased). The cumulative CBM delivery to the West-East Gas Pipeline from Qinshui totals about 1 billion cubic meters. Large-scale development of CBM in Qinshui Basin in Shanxi Province. 22 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 5. Extending International Cooperation We respect energy policies of host countries and give full play Domestic Cooperation to our advantages in funding, technology and management to participate in oil and gas development worldwide with our In China, we continue to deepen our cooperation with partners, making our due contributions to stabilizing global oil international partners in conventional oil and gas E&P, and and gas market. meanwhile make efforts in the E&P of CBM, shale gas and tight gas. In 2011, domestic joint oil and gas E&P projects had International Energy Development a net output of 30.6 million barrels of oil and gas equivalent. In cooperation with Shell, the Changbei Project maintained In 2011, great progress was achieved in our international operations. stable production and the Fushun-Yongchuan shale gas project In Iraq, the Rumaila project entered an efficient and progressive achieved breakthroughs. The Zhaodong project, with Australia’s development stage and production capacity building at Halfaya ROC Oil as our partner, has maintained its annual production oilfield proceeded as scheduled, helping increase oil production at 1 million tonnes for eight consecutive years. And crude oil and exports in the country. We acquired INEOS’ refining business produced from offshore platforms at Zhaodong was successfully in Europe, and made major progress in establishing an oil and gas piped to onshore storages. The preliminary work for the South operation hub in Europe. We also signed strategic cooperation Sulige project commenced smoothly, with Total as our partner. agreements with Shell, Saudi Aramco, Rosneft, and Daewoo. In the The Chuandongbei natural gas project with Chevron and the Andes project in Ecuador, we maintained stable output of mature Yuedong project in Hainan with Tincy Group Energy Resources fields by applying our sophisticated and applicable technologies, Ltd proceeded as scheduled. Jointly with Qatar Petroleum and won the Outstanding Petroleum Technology Development International and Shell China, we signed a cooperation Award granted by Ecuador’s Ministry of Non-Renewable Natural framework agreement on a refining and chemical integration Resources. In 2011, our overseas projects yielded a total net oil and project with Taizhou City, Zhejiang Province. gas production of 121 million barrels. Case Study Helping Niger Realize Its 30-year Oil Dream Niger has a vast territory and is rich in resources. However, energy development over the past decades failed to effectively promote economic and social development in the country. In 2008, the Company, together with CNPC, began to help Niger build an upstream and downstream integration project. A 1Mt/a crude oil production base, a 462 km-long pipeline and a modern refinery emerged in the hinterland of the Sahara desert. In November 2011, the Agadem integration project was completed and the Zinder refinery became operational. Oil products output from the refinery are sufficient for domestic use, meaning that Niger has established its own oil industry since then. Participation in the construction of Agadem Oilfield in Niger. 2011 Sustainability Report 23 Special Topic Mutually Beneficial and Common Development PetroChina Worldwide Central Asia Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Europe UK France Asia-Pacific China Japan Americas Indonesia Canada Mid-East Singapore Venezuela Australia Iraq Ecuador Oman Peru Africa Niger Algeria Chad Since 2005, we have been accelerating the pace in international Facilitate local economic and social development. As the first cooperation and have made due contributions to enhance global joint project between PetroChina and its Kazak counterpart, energy security and optimize resource and market allocation. By the Aktobe project rejuvenated mature oilfields in Kazakhstan the end of 2011, we implemented oil and gas operations in 18 by using a series of applicable exploration and development countries worldwide. technologies. Aktyubinsk, where the project is located, is thereby developing into an emerging oil industry hub, contributing over Assist host countries to develop oil and gas resources. 10% of Kazakhstan’s GDP. Together with BP and Iraq’s South Oil Company, we have been providing exploration and development services for the giant Take global resource and market allocation into consideration. Rumaila field since 2009. With the common ef forts of the After acquiring Singapore Oil Company and Osaka refinery, we consortium, Rumaila exceeded production goals and became also acquired INEOS’ refining business in Europe in 2011. Our three the first to enter the investment return stage since 2009 when oil and gas operation centers in Singapore, London and New Iraq first opened its oil and gas production to foreign countries. York City are taking shape, and our competence in coordinating The Rumaila project plays an active role in boosting Iraq’s resources and markets is increasing, making us capable to crude oil production and exports, and helps to obtain win-win stabilize regional oil and gas markets. outcomes for investors and the host country. 24 Energize . Harmonize . Realize SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION AND OPERATION The natural environment is our most important resource. The concept of “caring for life and protecting the environment” has been incorporated into our culture. We stick to principles that give weight to a people-oriented, prevention-driven approach, and advocate total participation and continuous improvement in the pursuit of zero injuries, zero pollution and zero accidents. We strive to establish a resource-saving, environment-friendly and safe production enterprise. 2011 Sustainability Report 25 1. Improving HSE Management We attach great importance to health (see page 45), safety and the environment (HSE), and have been constantly improving HSE management. In 2011, we continued to promote HSE system building, enhanced safety and environmental management, strengthened source control and process monitoring, and raised safety and environmental protection standards. The situation of safety and environmental protection has been improving. Advancing Full-scale HSE System Building facilities of storage and transportation near rivers and lakes as well as environmentally sensitive regions, and also proposed In 2011, we launched the Upgrade Plan of HSE Management remediation measures. We organized the Hazard and Operability System during the 12th Five-Year Plan Period. 12 subsidiaries were Analysis (HAZOP) for new projects, expansion projects and ininstructed to implement the plan as a start. An inspection of service equipment, established strict safety and environmental HSE performance of our overseas businesses was conducted protection examination system and checking system during to strengthen the construction of HSE system. We formulated construction. In addition, we implemented methods, such as and revised 32 HSE standards, which was implemented through safety observation and communication, plans of personal safety, audit and training. We also developed HSE information system HSE assessment indicators and lock-out/tag-out action, to upgrade plans for the 12th Five-Year Plan period, organized the deepen risk management for front-line operations. second round of HSE training for management personnel, and completed the HSE consultant training program where more than 100 people were trained and certified. In addition, we furthered the HSE training programs for front-line employees and promoted the HSE training matrix (see page 27). “Lock out/tag out” is a safety device which ensures equipments are Strengthening HSE Management powered off during maintenance or cleaning and cannot be moved. “Lock out” is to isolate and lock the cut-off energy to make sure that In 2011, we revised the Safety and Environmental Accountability no one nearby would get hurt. “Tag out” refers to hanging out the Pledge and signed it with the affiliated companies for the 5th warning sign while the “Lock out/tag out” is happening. consecutive year. We deepened safety inspections and carried out 2 inspections throughout the year with a focus on 22 major production-operation units. We enhanced environmental risk management and distributed the Management Method on Environmental Protection of Constructing Projects to strengthen monitoring of key links like EIA approval and project design. We launched environmental risks inspection for plants and Established and revised HSE standards 32 Over 100 people obtained certificates as HSE consultants 26 Energize . Harmonize . Realize Carrying out In-depth HSE Culture Building The essence of safe production is to make employees more proac tive in produc tion safet y. To this end, we organized knowledge contests on safety, environmental protection and energy-saving to improve employees’ awareness, compiled an annual collection of excellent HSE papers and promoted experience sharing activities, and reinforced our employees’ responsibility awareness to adhere to rules and regulations, changing from “being obliged” to “being voluntary”. Deepening Contractor Management Contractors are our partners and part of our production and operation. We attach great importance to their safety, and have incorporated contractor into our HSE management. In 2011, Checking on the equipments we improved contractors’ HSE qualification and performance evaluation criteria, based on which contractors are selected. Our affiliated companies have also formulated contractor safety management system to ensure healthy and safe operation standards. Case Study Cultivating Safety Culture to Ensure Essential Safety Tarim Oilfield Company implemented line responsibility and well control accidents have been eliminated for five consecuterritorial management with safety commitments and “felt tive years. The company has won the title of Advanced Safety leadership” management, improving employees’ safety awareUnit of Production in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region for ness and corporate management. the ninth consecutive years. The company integrated new standards with existing institutions and the HSE system, issued 36 safety management stanFelt leadership is for managing staff to make them an example in dards, and proposed 27 key elements. It implemented “territorial work safety related activities so that employees can truly perceive management” and put in place an evaluation system based on the importance of production safety. Line responsibility means that performance, and launched campaigns to raise awareness of persons in charge need to bear HSE management responsibilities to work safety, and reinforced the safety and environmental proachieve the objective of “those who manage, organize and perform tection concept by creating shared values and behavior under tasks shall be held accountable”. Territorial management refers “felt leadership”. It set up the “Contribution Award for Safety to the fact that every manager, team leader and employee shall be Culture” to encourage employees to discover the potential danresponsible for their own and other employees’ (including contractor gers and risks. Thanks to the safety culture, production and opemployees and visitors) HSE safety. eration safety has been improved and fatal accidents and major 2011 Sustainability Report 27 Enhancing Safety Management The accidents in Dalian since 2010 indicated that we must and retreated 3 sets of risky plants in new production areas to strengthen our safety and risk management. We have learned a safe status for repair so as to eliminate safety hazards. Third, lot from the accidents, and adopted many measures to ensure we strengthened supervision and inspection and carried out safety and stable production. First, we carried out accident safety checks in advance. We launched company-wide safety investigation and disposal. An accident investigation team was checks one month earlier than previous years and other safety set up and technical and management experts were dispatched and environmental protection inspection and acceptance, with to Dalian Petrochemical Company to help the accident the aim of identifying safety hazards and further strengthening investigation team of Dalian city under the guidance of the the safety capacity building in new areas, new businesses and State Administration of Work Safety. We conducted in-depth rapidly developing businesses. accident analysis from technical and management perspectives and strictly punished relevant organizations and persons for Safe production is an important and long-term task. We will the accident in accordance with laws and regulations. Second, fur ther deepen and fully implement the safe production we firmly implemented rectification advice. We strengthened responsibility system, comprehensively promote the HSE th e mana g em ent o f ha z ard o us ch emic als, c ar r ie d o u t management system and focus on special remediation of troubleshooting activities by immediately shutting down and safety and environmental risks. We will strengthen contractor repairing plants with hidden problems and operation risks. We mana g em ent , em erg en c y resp o ns e mana g em ent , r isk organized professional departments to conduct a comprehensive management and incident management, and enhance safety investigation on large-diameter high-strength graphite gaskets, supervision in key areas. Case Study Jilin Oilfield Company Carried out Front-line Training Matrix to Improve Employees’ Safety Awareness Jilin Oilfield Company began to implement a new HSE training specifying a series of items. The horizontal line lists training model since 2009, focusing on training front-line managers with requirements for each project. HSE training was provided to emHSE training matrix for front-line positions. It has boosted the ployees in small classes of different categories and schedule, to integration of production operations and position training, efpromote experience sharing and interaction, with incentives for fectively improving the safety quality among staff. employees with outstanding performance. Performance evaluation was based on on-the-spot operation and standard-reaching The company broke down 3 professions and 17 kinds of work of individual items to eliminate blind spots of operational risk into 54 operation positions and listed specific operation qualicontrol. Since the launch of the primary matrix training, 7,623 fication of each position and corresponding training requireemployees have been trained with qualification rate increasing ments into a unified table. In the table, the vertical line lists 4 by 15 percentage points. categories including general safety knowledge, basic skills, management processes, and HSE knowledge, with each category Contents Class hours Period Ways of training Requirements Teachers 1 General safety knowledge 1.1 Safe use of electricity 20 3 years classroom / on-site Master Team leader / HSE monitor officer ...... 1.5 Identification of hazards 20 1 year classroom / on-site Master Team leader / HSE monitor officer ...... 2 Basic skills 2.1 Maintenance of pumping units 20 1 year classroom / notes Master Team leader / HSE monitor officer ...... 2.12 Emergency control 60 1 year classroom / on-site Master Team leader / other trainers 3 Management processes 3.1 Permission for operation 20 3 years classroom / on-site Understand Team leader / HSE monitor officer 3.2 Management of equipments 20 3 years classroom / on-site Understand Team leader / HSE monitor officer ...... Diagram of training matrix 28 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2. Reinforcing Safe Production PetroChina advocates the principles of “people-oriented safety management” and “safety comes from responsibility, design, quality and prevention”. At the same time, we have taken production safety as the core value and implemented the concept in all sectors of production and operation. In 2011, the death rate related to accidents was 0.70 person/100 million working hours and the overall accident rate was 0.0326/1 million working hours. Carrying out Safety Checks in Advance Witnessing the peak of production, winter and spring are accident-prone periods and also the critical time for accident Deaths caused by industrial accidents prevention. In September 2011, we carried out safety checks one decreased by 47.1% month earlier than previous years to comprehensively check the production line and site from five perspectives such as safety awareness, system, and potential hazards to ensure safe production. Long-term Mechanisms for Risk Prevention 2010 2011 In 2011, the Company continued to control risks at source and enhanced potential hazard management. We carried out 186 environmental hazard control projects in 30 enterprises. By the end of 2011, we finished 158 hazard control projects. Transport Safety Supervision We further strengthened transport safety supervision and complete establishment of five company-level emergency compiled guides on safe driving for coaches and trucks. We rescue centers. An emergency platform was put into use in May. carried out investigation on vehicles status, which has greatly We also held an emergency drill targeting refining devices to prevented severe traffic accidents for the whole year. deepen emergency education. At the same time, we closely paid attention to natural disasters, organized activities to inspect Improving Emergency Response Capacity and check unsafe factors to guard against flood, typhoon, wind storm surges and landslides. Affiliated Natural Gas & Pipeline The oil & gas industry involves high risks and potential hazards, Company compiled Risk Management Report 2011, developed risk posing challenges to all businesses in production and operation. management strategies and solutions in response to severe risks Though we have been constantly improving the HSE system to ensure constant and stable transmission of oil and gas, and and strengthening security management, security incidents pipeline construction. cannot be avoided completely. We focus on the establishment of a sound and effective emergency rescue system to respond to accidents. In 2011, the Emergency Response Center for Pipeline Management was established, demonstrating the 2011 Sustainability Report 29 Case Study Strengthening Site Management and Achieving Safe Production Adhering to the concept that “every accident could be conWhile deepening the 5S On-site Management, the company trolled and prevented”, Ningxia Petrochemical Company introduced balanced scorecards as a management tool. After adopted the 5S Management Model and introduced a perforevaluating the management difficulty coefficient of all posimance assessment system with balanced scorecard, reducing tions, the company prepared over 1,200 copies of position the number of accidents by 36% compared with 4 years ago description, made the balanced scorecard for 65 units, and and workplace injuries by 46%, and achieving 10 consecutive incorporated safety and environmental protection manageyears of no major accidents. ment into the new performance assessment system to improve management at all levels simultaneously. On the production site, the company used ground marks, guard fences, and security labels to highlight work areas or 5S On-site Management refers to the effective management of operation areas, and adopted uniforms of different colors, production factors such as people, machinery, material, and method, work permits and helmets labels to differentiate workers. It including sort (Seiri), set order (Seiton), sweep and shine (Seiso), stanalso ensured that tools and apparatus were in good condidardization (Seiketsu) and sustain (Shitsuke). Ningxia Petrochemical tions with up-to-date inspection labels, and used color codes Company has started implementing 5S On-site Management since and color circles to identify equipments, instruments and early 2007. It has not only effectively improved the operating environpipelines. These measures created an environment for safety ment and reduced costs, but also enhanced operational efficiency management and improved on-site management standards. and product quality. Ningxia Petrochemical Company strengthens on-site management. 30 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 3. Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Committed to the concept of “prioritizing environmental Case Study Dushanzi Petrochemical Company Made protection and putting safe production first”, we promoted Great Achievements in Clean Production the development and utilization of technologies related to energy and emissions reduction and optimal energy integration, Dushanzi Petrochemical Company has implemented an and pressed ahead with our 10 Energy Saving Projects and 10 environmental protection responsibility system to proEmissions Reduction Projects. mote clean production and has made great achievements. A sulfur-containing sewage treatment plant with capacEnergy Conservation ity of 250kt/a built in the ethylene plant can purify 2.76 million tons of sewage for landscaping. The wastewater In 2011, we continued to promote energy conservation and treatment and reuse system with a designed capacity of launched major energy saving projects. We made progress 600 m3/h can save over 3 million tons of fresh water every with the construction of key sample projects of optimal energy year. The joint production plant with its capacity of desulintegration in the refining sector, and promoted and applied furizing 100kt/a by dry gas and recovering 3kt/a sulfur has mature energy-saving technologies and equipment. We built met the national standard in its emission with a sulfur reand promoted market-oriented energy saving mechanisms covery rate reaching 99.5%. The dust-removal equipment with contract energy management as the major form. Tarim of high efficiency was installed in coal-fired power plant Oilfield Company and Ningxia Petrochemical Company have to recover and utilize powder coal ash. The concentrated implemented contract energy management projects, achieving heating boiler and dust-removal & de-sulfur project was satisfactory economic and social benefits. We launched a established to improve the surrounding environment. The promotion week with the theme of “energy saving delivers central heating coal field of the wind and dust wall was low carbon life” to enhance awareness of energy conservation established to reduce dust pollution. The flue gas desulfuramong employees. Throughout the year, we saved 1.13 million izing and dust-removal device was retrofitted in boiler flue tons of standard coal and 17.44 million cubic meters of water, gas discharge system in thermal power plant to make flue exceeding our targets of 25% and 9% for the year. gas emission meet standards. 2011 Sustainability Report 31 Emission Reduction In 2011, we developed and implemented the “Pollution and Emission of COD Emission of SO2 Emission Reduction Implementation Plan during the 12th FiveYear Plan” to fulfill emission targets. We established sub-stations decreased by 5.4% decreased by 2.5% for petroleum and petrochemical environment supervision, as well as 8 environmental monitoring centers, further enhancing the environment supervision system. Our COD and sulfur dioxide emissions throughout the year decreased by 5.4% and 2.5% year on year respectively. 2010 2011 2010 2011 Jilin Oilfield Company realized harmonious development with the environment. Case Study Daqing Petrochemical Company Promoted Energy Conservation and Consumption Reduction In 2011, Daqing Petrochemical Company’s ef forts to sumption, and saved 1,290 tons of standard coal per year. strengthen detail management and build resource-saving At the same time, it has phased out backward plants and enterprise helped save 48.6 thousand tons of standard coal high energy-consuming devices to improve overall energy and 875.9 thousand cubic meters of water. efficiency. Promoting digital energy management. The company Strengthening energy-saving technology utilization. established an energy consumption analysis evaluation The application of oil refinery wastewater reuse project system and energy consumption warning mechanism, and has reduced fresh water consumption in producing 1 ton adhered to daily analysis of primary energy consumption, of crude oil by 0.56 tons. Completion of the ethane crackweekly estimation of energy and water conservation proging furnace and quench oil viscosity reduction system ress, as well as a monthly summary of energy and water improvement projects improved the operating environsaving achievements to analyze energy-saving measures ment of the quenching system, reducing ethylene energy and effects before taking any improvement measures. consumption by 55.83kg SEC per ton compared to 2010, reaching the national advanced level. Optimizing energy system structure. The company continuously improved technological processes, optimized operational methods, strengthened the monitoring of the equipment operation status, reduced furnace fuel con32 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 4. Environmental Protection Remarkable success has been achieved by the shelter-forest of the Tarim Desert Highway. A diversified environment is a valuable resource for humanity. We attach great importance to minimizing our environmental impacts in the whole process of our operations. In 2011, we organized and carried out three-tier water pollution prevention and control inspection, and identified environmental risks near rivers and environmentally sensitive areas. We actively carried out environmental protection activities on the World Environment Day (June 5th) to deepen biological and environmental protection. Case Study Protecting Arable Land for Ecological Restoration As one of its efforts to protect the environment, Changqing Oilfield Company tries its best to minimize the occupation of arable land and to restore land to agriculture use. By the end of 2011, it has reclaimed a total of 25,333 hectares of land. Since 2000, the company compiled reclamation plans for the land taken for oil wells in 4 provinces (autonomous region) through field research, extensive data collection and sorting out, and reclaimed 24,333 hectares of land. Since 2005, over 2,700 abandoned well sites in these four provinces (autonomous region) were reclaimed apart from completely blocking the sewage oil wells. They also took the measure of reclaiming land immediately after discovering the newly drilled wells without exploratory development value, which effectively Changqing Ansai oilfield increased efforts to reuse idle land. improved the land utilization rate. 2011 Sustainability Report 33 5. Addressing Climate Change Climate change is a major global issue faced by all. As a 19 and 35). In addition, we continue to strengthen exploration responsible energy company, we actively support the policies and development of unconventional natural gas such as CBM and actions taken by China to address climate change and take and shale gas, and R&D of utilizing low carbon energy such as the initiative to reduce carbon emissions and sequestrate carbon fuel ethanol and biomass (see page 21), to provide clean and to contribute to the mitigation of global climate change. environmentally friendly products. Reducing Carbon Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emission Initiatives We have been constantly integrating and optimizing resources, We actively support GHG initiatives to promote a green lifestyle. eliminating inefficient and high energy-consuming equipment In 2011, China Green Carbon Sequestration Fund”, launched and processes, and increasing circulation of waste energy. We by PetroChina and State Forestry Administration, together with strive to achieve clean production and use wind and solar Huadong Forestry Exchange, launched the first forestry carbon power in our operation in areas where the conditions permit, sequestration trading pilot in Yiwu, Zhejiang Province, to further such as Sulige gas field and Tarim oilfield. At the same time, boost the development of forestry carbon sequestration. we strengthen R&D in energy saving technology and optimal energy integration technology to reduce carbon emissions in our production and operations (see page 30). Environment-friendly Products We vigorously develop natural gas and continue to strengthen the exploration and development of natural gas reserves, and drive the increase of storage with technology innovation while enhancing the storage and transportation facilities (see page Kela-2 gas field uses solar energy in the Gobi Desert for illumination. 34 Energize . Harmonize . Realize CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET SERVICE Petrochemical products are part of people's lives. We insist on the concept of emphasis on the environment and safety, high quality and people-oriented”, the principle of honesty and quality excellence in pursuit of the goal of “zero defects, zero accidents, and being a leader in China and first-class in the world”. We try our best to provide clean, qualified and diversified products with management and technological innovation so as to deliver a satisfactory service for our customers. 2011 Sustainability Report 35 1. Guaranteeing Market Supply With the economy rapidly developing, demand for oil and started an emergency supply plan to deliver oil to these areas gas in the market is sustaining strong growth. As one of the by optimizing resources allocation, improving the process load, major oil & gas suppliers in China, we strive to stabilize and purchasing from outside and increasing imports, etc., which guarantee market supply to ensure stable economic and social ensured timely supply. development. Satisfying Demand of Natural Gas Construction of Storage Facilities It is our strategy to accelerate development of natural gas and In order to adjust seasonal and various regional demands for increase its supply to optimize energy mix, facilitate green oil and gas products, and enhance peak-shaving capacity development and build an environment-friendly society. In 2011, of oil and gas supply, we have been constantly promoting we comprehensively coordinated the production, transportation the construction of oil and gas storage facilities. In 2011, nine and sales of natural gas, and optimized operations of the underground gas storage projects including Hutubi project in pipeline network to satisfy market demand for clean energy. Xinjiang, Xiangguosi project in Chongqing and Suqiao project During the peak season of winter, we developed in advance in North China commenced construction. After completion, the production of main oil & gas fields, made full preparation in the peak-shaving capacity of the West-East pipeline system and resources saving, and coordinated with customers in key regions Shaanxi-Beijing pipeline system would be further improved. and companies. A total of over 75 billion cubic meters of natural The north zone of Dalian crude oil storage depot, Dushanzi and gas were delivered in 2011, with a growth rate of 19.5%, which Lanzhou crude oil storage depots were completed and put into secured safe and stable gas supply for the public. operation, enhancing supply capacity and market adjustment. Guaranteeing Supply of Refined Products In 2011, we adjusted and optimized the product mix in line with market demand and increased diesel/gasoline ratio appropriately. At the same time we strengthened market consumption forecast and followed market dynamics, providing over 140 million tons of refined products including 90 million tons of diesel, up by 20.4% and 18.0% respectively year-on-year. In response to the oil product supply shortage during the drought, flooding and disasters period in some regions, we Provided over 140 of refined products million tons Delivered over of natural gas 75 billion cubic meters 36 Energize . Harmonize . Realize Case Study Stabilizing Oil Product Supply in Special Periods In 2011, severe droughts in parts of China had caused short and quality of oil product, established “green channels” for supply of oil products in these regions. In order to safeguard agricultural machineries for rapid refueling, organized over the supply, PetroChina took ten measures, including increas650 employee volunteers to drive tank trucks or vehicles to ing production, strengthened resources coordination, and deliver oil products to farming fields, and offering free help optimizing transportation, to ensure timely supply of oil to gather wheat crops for farmers with difficulties. products. In southern China hit by severe flooding, our affiliated marOur affiliated refining and chemical companies took effective keting companies designed and improved supply plans. measures to increase diesel production. Dagang PetrochemiGuizhou Marketing Company had contacted the local govcal Company maximized diesel production by optimizing ernments as soon as the flood occurred, opened hotline for process of refining equipments, and strictly controlled prosupply and prepared vehicles and oil products for immediate cesses to ensure product quality. Lanzhou Petrochemical action. Hunan Marketing Company strengthened coordinaCompany held coordination conferences to analyze all praction and transport, increased storage and set up designated tical operations, so as to strengthen its production. service stations to ensure effective supply for disaster relief. Our affiliated marketing companies delivered in-time services for key regions, helping agricultural production through multiple measures. Henan Marketing Company set up a senior management team to guarantee supply, established and improved service supervision mechanism to ensure quantities PetroChina Adopts Ten Measures to Guarantee Supply 1. Refining companies run at full load with safe production, and arranged inspection and maintenance by peak-load shifting. 2. Marketing companies exert every effort to allocate resources and try to set up a stable and effective resources supply channel with the principle of “taking subsidiary refining as the primary, local refining as the supplement, swapping resources among companies, and coordination of imports and exports”. 3. Exert efforts in scientifically organizing resources allocation and regulating sales, so as to effectively meet emergency needs during special periods and in key regions. 4. Adhere to honest operation, guarantee quality of oil products, and especially strengthen management of imported resources and commission-based storage to protect customers’ interests. 5. Actively provide convenient services for “agriculture, rural areas and farmers”, including “providing oil for villages” and delivering small amount of oil to fields by small tank truck, etc. 6. Establish “green channels” for emergency and special cases so as to give priority to vehicles transporting oil products. 7. Enhance marketing network construction, strengthen on-site management at service stations, improve and ensure service quality even in times of emergencies and other special cases. 8. Strictly follow China’s price policy for refined products, comply with sales disciplines and ensure quality and quantity of products so as to sustain market order. 9. Ensure supply while making profit, fulfill our responsibilities according to our abilities, and provide oil products according to market demand. 10. Strengthen communication with local governments and work with peers to undertake the responsibility of ensuring supply and maintaining market stability. 2011 Sustainability Report 37 2. Advancing Quality Management Adhering to the principle of “quality first”, we regulate quality Quality and Measurement Management management rigorously as a responsible petrochemical producer and supplier. In 2011, we started construction of large volume metering stations in Urumqi and Guangzhou and verification stations in Strengthening Foundation Management Beijing, Wuhan and Tarim. We increased investment to manage quality risks, improve product quality and update quality Since 2010, we have launched foundation management inspection devices by management and technology innovation, project with quality, measurement, standardization, process and carried out refined product quality supervision and spot management and institutional building as priorities. Our checks to ensure that the oil products are qualified. Daqing affiliated companies improved management system based on Oilfield Company strengthened quality management and won their practical situation, upgrading management standards of the award of National Advanced Quality Management Unit quality, measurement, standardization, process management (2009-2010)”. and institutional building. We launched Quality Month activities and organized various quality exercises to enhance the quality awareness of the overall employees to further advance quality management. Improving Management System Demand for natural gas, a kind of clean energy, has been increasing drastically recently, as has for natural gas transferring-meters with the conWe developed a Promotional Plan for Building Quality Managestruction of pipelines. In order to meet the rapidly increasing requirements ment System and pushed forward quality management system of natural gas flow measurement and verification, we have conducted recertification. 96.8% of our affiliated companies established the search on a natural gas value transfer and traceability system. In addition, system, and 92.4% passed the certification by a 3rd party. We carried approved by the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection out a quality management evaluation system for 29 affiliated and Quarantine of China, we set up large volume metering stations in companies, improving the overall management standards, and Urumqi and Guangzhou, and verification stations in Beijing, Wuhan and strengthened standard formulation and revision, with formulation Tarim based on our pipeline network. and revision of 142 standards at the corporate level. Formulated and revised 142 standards at the corporate level Carried out quality management system evaluation for 29 affiliated companies 38 Energize . Harmonize . Realize Special Topic Sichuan Marketing Company Strengthening Quality and Measurement Management Strengthening quality and measurement management to improve service quality. Adhering to the principle of “quality first”, Sichuan Marketing Ensuring oil quality with strict checks and controls. The Company constantly upgraded quality management standards company strictly controlled purchasing channels, applied unified by improving the quality and measurement management procurement, checked before placing purchases to eliminate system, strengthening quality system building, and improving unqualified oil, and conducted regular testing to prevent measurement inspection methods. In 2011, the company was oil products from deterioration. In addition, it carried out sampled and inspected for nearly 300 times by quality and technical process management and equipment maintenance, technical supervision agencies at national and provincial level strengthened transport management to keep oil products from with acceptability rating reaching 100%. being contaminated in transportation, launched spot checks of oil products and established an archive of samples to secure the Assigning quality management responsibilities. We set up quality of products for our customers. a quality management team and designated responsibilities relevant to departments and supervisors. In addition, full-time Reinforcing Metering Control and Carrying out Honest and part-time supervisors were assigned to the oil depots and Metering. The company established three information systems service stations. Furthermore, a quality management assessment including oil depot management information system and a mechanism was put in place to ensure individual accountability. horizontal tank volume calibration system, to improve metering precision and management efficiency, launched the activity of Strengthening systems building of management and “Honest Metering at Service Stations” with quality supervision supervision. The company compiled 30 documents and 15 departments in Sichuan Province for two consecutive years, operation instructions, set up a sampling system for oil product signed a letter of commitment, and promulgated “6 don’ts” to quality supervision, and formulated the Management Regulation strengthen honest metering. on Oil Product Supervision and Sampling etc. to carry out internal quality sampling and release reports each quarter. 2011 Sustainability Report 39 3. Focusing on Research and Development We have been continuously improving R&D system building, Award of the China Technology Market Association. The aviation and innovating new products to meet market demand through biofuel passed the certification with the test fly of Boeing 747new technologies, processes, equipments, materials and 400 aircraft. The applications of these technologies will provide upgrading existing production plants. At the same time, with customers with more environment-friendly, energy-saving, and our strong R&D team, constant reform of the R&D management durable chemical products. system, and technological investment, we could provide customers with a diverse range of qualified products. In 2011, together with the National Natural Science Foundation of China, we jointly established a United Petroleum and Petrochemical Fund to promote sustainable development of the industry and enhance independent innovation capability. We set up a vehicle lubricant joint research laboratory with Shanghai Jiaotong University for the research of lubricants for new energy vehicles. The project of R&D and Industrial Application of Technology on Producing High End Products from Naphthenic Base Heavy Oil won 1st prize in the National Award of Scientific and Technological Progress. The project of High Yield of Light Oil, Heavy Oil Efficient Conversion of Catalytic Cracking Catalyst Research center at PetroChina Lubricant Company strengthening R&D. won the Outstanding Project Award in the 5th Golden Bridge Newly Developed Refined Products in 2011 Name Purpose Highly efficient and environmentHelp crops absorb nutrients, increase yields, improve product quality, raise nitrogen use friendly SODm urea efficiency, and reduce environmental pollution Ultra low sulfur diesel Produce clean gasoline meeting national IV emission standard , and clean diesel hydrogenation catalyst meeting State IV and State V emission standards Corrosion resistant, anti-leaking at the connector, and highly adaptive to the uneven settlement of Polyethylene pipe material PE100 the base, PE100 is used for transmission of water and gas under high pressure. Corrosion resistant, heat resistant and easily machine-shaped, PP-R is used for hot and cold Polyethylene pipe material PP-R water pipes within the building Environment-friendly oilMeeting the REACH requirements of EU, oil-extend SBR is applied to the production of extended SBR environment-friendly tires and other rubber products. 40 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 4. Providing High Quality Products We have been optimizing the product mix and providing diversified and environment-friendly products with high quality, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, diesel oil, lubricants, and chemical products of different grades. Our products are widely used in many fields, such as automobiles, building materials, electronic products, pharmacy, printing, household appliances and daily chemicals. In 2011, we provided adequate oil & gas products according to market demand (see page 35). We continued to upgrade quality oil products with the proportion of high-grade gasoline reaching 96.7%. All our gasoline products met the National III emission standard, and the proportion of diesel oil products meeting the National III emission standard reached 35%. In addition, we provided 22.62 million tons of chemical products, of which agricultural fertilizer reached 4.23 million tons, and developed 75 types of new chemical products, which provides high quality, environment-friendly and diversified products for customers. Case Study Supplying LNG to Protect Blue Sky in Tibet Lhasa, the capital of Tibet Autonomous Region, is located into operation in October 2011 and began providing clean at an average altitude of over 4,000 meters. Gasoline, diesel, energy in Tibet. coal and LPG are mainly used as primary energy, and some local residents use wood, cool and cow dung, which is detrimental to the local environment. In order to make clean and high-efficient natural gas available to local residents, we launched City Gas Project in Tibet that natural gas from Qaidam basin is transformed into LNG and transported to Lhasa. Phase one of the project includes 1 LNG receiving terminal and 2 filling stations providing 30 million cubic meters of natural gas for Lhasa, which would replace 36,000 tons of standard coal, reducing 70,000 tons of carbon dioxide and 24,500 tons of dust emissions, and meet energy needs of 1/3 of population for civil use, taxis A taxi driver in Lhasa smiling after refueling his cab. and buses, and some enterprises. The LNG terminal was put 2011 Sustainability Report 41 5. Delivering Thoughtful Services We have been persistently improving our service and quality to Constantly Improving Service Quality offer a satisfactory consumption experience to our customers. In 2011, we launched the activities of serving the people and Expanding Services Categories striving for excellence” to improve service quality by soliciting customer suggestions and carrying out satisfaction evaluations. We constantly expanded our service network and improved We provided technical assistance and tracking service to help management at service stations for the purpose of providing customers understand product specification, and undertook convenient services to customers. We set up uSmile convenience activities to protect customers’ rights and interests, as well stores at ser vice stations to provide a one-stop ser vice. as helping customers identify inferior products. In addition, We also promoted the speed engine oil change service, together with the Chinese Society of Automotive Engineers, provided services such as engine oil change, the three filter PetroChina Lubricant Company formulated the Commercial replacement and engine maintenance. We further promoted Vehicle Lubrication Guidelines to help commercial vehicle users the fuel card service to realize “one unified card for nationwide standardize utilization of lubrication products. service stations” and electronic sales of refined products, and established the 95504 hotline to provide convenient and rapid 19,000 services. By the end of 2011, we had over 19,000 service stations and over 11,000 convenience stores. over service stations over11,000 convenience stores Case Study Striving for Excellence and Serving Society Adhering to the principle of customer first , our marketOffering a variety of non-oil services. Donghuan Service ing companies have launched activities of “serving the Station of Nanning Branch at Guangxi Marketing Company people and striving for excellence” to provide qualified and eatablished a uSmile convenience store with tables and thoughtful services for customers. chairs, etc. where our customers can take a rest or do shopping. Our service zone on the Shanghai-Kunming expressProviding thoughtful oil services. To improve work effiway is equipped with 6 shower rooms to provide free showciency, staff from Shandong Marketing Company collected ers for long haul drivers, which is dubbed as the “drivers’ and memorized tank mouth locations of different vehicles home”. Zhangbenhe Service Station at Yunnan Marketing to avoid wrong positioning with refueling machines when Company, located in the northern suburbs of Kunming, prorefilling. Thanks to their efforts, they guided vehicles efvides one-stop services including mobile phone chargers, ficiently and saved customers’ time. Beijing Marketing ATM, coffee machines, etc, in the customers lounge area. Company carried out customer service investigation and collected feedback on service attitude, efficiency and quality so as to make proper improvements. Xinjiang Marketing Company launched the “smile service” to provide friendly services with smiles. 42 Energize . Harmonize . Realize “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Employees are our most precious asset at PetroChina. Our values are based on a “people-oriented” approach and we take employees’ overall development as one of the key objectives of corporate development. We protect employees’ rights, build up a career development platform, promote the diversification localization of staff and strengthen the security of employees working overseas. We strive to achieve the optimization of both corporate values and employees’ benefits. 2011 Sustainability Report 43 1. Protect Employees’ Rights 13.59% PetroChina consistently adheres to the concept of being “people 12.10% oriented”. We respect and maintain the legitimate rights of our employees to promote the localization and integration of diverse 60.69% cultures, and make efforts to solve the problems of great concern to employees. We aim to guarantee that all employees can share in the 7.98% achievement of corporate development. 1.88% 3.76% Fair Treatment Sales staff Management staff PetroChina strictly adheres to the Labour Law of the People’s Republic Financial staff Technicians of China, the Labour Contract Law of People’s Republic of China, and Others Operating staff the rules and regulations of the jurisdictions where our shares are listed, and we rigorously fulfill international conventions endorsed by the Chinese government, as well as the laws and regulations where we carry out our operations. We have established a well-developed employment management system composed of labor contracts, remunerations, insurance and benefits, performance evaluation, reward and penalties, vocational training and vacation. We place a high 2.36% premium on employee’s interests and make maximum efforts to protect the legitimate rights and interests of current and retired employees in 24.13% a bid to develop an interest sharing mechanism for the company and employees. 50.54% We provide equal opportunities and fair treatment to all employees regardless of their nationality, ethnicity, race, gender, religion and culture. We strictly prohibit the employment and use of child labor and resist all forms of forced labor. Male and female employees enjoy equal rights in 22.97% the company. Additionally, the Company has always aimed to promote Masters degree and above the employment of local residents, women and ethnic minorities in an University effort to increase job opportunities for local communities College Secondary technical school or below Democratic Participation Attaching great importance to democratic management, participation and supervision, the Company established trade unions as well as the Democratic Management System and Factory Affairs Publicity System through employee representative associations. By clarifying all obligations and rights, organization system and working system of employee representative associations, we further standardized the content, process and forms of the Factory Affairs Publicity System, and continuously improve democracy in corporate governance. 32.78% The company and all its affiliates have developed a variety of channels of 67.22% communication with employees and adhered to democratic procedures, through convening an employee representative congress and employee Female representative meetings. In this way, employees’ opinions are solicited, and employees are encouraged to participate in the company’s Male operations and management. In addition, the labor coordination mechanism has been improved to achieve harmonious labor relations. 44 Energize . Harmonize . Realize Remuneration and Motivation The performance measurement and remuneration system has been further improved, with the aim of building a remuneration structure that can highlight the value and performance of employees in dif ferent positions so that ever y employee can realize their self-worth. In addition, we carry on with the supplementary medical care and insurance system and an enterprise annuity system so as to ensure employees’ interests. In recent years, the company has allocated resources towards employees working in the R&D area, on the frontline and in harsh environments, thereby gradually improving the salary for such positions. Raising salaries for employees on the frontline. Case Study Summer Camps Strengthening Family Relationships More and more of our employees have opportunities to mute” session enhanced mutual trust, while the “Da Vinci work overseas as the Company becomes increasingly intercode” session tested collaboration of family members. These national. At the same time, they are also plagued by loneliactivities strengthened the communication between disness away from their families. China National Oil and Gas patched employees and their families and enhanced family Exploration and Development Corporation (CNODC) have relationship. organized two summer camps since 2010, which helped employees reunite with their families and strengthened their relationships. In 2011, the second summer camp with the theme of “Family Love and Gratitude” was held in Qinhuangdao, Hebei Province, joined by 40 employees working in 15 countries with their families. The camp included 9 sessions. In the “icebreaking” session, participants were divided into 3 teams. Each team had to communicate and decide on the leader, name, flag and song of the team within the time limit. In the “gratitude” session, every member closed their eyes and talked with each other with relaxing music. The “blind and Dispatched employees enjoying a happy time at the seaside. 2011 Sustainability Report 45 2. Occupational Health PetroChina attaches great importance to occupational health, Health Service during Operation putting employees’ health and safety above everything. We implemented the Occupational Disease Prevention Law, follow the We pay high at tention to disease prevention and health working laws of occupational health, and improve the working protection of employees and strengthening health management conditions to protect the physical and mental health of our staff. and services in operations. We organized programs to prevent contagious diseases, intestinal infectious diseases and enhanced Occupational Health & Surveillance the quality of diet and drinking water hygiene according to the characteristics of different companies. We also advocate We have further standardized employees’ occupational health companies to carry out psychological health consultation surveillance, organized physical checks for employees working on services, and continued to provide occupational training and the frontline, and strengthened occupational health surveillance consultation to frontline employees. for contractors and temporary workers who are exposed to hazards. We also improved occupational health surveillance files Occupational Health Communications and 95% of employees have undergone physical checks. With the active promotion of the Code of Occupational Disease Prevention of Occupational Diseases Prevention of the PRC, we strengthened employees’ awareness of disease protection and taught them knowledge on occupational We have proactively implemented detection, prevention and diseases prevention and treatment. We also gave lectures on control of occupational hazards at workplaces. We further unified occupational health at our affiliated companies. In 2011, the the evaluation management of projects under construction to Company conducted occupational health lectures and training ensure that the labor safety and health related facilities of these for 400 managements and technicians. projects can be designed, constructed and put into operation with main projects simultaneously. We strengthened evaluation of occupational diseases for newly built and renovated projects, and launched research on occupational diseases causes, hazard detection, noise prevention, and occupational health services. Case Study Psychological Counseling for Frontline Workers The west section of the West-East Gas Pipeline is located in Lop Nur, an area of adverse natural conditions in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Employees working there suffer from being away from families and friends for a long period, which might lead to emotional problems. In 2011, psychologists were brought in to provide counseling to employees in frontline offices. Counseling services were offered according to employees’ individual situation. For managers, the experts helped them improve their communication skills to evaluate employees’ mental health. For employees, Psychological counseling helps frontline employees work and the experts taught them how to deal with negative emotions live happily. and work pressure so that they can face their life and work more positively. Such counseling services helped employees to work and live happily. 46 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 3. Growth Platform Talent is the core competence for the Company. Applying the Growth Mechanism modern enterprise training concept, the Company improved its training centers and networks provide training to all employees In 2011, we continued to develop three talent teams of operation with the purpose of developing a knowledgeable staff and a managers, professional technicians and skilled operatives in learning enterprise to achieve positive interaction between order to create a favorable environment in which all talent can employee growth and corporate development. thrive and grow. Through our efforts, the quality of the three teams was continuously enhanced. Sun Longde and Hu Wenrui Providing Training were selected as academicians of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. Four employees, including Shu Binxia from Liaohe We constantly provide training of various formats with the aim Oilfield Company, were selected to join the project to build the to improve capabilities of operation managers, professional first 50 skilled masters’ studios at national level. At the end of technicians, skilled operatives and international talents. 2011, the Company had 17 academicians of the Chinese Academy In 2011, we continued to push forward the construction of of Sciences and the Chinese Academy of Engineering, more training bases, curriculum and teaching faculties with a special than 740 experts entitled to the Government Special Allowance, focus on frontline employees, including engineers and operators, 74 management experts, 213 senior technical experts, and to improve their skills. 185 senior skilled experts. Apart from that, we are proactively introducing high caliber staff from other countries that 14 Every year, the Company selects a group of excellent managers experts have passed the evaluation of the Thousand People Plan, and key technicians, and sends them to reputable universities and a national program aimed at attracting outstanding talent from training agencies at home and abroad to get training in foreign abroad. languages, international business, business administration, law and other specialties. In 2011, over 300 employees were offered training opportunities in Session 6 of the “1,000-People Training Project”, a program dedicated to training international talents. The Headquarters of the Company organized 114 training programs in 2011 with 20,000 attendants. More than 95% of the senior technicians and employees working in key positions received training in the year. Capacity Building Program Skill Improving Program for operation managers for skilled operatives Four major training programs Technological Innovation Program 1000-People Training Program for professional technicians for international talents 2011 Sustainability Report 47 Case Study Caring for Frontline Staff Welfare and Development The No. 16 Station in Daqing Oilfield Company created a “big family” culture for its employees. A “Love Archive” was established to take note of each employee’s personality, health status, hobbies and interests so that congratulations or greetings could be sent to employees whenever they are ill, in family disputes, during holidays, etc. Apart from that, the station has set up special funds to encourage employees to keep learning, and chose employees as a “model of selfteaching” to encourage self-improvement. At present, 45% of its employees are senior workers, 35 employees have acquired dual operating certificates, 16 have passed skill accreditation for three posts and 26 have junior college qualifications or above. The No. 16 Station encouraging employees to learn more. Case Study Providing Equal Development Platform for Employees Attaching great importance to employees’ development, Guizhou Marketing Company provides an all-round training program, including introduction training and professional skills to help employees get acquainted with the corporate culture and improve their capabilities. The company has designed career development plans based on employees’ hobbies, interests and abilities, and provided a platform for them to grow through fair recruitment and selection. Chen Wei, a post-1980 employee from Linquan Town, Qianxi County of Guizhou Province, joined the company in 2005 and passed the accounting test through her effort. In 2009, she won a Chen Wei with her colleagues at Qianxi Oil filling Station. promotion selection competition and became the manager of Jiuzizhai service station. At present, she is also responsible for the Qianxi service station and in charge of two service stations at the same time. 48 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 4. Local Staff Training We embrace an open corporate culture of respect and tolerance, Respect for Cultural Differences and uphold the principles of localization, professionalism and market-orientation in managing overseas talent. While we are We fully respect cultural diversity and local customs, and hold in the process of establishing ourselves as an integrated global activities according to local traditions to enhance mutual energy company, we are also promoting employee localization. understanding and strengthen cross-cultural cooperation. On the one hand, we encourage Chinese staff to learn local laws, Employee Localization history, culture and religious customs to better adapt to the local culture. On the other hand, we invite foreign employees to visit We proactively recruit local employees and provide training for China, and learn the Chinese language and culture. In addition, them based on their capabilities and qualifications, and select we promote mutual understanding among international local management personnel through fair competition. At the employees so that they could respect each other’s cultures and end of 2011, international and local employees accounted for customs. 94% of our overseas workforce. Management of Local Employees We have formulated Methods on Local Employees Management in Overseas Countries, according to the laws and regulations in overseas countries where we carry out operations, which covers hiring, attendance, vacation, performance evaluation, incentives and punishment. We have also refined the rules for each management process and position, which help us attract and retain outstanding local talent. Cultural diversity enhances communication and cooperation. Case Study Local Employee Development in Indonesia Our Indonesian project continuously improves the guidelines, Rewards and incentives. We conduct annual evaluation and rules and procedures of local employee management and has reward the staff based on their performance. We also hold established an evaluation and incentive system for the hiring annual conferences to show our appreciation for experiand training of local people. At present, local employees acenced employees. count for 98% of the workforce in the Indonesian project. Respect for cultural differences. We respect the religious Improve training system. We provide training on petroleum beliefs of individuals from different countries or regions, and technology and risk management for local staff every year provide our staffs with various dining and living choices. In according to job requirements and individual requests, seaddition, we hold various parities to promote communicalected key technicians and managers for international busition among employees with different background. ness training in other countries and employees for training courses in China University of Petroleum. Up till now, over 200 employees have attended the courses. 2011 Sustainability Report 49 5. Security in Overseas Operations We pay great attention to the safety and security of our overseas employees. Committed to the philosophy of “employees’ lives above everything”, we established a social security system for overseas business. We have founded the HSE Committee for International Cooperation, and the Office for Overseas Antiterrorism, Security and HSE, established social security working teams in 10 countries where security situations were rather tense, introduced controlling system for social security risks, allocated emergency response resources and improved related plans, so as to manage and evaluate such risks. In addition, we have established partnership and joint emergency response mechanisms with the local governments, Chinese embassies and consulates, and security institutions in overseas countries Overseas emergency response platform to conducted trainings on knowledge of anti-terrorism, security and emergency response, as well as management and skills of overseas project security. We signed the Safety and Environment Accountability Pledge with overseas business units so that security responsibility would be implemented to each overseas project. No security accident occurred during 2011 in our overseas projects. 50 Energize . Harmonize . Realize GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY As our wealth comes from society, it is also our duty to contribute back to the community. Holding socialeconomic development as our ultimate goal, we attach great importance to the well-being of the people and social advancement. We never waver in helping the poor, assisting students with financial difficulties, volunteering in community services, and participating in community building. Through our efforts, we strive to build a harmonious society. 2011 Sustainability Report 51 1. Promoting Development of Local Economies PetroChina’s development is inseparable from the support of governments, communities and the public. In turn, our sustainable and stable energy supply has also boosted local socio-economic development. In addition, the development and construction of oil and gas fields, refining chemicals and pipelines also cultivate local suppliers and contractors, drive the development of relevant local industries and create a large number of jobs opportunities. Case Study Tarim Oilfield Company Promoting Sustainable Development in South Xinjiang As an important oil and gas production base in westTarim Oilfield Company began to launch the projern China, Tarim Oilfield Company actively supports ect of “Gasification of South Xinjiang” in 1999, and local development while providing sufficient and constantly expanded the coverage of natural gas for high quality energy resources, which laid a solid founcivilian use, improved the ecological environment in dation for sustainable development in south Xinjiang. South Xinjiang and created a favorable environment for business in the local area. The amount of gas With its strength in resources, the company actively transported to the 5 areas in South Xinjing increased promoted the development of local industries in from 200,000 cubic meters to more than 7 million southern Xinjiang, such as civil energy, gas generated cubic meters currently, providing over 8.6 billion electricity, and petrochemicals, and built petrochemicubic meters of high quality natural gas for 450,000 cal bases in Korla-Luntai, Kuche-Aksu, and Kashgarfamilies across 30 cities and counties. Zepu around the Tarim Basin. Many oil-production auxiliary enterprises as well as large-scale refined Over the past 10 years, development of oil and chemicals projects have been introduced in cities natural gas in the Tarim Basin has increased local including Korla, Aksu and Kashgar. It also supported fiscal revenue. Bayingoling Mongol Autonomous infrastructure constructions and established “PetroPrefecture and Akzo Area witnessed a GDP increase leum Schools”, “Petroleum Tunnels”, and “Petroleum of over 30 times over the past 20 years. In 2011, the Clinics”, etc. oil industry accounted for over 70% of the added industrial value in these regions. Petrochemical development bringing job opportunities to “Petroleum Clinics” bringing convenience to local people. local residents. 52 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2. Poverty Alleviation Poverty is an important constraint on sustainable development aromatization technique, which we offered to Taiqian County and natural disasters tend to aggravate poverty. The Company in Henan Province for free, was hailed by the state as one of supports and promotes poverty alleviation through promoting the National Programs in the Key Industry Rejuvenation and poverty alleviation projects, supporting the development of Technological Renovation in 2011. We volunteered to assist two local industries and increasing job opportunities. old revolutionary areas of Hengfeng County in Jiangxi Province and Xishui County in Guizhou Province. In 2011, we donated over Guided by the Outline for Development-oriented Poverty Reduc37 million RMB for poverty alleviation. tion for China's Rural Areas (2011-2020), we have been vigorously participating in poverty alleviation efforts in some povertystricken counties and villages in Xinjiang, Henan, Tibet, Qinghai, Chongqing, Guizhou and Jiangxi. In 2011, all our pover ty alleviation projects were put into operation. We provided 13 training sessions for 540 people on more than a dozen of courses on plastering, automobile repair, cooking, etc. The C4 Case Study Bringing Benefit to Remote Dashui Village China Southern Petroleum Exploration & Development Corwater dam to channel water into the village and dug a lake to poration has launched several poverty alleviation projects develop the fishery sector, to improve local capacity of susfor Dashui Village in Qiongshan District, Haikou City, Hainan tainable development. Province. In 2011, it invested more than RMB 500,000 in inBuilding a culturally rich village. To enrich people’s cultural frastructure construction and local economic development life, the company constructed a cultural hall with 2 book projects. Now Dashui Village began to take on a new look. shelves and more than 500 books. Apart from that, employImproving living conditions. The company participated ees also made generous donations to local senior and disin local infrastructure construction including dilapidated abled people. houses repairing, sewage facilities construction, etc., mendJi Wenlin, Mayor of Haikou city, commented that the compaed 1,100 meters of roads and 1,500 meters of alleys, dug a ny “carries social responsibility, and these contributions really 30-meter-depth well with large diameter, and set up a water benefited local villagers.” To express their gratitude, villagers storage tower with a capacity of 30 tons. also gave the company a wood inscription saying “immeasurCultivating local industries. The company helped build a able kindness to Dashui”. cultural square, lake-side docks, fishing platforms and wood houses according to local conditions, to establish a rural tourism industry. In addition, it helped farmers construct a The original look of the main road of Dashui Village Newly built cement road leading to all homes of the village 2011 Sustainability Report 53 Special Topic Ten-Year Aid into Northern Tibet PetroChina’s medical team offering medical service to local residents. Shuanghu Special Zone, a remote place in Naqu area of Tibet Dispatch of management staff. In all, 8 management staff with an average altitude of 5,000 meters, is an area with the in 5 batches have been sent to Tibet to carry out tailor-made lowest population density. Since 2002, PetroChina, together programs. The third batch, after exchange with local government, with CNPC, focusing on the capacity building of sustainable decided to shift their focus to pasture regions with over 80% development in Shuanghu, carried out poverty relief projects of the funds and projects targeting local villages while giving and improved the living conditions of local residents. Over the consideration to infrastructure development at the same time. past decade, local fiscal revenue increased by almost 3 times and Training and education. We held 9 training sessions for local net income per capita nearly doubled. officials and invited over 200 officials and technicians to inland Improvement in local livelihood. We built villages and houses to cities to update their knowledge. Meanwhile, we donated more help strengthen their abilities of disaster prevention. Investment than 1,800 books and helped establish a library. was made in PV Lighting projects so that electric lights and TV Health care service. We organized medical teams to provide sets could be accessible to local farmers and herdsmen. We physical examinations to local residents. In 2011, the 3rd mobile participated in developing infrastructure such as service stations, clinic team with 6 members was sent to 3 villages of two radio and television centers, and renovating electric lines. We counties, offering free health diagnosis and medicines to local further enhanced public service facilities including nursing residents. On September 28, a special article was published homes, kindergartens and clinics. Over the past 10 years, we in Tibet Daily appreciating PetroChina’s efforts in medical supported 84 projects dedicated to improving local people’s treatment. livelihood. These projects have improved local infrastructures and the living standard for farmers and herdsmen. 54 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 3. Support for Education Supporting educational initiatives is an important part of our contribution to social development. By establishing various scholarships and fellowships, donating funds to build primary schools and subsidizing poor teachers and students, we actively contribute to educational development in China. Since 2010, our af filiated companies in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region have established a special education fund of RMB 50 million every year for local elementary education. In 2011, we introduced a new round of China Petroleum Scholarship with 13 colleges and universities including Peking University, Tsinghua University and China University of Petroleum (Beijing) increasing its total amount and giving more favorable treatment to impoverished students and lowerPetroChina Scholarship Award ceremony grade students. Apart from that, we sponsored two schools for immigrant students in Zhongning County and Xixia District of Yinchuan in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. We donated over 110 million RMB for educational activities in 2011. Case Study Building a New School for Local Pupils A new primary school was built by PetroChina in Baota District, Yan’an City, where it was wild and isolated three years ago, with modernized equipment, which is convenient for local pupils. Before the establishment of this school in 2008, there were only primary schools in remote villages with outdated facilities and only a few teachers, and the number of students kept declining. Nowadays, after several years of development, this primary school, with its brightly lit classrooms, is equipped with science laboratories, counseling rooms, audio-video Children in a new school studying and living happily. rooms, dancing rooms, music classrooms, and multi-media facilities. At present, there are more than 1,200 students studying in 23 classes. The school provides local pupils with a good studying atmosphere with enhanced facilities and teaching faculty, which inspired students to be more passionate with their studies. 2011 Sustainability Report 55 4. Volunteer Activities In areas where we carry out our business operations, lots of volunteer teams composed of our employees carry out volunteer actions all year round. They voluntarily help employees with difficulties, help poor students, take care of widowed seniors and disabled people, plant trees, and protect the environment. Volunteers from Lanzhou Petrochemical Company offered help to seniors, provided free tutorship for pupils, and gave financial support to poor students. During the 8th National Games of Disabled People, volunteer teams from Zhejiang Marketing Company, provided their top services to players and audience. The volunteer Association of Ningxia Petrochemical Company organized volunteers carried out initiatives protecting the Yellow River and assisting people in difficult situations, and earned the A young volunteer encourages a student to study hard. Award for Excellent Organization of Volunteers bestowed by the Central Committee of the Communist Youth League of China. In 2011, the number of volunteer teams exceeded 5,000, with over 140,000 volunteers, and more than 1 million people benefited from their initiatives. Case Study Employee Volunteers of Urumqi Petrochemical Company Extend Helping Hands Volunteers of Urumqi Petrochemical Company have been past decade, volunteers have been visiting her every day to taking the initiative to serve local communities. help her cleaning snow, sweeping the floor, and maintaining her house. Services for local communities. They constantly delivers convenient services every year, including home appliances Voluntary Blood Donations. There is a voluntary blood dorepair, laundry, and leather polishing, which has benefited nation in the company which keeps helping patients in danmore than 30,000 people over the past ten years. ger. In 2011, over 300 volunteers donated a total of 80,000 c.c. Caring for the disadvantaged. Volunteers visit nursing of blood, enriching the inventory of the local blood bank. homes, orphanages, schools for the blind and the SOS Children’s Villages on a regular basis, taking care of seniors and children. The company even established a special mechanism in order to take good care of a senior widow. During the 56 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 5. Contributions to Overseas Communities PetroChina has been adhering to the principle of “cooperation Community Construction for mutual benefit and joint development” for a long time, and devoted to developing long-term partnerships with the We actively carry out activities of infrastructure construction, countries where it operates. poverty alleviation, disaster relief, professional training to improve living standards for local people and realized common Local Procurement development with local communities. In Kazakhstan, we initiated a scholarship program in Qyzylorda which funded 88 local Localized procurement has not only reduces our operation high-school students to study at colleges in China, Canada and costs, but also boosts the development of local SMEs, thus Kazakhstan since 2005, and offered support for local low-income creating job opportunities for local communities. Therefore, families, disabled children and veterans. PetroChina puts great emphasis on the procurement of local products and services. For example, we rely on local resources as much as possible and conduct technical cooperation with local enterprises and work with local SMEs for logistical support in Indonesia. Environmental Protection We focus on environmental protection while developing our projects. By optimizing processes and applying energysaving and emissions reduction technologies, we protect local ecological environments and minimize the impact on the environment. In Peru, we apply low pressure, high volume sewage re-injection supporting technologies to monitor sewage Indonesian project supporting local farmers’ development treatment so as to protect the tropical rainforest effectively. Case Study Green Operation in Chad Chad is an inland country located in central Africa on the analysis and compared water, soil and atmospheric samples southern edge of the Sahara Desert. With its dry climate and extracted before drilling with that after the operations. We vulnerable ecological environment, it is listed as one of the constructed waste treatment facilities and recycled waste to least developed countries in the world by the United Nations. reduce the impact. Galen Jones, a Canadian environmental protection expert, commented that “PetroChina adopts high While carrying out operations, we pay strong attention to environmental protection standards and adheres to these environmental protection. Strictly adhering to the laws and standards strictly.” regulations of Chad, we invited special agencies to identify the potential effects of our operation on the environment, including plants, wild animals and historical relics, to minimize negative impacts. We also conducted environmental 2011 Sustainability Report 57 Special Topic Community Development in Kazakhstan Petroleum cooperation has driven local Emba-Zhanazhol Railway has brought Helping talented Kazakhstan youth economic development. convenience to the villages along it. to get college education. Since its cooperation with Kazakhstan, PetroChina has boosted Infrastructure construction. We built natural gas pipelines local economic development, fostered local talents and and power stations for remote villages and invested in the participated in public welfare undertakings, which promoted construction of the Emba-Zhanazhol Railway, which brought common development for enterprises and local communities. convenience for villagers along the route. We donated over USD 6 million to Kyzylorda and South Kazakhstan to help with road Local economic development. For more than a decade, we repairs, community park construction, civilian electricity and have invested more than USD 6.5 billion in oil and gas projects gas utilization, and sponsored football clubs, schools, libraries, in Kazakhstan, contributed over USD 3 billion tax to local orphanages and hospices. The Aktobe Project has funded governments and created more than 30,000 job opportunities. local medical and health services continuously for many years, The Aktobe Project has accomplished the construction of oil providing over 60 ambulances to medical agencies in the and gas plants and facilities for its production, storage and autonomous prefecture, cities and regions, which improved local transportation. In addition, it has also provided over 9 billion healthcare standards. cubic meters of natural gas to local citizens and 406,000 tons of diesel at preferential prices, thus promoting socio-economic Public Welfare. Through the MMG project, we have proactively development. supported development in sports, culture and education in Kazakhstan, protected its cultural relics, established the Zhetibay Fos tering lo c al emp loye es . We send employe es f rom Sports and Cultural Center, and sponsored the Seventh Asian Kazakhstan for training in China or other countries each year. We Winter Games. We signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with convened a three-week training sessions for Kazakh employees the Kyzylorda State Government, donating USD 6.4 million for at the China University of Petroleum in Beijing for the past public welfare, with most of which used for projects related to seven consecutive years and arranged site visits to Dagang and peoples’ daily lives. In 2011, we were granted the “Enterprise with Shenzhen during their stay in China to learn about Chinese Sustainable Development Award” from the Kazakhstan Energy experience of oilfield management. Due to its outstanding Association, and the “Presidential Gold Award for Corporate quality of training, the Aktobe Project won the “Excellent Social Social Contribution”, signed by the President of Kazakhstan. Contribution Awards of Enterprises Training”. Currently, over 20,000 employees in Kazakh projects are local, which accounts for more than 97% of the total, while 60% of the administrative personnel are local. 58 Energize . Harmonize . Realize OBJECTIVES AND PLANS In 2012, the Company will fulfill three responsibilities for the sake of the economy, the environment and society by implementing three main strategies in the areas of resources, the market and the internationalization of operations through scientific approaches. We will focus on enhancing capabilities in independent innovation, consolidating the basis of business management and promoting the transformation of our development model, so as to further strengthen sustainability in all aspects. Item 2012 Targets Action Plans in 2012 1. To continue to promote “high growth in oil/gas reserves” projects, scientifically organize oil/gas production, adhere to the comprehensive study of fine geological research, focusing on exploration programmes and deployment, the integration of exploration and development, oil exploration and natural gas exploration. To stabilize and increase well-wise output and coordinate oil/gas field development. 2. To organize refining and chemical production to boost profitability, adhere to the principle processing suitable products for the markets, strengthen organization of production and scientifically allocate production load; and put emphasis on the construction and operation of key projects. 3. Speed up the development of the sales network and adopt targeted marketing Oil/Gas Stabilize the supply of oil/ strategies to enhance retail competence and ensure market supply. Production and gas and petrochemical 4. Further develop oil/gas pipelines and domestic pipeline networks and maintain rapid supply products growth of natural gas business; and enhance emergency peak capacity to ensure safe and stable gas supply. 5. Continue to consolidate and expand international oil/gas cooperation and maintain sustainable growth of overseas businesses; organize the implementation of major new projects; work on the exploration and development of existing projects; select oil/gas assets for mergers and acquisitions; and enhance the regulatory role of international trade in supply. 6. Strengthen technological innovation to support the development of core businesses; strengthen the implementation of major technological projects based on production needs and promote use of new technologies to further improve the company’s capabilities in innovation. 1. To perfect our safety and environmental responsibility systems, strengthen the contract management of safety and environmental protection, improve our accountability system for production safety and environmental protection and enhance the level of HSE management. Give prominence to 2. To reinforce the implementation and improvement of the HSE system; strengthen the Safety and operational safety, energy whole process of monitoring and contractor safety. Environmental efficiency and emissions 3. To strengthen production safety controls and transition management in the Protection reduction; eliminate construction, maintenance and temporary operations. major or severe accidents and reduce the fatal 4. To improve emergency response mechanisms, in particular, to enhance the accident rate contingency response and handling capability of frontline workers; to further improve the security mechanism in overseas projects. 5. To strengthen the prevention and control of environmental risks posed by facilities close to waters and other environmentally sensitive areas. 6. Focus on energy-saving projects to accelerate the implementation of energy management contracts, with a focus on promoting the use of energy-saving technologies and products. 2011 Sustainability Report 59 Item 2012 Targets Action Plans in 2012 1. To consider the improvement of the quality of employees as an important basis for long-term corporate development; and to push forward business management, professional techniques and technology; and build teams of high-skilled talents, especially high-quality international talents. To enhance team building 2. Carry out job training, highlighting the key positions and training of employees among employees and Employee overseas. frontline construction workers Development and further improve the 3. Strengthen development of ordinary staff members and teams and carry out team overall quality of the team development characterized by technical competence, high efficiency, professional management, innovativeness and harmony. 4. Enhance examination and testing on occupational hazards, strengthen occupational surveillance, improve work conditions and further enhance occupational healthcare. 1. To actively support and participate in public welfare activities and strengthen and improve management of charitable donations to maximize their effect. To actively undertake 2. To strengthen communication with local governments and integrate the social responsibilities in company’s development with local economic development. Public support of public welfare Welfare 3. Continue to carry out various forms of poverty alleviation efforts, including disaster and the development of a relief, donations towards education, volunteer activities, and alleviation of poverty by harmonious society strengthening technology and education. 4. Develop a long-term poverty alleviation mechanism, ensure financial input, improve alleviation methodology, and care for those facing difficulties. 1. To enhance awareness and promote the fight against corruption. To strengthen leadership 2. To strengthen integrity and risk prevention controls to promote the punishment building, ensure and prevention of corruption. Antithe integrity of the 3. To set up role models among the management team to showcase integrity and corruption management to build self-discipline. an international energy 4. To continue to strengthen investigation and punish violations and irregularities company. resolutely. 5. To enhance investigations into accountability to ensure implementation of integrity. 60 Energize . Harmonize . Realize APPENDICES Performance Statistics Category Indicator 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total assets ( RMB 108 ) 10,696 11,962 14,503 16,565 19,176 Turnover ( RMB 108 ) 8,375 10,726 10,193 14,654 20,038 Net profit ( RMB 108 ) 1,468 1,145 1,034 1,400 1,330 Taxes ( RMB 108 ) 1,722 2,227 2,045 2,870 3,744 Proven crude reserves ( 106 barrels ) 11,706 11,221 11,263 11,278 11,128 Proven gas reserves ( 108 ft3 ) 571,110 611,890 632,440 655,030 666,530 Oil equivalent production ( 106 barrels) 1,117 1,182 1,196 1,228 1,286 Economic Crude oil production ( 106 barrels ) 846 871 844 858 886 Marketable natural gas production ( 108 ft3 ) 16,277 18,642 21,122 22,212 23,964 Total length of crude oil pipelines ( km ) 10,559 11,028 13,164 14,782 14,782 Total length of refined products 2,669 5,656 8,868 9,257 9,334 pipelines ( km ) Total length of natural gas pipelines ( km ) 22,043 24,037 28,595 32,801 36,116 Crude runs ( 106 barrels ) 824 850 829 904 985 Ethylene production ( 104 tons ) 258 268 299 361 347 Death rate caused by accidents 0.25 0.50 0.36 1.02 0.70 ( person/100 million working hours ) Safety Total accident rate ( incidents/million 0.03 0.03 0.0264 0.0120 0.0326 working hours ) 2011 Sustainability Report 61 Category Indicator 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Oil discharged in waste water ( tons ) 1,001 779 701 698 642 Energy conserved ( 104 TCE ) 124 176 171 173 113 EnvironWater conserved ( 104 cubic meters ) 4,700 5,336 3,188 2,865 1,744 ment COD discharge in wastewater ( tons ) 23,427 19,751 16,949 18,741 17,731 SO2 discharge in waste gas ( tons ) * 127,498 123,500 105,044 114,200 111,321 Number of employee ( 104 ) 46.7 47.8 53.9 55.3 55.3 Percentage of employees receiving Employee 97% 96% 96% 96% 95% occupational health checks ( % ) Percentage of non-Chinese nationals in 92% 92% 94% 94% 94% overseas hires ( % ) Contribution to poverty alleviation ( RMB 104 ) 14,957 12,272 5,828 6,308 3,706 Public Educational donations ( RMB 104 ) 4,549 12,968 3,782 3,458 11,928 welfare Donations to disaster relief ( RMB 104 ) 2,483 9,009 935 4,499 595 Environmental protection ( RMB 104 ) — 876 569 5,588 75 * SO2 emissions from the movable sources were included in 2010 and 2011. Note: measurement unit 1 BOE=1 barrel of crude=6,000 cubic feet of NG=169.9 cubic meter of NG 1 cubic meter of NG=35.315 cubic feet of NG 1 metric ton of crude=7.389 barrels of crude (API=34) 62 Energize . Harmonize . Realize Glossary Name Definition Recovery The percentage of oil (gas) produced from underground oil (gas) reservoirs in the oil (gas) in place. Reserve The result of dividing annual net incremental reserves by annual oil and gas production. It can be replacement further classified into oil reserve replacement ratio, natural gas reserve replacement ratio and oil ratio and gas equivalent reserve replacement ratio. The estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas which the assessment and exploration demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable and economically beneficial in future years from known Proved reservoirs, during reservoir assessment, in accordance with the standards of China, with relative error reserves within ±20%. Proved reserves include proved geologic reserves, proved technically recoverable reserves, proved economically recoverable reserves and proved sub-economically recoverable reserves. Volume of The volume of natural gas that can be sold in the market, excluding natural gas flared, consumed in remarketable natural injection and lost in the course of production. gas Liquefied natural gas is formed after the natural gas produced from gas field goes through the processes Liquefied natural of dehydration, de-sulphuration, drying and converted to a liquid from gaseous state at low temperature gas (LNG) and high pressure. The simplest member of the olefinic hydrocarbon series and the intermediate feedstock for producing Ethylene synthetic resin, synthetic rubber, organic products, etc. Primary energy is energy found in nature that has not been subjected to any conversion or transformation process. It is also named as natural energy, which includes: fossil fuel (such as raw coal, crude oil and natural gas), nuclear fuel, biomass, water, wind, solar energy, geothermal energy, Primary Energy ocean energy and tidal energy, etc. Primary energy can be classified into renewable energy and nonrenewable energy; the former refers to natural energy which can be re-generated, such as solar, wind, water and biomass energies, all of which come from the sun and are renewable; the latter cannot be regenerated, which mainly includes various fossil fuels and nuclear fuels. Renewable energy is energy found in nature that is inexhaustible and can be regenerated and replenished. It does little or no harm to the environment, with widely-distributed resources, and is Renewable energy suitable for on-site development and utilization. Renewable energy includes: solar, wind, water, biomass, geothermal and ocean energies, etc. The Renewable Energy mentioned in China Renewable Energy Law refers to the non-fossil energies such as wind, solar, water, biomass, geothermal and ocean energies, etc. HSE is the abbreviation of Health, Safety and Environment. HSE management system integrates the elements of organizational structure, responsibility, method, procedure, process and resource, which HSE are necessary for implementing HSE management. These elements are integrated in an advanced, scientific and systematic running mode, which are interconnected and interacted, forming a dynamic management system. An accident which has caused the death of 10 to 30 persons, or the serious injury of 50 to 100 persons, or Serious accident the direct economic loss of RMB50 million to RMB100 million. 2011 Sustainability Report 63 Name Definition One million work hours approximately equals to the total work hours of 500 workers in a year. The total Million work working hours of an employee includes those for training and overtime, yet holidays, sick leave and other hours absences are excluded. The appearance of actions and activities of organs, including air, water, soil, natural resources, plant, animal Environment and human, as well as their relationships. Chemical Oxygen Demand. The consumption of oxidants while processing water samples with strong oxidants. COD It serves as a composite index for pollutants discharged into the water body and their potential impact on the environment. A higher COD represents heavier pollution of reductive substances in the water body. Greenhouse gases are gases in the atmosphere that absorb and emit solar radiation, such as vapor, CO2, and most refrigerants. They function as the greenhouse to absorb solar radiation and heat the air inside, which make Greenhouse gas the Earth surface warmer. The greenhouse gases in nature include: H2O, CO2, O3, CH4, N2O, CFCs, PFCs, HFCs, HCFCs and SF6, etc. Carbon sequestration refers to the process, activity and mechanism of removing CO2 from the atmosphere. Carbon Forestry Carbon Sequestration is one of effective measures to reduce greenhouse gases, which absorb sequestration CO2 in atmosphere through photosynthesis of trees and other plants, by adopting afforestation and forest management measures, and sequestrate CO2 in the woods and soil in the form of biomass. Occupational Ailments caused to a worker by exposure to occupational health threats in his/her working environment, such diseases as dust, radioactive substances and other poisonous or harmful substances. A series of health examinations for professionals in an industry aimed at preventing occupational health threats Occupational and improving the health of employees. Occupational health surveillance includes occupational health checks, health management of occupational health archives, etc. Occupational health examinations are conducted before filling surveillance the position, during work, and while leaving the position. It also includes follow-up health examinations and emergency health examinations. A person, group or organization that has a direct or indirect stake in an organization because it can affect or be affected by the organization’s actions, objectives, and policies. In a narrow sense, stakeholders include investors, employees, customers, and suppliers, etc. Along with social development, stakeholders in a broad sense include: Stakeholder creditors other than shareholders, employees, consumers, suppliers and other trading partners; government authorities, local residents, local communities, media, and environmental campaigners; and even the objects that are directly or indirectly affected by the enterprise's activities such as the natural environment, future generation, and non-human species. An economic development mode to minimize the consumption of coal, oil and other high-carbon energies and Low-carbon achieve a win-win effect between socioeconomic development and environmental protection, through technical economy innovation, system innovation, industrial transition and new energy development, guided by the concept of sustainable development. Feedback Form Your opinions will help to improve our sustainability performance and the subsequent reports. Thank you for your attention and support. 1. What is your appraisal of the 2011 Sustainbility Report of PetroChina? □Very Good □Good □Fair □Poor 2. Which part of the 2011 Sustainbility Report of PetroChina are you interested in? □From the Chairman of the Board □Dialogue with the President □About Us □Operation with Credibility and Compliance □ Sustained Energy Supply □Safe and Clean Production and Operation □Customer-first Market Service □ People-Oriented Employee Development □Giving Back to Society □Objectives and Plans 3. Which imrovements would you like to be made in the 2012 Sustainbility Report of PetroChina? 4. Do you have any advice on the further performance of social responsibilities by PetroChina? 5. Your occupation or identity? □ Public Official □ Consumer □ Employee □ Investor □ Scholar □ Partner □ CSR-related Institution □ NGO □ Media □ Community Representative □ Other 6. If a reply is required, please give the contact information (Your personal information will be used for contact only) Name Tel. E-mail Mailing address You may also log on the website of the Company and download the electronic version of reports for previous years 2006 Corporate Social 2007 Corporate Social 2008 Corporate Social 2009 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainability Report Responsibility Report Responsibility Report Responsibility Report About This Report PetroChina Company Limited (PetroChina, also hereinafter referred to as the “Company”, “we” and “us”) has published its annual Sustainability Report since 2006. This is to present our stakeholders and the public with a clear picture of our commitment and performance in pursuit of scientific, safe, clean, economical and harmonious development. We also hope the Company can win wider support from various social communities. The report represents what we did to honour our commitments to the economy, environment and society in 2011. All information disclosed in the report was sourced from PetroChina’s official documents, statistical reports and from statistics gathered from the Company’s affiliated enterprises, and has been reviewed in accordance with the Company’s Rules for Information Disclosure Control and Disclosure Procedures. Given continuity and comparability, the report provides historical and future explanations on certain issues. The report is formulated according to the principles of accuracy, standardization and transparency. We also referred to the Guideline on Preparing the Report on Performance of Corporate Social Responsibility by the Shanghai Stock Exchange and continue to consult the Sustainability Reporting Guideline released by the Global Reporting Initiative and the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability co-published by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association and the American Petroleum Institute. As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we also introduce our progress in compliance with the Ten Principles and will submit the report to the website of UNGC (http://www.unglobalcompact.org). The report includes a set of Forward-Looking Statements. Except historical facts, all events that may or will occur (including, but not limited to, premise, objectives, estimation and business plans) and descriptions of such events are categorized into the Forward-Looking Statements. Due to the presence of external uncertainties, actual outcomes or trends in the future may differ from those expected in the statement. The Forward-Looking Statements were made before December 31, 2011, for which PetroChina holds no responsibilities or liabilities for any modification thereof. We sincerely hope that this report will increase your awareness of the issues concerning sustainable development of the whole society such as challenges in energy scarcity, climate change, environmental protection, poverty and underprivileged groups. These issues have a direct impact on the sustainable development of PetroChina and the prosperity and progress of society and the economy as a whole. We welcome any comments and suggestions. Your feedback will encourage us to do better. This report is published, along with the Company’s Annual Report in March 2012 in simplified Chinese, traditional Chinese and English. The simplified Chinese version shall prevail in case of any discrepancy. Please visit our website (www.petrochina.com.cn) for more information or downloading the electronic version of this report. The Board and all directors of the Company warrant that there are no misrepresentations or misleading statements in or material omissions from the report and will jointly and severally accept full responsibility for the truthfulness, accuracy and completeness of this report. Note: Please visit www.petrochina.com.cn to check PetroChina’s compliance with Ten Principles in the Global Compact, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1) released by the Global Reporting Initiative and Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability (2010). We support
