Taking action Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility About this report This Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report aims to provide transparent, comprehensive information to employees, customers, suppliers, journalists, investors and representatives of government agencies and NGOs about how Bertelsmann AG lives up to its corporate responsibility. It shows the key social, environmental and economic challenges associated with our business activities and the strategies we have developed to tackle them. Procedure: To make it easier for our readers to compare our performance with other companies, we follow the latest Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting guidelines G3 (GRI index, see p. 132). The report also serves as a Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact, which we joined in October 2008 (see p. 15). This report was prepared under the direction of the Director Corporate Responsibility, in coordination with the relevant Corporate Center departments and the divisions, and approved by the Chairman & CEO of Bertelsmann AG. Data: The reporting period for the key indicators cited in the report is the fiscal year from January 1 to December 31, 2010. The information in this report pertains to the business fields of television and radio (RTL Group), book publishing (Random House), magazine publishing (Gruner + Jahr), and media services (Arvato). Bertelsmann’s club and direct marketing businesses, which previously made up the Direct Group, were dissolved as an independent division on June 30, 2011 following a decision to implement a gradual scaleback that was taken at the start of the year. Since that time, they have been managed under Corporate Investments. Internet: The printed report is augmented by the Bertelsmann CR portal, which provides further detailed information and figures on our corporate responsibility efforts: www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility Editor’s note: This report is published in German and English. The editorial deadline was July 31, 2011. The foreword, pp. 49 and 52, and the program on pp. 123 – 125 of the report are dated January 1, 2012. Cover: Sandra Kathöfer, Stern magazine, Gruner + Jahr, Hamburg THE Bertelsmann Code of Conduct Compliance with the law Mutual trust & respect We comply with all applicable local, We treat each other in a mutually respectnational and international laws and ful and trusting manner at work and seek regulations wherever we do business. to create a workplace environment that does not allow for discrimination, harassHuman rights ment, bullying or intimidation. The respect for and protection of human rights is part of our corporate culture. Freedom to speak without fear of retaliation Environment, health & We encourage our employees to speak up safety freely and without fear of retaliation. We Environmental protection, health and do not retaliate against employees who safety are integral parts of our corporate raise good-faith workplace concerns. responsibility. Data privacy & protection Product safety We collect, retain, use and transmit perWe create and develop safe products and sonal data and information in compliance services for our customers. with applicable law and policy. Governmental & Responsible use of assets regulatory relations We deal with company property, products We conduct proper and legally impeccable and resources responsibly and approprirelations with all government regulators ately and use them only for their intended and agencies. business purposes. Conflicts of interest We disclose potential or actual conflicts of interest in the workplace in a timely manner for proper review and resolution. Financial integrity & Intellectual antifraud property protection We conduct our business and manage We respect and protect all forms of intelrecord keeping and reporting with integrity lectual property and protected content and transparency. regardless of whether they are created by our companies or by third parties. Anti-corruption & antibribery Information technology We do not engage in corruption, bribery, use & security kickbacks or other illegal transactions with We make proper business use of workprivate, commercial, or governmental parplace information technology and help to ties. protect systems and equipment against internal and external threats. Gifts & entertainment When giving or receiving business gifts Confidentiality & public or entertainment, we do so in a transparrelations ent manner that complies with company We protect company, product, service and policy, industry standards and applicable other confidential business information law. from unauthorized disclosure and use. Antitrust compliance Honest statements regardWe comply with applicable antitrust and ing products & services competition laws and consult expert comWe do not knowingly engage in or propany counsel on antitrust and competition mote misrepresentation or fraud in the issues. marketing or advertising of our products and services. Insider trading We comply with applicable insider trading Media independence & laws and company policy regarding materesponsibilities rial nonpublic information that we learn We observe editorial and journalistic about our own or other businesses. independence in news gathering and distribution. www.ethik.bertelsmann.de www.ethics.bertelsmann.com “The long-denied significance of personal motivation and individual commitment are your great untapped reserves of strength that will lead us into the future.” Reinhard Mohn Taking action Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Our Values 37.1 years €15.8 billion Average age Group revenue of workforce €118 million Employee profit participation over 1,000 Number of individual companies that form Bertelsmann AG All figures relate to fiscal year 2010. 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 77 percent Share of Bertelsmann printing plants that are FSC-certified 104,419 employees In around 50 countries 7 meet bertelsmann RTL Group is the leading European entertainment network. The portfolio of Europe’s largest broadcaster includes interests in 41 TV channels and 34 radio stations in ten countries and content production throughout the world. RTL Group’s content production arm, Fremantle Media, is one of the largest international producers outside the U.S. Each year, it produces 9,500 hours of programming across 54 countries. Bertelsmann now owns an approximately 92 percent interest in RTL Group, making it the principal shareholder of the listed company. Random House is the world’s largest print and digital trade book publishing group, comprised of 200 editorially independent imprints in 16 countries, which publish 10,000 new books a year. Random House sells 400 million print, audio, and electronic books annually. The group is a wholly owned division of Bertelsmann. The Gruner + Jahr printing and publishing company is Europe’s leading magazine publisher, with approximately 13,300 employees and over 500 magazines and digital offerings that reach readers and users in more than 30 countries. Bertelsmann AG owns 74.9 percent of Gruner + Jahr, the Jahr publishing family of Hamburg owns 25.1 percent. Arvato is one of the leading internationally networked media and communication service providers. More than 60,000 employees design and implement custom solutions for all kinds of business processes through integrated service chains, serving business customers from around the world. Arvato is a wholly owned division of Bertelsmann AG. 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Contents Our Values Our Motivation Our Commitment Facts and Figures 13 The Bertelsmann Group 29 The Appeal of Getting Involved 48 Bertelsmann 111 Economy 15 Our CR Strategy 30 Five Employees, Five Motivations 62 RTL Group 112 Employees 17 Our CR Topics 40 In Praise of Commitment 74 Random House 117 Environment 18 Bertelsmann Essentials 86 Gruner + Jahr 121 Product Responsibility 20 Stakeholder Dialog 98 Arvato 123 Our CR Agenda 21 OurCR Management 126 Assurance Report PwC 22 Employees as a Success Factor 128 GRI Certificate 24 Environmental and Climate Protection 129 Publication Details 26 The Ethics & Compliance Program 132 GRI Index 9 Forewords Dear Readers, Dear Readers, Bertelsmann “takes action” – day after day, for more than Anyone who takes action must also take responsibility for it – 175 years now. Ensuring sustained success in a global, and be allowed to do so. They have to make decisions and fast-paced environment calls for curiosity, open-mindedness, set a course. In short, they must become their own entreprepassion and shared values. These traits are codified in our neurs. But all this requires freedom. At Bertelsmann, we Bertelsmann Essentials: Creativity, Entrepreneurship, Partnerbelieve that everyone should take responsibility within ship and Citizenship. their role at the company and that the management should As an international media and services company we bear a delegate this responsibility to them. very special responsibility, and we are deeply aware of this. Only when employees feel that they bear real responsibility Bertelsmann currently has 100,000 employees in some 50 and that they are involved in decision-making they can countries. As the company has grown, so have our corporate develop the attitude that is ultimately as crucial for their own responsibility efforts. They have become more international success as for that of the company: an attitude of motivation, and more diverse. One thing, however, hasn’t changed over enthusiasm and identification. the years: our conviction that responsible conduct must never Involvement means extending trust. Even at Bertelsmann, be merely an accessory, but should be an integral part of where decentralization and delegation of responsibility are everyday business activity. firmly anchored in the corporate culture, we must remind So it goes without saying that we have committed to the ten ourselves of this and practice it anew each day. principles of the United Nations Global Compact – that is, to Hence does acceptance of responsibility and the resulting upholding human rights, labor standards, environmental and desire to “take action” stop at the company gates. Those climate protection, and combating corruption. who learn to take responsibility at work will not shy away This report is designed to give our stakeholders comprehensive from it in their personal lives. As a result, responsible information about Bertelsmann’s corporate responsibility. employees become responsible citizens. This is one of many About what we have already achieved and what actions we contributions that Bertelsmann makes to society in the spirit plan to take in the future. Personally, I am very proud of the of its “Essentials” and in Reinhard Mohn’s spirit. This CR wide range of engagement in our company and look forward report sets out many other examples.I wish you an enjoyto your ideas and suggestions. able read. Dr. Thomas Rabe Erich Ruppik Chairman & CEO, Bertelsmann AG Chairman of the Bertelsmann AG Corporate Works Council 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Dr. Thomas Rabe and Erich Ruppik (from left) 11 Our Values 01Our Values As one of the four Bertelsmann Essentials, Corporate Responsibility – in the broader sense of Citizenship – has always been firmly rooted in our corporate culture and therefore in our business. However, Corporate Responsibility means more than a responsibility to society in the narrow sense of the word. Bertelsmann sees itself as a part of and partner to society. We strive to act in a sustainable, responsible way – especially in areas where our value creation intersects with the interests and expectations of our stakeholders: in our economic environment, toward our employees, in the community, and in our treatment of the environment. 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 The Bertelsmann Group Globally leading market positions in the core businesses of television, books, magazines and media services. Revenue contribution 2010 (in percent)* 6.6 B ertelsmann stands for first-class vious year: €35 million). The equity ratio media and communications was 34.5 percent, up from 30.9 percent 31.5 34.7 offerings that inspire people around the previous year. the world, for television and radio programs, magazines and books that 11.4 captivate an audience of millions, and for Products, markets and 15.8 innovative media-related services solucustomers tions. Broad diversification, a powerful presence in the digital world, and a corpoBertelsmann has four divisions: rate culture that emphasizes partnership, RTL Group with 41 television stations, RTL Group Arvato entrepreneurial spirit, creativity and social 34 radio stations and worldwide TV Random House Direct Group** responsibility ensure success. The various production; Random House with 200 Gruner+Jahr divisions occupy leading positions in editorially independent book publishers; their respective markets, and make Gruner + Jahr with more than 500 ma*  Based on total from divisions, not including Corporate/Consolidation. Bertelsmann a powerful global brand in gazines and digital offers; and Arvato, an ** The Direct Group businesses were transferred to Corporate Investments with effect from June 30, 2011. the world of media. Bertelsmann’s roots international provider of integrated service go back to 1835, when the printer and solutions. Bertelsmann’s club and direct bookbinder Carl Bertelsmann founded marketing businesses, which previously Employees by region (As at Dec 31, 2010) C. Bertelsmann Verlag in Gütersloh. Today, made up the Direct Group, were dissolved 2008 2009 2010 Bertelsmann is a leading international as an independent division on June 30, Germany 38,421 36,930 36,462 media and services company that offers 2011 following a decision to implement a Other European countries 44,641 43,828 45,905 media content and media-related producgradual scale-back that was taken at the Central and South America 3,683 3,200 3,146 tion and service businesses in around start of the year. Since that time they have North America 11,190 10,460 9,623 50 countries. With around 100,000 emplobeen managed under Corporate InvestAfrica 2,859 3,050 3,808 yees, the company generated revenues ments. Bertelsmann‘s revenue sources Asia 4,699 4,604 5,060 of €15.8 billion in 2010 (previous year: are thus widely diversified both geograAustralia and New Zeeland 590 632 415 €15.1 billion), an operating EBIT of phically and by business segment. They Total 106,083 102,704 104,419 €1.85 billion (previous year: €1.44 billion) consist of the sale of products and goods, Figures for fiscal year 2009 adjusted; others as reported in the and a group result of €656 million (preservices, advertising and airtime, as well respective fiscal year. 13 Our Values as rights and licensing. The group’s core 92 percent owned by Bertelsmann. company. It informs the Supervisory Board geographical markets are Western Europe Random House and Arvato are whollyregularly, promptly and comprehensively – especially Germany, France, Britain owned subsidiaries and Bertelsmann about all issues significant to the company and Spain – and the U.S. Every day, the owns a 74.9 percent share of regarding planning, business developGroup‘s products reach many millions of Gruner + Jahr; the remaining 25.1 percent ment, the financial and earnings situation, people across a wide range of age groups is owned by the Jahr publishing family. risk situations and risk management. The and all social strata. Supervisory Board supervises the Executive Board and advises it in strategic matLegal form and ters and significant business transactions. Strategy and management ownership structure The Executive and Supervisory Boards Although nearly all of Bertelsmann’s busiBertelsmann AG is an unlisted cooperate closely and are therefore able nesses occupy leading market positions, corporation under German law with a dual to reconcile the demands of effective some companies and sectors operate in system of management and control. At corporate governance with the necessity mature markets – and many in markets December 31, 2010, 80.7 percent of the of rapid decision-making. Fundamental that are experiencing structural upshares in Bertelsmann AG were owned matters of corporate strategy and its heaval. For new growth they require a by foundations (Bertelsmann Stiftung, implementation are discussed candidly clear, forward-looking strategy. The ExeReinhard Mohn Stiftung, BVG Stiftung) and are coordinated in joint sessions. Any cutive Board has defined three strategic and 19.3 percent were indirectly held by significant measures to be taken by the priorities for this: first, to strengthen the the Mohn family. Since January 2011, the management are subject to the agreecore businesses by investing in their foundations own 80.9 percent and the ment of the Supervisory Board. expansion and the systematic exploitation family 19.1 percent of capital shares. The The shareholders exercise their rights, inof all market opportunities, especially in Bertelsmann Verwaltungsgesellschaft cluding voting rights, at the Annual Genethe field of digitization; second, to develop mbH (BVG) controls all voting rights at the ral Meeting. Among other responsibilities, the portfolio, including through geograBertelsmann AG Annual General Meeting. the Annual General Meeting decides on phical expansion; and finally, to expand amendments to the articles of association into new growth areas through organic Responsible corporate and the appropriation of net income, and augmentation or acquisitions. governance elects members to the Supervisory Board. Structurally, Bertelsmann AG funcThe members of the Executive Board are tions as an operational management Responsible corporate governance has appointed by the Supervisory Board. holding company. At the top is the always been part of Bertelsmann’s Bertelsmann voluntarily introduced Executive Board, which is responsible for identity and an important element in its employee representation on the Superthe group’s strategic management and corporate culture. Responsible corporate visory Board as early as 1974. At present, business policy. The Corporate Center, governance is characterized by a transpafour employee representatives sit on the headquartered in Gütersloh, as well as the rent structure and clear decision-making Supervisory Board, which has 15 seats, as regional centers in New York and Beijing, processes in the cooperation between the set out in the corporate constitution. support the Executive Board in controlling Executive Board, the Supervisory Board the group and the divisions in managing and the Annual General Meeting. The the operative businesses. RTL Group is Bertelsmann AG Executive Board is resa publicly listed company and is about ponsible for independently managing the 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Our CR strategy Revenues by category 2010 (in percent)* On our own core values and the United Nations Global Compact. 8.9 19.1 45.1 26.9 A cting responsibly in a world with: climate protection and the consermarked by increasing complexity vation of resources, the protection of and rapid change is a challenge. minors, questions of intellectual propProducts and goods Services It requires clear values and flexible strucerty rights, education, diversity, access Advertising and notification Rights and royalties tures. Bertelsmann possesses both. to information and responsibility to our employees. By joining the United Nations *  Based on total from divisions, Global Compact in 2008, Bertelsmann AG not including Corporate/Consolidation Our identity reaffirmed its commitment to contribute As a globally operating company, yet one to global sustainable development. The with firm local ties in many locations, United Nations Global Compact calls on Group revenues by region 2010 Bertelsmann considers itself part of and companies worldwide to implement ten (in percent) a partner to society. At the same time, principles in the areas of human rights, we are aware of our special responsibility labor standards, environmental protection as a media company. The media play an and the fight against corruption. important role in society: they are both an economic and a cultural asset and exerThe principle of decentralization 34.9 cise an influence on public opinion. We 46.2 see it as our job to contribute to a diverse With more than 100,000 employees, media landscape with a variety of creative Bertelsmann operates in around 50 entertainment and information offers. At countries. This means dealing with a large 13.4 the same time, we want to act in a susrange of different cultures and expecta5.5 tainable, responsible way – especially in tions – in the design of media as well as areas where our value creation intersects commitment to society. As each company with the interests and expectations of our is constantly interacting with its respecstakeholders. tive local market and environment, it is Germany Other countries This gives rise to a broad spectrum best able to assess what is good for it‘s U.S. Other European countries of issues that we must and want to deal businesses and employees – but also 15 Our Values The principle of decentralization is an inherent part of our corporate philosophy, which has evolved and proven itself over decades. Editor-in-chief principle At Bertelsmann, the editor-in-chief principle describes the autonomy of a media’s editorial team to independently research, evaluate and disseminate its own content. The choice and form of content and the what is good for the society in which it way it is offered to customers is not establishes and operates its businesses. decided by a central authority, but by the respective program managers, The principle of decentralization is therefor example the publishing director fore an inherent part of our corporate or editor-in-chief of a print magazine. philosophy, which has evolved and proven There are no central directives about itself over decades. It applies to our social what content or opinions to disseminate; instead there is media diversity. commitment as well as to our business In this way we safeguard artistic and activities. So although our companies and journalistic freedom. divisions develop their CR activities based on common values, as codified in the Bertelsmann Essentials and the Global Compact, they still act independently and on their own responsibility along their respective value chains. For instance, companies that depend on natural resources such as paper and water in the manufacture of their products focus on environmental issues, while others focus on the promotion of reading and media literacy. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Our CR topics Bertelsmann and its divisions cultivate diverse relations with various stakeholder groups. Thanks to this dialog, as well as various CR ratings and rankings, we know which areas of corporate responsibility are particularly relevant. STAKEHOLDER DIALOG ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION ACCESS TO INFORMATION Social Commitment EDITORIAL INDEPENDENCE TRAINING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION Ethics & Compliance PAPER CONTENT RESPONSIBILITY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION protection of minors PRESS FREEDOM DIVERSITY EFFICIENT USE OF ENERGY AND RESOURCES Work-Life-Balance HEALTH EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION HELP THROUGH MEDIA PROmoting Media literacy 17 Our Values Bertelsmann essentials T he Bertelsmann Essentials convey Partnership Entrepreneurship the goals and basic values of our company’s employees, executives and shareholders and are based on the Our corporate culture is based on a mutuThe principle of decentralization is at Corporate Constitution. It is the responally beneficial partnership between our the heart of Bertelsmann’s management sibility of our executives to spread and employees and the company. Motivated philosophy. It enables our employees to exemplify these values and to serve as individuals who identify with our values act with flexibility, responsibility, effirole models. The Bertelsmann Essentials are the driving force behind quality, efciency and entrepreneurial freedom. Our reflect the current status of consensus ficiency, innovation and growth within our operating businesses are run by managand are subject to constant review, revicorporation. The hallmarks of our participaers who act as entrepreneurs: They enjoy sion and improvement. tory leadership approach are mutual trust considerable independence and bear full and respect as well as the principle of responsibility for the performance of their Our mission delegation of responsibility. Our employcompanies. Our executives not only act ees enjoy autonomy to the greatest extent in the best interests of their individual Bertelsmann is an international media possible. They receive comprehensive businesses, but are also obligated to the corporation. We provide information, eninformation and participate in decisioninterests of the group as a whole. tertainment and media services to inspire making as well as in the financial sucpeople’s daily lives. We aspire to make cess of the company. We are committed a valuable contribution to society. We to the professional development of our strive to be leaders in our markets and to employees and seek to provide long-term achieve returns on capital that guarantee employment. the growth and continuity of our corporation. Our joint efforts focus on creative content and customer relations. We seek to provide working conditions that are equitable and motivating for our employees. We commit ourselves to the continuity and ongoing progress of our corporation. 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Creativity Citizenship Other foundations of sustainable action We provide a home for artists, authors and The continuity and development of Code of Conduct creative talents in all of our fields of busiBertelsmann as an independent entity Published in 2008, the Bertelsmann Code ness, promoting their creative developis ensured by the Bertelsmann Manageof Conduct is based on ethical principles, ment as well as their commercial success. ment Company’s control of the majorlegal requirements and Bertelsmann’s We strive for the protection of intellecity of voting rights. In the view of our own in-house rules and regulations. It is tual property on a worldwide basis. We shareholders, the possession of property binding for all employees worldwide and promote artistic freedom and freedom of creates an obligation to the community. follows international standards. thought, the protection of democracy and They are committed to the idea that in a human rights, and the respect of traditions market economy a corporation derives its “be green” Mission Statement and cultural values. Consequently, the legitimacy by making a valuable contribuThe “be green” mission statement of 2010 content we provide reflects a wide range tion to society. The work carried out by sums up Bertelsmann’s responsibility to of viewpoints and opinions. Continuous the Bertelsmann Foundation – to which protect the environment and climate and innovation and improvement, guided by the majority of Bertelsmann shares has our commitment to sustainable action in customer needs and interests, are the corbeen contributed – is also guided by this concise key statements. nerstones of our success, both in media principle. Our businesses are managed in services and in content businesses. accordance with the spirit and the letter of Bertelsmann Environmental Policy the law. They maintain high standards of The Bertelsmann Environmental Policy, ethical conduct and act responsibly toward adopted and published in 2004, defines society and the environment. key principles for environmental protection in the operations of businesses and Our commitment commits Bertelsmann companies to act in accordance with them. We expect everyone at Bertelsmann to adhere to this mission and these Bertelsmann Paper Policy core values. The Bertelsmann Paper Policy published in 2005 complements the Bertelsmann Environmental Policy and clarifies the attitude of Bertelsmann AG, its divisions and companies regarding the procurement and use of paper. 19 Our Values Stakeholder dialog Whether employee, customer, investor, or journalist – Bertelsmann is open to dialog with everyone. O ur business puts us in frequent Our aim is to maintain close and transparand direct contact with various ent relations on all political levels and exstakeholders: our employees, change arguments openly and objectively. customers, suppliers, journalists, and In Berlin and Brussels, our liaison investors, as well as representatives of offices provide a forum for prominent government agencies and NGOs. speakers and authors. Bertelsmann Unter In addition, our company reaches milden Linden 1 in Berlin has become an lions of people each day through our meestablished destination in Berlin’s culdia content and products. To find out what tural calendar with its “Rooftop Summer our stakeholders expect of us, we conduct Screenings” and other events such as an open and transparent exchange with readings, book and movie premieres and them – not only at our corporate headpolitical discussions. It hosts an average quarters, but also at all other locations of 350 events per year. We regularly host worldwide. We cultivate an intense dialog Bertelsmann Forum talks at our headquarwith our customers on a variety of media ters in Gütersloh. channels. At an international level we are also As a media company, one of the things members of important networks where we focus on is, naturally, media policy. we discuss issues of sustainability and For example, when it comes to issues our efforts with groups from different secof broadcasting legislation or intellectual tors of society. These include the German property protection in the digital age, we Global Compact Network and our involveare represented on the relevant commitment in an international working group tees, speak with our stakeholders, and of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), make our expertise available. comprised of representatives of NGO and Our representative offices in Berlin and media companies who are developing Brussels as well as in Beijing and New indicators for the sustainability reporting York serve as political competence centers of media companies (GRI Media Sector and contact points for our stakeholders. Supplement) in a transparent two-year The teams at Bertelsmann’s representaprocess. The international working group for the GRI tive and liaison offices offer German and Media Sector Supplement at Bertelsmann Unter den Linden 1, Berlin. European policymakers expert sparring partners, up-to-date positions and figures, and further information. 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Our CR management All divisions regularly interact to coordinate their activities. A decentralized approach does not the focus of the “be green” team lies on rule out targeted, coordinated environmental and climate issues, while action. In 2010, the Bertelsmann the HR Committee serves as a platform Corporate Responsibility Council was for discussion between group HR managestablished under the chairmanship of ers and those in the divisions. Similarly, Our membership in the the Executive Vice President of Corporate there are numerous HR Coordination UN Global Compact Communications. Twice a year, repreCircles at company or national level. In As part of this membership, in Nosentatives from relevant Corporate Center addition other issueor task-oriented vember 2010, Bertelsmann presented departments and all the divisions convene teams have been set up as needed. One its first Communication on Progress regarding the ten principles of the for the Council. The main items on the of these is the Corporate Compliance Global Compact. It is posted at CR Council’s agenda include dealing with Committee consisting of experts from www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility employees as partners; ethics & compliCorporate and the divisions. These teams -along with all other relevant docuance; responsibility for media content; and meet regularly to share information and ments and information relating to corporate responsibility at Bertelsmann. the use of natural resources. In addition develop common positions. These are to informing and advising the Executive then adapted and put into practice in a Board on important CR issues, the decentralized manner. CR Council focuses on the following tasks: Relevant certifications The individual companies are responsible Further development of a common for determining what management sysunderstanding of CR tems are established, depending on their Identification and evaluation of CR needs. For example, numerous certificaissues relevant to the company tions confirm that environmental issues Development of cross-company are being systematically advanced at the CR goals various sites. Internal and external reporting on goal attainment Our management systems and certifications may be viewed at We rely on existing structures for the www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility necessary coordination and development of our CR efforts in the group, or if necessary, we create new ones. For instance, 21 Our Values Employees as a success factor The global Employee Survey is an expression of participation at Bertelsmann – and one of the main instruments of corporate culture. M ore than 100,000 people in positively: delegation of responsibility, around 50 countries work daily personal creative freedom and teamwork The 2010 Employee Survey for the success and continuous were rated as good. The high participation rate of 85.1 perdevelopment of our company. Therefore, cent shows that Bertelsmann employees appreciate this instrument and our responsibility to employees is a parStrengthened staff leadership actively participate in their company’s ticularly high priority at Bertelsmann. development. The questionnaire is The delegation of responsibility is an available in 15 languages and can be completed online or on paper. The aim 2010 Employee Survey important aspect of “leadership through of the survey is to establish a dialog partnership” at Bertelsmann. Scores for among partners, and to jointly design The Employee Survey is an expression this aspect, as well as the evaluation of processes of change in the followof the corporate culture of partnership at immediate supervisors, have improved up processes. It is mandatory for all Bertelsmann. At regular intervals – for the since the previous survey. This shows managers to discuss the results with their teams and to jointly set up an first time as long ago as the 1970s, and that the measures taken to strengthen action plan. In 2010, employees in 47 worldwide since 2002 – employees have leadership following the Employee Survey countries participated in the survey. been asked to anonymously evaluate 2006 are bearing fruit. At that time, the important aspects of working life by management guidelines were revised and means of a formal questionnaire. Quesnew management tools were introduced, tions pertain to such topics as working including the Performance and Developconditions, the leadership style of their ment Dialog and the meeting to agree on immediate supervisor, training and tasks and goals. development opportunities, teamwork, and business strategy. Successful health programs Overall satisfaction increased, Since 2008, Bertelsmann’s various ocgood suggestions for improvecupational health management activities ment have been grouped under the name of BeFit. Bertelsmann BKK, the company Compared to previous surveys, the overall medical services, the company social serrating by employees has improved. In parvices, and the sports and health program ticular, topics in the employees’ immeoffer employees a variety of ways to stay diate working environment were rated or get fit. Employees gave these efforts a 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 positive rating. Work-life-balance at where there is room for improvement, Bertelsmann was also given an abovee.g. on the issue of “career development.” average rating compared with the survey In particular, staff wanted more training results of other German companies. Quesand development opportunities at the tions about pressure to perform and workcompanies, as well as improved internal load achieved particularly good results, as job exchange options within the group. did those regarding a healthy compatibility Bertelsmann has taken this on board: of work and famliy life. Since early 2011, the newly founded Bertelsmann Academy offers a catalog of Successful introduction of the cross-functional training and continuing Code of Conduct education measures throughout Germany. The wide-ranging offers are open to Bertelsmann has a binding guideline employees from all divisions. Internal cafor law-abiding and ethically responsireer opportunities are promoted with new, ble conduct – the Bertelsmann Code of clear rules for filling vacant positions. The Conduct. It consists of rules for corporate Corporate Management Development responsibility, workplace conduct, busiteam provides support to Bertelsmann ness and financial transactions, and media managers in this. In addition, the interand technology. Since its introduction in nal job exchange is being analyzed and 2008, employees worldwide have been inrevised to better inform employees about troduced in detail to the Code of Conduct group-wide development opportunities. through on-site or online tutorials. The Carrying out the global Employee Survey 2010 Employee Survey results showed at even shorter intervals in future is being that the training was successful and that considered, so as to monitor and manage employees feel well-informed about the the success of the measures introduced Code of Conduct as well as how to report more quickly and sustainably. breaches of the Code if necessary. Room for improvement in staff development Alongside the many positive survey results, the employee feedback also showed 23 Our Values Environmental and climate protection “be green” strategy for efficiency and resource conservation in business. P rotecting our environment and companies, from NGOs or from politics, climate is an integral part of our corregularly enrich the debate and the further porate responsibility. We strive for a development of the “be green” strategy responsible treatment of natural resources with their suggestions and requests. across our value chain and make an active As part of the “be green” strategy, the contribution to a low-carbon, environmen“be green” team, together with the divitally friendly future. sions, has produced a biennial group-wide Energy and resource efficiency is incarbon footprint since 2008. These carbon creasingly becoming a key competitive footprints provide transparency about factor for Bertelsmann. For this reason, Bertelsmann’s impact on the climate and in 2008, the Executive Board initiated form a starting point for a more efficient the group-wide “be green” environmental use of energy and for reducing the conand climate protection strategy. It implesumption of resources. ments the guidelines set out in the Another key pillar of the “be green” “Bertelsmann Environmental Policy” and strategy is involving and motivating our the “Bertelsmann Paper Policy,” adds the employees to protect the environment climate protection aspect, and provides a and climate. Bertelsmann organizes an framework for the various divisions’ and annual international “be green Day” under their companies’ specific environmental the patronage of the CEO and regularly protection strategies and activities worldreports via internal media. These action wide. days bring the subject of environmental The “be green” strategy is managed and climate protection to life for employand developed by the “be green” team. ees worldwide with numerous “green” Since 2003, environmental representaactivities. Employees learn on-site about tives from Bertelsmann AG and all diviwhat Bertelsmann and its companies sions have met regularly as part of this are already doing to protect the environinternational working group. The experts ment and climate, and develop their own present flagship projects from the divimeasures for environmentally friendly sions and companies and develop combehavior. The “be green” movie featuring mon strategies and measures for better employees makes people think about the environmental and climate protection issue and serves as a unifying element for at Bertelsmann. External stakeholders, the many different campaigns around the including representatives from other world. 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Arvato Arvato Finance Random House Gruner + Jahr, Arvato Services Arvato Services Government RTL Nederland Services, Ireland UK Hamburg Stralsund Polska Services UK Bertelsmann RTL Radio Unter d. Linden 1, Deutschland, Berlin Berlin RTL Belgium, Brussels Arvato Digital Arvato Services, Corporate Center, Services, Gütersloh Gütersloh Gütersloh Corporate Center, Mohn Media, Arvato, Gütersloh Gütersloh RTL Group, Arvato Telco Verlagsgruppe RTL Radio Prisma Presse, Arvato Services, Corporate Center, Services, Random House, France, Paris Paris Chemnitz Luxembourg Erfurt Munich European Bertelsmann sites which participated in the “be green Day” 2010. 25 Our Values the ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PROGRAM How Bertelsmann promotes a corporate culture in which financial success goes hand in hand with respect for the law. The Code of Conduct is a binding guideline for law-abiding and responB ertelsmann supports a corporate sible conduct. It consists culture that encourages ethical of 20 principles pertainbehavior and respect for the law, and has launched an Ethics & Compliance ing to social responsibilProgram specifically for this purpose. The ity, workplace conduct, pillars of the program are: a compliance business and financial organization with clearly defined roles and responsibilities; the Code of Conduct, transactions, and media whose principles and rules are to guide and technology. the decisions of all managers and employees; appropriate mechanisms to monitor compliance with these rules, such as the whistle-blower system, which allows questionable matters to be reported in a safe and confidential way; procedures for investigating alleged breaches of the Code as well as taking appropriate measures after the issue has been clarified; and training and communications activities to build awareness of compliance issues among all stakeholders. 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Bertelsmann Code of Conduct Monitoring, investigation and follow-up The Code of Conduct is a binding guideline for law-abiding and responsible conEmployees and third parties can report duct. It is based on international stanany concerns or ask for advice regarding dards as well as ethical principles, legal possible violations of the Code via a requirements and the company’s own confidential and secure whistle-blowing rules and guidelines. In the four chapters system. Besides the traditional channels TRAINING AND COMMUNICATION “Corporate Responsibility,” “Workplace (telephone, e-mail), ombudspersons and In the Bertelsmann Employee Survey, Conduct,”“Financial Transactions and a Web-based reporting system are also questions about the Code of Conduct achieved the highest ratings in all matReporting Methods” and “Media and available to employees. In the United ters where staff were surveyed. This Technology,” the code describes 20 geneStates a telephone hotline has also been shows a high degree of awareness of ral principles and elaborates on specific set up. the principles laid down in the Code of topics such as privacy, protection against Conduct, and of the options available for highlighting violations in a safe and corruption, and independence in the proTraining and communication confidential way. Code of Conduct curement and dissemination of news. training measures for all employees In 2008, the first printed edition of To ensure that all Bertelsmann emplowere completed by the end of 2010. the Code of Conduct was distributed to yees are familiar with the Code, the E&C The tutorials include interactive exercises on topics such as anti-corruption, all Bertelsmann employees. In addition, department has developed an interactive respect for human rights and how each new employee receives a copy training program in 12 languages, for both employees can report violations of the when he joins the company. The online and classroom training. The traiCode’s principles. Code is available in 12 languages at ning program, which has been ongoing www.ethics.bertelsmann.com since 2009, shows employees how they can identify risks to their business and company and report questionable transactions or violations of the Code of Conduct. Among other things, they learn about the contact points and options the company offers them for raising concerns or seeking advice, whether they be the responsible staff members at the Bertelsmann Corporate Center, the ombudspersons, or the Internet-based whistle-blowing system at www.reportconcerns.com 27 Our Motivation 02 Our Motivation Bertelsmann is a decentralized group. This means that each individual member of the group bears individual responsibility. On the following pages, some of our employees talk about how they personally put the corporate culture into practice, and tell of their own personal motivation to get involved. 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 The appeal of getting involved Is commitment “involvement reflecting solidarity”? We feel this definition is nowhere near adequate. An attempt at a new and different definition. G etting involved – or engagement – Every act of engagement expresses is a piece of freedom, an expressistrength of character and arises from an on of the freedom of choice we all inner conviction. The impetus that drives have. The wish to work for a sustainable such motivation is always free will. There development of our world in general and are many facets to how this impetus our work environment in particular is a manifests in a company: What opportuniprofoundly human need. People keep gities for development do employees have? ving their existence meaning only through How much latitude is there in decisionactivities in which they choose to tackle making? How much self-determination? a responsibility they themselves have The degree to which a company and chosen. its employees get involved can only be In the world of work, engagement is illustrated using a few ideas that stand more important than ever. Clearly it is representative of many others. These crucial that a company expressly recoinitiatives can be large or small, acts of gnizes its responsibility: in its business engagement that show on the outside or environment, to its employees, to society take place in quiet. These are the stories and in dealing with the environment. But of people who take action. this attitude can only become a corporate culture if it has an appeal for every individual employee – as the company creates the setting and provides an impetus to become active and to keep asking yourself where and how you can personally improve things and take responsibility. 29 Our Motivation 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 HELP THROUGH MEDIA Raising funds “I’ve presented the Télévie closing show on RTL-TVI for over ten years now, and it is always a very special experience. My colleagues feel the same way – none of them wants to miss our annual telethon against cancer and leukaemia, in children in particular. It gives us the occasion to all work together on one big show – a very special, moving moment that never loses its power. We raise millions of euros in donations and feel that what we do actually helps others. Of course it’s always especially thrilling to see children from the previous year again, though others may have unfortunately succumbed to their illness. Besides presenting the show, I also participate in other fundraisers, including classic-car rallies and stage plays – this year I was involved in the three initiatives. For a report, I even had the opportunity to accompany a child with cancer everywhere for a whole day. Maxine is just 2 years old and suffers from a severe form of leukaemia. I never cease to be amazed by her courage. Although she is going through very lengthy chemotherapy, she radiates incredible willpower. This was also the first time I had ever spoken at length with the parents of a child who has cancer. I suddenly realized how terrible it must be to learn that your own child has the disease. And how difficult such a situation must be for the whole family, in the long-term. That affected me deeply – after all, I have a 4 year-old son myself.” Sandrine Corman, Presenter, RTL-TVI, RTL Group, Brussels 31 Our Motivation 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 PROMOTING MEDIA LITERACY Sharing the joy of reading “Like many of my colleagues, once a week, at lunchtime, I spend an hour reading with a second-grader in a nearby Manhattan elementary public school. In the beginning he was a bit shy. Our job is first to relax and enjoy reading without worrying about making a mistake. My child and I don’t just read – we also talk about books. After reading, I might for instance ask how my young friend would feel about changing the ending. At first glance, that would appear to be tremendously presumptuous toward the author. But in fact it simply helps to fire the children’s imagination: my reading buddy immediately used his imagination to come up with ways that the story could end. This encourages the kids to understand that we are reading stories someone else has thought up, and that imagination is a great gift – for writers, as well as for ourselves. Over time, my little listener started asking more questions. What do you do? What is a publisher? How do you get the books? That gets me thinking sometimes: I’ve worked at Random House for 16 years, and I’m still regularly amazed at the team spirit that pervades our company, what one might call our ’corporate culture’. It includes social aspirations like the ’Everybody Wins!’ program. I worked at other publishers for several years before joining Random House. At Random House we think long-term. We don’t just have our eye on the year-end accounting, and that shows in things like this program.” Ceneta Lee Williams, Sales Manager, Adult Books, Random House, Inc., New York 33 Our Motivation EFFICIENT USE OF ENERGY AND RESOURCES Protecting the environment “Environmental protection usually conjures up images of green: backlit forests or the green-arrow logos used by recycling organizations. Me, I tend to think of tables, figures and diagrams. The technical aspects of protecting the environment have fascinated me from an early age. It may sound trite, but I want my work to help preserve the planet for future generations. The fact that Mohn Media was named ‘Environmental Company of 2008’ was one of the reasons I applied to work here after graduating in 2010. We print about 30 million phone books, one billion mailshots, 30 million color directories and more than 600 million magazines and catalogs a year here, among other things. And each year, these numbers go up. Yet, consumption of the carboncontaining solvent isopropyl alcohol has been reduced by about 75 percent per printed sheet in the last ten years. This is proof of our successful environmental commitment. So my motivation is not to simply ensure that the 25 offset-rotogravure printing presses I am responsible for at Mohn Media comply with permit conditions and statutory requirements. I want to do better. Regular measurements of emissions and inspections of the facilities that go far beyond the required minimum are part of how I define environmental protection in action. I’m obviously on the right track because after a year, I was asked to take over further roles in the environmental sector. So now I’m in charge of organizing waste disposal with a co-worker. I am also in training to become a health and safety expert and will be working in this area on completion of the course. The only drawback at the moment is that this leaves me no time to get involved in my hobby – the local soccer club. But hopefully, in return, everyone who works here can go home safe.” Stefan Neiske, Emissions Control Officer, Mohn Media, Arvato, Gütersloh 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 35 Our Motivation 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 TRAINING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION Inspiring employees “When I quit my job in 1990, my mother nearly had a heart attack. ‘Son,’ she said, ‘that was a secure job.’ But being a vocational school teacher just wasn’t the life for me, forever having to deal with hundreds of regulations and inspectors. I wanted to make something happen, put ideas into action, so the job listing really appealed to me. I said goodbye to life as a teacher and relatively quickly took over as head of Bertelsmann’s Vocational School and the Education Department, where theory is linked to practice. Now, as Head of Corporate Education, I am responsible for the recently founded Academy, our apprentices’ training, the Vocational School and for the sports and health program, but my principles have not changed: If you believe in something and have a goal in mind, you need creativity and application. I learned that from soccer: Before you can raise your arms in triumph, you need to sweat. But when your hard work pays off, it’s an unforgettable moment. Then you realize that the effort is worthwhile and you get so much in return – in the form of proud and relieved apprentices, our bachelor’s degree candidates when they’ve passed their exams, and the very large number of alumni who still work for Bertelsmann. But also from the great interest in our educational and sports activities, and not least from the positive feedback and the great trust of my wonderful staff. One event in my career really moved me – the musical about the history of Bertelsmann performed at the 175th anniversary celebration. Our students and trainees created it themselves and staged it in front of more than 10,000 employees, with outfits and music for each decade. These are the moments when I think: If you can get young people that excited, you’ve done all right on the whole.” Heribert Sangs, Head of Corporate Education, Corporate Center, Bertelsmann AG, Gütersloh 37 Our Motivation CONTENT RESPONSIBILITY Ensuring Quality “I’m what Americans call a fact checker. I am one of seven employees who check every text, graphic and photo to be published in Stern magazine, to determine whether the statements made are true. Are the names spelled correctly? Do the numbers add up? Is the elephant in the picture Indian rather than African? The relevant information is written down, checked and may be corrected after consulting the writer and entered into the system. Only then is the spelling and grammar check carried out. All of us are graduates in specialist subjects. There’s a biologist, several historians, an economist, an orientalist, etc. I’m the odd one out a bit here because I actually studied media documentation, and even wrote my thesis on the Stern magazine documentation department. The department was set up in 1960, as the traditional illustrated magazine had become more political and in-depth over the years and it was important that every fact be thoroughly checked. Documentation is virtually a guarantee of quality; it ensures integrity, strengthens credibility and ideally makes Stern magazine unassailable. We work in open-plan offices in the Stern magazine library, surrounded by about 25,000 volumes. When I started in 1997, we often consulted specialized encyclopedias, often backed up by telephone checks. Today, a lot of it is done electronically. For example, we have access to the Gruner + Jahr press database, one of the most powerful archives in Europe, to which over 1,000 new articles are added every day. Sure I’ve become a bit more skeptical over the years. Chatting with someone at a party I sometimes find myself thinking, ‘Okay, let‘s check your sources.‘ But I do have a remedy against distrust as an occupational hazard: I love to travel. Then again, maybe that’s not true at all. Maybe travel is just another form of fact checking. I don’t claim to know all that much – I just check everything.” Sandra Kathöfer, member of the Editorial Documentation team, Stern magazine, Gruner + Jahr, Hamburg 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 39 Our Motivation In praise of commitment An essay by Peter-Matthias Gaede A prosperous young woman richly blessed number has grown markedly in recent with success and public recognition sets times. They embody the integrative social up a foundation for children in need. She morality, the helping hands that are in travels to Africa to see where she can increasingly short supply in a society that help. And each year since then she has is eroding its economic solidarity. And so raised hundreds of thousands of euros to they are becoming more important. While build shelters for homeless girls in Cairo the benefits of social welfare and the tax or schools in Sudan. A professor of molesystem as binding agents of democracy, cular immunology takes up his post at the and as grounds for citizens’ loyalty are in University of Leipzig where he becomes danger of being eroded; as the bridges aware of the sad situation in a refugee between the “haves” and “have-nots” shelter and together with his wife initiates become impassable and more and more the “Bunte Gärten” (Colorful Gardens) propeople are feeling humiliated and deject, which first gave persecuted people tached, those helpers working selflessly from Southern countries a bit of peaceful for their fellow men are the protagonists earth and now gives them much more: a of a need for community and engagement good chance of integration. A cooperative that is now more than ever coming to the of sprightly pensioners in Augsburg troops fore. It is the civil society which Paul Nolte Peter-Matthias Gaede is Editor-in-Chief out day after day to feed (even) older called an “investive society,” because it of Geo magazine and is personally involved in the UN International Children’s people in need, entertain them, and clean makes an advance investment instead of Emergency Fund (Unicef). and repair their homes. And a 75-yearrelying on receiving advance payment. old retired engineer comes to a museum Does this sound too theoretical? That twice a week to repair technical exhibits would be a pity, as these volunteers with immense patience: all of it voluntary, make a wonderful story. That “man is all without pay. But not for nothing. wolf to man” is part of the repertoire of People like these feel responsible for a pessimistic view of the world, and has civil society, for “distant neighbors” on indeed been confirmed often enough. another continent or for face-to-face inAnd yet it really is only half the truth. volvement with people across the street. In Germany alone, more than 23 million These are people who share, who want to people volunteer in charity associations, do good for others. And perhaps also for citizens‘ initiatives, or self-help groups. their own fulfillment – and what would be As “social mentors,” they help people wrong with that? organize their daily lives and cope with They have always been there, but their world-weariness, pump up soccer balls, 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 provide free hairdressing for people in Horst-Eberhard Richter, which gauges need of care, restore historic half-timbeGermans’ state of mind, recorded a trend red houses, organize raffles to raise funds towards an increased sense of responsifor children with cancer, renovate schools bility for others for the first time since the or work with cataract patients in third1970s. Similarly, the results of a „volunworld slums during their vacations. Former teer survey“ on behalf of a Berlin ministry municipal administration workers, lawyers showed that more than a third of Germans on maternity leave, stressed-out medical over the age of 14 work for the common interns, retired bankers and managers on good – because they feel like it and have a search for meaning, together constitute the time, because they feel responsible, an underestimated social force, a force even if they have no property and hence that belies the gloomy prophesies of a no obligation under Article 14, paragraph hedonistic society of egomaniacs out for 2 of the German Basic Law which states themselves. And they include people from that “property entails obligations.” all walks of life. For decades, citizen engagement Scientists at the University of StuttgartHohenheim found that volunteers devote These are appeared to be hardly worth mentioning. Children, education, illness, aging, death – about five billion working hours to the common good in Germany each year – people who everything seemed to be taken care of by the “welfare state”; a state that took nearly ten percent more than the hours worked by the entire paid civil service. share, who care of all of life’s circumstances with professionals and plans. As this state has But can the social benefits of such efforts be measured in figures at all? Or want to do become weaker, an understandable fear of loss has become rife. But there are also is their qualitative value not at least as important? Every political party welcomes good for others. compensations. “Everyone talks about social coldness. But we experience the citizen commitment for completely different reasons – from the FDP (less state, And perhaps opposite every day,” says an executive of “Tafel,” an organization that distributes more responsibility!) to the Left Party (less market, more solidarity!). One might also for their food to the needy. “In Germany, a sense of unity is on the rise,” he says. “Perhaps gloomily say that welfare work is repair work, emergency relief, an act of desperaown fulfillment – the first sign of a social consensus is that you no longer leave the poorest to fend for tion when the city treasurer can no longer maintain the playground from the budget, and what would themselves when the state can no longer help.” or the school principal has to drop the cello from the orchestra – which really they be wrong with Researchers have been identifying the end of the “me” society – or to put it both shouldn’t be allowed to do. Can love for fellow human beings even become a that? more cautiously: the end of much of it – political platform, should politicians be since the turn of the last millennium. The allowed to rest on the growing altruism, “Giessen Test” developed by psychologist people’s growing need to give other people 41 Our Motivation time, money and advice and continue their national gatherings for young musicians; retreat; the “caring neglect” that Nolte Nobel Laureates who help pay for childwrote of? care for young female scientists. In times of growing public debt, it will They all create what the American inevitably come to precisely this, but it sociologist Robert Putnam called “bridging should not be forgotten that once before, social capital” – human bridges. Or to put back in the 19th century, Christian charity, it another way, the social glue of trust social democratic class consciousness and respect that can mend the cracks and a civic culture of associations grew between levels of society that have into those great social works that are now become estranged by rampant indivicalled Caritas and Diakonie, the Samaritan dualization. They at least try, even if the Workers‘ Federation (Arbeiter-Samaritermisanthropic view of this development Bund, ASB) and the Workers‘ Welfare turns out to be true. The criticism of the Association (Arbeiterwohlfahrt, AWO), eternally critical is that there is a new which do many useful things, paid for with dictatorship of good values, and its heroes money from taxes and contributions. After and role models preferably come from the the state, Caritas has become one of the middle class or, worse still, the circles of largest employers in Germany with half a millionaires, the educated, the articulate, million full-time employees. the arbitrary – and all of their aid contains The political scientist Rupert Graf further frustration for those who are Strachwitz at Berlin’s “Maecenata Instihelped. In other words, each benefit tut” maintains that the transition from received only makes the recipient weaker, freelance initiatives to solid structures is a imposing gratitude upon them. normal process in which the protagonists But apart from the fact that this view are gradually integrated into civil society, does not do justice to the millions of gaining power and organizational strength committed low earners, or to all those in the process, but also becoming more volunteer firefighters, and apart from the hierarchical and losing their capacity to fact that it is cheap to denigrate Bill Gates’ innovate. Therefore, new “out-of-the-box commitment to fighting malaria merely bethinkers” are always crucial, he says. Indicause he himself is doing splendidly, this viduals with the absoluteness of their own criticism is also stupid when you consider personal commitment: employees who those who need help. Because at the end grass the yard of a tearoom for the homeof the day, only one thing is true for them: less; managers who help out in railroad Nothing good will ever happen unless station missions; master craftsmen who someone does it for them. And armchair put together engines with schoolchildren; do-gooders usually don’t do very much. screw manufacturers who sponsor interWhat about those who actually do a 42 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 They all create human bridges, just with the social glue of trust and respect. lot? “Successes are like cacti, they’re digital camera. And while they are on not meant to be relaxed on,” says Ann their way back to Copenhagen, New York Kathrin Linsenhoff, dressage champion or Frankfurt, the people in their pictures, and heiress, who volunteers for Unicef. who they left behind in Tripoli, in a refuSo while she could easily live in comfort gee tent, in the streets of Ciudad Juárez, in bel étage of the Taunus foothills, she in a Chinese orphanage, will continue to takes action and champions a cause. shiver, go hungry, be homeless, on the Linsenhoff, just one example of many, is run, beaten, and perhaps are even no ardently committed to Africa. And to the longer alive. They will have taken good “Unicef Photo of the Year,” which is a pictures and may even be told in an arts very good example of what our impulse to center in their hometown: your pictures help might trigger – or perhaps disturb. of the suffering in the world are too good, Which brings me – fittingly for a media you shouldn’t work in color, you aestheticompany – to us journalists. Not to the cize suffering, you exploit people to serve publishing house Gruner + Jahr, or its maa market for disaster pornography, so to jority shareholder Bertelsmann as a whole, speak. Mistrust is rampant in our society, but to a litmus test for each individual in often even overpowering. People suspect their respective everyday profession. At that everything is business, and being Geo, the obvious choice is to use photoa contemporary eyewitness is just voygraphers for this – the people who turn a eurism. view of the world into our worldview. And the less cynical ask the reporter in We can use them as touchstones for holier-than-thou naiveté why he didn’t preour own compassion – or for the limits vent the execution by striking the weapon of human empathy, for how we deal with from the gunman’s hand, why he didn’t suffering. adopt the starving child, why he didn’t Any journalist whose heart isn’t made drag the abusive father to the police in of stone is familiar with the uncomfortable person. And the more attentive ask editors feeling that they will earn money from to check up again a year later to find out the suffering they have captured on their what has now become of the Moldovan 43 Our Motivation The charge of sensationalism does not apply to them.They don’t steal stories, they bring them to the public. child seen crying on the phone while talsentative in Rwanda, there are fortunately king with his parents working in Italy. quite a few journalists who are capable of So what does it mean for journalists empathy. The charge of sensationalism not to concern themselves with royal does not apply to them. They are not inweddings and financial press conferences, toxicating themselves, they are reporting. not to hang around for the winner of the They are not showcasing, they are partiFormula One race or attend a gala celebracipating. They don’t just do a routine job, ting an Idol sought and found in Germany, they take the time to learn the routine. but instead to report on violence against They don’t steal stories, they bring them children, physical and structural? What to the public. And they go to the limit does it mean for a photographer or writer beyond which it becomes uncertain for to witness old women staring into space, them personally. wrapped in blankets in a temporary shelThere is often something old-fashioned ter after the tsunami in Japan? Or 14-yearat play here: a sense of responsibility. old African girls with babies fathered by When the German Embassy offered a rapists who overran them in the civil war? vulnerable young journalist a seat on It means that not too much should be the plane during the heated phase of the asked of someone reporting such stories. Egyptian revolution, she said “thanks, The fact that we cannot mourn every dead but I have a job to do here.” When person equally is a constant of survival Gaddafi started shooting his own people, that journalists are not exempt from. And a 24-year-old resigned from his safe even the most selfless Doctors Without editorial job in Hamburg to go to Libya. A Borders medic, the bravest men of the picture desk trainee took her first step into German Federal Agency for Technical journalism without a safety net by chooRelief (THW) will try to avoid rifle fire sing to cover the subject of abandoned and roofs collapsing on them at the last children in Moldova. moment. And then there’s the story of Alice But like the Doctor Without Borders, Smeets, a 21-year-old Belgian whose like the THW man, like the Unicef reprevery first major feature won an award: a 44 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 photograph of a girl in a snow-white dress, with cleft palates lying in a dirt backyard. trudging through the garbage of a HaitiIt makes you angry to see 12-year-old an slum like a stubborn angel. Going to girls who have been forced into marriage Haiti, one of the poorest and most tragic looking into the camera with lifeless eyes, countries of the Western Hemisphere was standing next to geriatric pashas. Smeets’ personal decision after reading up At the same time, however, these on the history of this country. images are the leavening for that sense She saved up for the trip, and went on of community that could turn us into a her own to “where it hurts.” She met peoglobal family. A reminder of what is on the ple who fought their hunger pangs with agenda. “mud cake” – salted, baked earth – and So a media company’s agenda also people trying to survive from the includes the following: We must invest in sale of individual matches. She went into motivated people, not just in concepts. disastrous hospitals, orphanages, and Creative surprises are needed at least as even into the morgues of the central much as organizational charts; uncommon hospital in the capital Port-au-Prince people acting on their convictions are where she saw sights “not for the faintmore essential than graph paper. And with hearted”: corpses that nobody wanted or all due respect to the services of facilitawas able to raise money to bury. tors, planners and benchmarkers: Without The suspicion from people she met journalists who leave the cleanroom envithat she may have been using images ronment of planning offices, commitment of such misery to get “rich” in Europe would remain bloodless, anemic. Master impelled her to return to Belgium and then plans are only good if they do not stifle raise money for the people of Haiti. On a individuality, if agreed objectives don’t second trip to the Caribbean island she become a crust that confines interpersonal distributed the money to hospitals and on instincts and spontaneity, burying the the street. And of course she didn’t get impulse to get involved. Across the street. “rich.” Smeets says the magazines she And around the world. offered her material to publish it was “too sad for their readers.” This is not an ode or a hymn. Just a small thank-you to those who try with camera and words to draw attention to what we do not know. And sometimes don’t want to know. Because when poverty has no grace, when poverty is just poverty, it ultimately besets and oppresses us. It is disturbing to see orphans 45 Our Commitment 03OUR COMMITMENT A decentralized approach and the systematic delegation of responsibility are important elements in our corporate culture and the foundation of our success. The corporate responsibility efforts of our more than 1,000 individual companies are also based on these principles. Our entrepreneurs are responsible for deciding where and how they get involved, for they know best what activities make sense in their environment. The result is a great variety of diverse projects and initiatives. 46 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Corporate Responsibility in the Divisions C orporate Responsibility – in the We apply this principle of decentralism to broader sense of citizenship – is one our corporate responsibility efforts as well of the four Bertelsmann Essentials, as our business conduct: Bertelsmann’s a basic value and aspiration for everyone divisions and companies decide for them­ across the group. The Essentials read: selves on which topics they will focus “Our businesses are managed in accor­ their corporate responsibility efforts – and dance with the spirit and the letter of also which partners they will work with to the law. They maintain high standards of put their projects into action locally. The Bertelsmann’s divisions ethical conduct and act responsibly toward result is a great variety of diverse projects decide for themselves what society and the environment.” and initiatives. Bertelsmann is part of the globalized All efforts are closely linked to the re­ topics they will focus their society, which we strive to help shape re­ spective core business. For instance, corporate responsibility sponsibly. Yet Bertelsmann is not a mono­ RTL Group generates magnificent support efforts on. lith, but is comprised of four decentralized for numerous social projects and initiatives corporate divisions with more than 1,000 with its RTL Spendenmarathon telethon. individual companies around the world. Random House is particularly committed The principle of decentralism is an to promoting literacy and reading. important pillar in our tried-and-tested Gruner + Jahr places a priority on promo­ corporate culture, which has evolved over ting high-quality journalism. And at Arvato, decades and originated with the ideas of the efficient use of energy is just one of our post-war founder Reinhard Mohn. We several key topics. firmly believe that the local executives The following pages highlight a selec­ in a given country and market know best tion of projects and initiatives. The project what is good for their employees and their database of the Bertelsmann Corporate companies – but also what is good for the Responsibility Portal contains hundreds society in which they build and operate of others: their businesses. www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility 47 Our Commitment A leading international media and services group €15.8 billion revenues 104,419 employees worldwide Operations in more than 50 countries Headquarters: Gütersloh 48 TAKing ACTION at BERTELSMANN “ Bertelsmann is well aware of its special responsibility as an international media company. That is why we take a strategic approach in our CR efforts as well: value creation and corporate responsibility are interlinked. This is how we help to shape tomorrow’s world – with passion and conviction.” Dr. Thomas Rabe, Chairman & CEO of Bertelsmann AG 49 Our Commitment WELCOME TO ANNA’S HOUSE Bertelsmann readies teens FOR FREEDOM for the working world. OF THE PRESS p. 58 Intajour supports journalists from all over the world. p. 52 READING FUN FOR ALL How to get children excited about books. p. 54 50 POPULAR LITERATURE Of “Leipzig liest” and the “Blue Sofa”. p. 60 CREATIVITY IS CHILD’S PLAY Chinese pupils learn that discipline isn’t everything. p. 56 51 Our Commitment PRESS FREEDOM School of Freedom Intajour, the International Academy of Journalism, was set up to promote independent journalism around the world. I t was a festive event at the Konzerthaus Something that continues Bertelsmann’s am Gendarmenmarkt in Berlin. EU Com­ longstanding tradition of corporate respon­ mission President José Manuel Barroso sibility,” said Ostrowski. had traveled to the German capital for the Specifically, each year Intajour offers occasion, to preside over the founding act 12 journalists the opportunity to improve of a very special project: the International their professional skills and hone them for Academy of Journalism, or Intajour. “The the digital future in a comprehensive ten409 journalists applied creation of such an institution is a splendid month program. The curriculum including for the first year. In the initiative,” said Barroso in his speech. practical online journalism and instruction It was initiated by former Bertelsmann on research and web publishing. However, end, participants from CEO Hartmut Ostrowski, who wished to the participants spend most of their time Africa, Asia, Europe and make a contribution to the global advance­ in their home countries, as the course is Latin America were ment of professional, independent divided into attendance and e-learning journalism in a networked world. The phases. Academy director Werner Eggert, selected. purpose of the academy, founded to mark who set up Intajour in close cooperation the company’s 175th anniversary in 2010, with the Henri Nannen School in Hamburg is to train and support and the RTL School of Journalism in journalists from countries Cologne, developed special e-learning where there is no, or only tools for this purpose. limited, press freedom The journalists use these tools at and freedom of speech. home, on their own computer screens. “We wanted to create They use the platform to communicate something lasting. Some­ with Academy students around the world, thing that will endure. get help from the lecturers in Germany, 52 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 and present their results online at the end of their training. Beyond the virtual e-learning platform, the Intajour participants also meet in person, for seminars in places like Hamburg, Cologne and Berlin. The program apparently has great appeal: 409 journalists applied for the first year. They had to show certificates and references as well as write a short essay outlining their reasons for wishing to participate, and their efforts for press freedom. The second criterion was the personal impression that colleagues from Welcome to Germany: the first year local networks gained in interviews with of Intajour Fellows in seminar. prospective candidates. In the end, partici­ pants from Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America were selected. Expert colleagues from the Bertelsmann divisions Gruner + Jahr and RTL Group will provide instruction on press freedom and independent media coverage. Katja Gloger, an award-winning reporter and former Moscow correspon­ dent, will give lectures, as will RTL Television’s award-winning chief foreign reporter Antonia Rados. 53 Our Commitment PROMOTING MEDIA LITERACY The gift of learning to read One in four people in Germany never read books. An initiative sets out to change this. H undreds listen to the children’s their talents?” book author Armin Pongs give an says Klausinteractive “reading with push-ups,” Dieter Leh­ others go to the movies with their par­ mann, Presi­ ents once a month – for free, of course. dent of the Yet other boys and girls have their father Goethe-Insti­ read out weekly stories to them, e-mailed tut. In “Lese­ to him by his employers. In short, some­ spaß,” the group has given the city “a gift how and somewhere, nearly every child of lasting benefit,” says Gütersloh Mayor in Gütersloh benefits from “Lesespaß” Maria Unger, who also serves as patron of (reading fun) at some point. the initiative. “The media group is remem­ The Gütersloh-based initiative, launched bering its roots while also looking to the by Bertelsmann, the Stiftung Lesen read­ future.” ing foundation and the Goethe Institute The two-year “Lesespaß” program fo­ in 2010 to mark the 175th anniversary of cuses on promoting literacy among children the company, aims to stimulate children’s aged 3 to 14, especially from families who and young people’s enthusiasm for read­ don’t read very often. Because according to ing in a fun way. Such a comprehensive, a 2008 study by the Stiftung Lesen, one in target group-oriented program is unique in four Germans had never read a single book. When the Stiftung Lesen reading Germany. Fortyfive percent of 14 to 19 -year-olds have foundation, the Goethe Institute and “Education is the key resource of the rarely or never received a book as a present Bertelsmann celebrate books with TV presenter Nina Moghaddam, reading 21st century and decisive for the future of in their childhood. Only eight percent of becomes fun. our children. Language and reading skills fathers regularly read to their children – and are the gateway to education and partici­ the number continues to decline. pation in world affairs. And what could be The “Lesespaß” initiative intends to more important to us than to empower counteract this development with a our children to actively help shape these package of measures and projects. Over­ processes with their multilingualism and all, “Lesespaß” will involve more than 54 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Push-ups, comics, soccer and e-books – all part of individual literacy promotion. 20 different interlinked modules that are work together systematically is much bet­ put into action locally, in close coopera­ ter. The ‘Lesespaß’ initiative in Gütersloh tion with the city and its day care centers, provides impressive proof of this – and schools, sports clubs and youth centers. can serve as a blueprint for other cities It starts with toddlers, whose parents and communities,” comments Jörg Maas, get reading kits including helpful hints on General Manager of the Stiftung Lesen reading aloud. First-graders get a gym bag reading foundation. with “first readers’ books” on their first day of school. Older children can try out multimedia reading with e-books. In addition, there are age-appropriate creative reading and writing contests and Reading is a key skill for living in our society: Bertelsmann pro­ offerings at all day care centers, elemen­ motes literacy from an early age. tary and high schools in Gütersloh. Teens act as “reading scouts,” German and non-German readers volunteer in pairs to offer multilingual reading-aloud sessions, and reading and media clubs are being set up in schools. The “Soccer and Reading” project and a comic competition are spe­ cifically designed to encourage boys and fathers in Gütersloh to discover the fun of reading. “Given that there are over 7.5 mil­ lion illiterates in Germany, the promotion of reading is essential. Having a lot of sponsored projects is good – having them 55 Our Commitment Social Commitment Seeing, feeling, learning Big help for the little ones: Bertelsmann employees support local students in China. W hen the latest PISA study was the provinces are often poorly equipped published in December of and the teachers are inadequately trained. 2010, the results surprised the A lack of imagination and creativity is also world: Students in the Chinese port city lamented. Bertelsmann China’s support of Shanghai went straight to first place. is aimed at these critical points. This was mainly attributed to the school At the end of April 2010, the system in China, which puts more of an Bertelsmann Da-long-hua Hope School emphasis on discipline, hard work and opened in Yi County, about 120 kilomerote learning than that of western coun­ ters from Beijing. Just two years earlier, tries. For instance, when lessons end at several of the Group’s local companies, half past three, the children clean their including Arvato, Gruner + Jahr, Fremantle own classrooms and then continue study­ Media, as well as the Chinese Corpo­ ing at home. rate Center and the Bertelsmann Asia Many employees from Bertelsmann Investments Fund had donated a total of At the Bertelsmann Hope School in southwest China, pupils and companies in China were not as aston­ €25,000 as well as in-kind donations such sponsors meet for art – and a group ished by the PISA results as other peo­ as computers to support this project by portrait. ple around the world. They already had the China Youth Development Foundation. detailed knowledge of the Chinese school The majority of the students in Yi County system – for example, from volunteering come from families that are mostly too as teaching assist­ poor to invest in the education of their ants. They know how children, cannot afford the school fees, ambitious many stu­ and need the children’s labor in agricul­ dents are, but also ture. realize that Shanghai However, Bertelsmann is linked to the is not representative educational institution not only through of all China. There is donations; direct exchanges regularly a strong urban-rural take place between students and staff. divide: Schools in Employees traveled to the inauguration of 56 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Creativity is often given short shrift at schools in the Chinese provinces – Bertelsmann helps out with funds, materials and volunteers from its workforce. the school and spent several hours in the to increase the fund’s donations, and role of teachers, introducing the children €610,000 was raised in all. The Middle to art or English. Later, Bertelsmann China School was rebuilt with a portion of these organized a visit by several children’s book funds, which also went to fund training authors and illustrators, and even invited courses for teachers. Bertelsmann chose several pupils and their headmaster to the children’s charity Plan International as visit the World Expo in Shanghai. “We a partner for its relief operation. want to give children the chance to see, Part of the money that the more than feel and experience the world with all their 3,000 Bertelsmann employees in China senses,” says Annabelle Yu Long, Chief donated from their own pockets is used Executive of the Bertelsmann China for the local Yuan Yuan project, which Corporate Center. “We see this as pro­ supports creative development by enhanc­ Encouraging reading and art: ten-year-old Li Xue at the Bertelsmann Hope School in moting creativity, and making a contribu­ ing literacy promotion and art education. Yi County. tion to intellectual development.” The project includes the “Drawing My In addition to Da-long-hua Hope School, Dreams” art contest, which is already in Bertelsmann also supports Guang Ping place at seven elementary schools. The Middle School in Hanzhong. Located in the students at Bertelsmann Da-long-hua heart of China, the school was completely Hope School received a special honor in destroyed by an earthquake in May 2008. late 2010: their artistic visions of a better At the time, Bertelsmann had set up a world were chosen to make a calendar – €500,000 relief fund for the victims. All and also for Bertelsmann China’s official employees worldwide were called on New Year greeting card. 57 Our Commitment TRAINING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION Anna’s House A pilot project unique to Germany readies teens for the job market. H eribert Sangs does not think much Social educator Anna-Cathrin Terletzki of German labor market policy: developed the concept behind “Du bist “Too many individual measures and Deine Zukunft”. Bertelsmann gave her the components taken out of context. There is use of a building near the Corporate Center no overall plan, especially for giving unem­ where she can work with the youngsters. ployed youth a chance.” This includes four-week internships at vari­ But the Director of Central Education ous Bertelsmann companies in and around at Bertelsmann doesn’t stop at criticiz­ Gütersloh, so that participants can find out ing the state of affairs. He did something which area of work suits them. In contrast about it and launched “Du bist Deine to regular training courses, however, they Zukunft” (You are your future), a project don’t have to quickly select a profession or that is unique in Germany. Together with attend a vocational school. the Gütersloh employment agency, he To begin with, a detailed analysis is selected 12 people aged 18 to 23, all of drawn up outlining the reasons for their whom had been trying in vain to get an previous failure, as well as ways of apprenticeship position, some of them for remedying their educational deficiencies. “Frustration about years. Sangs aims to make them fit for the “If someone has problems calculating per­ job market using a novel approach. centages, we practice that,” says Terletzki. their professional The project, which launched in May However, the project manager places at failures soon gives 2009, was designed to last one year and least equal priority way to euphoria and goes beyond purely teaching professional on social skills. The skills. It aims to teach participants funda­ young people, who hope.” mental skills and knowledge; building their are also respon­ reading and spelling skills as needed, but sible for cleaning also teaching them reliability and strength­ Anna’s House, ening their motivation to cope with the are instructed in world of work. the importance of punctuality as well 58 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 as learning how to deal with criticism or rely on their own strengths. The results are extremely gratifying. “Frustration about their professional failures soon gives way to euphoria and hope,” observes Terletzki. “The participants learned a great deal about themselves and their aptitudes.” One of the young­ sters confirms this: “I now know how to approach tasks in a more focused, concen­ trated and purposeful way,” he says. The companies also had positive experiences. Most interns integrated surprisingly well into the work processes. Three of the 12 participants in the first year of the program signed apprenticeship contracts within the Bertelsmann Group, and seven have been In the Anna’s House project, teens apprenticed to external companies. Two learn how to be on time, how to others are going back to school to pursue handle criticism – and such hands-on a higher degree of education. skills as how to work with a saw. For Heribert Sangs and Anna-Cathrin Terletzki, the first pilot project ended in success. The doors to Anna’s House remain open, and the initiative will be continued long term – and can serve as a model for projects in other regions. 59 Our Commitment PROMOTING MEDIA LITERACY The Sofa’s Mother The “Leipzig liest” literary festival and the “Blue Sofa” have a lot in common, above all: compelling stories. A s a cultural advisor, Christiane 11 years on the team, real friendships Munsberg comes across quite a have been created around the sofa. And few unusual stories in her work. we still keep getting better and better for Here, the protagonists of her story are a our audience.” Major writers sit on this best-selling author and a table leg, with piece of furniture to be interviewed at another writer and a crying girl playing German book fairs. The Blue Sofa is not supporting roles. the only Der Club project at the Leipzig Minutes earlier, comedian and author Book Fair: For the past 20 years the club Hape Kerkeling had been sitting on the has supported various series of events as Blue Sofa – now the crowds surged to­ part of “Leipzig liest”, the largest literary wards another stage as everyone hurried festival in Europe, which was also initiated to catch a glimpse of their favorite author. by Der Club Bertelsmann. Possibly the most famous piece Kerkeling made himself comfortable at a “The Club benefited greatly from the of furniture on the German literary scene: noted writers are regularly small table, casually signing countless edi­ eastern states after German reunification. interviewed on the Blue Sofa. tions of his best seller “Ich bin dann mal By supporting the ‘Leipzig liest’ literature weg” (I’ll Be Off Then) until the moment festival, we gave some of this success an avid fan held out a table leg for him back to the people,” says Anita Offelto sign. The autograph hunter had appar­ Grohmann, Club Program Director. The ently surreptitiously unscrewed the leg first Club branch opened in Dresden just from a table in the room. “Hape Kerkeling one month after the fall of the Berlin Wall, refused with some dismay, and I called with customers queuing around the block. security,” recalls Munsberg with a smile. And in 1990, the year of reunification, She has been responsible for the Blue more than a million former East Germans Sofa since 2000. Her dream job, she signed up as Der Club members. “People freely admits: “I just love the Blue Sofa – could finally choose what they wanted a collaboration with German TV ZDF and to read,” recalls Offel-Grohmann. What radio station Deutschlandradio Kultur. After makes “Leipzig liest” so successful? For 60 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 “Authentic encounters between reader and writer one thing, nowhere else you can meet so denly burst into tears – out of delight that are the best possible way many authors in such a short time – 1,500 she was seeing her favorite author in per­ of them in a single city. And secondly, the son. This in turn moved Simon Beckett’s to promote reading. In venues for the readings, concerts, radio wife to tears, and she pulled out her hand­ Leipzig, we constantly plays and movie screenings are special kerchief. When Simon Beckett, a writer of experience how important in their own right. Leipzig has hosted seriously tough crime thrillers, saw this, events for literary enthusiasts at its ho­ he also began to weep – and ultimately this exchange is for our tels, courts, prisons, zoo and aquarium, everyone present was moved. customers, because we churches, fashion studios, a gasometer Der Club’s Managing Director Bernd and once even a brothel (for erotic litera­ Schröder, who has been a big fan of appeal to their hearts and ture). “Leipzig liest” for many years, explains emotions.” For nearly ten years, Christiane the importance of the festival: “Authentic Munsberg has organized event series encounters between reader and writer are for the literary festival, such as the the best possible way to promote reading. “Jüdischen Lebenswelten” (Jewish Con­ In Leipzig, we constantly experience how texts) series or the “Krimi-Club” (Crime important this exchange is for our custom­ Club), “German-Israeli relations,” a “Talk ers, because we appeal to their hearts and Night” and “German-Spanish author emotions.” Perhaps people shouldn’t get meetings.” “Over time, the venues have so carried away by enthusiasm, however, developed their own magnetism. At our that they go around appropriating table ’Krimi­-Club’ six crime writers gave read­ legs for their favorite author to sign. ings in the large courtroom at Leipzig District Court. Normally, you can only actu­ ally enter this venerable hall as a defend­ ant or witness,” she says, laughing. “Who knows? Could that be why the 200 seats always sell out so quickly?” But the real “heart and soul stories” happen when you least expect them. At a book signing by Simon Beckett at the Leipzig Club branch, a teenage girl sud­ 61 our Commitment The leading European entertainment network € 5,591 million revenues 12,339 employees worldwide 41 TV channels and 34 radio stations in ten countries RTL Group produces about 9,500 hours of programming a year in 54 countries More than 1.4 billion videos streamed in 2010 Headquarters: Luxembourg 62 Taking Action at RTL Group “Television will remain the leading medium in the years to come. Such popularity comes with great responsibility. Each year, RTL Group companies work hard to fight poverty, disease, discrimination and pollution.” Gerhard Zeiler, Chief Executive Officer, RTL Group 63 our Commitment MILLIONS FOR A GOOD CAUSE Raising funds on screen. p. 70 CHILDREN AND TELEVISION How Super RTL protects minors. p. 72 64 NEWS FOR EVERYONE RTL Television in Germany airs five hours of news a day. p. 66 environmental protection For employees and viewers. p. 69 65 our Commitment ACCESS TO INFORMATION News you can use RTL Television is fully committed to its duty to inform – and no one embodies its commitment to news better than Peter Kloeppel, Germany’s most popular news anchor, and Antonia Rados. O ne look at the building tells you Mr. Kloeppel, according to a repreit has history. The Rheinhallen in sentative survey published in May 2011 Cologne, whose imposing brick you are both the best-known and most façade faces the cathedral, had already popular newscaster in Germany. How served as a barracks does this result make you feel? “It’s our job as a channel and an amusement — peter kloeppel It makes me happy. to provide information. Which we are only too park before being conIt motivates me. But one shouldn’t attach verted into an exhibitoo much importance to it: I’m just the tion hall in 1924 on the one in a huge team that people happen to happy to do.“ initiative of Cologne’s see regularly. then Mayor Konrad Adenauer. News production is notoriously expenThe building also clearly has stories sive. Why does RTL broadcast five to six to tell. Since its latest renovation was hours of information programming per completed in 2010, a gigantic satellite day? dish with the red, yellow and blue RTL — kloeppel I think there are three main logo has been mounted on its roof. The reasons. First and foremost: it’s our job as listed Rheinhallen complex has become a channel to provide information. Which home to Europe’s most modern TV we are only too happy to do, by the way – studio. we’ve significantly expanded our offer over In a first-floor newsroom corridor the past 25 years. Second, the audience hangs a life-size glossy photo of rightly expects a large, reliable and indePeter Kloeppel, born 1958, presenter pendent news component in a full program of RTL Aktuell, and editor-in-chief of the line-up. And third: because we are so succhannel since 2004. The real Kloeppel cessful with it and the audience watches heads straight to his office and looks these programs with interest. even more vigorous and likeable in the flesh than on the screen – which is not How does RTL Aktuell news differ from exactly the norm in television. the of the public-service broadcasters in Germany? — kloeppel Not so dramatically. The 66 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 decision about what’s important is seen Has the news changed since then? similarly in many newsrooms. Except that — kloeppel After the first Gulf War, we perhaps ask ourselves more often 11 September made it very clear once what issues affect the daily lives of our again that news lives by live impressions. viewers. We don’t look down at what’s Since then, transmission capabilities have happening from a lofty height, but use improved even more. Equipment has our journalistic skills to give people useful become easier to use and connections information. have become more flexible. We received pictures of the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami With success. For nearly two decades, in near real-time. Previously, we wouldn’t RTL Aktuell has regularly been the marhave been able to get them until two or ket leader in the target 14 to 49 age three days later. This, however, makes group. RTL Nachtjournal, which is aired it all the more important for us to check at midnight on weekdays and has served whether live broadcasts are appropriate as a model for many imitators, achieved for the occasion. It doesn’t make sense to an average market share of 18 percent in go live with footage just because we can. 2010. Mediengruppe RTL Deutschland also operates the country’s first 24-hour news But it is possible if the news situation channel, N-TV. requires. RTL has invested heavily in infrastructure – in technology as well as human Mr. Kloeppel, how important are ratings resources. The new news studio broadfor your work? casts in HD picture quality. Digital and — kloeppel We look at them, we analyze interactive graphics allow more graphic them, but we don’t allow them to prescribe representation of the content. At the the topics we cover. We have no influence same time, it has established an extensive on a number of factors, such as competing international network of correspondents programs, making it all the more important stretching from Africa and Australia to that we follow our own compass. China, Russia and the United States. The most prominent reporter in Germany is You won the 2002 Special Grimme chief foreign reporter Antonia Rados, who Award for “outstanding reporting” specializes in reports from crisis regions. during your seven-hour live broadcast on 11 September 2001. Is it a strange Mrs. Rados, war is always messy and Curiosity, flexibility and a feeling to be honored for your work on confused. Do you have such a thing as willingness to work hard are the such a tragic day? a journalistic compass? virtues young journalists should bring to the profession, according — kloeppel I can’t claim to have been — antonia rados It’s always the same: to Peter Kloeppel. happy to be a newscaster on that day. But knowledge and conscience. Experience it showed me that the years of hard work is an additional benefit, but you shouldn’t we put in here beforehand prepared us delude yourself: There’s no such thing as well for such an event. an infallible reporter. 67 our Commitment You are confronted with suffering every The dissemination of information via day. How do you deal with the kneeInternet and cell phones provides more jerk, human desire of wanting to help immediacy, but also requires the careful victims? examination and classification of incoming — rados First you’re a human being. You reports. Peter Kloeppel therefore considhelp wherever and whenever you can. But ers the comprehensive training of future being a reporter also means remaining journalists a crucial necessity. So, in 2001 professional enough to keep your emohe founded the RTL School of Journalism tions under control. A reporters’ tears for TV and Multimedia, which is also based don’t belong on the screen. at the premises of Mediengruppe RTL Deutschland. How has your role changed now that anyone with a cell phone camera and Mr. Kloeppel, what is the most imporInternet access can become a war retant characteristic an aspiring journalist porter? should have? — rados A good question, to which we — peter kloeppel Curiosity. Plus, of haven’t got an answer yet. At the moment course, flexibility and enthusiasm are cruit looks like this: Where there really is a cial. But that’s something we don’t have to war, I hardly ever see a cell phone reporter instill in the people who come to us. They or blogger on the ground. One factor is already know that. And they experience that in war zones there’s often no cellit every day, in seminars, on placements, phone reception or Internet. Usually wars from internal and external lecturers and on take place in undeveloped areas, which field trips where they expand their horiare brutal and primitive. There’s no room zons meeting interesting people. for Internet cafes there. You also initiated the annual Com.mit On your travels you and your team Award, which enables 14 to 20-year-olds often risk your lives. Where are your with immigrant backgrounds to work limits and how do you set them? in the media and honors their achieve— rados The most important thing about ments. Why? Antonia Rados, a native of Austria, war reporting is your own security, and — kloeppel The subject of integration is reports from conflict zones for RTL Deutschland. almost more important is your colleagues’ central to Europe’s future. Integration besafety. gins in the mind, and so the media plays an important role here. My idea was to get How does RTL protect you? young people to think about the media – — rados RTL gives me all the security I using the media. And they have shown us need. Absurdly, I often have to calm head that the media are worthwhile and make office down. They worry more about me a difference. Besides, these young people than I do. don’t just learn from us – we also learn from them: the range of topics we cover has expanded because of them. 68 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION Green light for environmental thinking Environmental protection is an important topic for RTL Group – for its employees and viewers. I n the long term, there is no greater task can do everything,” says Environmental future is threatened by environmental for humanity than maintaining the condiChief Officer Oliver Herrgesell, explaining degradation, to report for RTL Radio in tions necessary for its survival on Earth. the basic idea behind this task force, “but France. In the past, Destination RTL has Knowing this, RTL Group has committed everyone can do something.” highlighted problems including soil erosion to effectively combining business sucThe third Environmind Day was held in Madagascar and water shortages in the cess with active environmental protection in Luxembourg in 2010 – a day of action Middle East. The current season, featuring under the slogan “At RTL Group, we care.” designed to raise employees’ awareness texts, photos, and online videos, focuses Its company principles state: “We strive for sustainable conduct. In 2010, the focus on Europe. for a prudent use of natural resources in was on the theme of mobility. An exhibiPractical tips for saving energy in daily all our operations, and for a continuous tion of environmentally friendly vehicles, life are also part of the programming minimization of adverse impacts on the combined with the opportunity for testat broadcasters including RTL Radio in environment.” This goal is achieved in drives, new company-owned electric bikes France, Bel RTL in Belgium, various two ways: through activities within the and the Bike to Work initiative are meant science programs and documentaries company, and by providing information to to encourage employees to travel to work such as Capital Terre on M6, and not listeners and viewers. using low-emission means. least on the RTL Group intranet. Some TV The in-house Environmind team was Similar events are hosted in Belgium, channels even devote entire days to one founded in Luxembourg in 2008. “Nobody Germany, France, Britain and the Nethersubject. For example, on Vox Planet Blue – lands. They range from encouraging Water Day in September 2010, Vox broadpeople not to use elevators, to informative casted 24 hours of programs about this exhibitions about recycling and fair trade. vital resource. Two months later, the news “Our employees are delighted that reducchannel n-tv ran an Energy Day devoted to ing carbon emissions is such a priority coverage on renewable energy. for RTL Group,” says Jeroen Marre, RTL RTL Group’s channels see it as their Nederland’s representative on the Environjob to provide information to their audimind team. ences, thereby enabling them to arrive at But the Group reaches far more people informed opinions and choices. Of course through its programming. Each month, for RTL Group does not have answers to all example, a reporter and a technician take the big questions. But it is actively helping a ten-day trip to places where people’s to find solutions. 69 our Commitment Social Commitment A force for good RTL Group’s TV channels raise millions for social projects. W olfram Kons, presenter and 1996, the channel has devoted a head of all RTL’s German charifull day of its programming to the ty activities, took several deep 24-hour charity fundraiser each year. breaths, concentrating hard, his tension Because RTL Television bears all the clearly visible. One last breath, then Kons campaign’s administrative, production and took a run and jump – off the roof of the personnel costs, all of the money raised new RTL broadcasting center in Colognegoes to selected projects sponsored by Deutz, plunging 20 meters. By doing so, the “Stiftung RTL – Wir helfen Kindern” he won a € 50,000 bet with Hollywood children’s aid foundation – with­out adstars Tom Cruise and Cameron Diaz, with ministrative or other deductions. A special the proceeds going to charity. highlight of the event is in the celebrity Kons’s daring leap was one of the edition of Who Wants To Be A Milliohighlights of the RTL Spendenmarathon naire?, which features celebrities answetelethon hosted by the Cologne-based ring questions from host Günther Jauch TV channel in November 2010. Within just and donating their winnings to charity. 24 hours it raised €7,941,389. In the past “For me, the RTL Spendenmarathon is 15 years, RTL has raised a total of nearly the most important program of the year,” Courageous: athlete Joey Kelly €90 million from viewers and sponsors, says Kons, adding that it makes him “very (left) and Wolfram Kons, head all of it destined to provide relief for chilhappy to be making a difference.” of all RTL’s German charity activties, dren in need, in Germany and all over the Alain Simons feels exactly the same. during the Spendenmarathon telethon. world. The 24-hour RTL Belgium’s star presenter has hosted program is not the comparable Télévie telethon for 22 only the longest years. He says he is “deeply touched by but also one of the Belgium’s constant commitment and highest-earning generosity.” In absolute terms, Télévie fundraisers on Geris even more successful than the man television. RTL Spendenmarathon. More than €100 Since the RTL million has been raised in 22 years. This is Spendenmarathon especially impressive considering Belgium made its debut in and Luxembourg have a combined popu70 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 lation of just 12 million – a little over ten center in his native city of Mannheim. percent of the audience is able to receive Alain Simons goes a step further. Every RTL in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. weekday, he presents a short show “FaiThe money raised by Télévie goes to sons gagner la vie” (“Let’s save lives”) on seven research centers for cancer in RTL-TVI, documenting the work of Télégeneral and leukemia in particular – bevie volunteers and thereby encouraging cause in Belgium, every five days a child others to join in. still dies of cancer. Dr. Guy Berchem of The viewers are regularly brought the Fondation de Recherche Cancer et up to date on various aid projects, and Sang in Luxembourg, one of the projects RTL Group channels also put out pleas supported by Télévie, is very grateful: for help when tragic disasters occur. For “We wouldn’t be able to operate our labs instance, the severe earthquake in Haiti in without it.” early 2010 led to various campaigns by Incidentally, RTL Luxembourg employRTL Nederland, Grupo Antena 3 in Spain, ees raised part of the money collected in M6 and RTL Radio in France, RTL Klub in the Télévie by the sweat of their brows, Hungary, RTL Televizija in Croatia, Alpha collectively biking and paddling on fitness TV in Greece as well as RTL in Belgium, equipment for eight hours. Their physical Germany and Luxembourg. The call for effort for a good cause paid off – much like donations raised more than €45million for Wolfram Kons’s leap: €52,000 was raised. the affected region. “The popularity of TV RTL’s charity activities are not limited and radio comes with great responsibility,” to this one day, but take place year-round. says Gerhard Zeiler, CEO of RTL Group. Kons reports that the celebrities who “Our broadcasters and program managers agree to act as patrons for children’s take this responsibility very seriously. charities usually also get involved on the Television can be a force for good.” Successful: With the millions raised in Télévie donations, ground. For example, the actress Bettina RTL Belgium supports medical Zimmermann cares for children on permacancer research. nent ventilation in a Wiesbaden clinic; RTL presenter Katja Burkard raises money for an elementary school in Burundi; and one of Germany’s most famous singers, Xavier Naidoo, has also been on board since 2010 – he supports the construction and operation of an RTL Kinderhaus children’s 71 our Commitment PROTECTION OF MINORS The protection of minors is on everyone’s mind Everything that goes out on the air on Super RTL is subject to certain rules. Managing Director Claude Schmit explains exactly which ones. ‘‘ As a children’s channel, German TVstation Super RTL has a special for your program lineup? — Schmit Each and every program we broadcast has to meet certain content criteria. And children are demanding – they don’t want to be fobbed off with secondclass television. Adults often make the responsibility erroneous assumption that children’s teletowards its vision is inexpensive and relatively easy to target audience. produce – in fact the opposite is the case! How do you fulfill this responsibility? Children like to identify with heroes and — Claude Schmit It goes without sayrole models. How far do you take this ing that we comply with all laws for the into account when selecting presenters? protection of minors. But we also do much — Schmit We choose presenters who more. For example, we were the first can credibly represent the content of channel to set up self-imposed advertising their programs. An animal program, for guidelines. This means that we define in example, must be presented by someone advance what type of commercials we can with a clear and credible love of animals. run where, for what kind of products, and A program that aims to promote sport and Claude Schmit, born in Luxembourg whether the form of representation is apphysical activity in children requires somein 1960, has been Managing Director of Super RTL since 1990. A lawyer propriate for children. No other broadcasone who personifies this. by training, he is the father of three ter in Germany does anything like this. It children. wasn’t easy to assert in the beginning and Who checks that your programs comply it restricts us somewhat commercially, but with the youth protection laws? we’re happy to accept that. — Schmit We are in regular dialog with the state media authorities. They monitor You write on your website that the our shows and have never complained content and design of your programs yet. We are also members of the Assomeets children’s requirements and ciation for Voluntary Self-Monitoring in needs. What specifically does this mean Television (FSF) and the Association for 72 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 “We don’t have to do what Super RTL is active on the internet project has since been included in the we do. But we do it in the as well. How do you fulfill your coalition agreement. responsibilities there? interests of society.” — Schmit In addition to an “InterTo what extent does Super RTL net license” on toggo.de, we offer the cultivate a dialog with its audience Voluntary Self-Monitoring by Multimedia commercial-free, online preschool learning and with society at large? Service Providers (FSM). But more improgram Toggolino Club – and with great — Schmit We are approached all the portantly, the protection of minors should success. It gives preschoolers an opportime. For example, when “peb,” the diet always be on the minds of each of our 120 tunity to try out the Internet in a commerand exercise platform, was launched by employees. That is the case, and a very cial-free and safe environment and to imthe Minister for Consumer Protection, effective means of protecting minors. prove their cognitive skills with a number Renate Künast. It aims to teach preschool of learning games. In addition, we support children about healthy nutrition and What do you do to help children interact the “fragFINN” initiative, which maintains exercise in a fun way. We developed a with the media in a meaningful way? a “white list” – a continuously updated list concept consisting of three-minute trailers — Schmit Many things. For example, of content appropriate for children. This featuring the dolls Peb and Pebber. That’s we make educational materials available list, which also functions as a search enbeen ongoing for four years now and is to schools via the Media Smart associagine for children, lets parents or teachers extremely popular with children. tion. It teaches children how to critically technically restrict the sections of the Net We also invest a lot of money in media question advertising. We don’t have to that children can browse, so that kids are research. We organize Kinderwelten do what we do with Media Smart; we do free to surf in a protected area. (children‘s worlds), an annual academic it in the interests of society. The associaconference, and repeatedly invite children ,, tion was founded in 2004, and its media Is Super RTL doing this on its own? to visit the channel to discuss our proeducation efforts are handled by a panel — Schmit Apart from Super RTL, Deutgrams. We feel it is important to address of experts led by Prof Stefan Aufenanger sche Telekom, Google, Microsoft and the the reservations or uncertainties of our and a project management team. We let publisher Tessloff are on the association’s young viewers and their parents and to them do their work. The important thing board. There are also other association offer with help wherever we can. Our for us is that we make a contribution to members and links to the German federal corporate responsibility efforts should the promotion of media literacy and to government’s “Ein Netz für Kinder” (A Net always tie in to our core business – help educate children to become responfor Kids) project. German Chancellor anything else would be implausible. sible citizens. Angela Merkel officially launched the “fragFINN” website in 2009 and the 73 Our Commitment World’s largest trade book publisher € 1,828 million revenues 5,264 employees worldwide 200 editorially independent imprints in 16 countries 10,000 new books published annually worldwide 230 titles on “New York Times” bestseller list in 2010 Headquarters: New York 74 Taking Action At RANDOM HOUSE “Random House has the privilege of publishing books that make a difference in the lives of our readers. We welcome the responsibility that comes with this privilege and are working to make a difference around the world in support of literacy, education and the environment.” Markus Dohle, Chairman and CEO, Random House 75 Our Commitment A CERTIFIED TRAILBLAZER The FSC certificate guarantees environmentally friendly paper. p. 81 76 EVERY WORD A WINNER Reading mentors in New York. p. 84 RESPONSIBILITY AND INNOVATION How Random House protects copyrights in the digital world. p. 78 77 Our Commitment INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Protection THE STORY PUBLISHER The contents of books are now published on paper and digitally – an opportunity for publishers and authors, says Bill Scott-Kerr. ,, As a publishing group, Random House has – like all media organizations – a special responsibility to consider what impact their content has on society. What does being responsible for authors mean to you? — BILL Scott-Kerr Taking on a book How does your relationship with the authors develop over the years? — Scott-Kerr One of the interesting things about Transworld is that most of our authors have been with us for most of their publishing careers. We have published almost all titles by the likes of Terry means taking on a huge responsibility. Pratchett, Frederick Forsyth, Dan Brown, Editors love to acquire books, but as a Joanna Trollope, Lee Child, Bill Bryson, publisher, the initial step should be to Kate Atkinson, Sophie Kinsella and Andy question how much we really believe in McNab and I like to think that’s because a title. Taking on a title means taking on they trust us to do the very best for their an author’s hopes, dreams and livelihood, books. Of course that is a massive responwhich makes it a very serious commitsibility, but it is also a positive affirmation Bill Scott-Kerr is a publisher at ment indeed. We have a responsibility to of the quality of our publishing: to still be Transworld Publishers, a company guide our authors through the publishing able to deliver for these authors ten, fifin the Random House Group UK. process and provide them with the advice teen, twenty years on is something to be and market knowledge they need to make proud of, and a book as successful as possible. I think something we that the most successful relationships need to safewe have with authors are those based on guard. With collaboration. My attitude is that when you the growth in establish a contract, you enter into a codigital techoperative relationship with the author and nologies like they become part of the decision-making internetenabled process. mobile phones, 78 Corporate Responsibility Bericht 2010/2011 the publishing landscape is changing so as they want to be. But I still believe we quickly that we are facing a whole new can find great books and it is that part of set of challenges. Yet we are still here, the job that I love. and we are still thriving. The printed book still forms 90 percent of our revenue in One of the key questions of our time – the UK. In the age of digital music, online regardless of whether we are talking news outlets and internet-enabled mobile about society, economy or ecology – is: phones, this is an extraordinary position What type of content should publishers to be in! It is quite rewarding to know that address in terms of sustainability? people still feel such a strong emotional — Scott-Kerr We started publishing an “We publishers are an connection to books, even though techecological list in 2001, based primarily on nologically they are hundreds of years old books that come out of the Eden project in optimistic bunch. We and are held together with a bit of glue. Cornwall (www.edenprojectbooks.co.uk). always believe we are on Sustainability is one of the most challenthe verge of finding the As a professional publisher, can you ging content areas we cover, because still read books through the eyes of a while people are prepared to read articles next great storyteller.” child? Can you still get lost in a story? in newspapers and magazines or online, — Scott-Kerr Absolutely! A love of very few environmental books are really stories is still what gets me out of bed in successful. We’ve done books about the morning. We publishers are always an demographics, water, land, sustainable optimistic bunch in that we always believe living, ecological cooking and about living we are on the verge of finding the next off-the-grid, but often they don’t really find great storyteller. Every time I start page the market that we thought they should one of any manuscript, I start it with that find. But then again, we have had some hopefulness. Most of the time I don’t great successes, for instance with Tim know anything about this 200-page pile Smit’s book Eden. of paper, but that is the beauty of it. It might just be the next Day of the Jackal, If authors need source protection, what the next To Kill a Mockingbird or the next do you do to guarantee their confidenThe Book Thief … you just don’t know till tiality? you turn that page! It is this hopefulness — Scott-Kerr We’ve had some inand optimism that makes publishing such stances where that has been absolutely a rewarding industry to work in. If you critical. In 1998 we published The Informer weren’t so optimistic, I think the editorial which was a highly controversial book side of things would be a real struggle as written by an IRA informer in what was there is also a great volume of books that a very volatile time. The fact that he was aren’t quite good enough or aren’t as good brave enough to write his story was extra79 Our Commitment ordinary in itself, but it meant that we had a challenge. For instance, digital puba duty of care to ensure we provided him lishing now means we can make digital with a safe environment. And as you can books that we might not necessarily pubimagine, that was quite a challenge. There lish in print, so in future we may even be aren’t many books that are that controable to work within a two-tier system of versial, mainly because they are a legal publishing. minefield and as such, can be enormously difficult to publish. We also need to take What kind of anti-piracy measures do into account the danger that we put our you take to protect the intellectual staff in as a consequence of publishing property of your authors? books like this, which means that the — Scott-Kerr Piracy has obviously been decision definitely has to be by consensus a big issue for the music industry. It is so that the entire team can take collecstarting to become an issue for us, just tive responsibility for any repercussions. not on the same scale. But the advantage Having said that, it’s also our job to be we have is that we have learned from the as courageous and publish the books we music industry and put a few measures in feel people need to read, but it is always a place to combat piracy before we reached decision we take very seriously as both a the same situation as the music industry. management and an editorial team. Essentially, our approach has been to help honest people stay honest. We are As the media go digital, what do you constantly monitoring for piracy of our think are the challenges publishing titles and have 20 piracy monitors across houses need to confront? What are the the Group, and a piracy coordinator, who opportunities? works with regulatory bodies on bigger — Scott-Kerr The digital future gives us picture strategies. This team is also supa massive opportunity to expand in new ported by anti-piracy technology, in that ,, and creative ways. For more than two we also have an automatic monitoring sysdecades I have thought of myself as a tem which constantly checks the Internet publisher, but now I need to start thinking for infringements. We have invested a lot of myself as a content provider. My job in anti-piracy measures, mainly because now is to work on behalf of our authors to we see it as a key part of our responsibility give readers whatever they want, in whatas publishers to protect the intellectual ever form they want it. It may come back property of our authors. to my eternal optimism once again, but I think if you start at that point, everything else becomes more of an opportunity than 80 Corporate Responsibility Bericht 2010/2011 ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION A certified bookpublishing trailblazer Verlagsgruppe Random House in Germany prints its books on environmentally friendly paper. A success story. W olfgang Michael Hanke likes Germany, however, was the only German to take visitors to a display book publisher among the award-winners. What is the FSC? cabinet in the reception area of Wood or paper bearing the FSC seal his Munich office, where he shows them is guaranteed to come from responsibly The letters FSC stand for the Forest Stewardship Council, an independent a wooden sculpture – the FSC Global managed forests, and to not have been NGO that was set up in 1993 after Partner Award. This trophy was awarded mixed with uncertified materials through­ the “Environment and Development” to Verlagsgruppe Random House for its out the entire chain of custody. In other conference in Rio de Janeiro. Today, trailblazing role in the use of environmenwords, the manufacturing process has the FSC has national task groups in more than 80 countries and promotes tally friendly paper. Production chief Hanke to meet ecological, social and economic sustainable forestry by issuing certipersonally accepted the award at a gala restandards from beginning to end. More fications to this effect for wood and ception hosted by the Forest Stewardship specifically, this means no pesticides may paper. www.fsc.org Council (FSC) in Bonn in September 2010. be used in the forests, logging activities Other German companies who have must not negatively impact biodiversity rendered great services to FSC-certified and the interest of the locals and forestry paper and to promoting responsible companies must be considered in equal forestry also received an award – such as measure. “Totally chlorine-free” (TCF) or the Hornbach Baumarkt AG DIY chain, the “elemental chlorine-free“ (ECF) processes Otto Group and the paper manufacturers must also be used to bleach the final pulp SCA and Leipa (Schwedt). Random House contained in the paper. In 2004, Verlagsgruppe Random House started sourcing paper for the btb and Luchterhand imprints from a manufacturer who had adapted their production to meet FSC criteria. Random House began communicating the change in 2005, when the publisher started printing the FSC label in its books. While most German publishers still print only a portion of their books on FSC paper, 81 Our Commitment Verlagsgruppe Random House was the Though FSC paper is more world’s only publishing group to switch expensive, its higher cost is the total production of its 45 imprints – including all four-color books – to the not passed along to the eco-friendly procedure by 2008. Nearly all customer. of the 70 million books produced by Verlagsgruppe Random House each year Wood from sustainable forestry carry the FSC label. Meanwhile, the higher costs for the FSC forms the ecologically and The publishing group had to go to some seal are not passed along to the end consocially responsible basis for length to convince suppliers to switch sumer. “We have managed to implement Verlagsgruppe Random House’s environmentally friendly books. to FSC paper. The resource-conserving FSC paper on our own terms, and without production process – and especially the raising the prices that readers pay for our annual TÜV inspection of operations books,” Hanke notes with a smile. – makes it more expensive than uncertified production. But Hanke managed to convince paper mills such as Mochenwangen in Baden-Wuerttemberg, Salzer in Austria and Hellefoss in Norway of the advantages of environmentally friendly paper manufacturing. After all, the FSC seal gives certified operations a marketing edge: the suppliers of FSC-certified paper grades are listed in the publishing credits of Verlagsgruppe Random House’s books. Furthermore, Random House has since become one of the mills’ largest individual customers. 82 Corporate Responsibility Bericht 2010/2011 83 Our Commitment PROMOTING MEDIA LITERACY Everybody Wins For a group of Random House, Inc. employees, reading aloud has become a passion that benefits many. W hen New York businessman Arthur Tannenbaum came across a report saying a child is most likely to become interested in reading if they are being read to at an early “We spend years with age it reminded him of his own experience the same child and read as a father of three. Out of a passion for our way through entire reading and education, he and his teacher wife Phyllis decided to found “Everybody library shelves.” Wins!,” a nonprofit organization that places volunteers in public schools to read to children. Twenty years later, the Tannenbaums’ Special Markets team project has grown into a national organimember Rose Schaer reads out loud to New York schoolzation with more than 14,000 volunteers. children. Many of them come from major companies, including Bertelsmann’s U.S. trade book publishing division Random House, Inc. “Everybody Wins!” is just one of the many projects promoting literacy that the world’s largest publishing group supports financially worldwide. For one thing is clear: Reading is one of the key prerequisites for participating in society. Once a week, approximately 40 of the Random House, Inc.’s staff donate their time as guest readers at local New York City public schools, to inspire children aged six to eleven with books and stories. 84 Corporate Responsibility Bericht 2010/2011 Rose Schaer from Random House’s Special Markets department enjoys spending her Wednesday lunchtime other topics of interest. “We don’t want reading to children. “Random House vothe children to lose touch with their other lunteers meet in designated classrooms, activities. We are just trying to enrich their where we sit at a table with the student lives through books,” says Rose. A sure we have been matched with by their sign of the reading lesson’s success is homeroom teacher. Some of us spend sethat many of the children check out books veral years with the same child and read from the school library and finish reading our way through entire library shelves. them themselves. Many times, we also see friendships forThe time spent on reading the ming between children and their readers,” stories in the weekly lessons between explains Rose. geography and math is entirely up to the Sometimes, Random House volunteers students. What’s most important is that bring books to read and subsequently dothey learn how a book can be a gateway nate to the school library. Other times, the to the world. “With ’Everybody Wins,’ reader and the student select a title together Random House will definitely continue to from the library’s existing stock. Rose be waiting in classrooms with great new confirms that it’s a two-way learning expebooks and stories for them,“ says Rose. The mentors bring books for rience. “Recently, I read aloud a book on the children with them from the the history of pants. I found this book after publishing company, but are also happy to read books from the ’my‘ little girl told me that she is passionate school library. about fashion. Although I’m not particularly interested in fashion, it turned out to be just as interesting for me as for her.” The roles may also be reversed on occasion, with the children reading aloud to their readers. Or, sometimes, in addition to reading they talk about 85 Our Commitment Europe’s leading magazine publisher € 2,549 million revenues 13,337 employees worldwide More than 500 magazines and digital offerings in over 30 countries  Quality journalism at its best: thoroughly researched, informative, inspiring and entertaining Headquarters: Hamburg 86 TAKing ACTION at GRUNER + JAHR “As  a leading publishing company, Gruner + Jahr has a great responsibility to society. This includes upholding the standards of independent quality journalism as well as our efforts for the environment and commitment to social projects.” Dr. Bernd Buchholz, CEO, Gruner + Jahr AG & Co KG 87 Our Commitment “GEO Protects the rainforest” How G+J compensates for the air travel of its employees. p. 94 CRAFTSMANSHIP WITH PRINCIPLES Young journalists learn it at the Henri Nannen School. p. 96 88 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF PRINCIPLE On the importance of journalistic independence. p. 92 G+J COMMITMENT Why executives support a children’s hospice. p. 90 89 Our Commitment Social commitment Too important to keep quiet about Executives support the families of terminally ill children – thanks to G+J Commitment. What is G+J Commitment? G+J Commitment is the Gruner + Jahr W publishing company’s corporate hat do you do when you finish volunteering program. It was set up to a very intense and strenuous encourage employees to volunteer for one-year project in addition to The children’s hospice service has supa good cause. The initiative consists of several elements. Firstly, for each day your main job? Take a vacation? Relax and ported families with terminally ill children they take off to volunteer for a social unwind? Catch up on your sleep? Jürgen since 2009, and Rosenboom is one of the or charitable institution, employees Rosenboom did the absolute opposite – association’s 20 “guides” who volunteer can apply for another day of paid leave, he got up very early. to support the families and offer assisup to a maximum of three days. Secondly, employees can also apply By 7 a.m., he was already standing in tance in a variety of ways. They help to for a grant to cover material costs (up the Deutscher Pressevertrieb (DPV) foyer care for the children, but also sometimes to €1,111). And thirdly, for employees in Hamburg, ready to distribute the result look after their siblings, who often have to who not only volunteer but also donate of the year’s work: a newly designed brotake a back seat. Or they provide respite their own money for a project, G+J will make a matching donation of up to chure for the Familienhafen (Family Harbor) care, so the parents can have time to be three times the amount (up to children’s outpatient hospice service in together as a couple. €3,333). The G+J Commitment Hamburg. “We were very excited to see It’s a challenging task that is not suit Committee decides how much money how the brochure would be received. It’s able for everyone. “We usually get betis granted and to whom. Its members include representatives from the not exactly an easy subject,” recalls Roween 50 and 70 people turning up for the HR department, the works council, senboom, Head of Customer Relationship first informative sessions. Of these, only and Corporate Communications, as Management Services at DPV. 15 come to the next event. And many of well as executives from the publishing Usually, the display stand by the those quit, too,” says Rosenboom. He and editorial teams. entrance holds new products from the himself stayed on even after the first, Gruner + Jahr printing and publishing second and third meeting. company: sometimes a special issue of This was followed by more than 100 Stern magazine, a new edition of Geo mahours of preparation, including the legal gazine or the Eltern magazine anniversary basis of support work, information about issue. But on this day, Jürgen Rosenboom patterns of disease in children and courses was raising attention for an issue that is in interpersonal communication. “The very dear to him, one that is less about training is a very intense and valuable work and more about commitment: the experience,” says Rosenboom. “You learn Familienhafen. a lot about yourself and can exchange 90 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 experiences with other volunteers.” While working with the families, this sharing becomes mandatory. Every guide has to undergo regular psychological supervision. Only those who can demonstrate a stable personality are accepted as Familienhafen guides. Rosenboom says it’s a very demanding job, and some people, especially those who carry a lot of their own sorrow inside, cannot withstand the pressure. Rosenboom came across the Familienhafen quite by accident on the G+J Commitment homepage, a site operated by the publisher that supports employees in volunteer projects. “I wanted to get involved and this project appealed to me the most.” Shortly afterwards, at the G+J Management College, which Rosenboom attended at the turn of the year 2009/2010, executives were encouraged to volunteer for the common good. Every individual is supported with up to €1,111 in expenses team went to work. Rosenboom: “Others distribution of the brochure turned out by the company. Rosenboom’s year was renovate kindergartens. That was not our to be groundless. Most of his colleagues the first to elect to form a common procore competency. Our forte is producing were glad to talk about it, and the work of ject, rather than many different ones. And and distributing publications.” The fund the Familienhafen was on everyone’s lips it quickly became clear that the particiraising brochure was carried as an insert in across the publishing company that day. pants wanted to support the Hamburg the magazines Stern, Geo, Eltern and Rosenboom especially remembers a conFamilienhafen. Not an easy task. Brigitte, and distributed by G+J employees versation with a colleague who was about “It’s easier to raise donations for in Hamburg. In addition, 550,000 flyers to become a father: “Thanks for working starving children in Africa. We’re familiar were put on display by more than 1,000 on this issue,” he said. “It’s really far too with those pictures,“ says Rosenboom. retailers and banks in the Hanseatic city. important to keep quiet about.“ With the Familienhafen brochure, however, With success: The commitment of there was a lot of discussion about what the G+J employees gained 25 new images and layout should be used to Familienhafen members, 20 inquiries represent the association. “It’s a difficult from potential new guides, and raised “ Only those who can topic because it is much closer to home more than €13,000 in donations. “But demonstrate a stable than African children. And because there the most important thing is that we have is no hope. The children supported by the made the brand and the association personality are accepted as association are going to die.” known,” says Rosenboom. “As a result, Familienhafen guides.” With the 12 executives from the edimore and more affected families are leartorial, manufacturing, sales, advertising, ning about the project, which is great.” finance and IT departments, a professional Incidentally, the fears he had prior to the 91 Our Commitment EDITORIAL INDEPENDENCE Free from hetero­nomous motives What does editorial independence mean for business media publications? A conversation with Editor-in-Chief Steffen Klusmann. ,, Mr. Klusmann, how would you define quality journalism in the context of Gruner + Jahr’s editor-in-chief principle? — Steffen Klusmann Quality journalism is sound, independent and critical journalism. The editor-in-chief principle guarantees that we can choose our subbecause the text of the story flows around an advertising image or any portion of an ad, for example, we feel that this is no longer acceptable for the reader. If readers can’t make out where editorial content ends and ads begin, we have a problem. jects free from heteronomous motives of To what extent do you communicate advertising clients. any critical feedback you receive from companies and advertisers about your Are there any requests from advertisers coverage to your editorial staff? that force you, as editor-in-chief, to take — KLUSMANN If a client is upset a particularly strong stand in defense of because we have made a mistake, then Steffen Klusmann is Editor-in-Chief this independence? the responsible editor needs to know it. If of the business paper Financial Times — Klusmann The desire for unusual ada client is upset because we’ve reported Deutschland and Capital magazine, as well vertising formats is increasing. Our clients something critical and is perhaps even as spokesman of the Chief Editors Commission for Gruner + Jahr’s business publicawant to stand out from the competition. threatening an advertising boycott, I try tions, which also include Impulse and Börse I can understand that. Our job is to to keep this away from my colleagues. Online magazines. determine whether the desired formats I want them to pursue their research are okay from our point of view and unimpeded. whether we can live with them. In what ways are you collaborating Do you have with the advertising department at examples of Gruner + Jahr? formats that are — KLUSMANN I personally coordinate not okay? very closely with the advertising depart— Klusmann If ment. Usually, we jointly develop ideas for ads are perceived specials, dossiers and supplements in the as being part of a business media publications. The rules of­ journalistic article ethics also apply in advertising environ92 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 “ If readers can’t make out proceeds for online content are still a long where editorial content way from supporting a big editorial team. ends and ads begin, we One last question on the subject of have a problem.” freelance journalists – many freelancers now work in both journalism and corporate publishing or PR, and might ments: We don’t let advertisers have copy be biased if their subject areas overThe magazine mix: a magazine approval and don’t allow hidden PR – all of lap. How much attention do you pay to consists of articles and ads, though this has nothing to do with quality journalyour freelancers’ client lists? the latter must be clearly labeled. ism. — KLUSMANN In the past, we would never have hired a freelance writer for You have introduced paid content artijournalistic purposes, if he or she also cles on the website of Financial Times worked for a corporate magazine. This is Deutschland, the newspaper’s German no longer the case. Many freelancers are edition. Do your readers understand forced to write for corporate publications that quality online journalism comes at in order to survive. Newspapers simply a price? don’t pay enough. Unless, of course, — KLUSMANN Eventually we’re going to you’re happy to spend the rest of your have to charge for our content on the life sharing a rented apartment. However, Internet as well. At this point, almost when hiring freelancers, we are very all media in Germany are 100 percent careful to make sure that they don’t face a dependent on advertising revenue for conflict of interest. So if someone writes their online content. This is not exactly a for a bank magazine, we wouldn’t ask him ‘‘ healthy business model in the long term. or her to write a story about financial serThe introduction of paid content has shown vice providers. Book reviews, for instance, that there are a lot of readers on our generally do not pose such problems. So website ftd.de who accept that we now we do require our freelancers to let us charge for premium content. But the know who else they work for. fact is you can still access more than 90 percent of the website’s content free of charge. This means that the net sales 93 Our Commitment 94 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION Forests For Life Gruner + Jahr compensates for its business air travel with a multifaceted climate protection project – that benefits farmers in Nepal among others. A nyone devoted to quality jouridea, however, goes beyond pure carbon target for 2011 is even higher,” says Eva nalism and reporting on the state offsetting to help local smallholders help Danulat. “More than 70,000 trees will be of the world using pens, laptops themselves. planted this year. And by June, more than and cameras, will eventually need to fly. In this rural area there are no Western50,000 were already in the ground.” This leads to greenhouse gas emissions style villages. The 4,000 households, The second series of measures involves like carbon dioxide, which in turn are a almost exclusively subsistence farmers, managing existing forests better and significant factor in climate change. Howare spread across the slopes of several reducing logging. By March 2011 alone, ever, one can offset the consequences mountains. When the project was intro600 households were able to use a biogas of business travel by using an emissions duced, nearly all of the population’s system and 800 more were using more calculator to determine the quantity of energy needs were met by wood, with efficient wood-burning cooking stoves. By greenhouse gases each flight has caused. each family needing an average of ten the end of the year, another 200 stoves and This tells you tons of firewood per year for cooking 300 biogas systems will be installed. The exactly how and heating. However, as the population women, who are traditionally responsible much has to in the Middle Mountains has doubled in for cooking and managing the household be saved elsethe last 30 years, much of the forest has in Nepal, are enthusiastic about the new where – for disappeared during that time or is in poor stoves, partly because the smoke from example condition. “GEO Rainforest Conservation” open cooking areas is inconvenient and by protecting has two different objectives here. very unhealthy. The new stoves have a brick forests in First, the establishment of tree vent, and also use 30 to 40 percent less Nepal, benurse­ries and reforestation activities. wood. Families who receive a biogas cause trees “At first there were delays,” admits system no longer need to use any wood store carbon Dr. Eva Danulat, Managing Director of for cooking, so they are also saved the Eva Danulat, Managing Director, “GEO Rainforest dioxide. the nonprofit organization. “The nurseries tedious job of collecting wood. In addition, Conservation“ The donorwere unable to supply a sufficient number the project has initiated activities to imfunded organiof healthy, strong seedlings. Moreover, it prove health care and drinking water supply. zation “GEO Rainforest Conservation” was often difficult to find suitable land in Phase one of the project will be com(GEO schützt den Regenwald e. V.) carries the hilly terrain, where the soils are stony pleted in 2013. It is gratifying to see that, out forest conservation projects around and poor.” But in the summer of 2010 after a difficult start, it is now developing the world. These include an initiative they were finally ready to begin the first even better than originally projected. started in 2008 with Gruner + Jahr in major local afforestation campaign. In the the Middle Mountain region of Nepal, district of Dhading, west of Kathmandu, which offsets carbon emissions from G+J locals planted close to 55,000 seedlings of employees’ business flights. The basic various fruit and forest tree species. “The 95 Our Commitment TRAINING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION Handicraft and Principles Linguistic precision and in-depth research: The Henri Nannen School trains journalists for quality media. F or the finalists of the application program. “Qualität kommt von Qual” (No process for the Henri-Nannen-Jourpain, no gain) has been the journalism nalistenschule, 19 June 2011 was a school’s motto since it was founded in challenging day. They had just three hours 1979, funded by Gruner + Jahr and to write a report about a “shopping SunDie Zeit newspaper and regularly supporday” (editor’s note: in Germany, shops are ted by Spiegel magazine. It is engraved regularly closed on Sundays) – and only on a marble slab hung in the auditorium half an hour more to do their research in for all to see. Those who are accepted downtown Hamburg. into the school and pass their exams 18 This task was part of the three-day months later can hope for a career in round of tests for the final 80 candidates high-quality German media. Of the 20 shortlisted from a total of 2,000 applicants graduates in the class of 2010, 15 immefor the 2012 program. Other examinations diately received employment contracts. included a picture test for identifying In all, the school has trained 600 journapeople in the public eye; a rewrite of a lists. Many of them can now be found Students at the Henri Nannen School spend one-and-a-half years confusingly written news report; a test on in management positions, including the learning the craft of journalism. general knowledge and current events in senior editing teams of Der Spiegel, Geo, politics; and a personal interview in which Die Zeit, Financial Times Deutschland, candidates scored points for their ability to RTL and Handelsblatt. argue their opiniDuring their training, the students ons and the speed complete five seminar units at the school of their reactions. and four internships at prestigious newsThe participants rooms. Journalistic craftsmanship is at the were then ranked heart of the curriculum: in-depth research according to their and linguistic precision, interview stratescores for each gies and development of themes, press task – and only law and content management. No course the top 20 were fees are charged; instead, the students admitted to the receive a monthly allowance of €761. 96 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Training grounds for democracy Anyone wanting to encourage young journalists and discover young talent “ No pain, no gain” has been the motto of the journalism shouldn’t sit around waiting for job applications, but take a look around school since its inception. the nation’s schoolyards. Encouraging young people to get involved and make a commitment is an important focus of Gruner + Jahr’s corporate responsibilThe course is held in a historic office A morning exercise in connection with ity efforts. Therefore, since 2011, the building near the port of Hamburg and the Greek crisis provides a practical publishing company has also been the primarily consists of practical exercises example of this. In 2010, it was widely main sponsor of the German State School Newspaper Competition, which followed by an intense process of correported that Greek officials receive a is organized by the Kultusministerrection. Students write news, features pension equal to their final salary. The konferenz (Standing Conference of the and commentary. They produce their own students were given 20 minutes to check Ministers of Education and Cultural newspaper, create content for a dummy this claim online. The result: Yes, Greek Affairs of the Länder in the Federal Republic of Germany). At the awards news website, develop magazine concivil servants receive 97 percent of their ceremony at the Bundesrat (German cepts, and also learn to produce Web final basic salary as pension. But their Senate) in June 2011, some 80 student videos and apps. In addition, there are basic salary constitutes only 55 percent newspaper editors – “the smartest regular morning journalistic exercises – for of their monthly income, while the other pens in Germany” as one paper called them – received their prizes from Bunexample, to develop a feeling for language 45 percent comes from special payments. desrat President Hannelore Kraft, and (“Write a short story using only one-syllaIn other words: The snappy assertion various editors-in-chief of well-known ble words.”) or database search (“Find the sounded good, but was factually incorrect. German publications. The publications 20 highest buildings in Bogotá.”) Greek civil servants’ pensions are only of 25 editorial teams were selected from more than 1,800 submissions. The head of the school, Andreas slightly more than half of their salary – as Prizes were awarded to school papers Wolfers, formerly Editor at Stern and Geo is the case for most pensioners in Europe. in six categories ranging from elemenmagazines, puts just as much emphasis Wolfers says this exercise illustrates tary to high school and vocational on critical reflection as on practical skills. nicely what the Henri Nannen School of school. There were also several special awards, including the “WortWechsel” His students should learn to think and Journalism is all about, and has been for (verbal exchange) annual award initiwork independently, free from prejudice. over 30 years: “Handicraft and principles.” ated by Gruner + Jahr for the best And to always ask themselves: Is what is interview. being said and written really correct? 97 Our Commitment Leading international provider of outsourcing services € 5,083 million revenues 63,985 employees worldwide International provider of integrated outsourcing solutions Locations in more than 30 countries Headquarters: Gütersloh 98 TAKing ACTION at ARVATO “Arvato’s services combine economic efficiency with the principle of sustainability. Resource conservation and efficient energy use are becoming increasingly important criteria in our cooperation, both for us and for our customers.” Rolf Buch, Chairman, Arvato AG 99 Our Commitment SUPPORT FOR EMERGENCY AID AZ Fundraising Services helps raise funds for relief agencies. p. 106 RESOURCE CONSERVATION How Arvato protects the environment. p. 102 100 GET OUT OF DEBT Arvato Infoscore supports a debt consultancy. p. 108 101 Our Commitment EFFICIENT USE OF ENERGY AND RESOURCES Resource conservation Arvato companies explore many paths in their quest for environmentally compatible printing. “Climate-neutral printing A is good, but selectively three-leafed plant inside a circle, In 2009 the plant became even more efin black and white or green: The ficient. The three old gas turbines were reducing emissions beforeprinted materials produced at replaced by models with a higher electrical hand is even better.” Mohn Media in Gütersloh have proudly output and improved electrical efficiency. worn the logo known as CO2-button since This means that with the same amount of 1994. Since then the Arvato subsidiary natural gas, about 2.5 million kWh more has produced the energy required for power is produced annually per turbine. production at its own cogeneration plant, At the same time, the use of special which powers three gas turbines and one gas burners in the turbine substantially steam turbine using natural gas as a fuel. reduces the emission of nitrogen oxide By simultaneously supplying electricity without having to use additional water. and heat, the combined heat and power Thanks to modern technology, levels are plant achieves an efficiency ratio of more now about 60 percent below those of than 80 percent and therefore emits the old generation of machines. And the 52 percent less CO2 than the average modern turbines have another effect: The energy mix in Germany. The excess heat is amount of electrical energy purchased fed into a heating network. from outside has been reduced by more than two-thirds. Andreas Henrichs, environmental officer at Arvato: “We’re making an important contribution to climate and environmental protection.” Environmental protection and resource conservation are also increasingly being considered when sourcing the paper used 102 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Drawers full of Treasure When the first commercial cell phone came onto the market in 1983, it weighed nearly a kilogram and had a battery life of about an hour. Since then, handsets have made enormous progress – and many of the old ones lie abandoned and idle in drawers. In to print books, catalogs, magazines and and selection of materials to production Germany alone there are currently brochures. For instance, the use of recyand finishing. Packaging in the topgreenan estimated 72 million “retired” cell phones. cled paper has continuously risen, along line series is made entirely from recycled Sebastian Roltsch, Corporate and with the quantity of virgin fiber certified or recyclable materials. It is manufactured Business Development Manager at according to Forest Stewardship Council and printed with environmentally friendly Arvato, is not happy about this, as (FSC) criteria. inks and lacquers free of petroleum and working phones can still be used and defective ones are true treasure Mohn Media is certified according to solvents. For example, in multimedia chests. They contain precious metals FSC chain of custody criteria, along with products like the new BluRayPac, the such as copper, palladium, silver and 15 other Arvato companies, and is a memdiscs are held in corrugated cardboard even gold. So in May 2011, acting as ber of the WWF Wood Group. Mohn Media trays – these are made from renewable project manager, Roltsch and his colleague Moritz Kloss called on is also a member of the “Initiative Pro resources, as is the outer cover. In other 22,000 colleagues across Germany Recyclingpapier,” which was founded to multimedia packaging, the trays are made to donate discarded cell phones and promote the use of recycled paper in busiof up to 100-percent recycled materials. accessories for a good cause. In all, ness and administration. Topac offers similar eco-friendly solutions 2,698 old handsets and 184 kilograms of accessories were collected. The for manufacturers of natural cosmetics handsets are inspected, properly who wish to set themselves apart from recycled or reconditioned, and finally The Eco Line traditional cosmetic brands even in their sold. The proceeds go to the nonprofit packaging. organization fragFinn e.V., which has developed a child-friendly Internet Environmental friendliness really starts search engine and provides a daily at the product development stage. The updated “white list” of safe websites. best example of this is the “topgreenline” Climate-neutral printing Besides the positive effects of recycpackaging offered by the Arvato Entertainling and protecting minors, the phones do not end up in the trash, which rement Europe subsidiary Topac. This prodDespite all these efforts, even Topac canduces the volume of heavy metals and uct line is characterized by an ecological not produce packaging without CO2 and other pollutants destined for landfills and economical use of resources across other greenhouse gases being released and incineration plants. the entire process, from the initial concept into the environment. The Gütersloh-based 103 Our Commitment company therefore offers its customers knows that nothing can be produced withthe option of offsetting emissions by buyout emissions: “Climate-neutral printing is ing carbon credits. How it works: First, good, but selectively reducing emissions Climate Partner, an agency specializing in beforehand is even better.” the calculation of carbon dioxide, determines Topac’s carbon footprint, i.e. Environmental friendliness the emissions caused by heating, electricity and the vehicle fleet. Then the begins at the product developamount of CO2 produced in fulfilling the ment stage, from design customer order – i.e. in the manufacture and materials selection to of paper, ink and glue – is measured. Even the manpower involved is included in the manufacture and finishing. calculation. Once the carbon footprint has been calculated, Climate Partner proposes that the client participates in climate-protection projects by buying emission-reduction certificates to offset CO2 emissions. The agency recommends projects such as a hydroelectric plant in Guatemala or a wind farm in New Caledonia. The emissions offsetting can be precisely verified from the certificate number issued. Arvato’s environmental officer Andreas Henrichs believes climate-neutral production is a step in the right direction. But he also 104 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 105 Our Commitment SOCIAL commitment Rescuers need help, too AZ Fundraising Services supports relief organizations in their fundraising. W hen a massive earthquake hit Haiti on January 12, 2010, many viewers around the world sat shocked in front of their TV. It was the most powerful quake ever recorded in the Americas, measuring 7.0 on the Richter scale. The effects were catastrophic. Hundreds of thousands of people were killed in Haiti and many more left homeless. Aid agencies have to respond quickly to disasters in order to best exploit people’s willingness to give donations for the victims. Jörn Berheide, Managing Director of the Arvato subsidiary AZ Fundraising Services, and his team have developed a system that enables organizations to start The Emergency Kit is based on three When disaster strikes, relief collecting donations quicker than ever pillars: the first and most important is the organizations need help too – in order to raise funds for homeless before: the Emergency Kit. The German mail-out. AZ Fundraising Services, a direct children, for example. aid organization Welthungerhilfe relied marketing services provider, sends out on this emergency service in responding letters with a pre-personalized remittance to the disaster in Haiti. “The earthquake slip. “This is still the most successful way hit on a Tuesday. We received the order to attract donations, as the donors hardly Wednesday morning. By Saturday mornneed to fill in anything,” says Berheide. ing, 800,000 letters had already reached The aid organization supplies addresses, potential donors,” recalls Berheide. pictures and texts; Berheide handles 106 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 the printing and mailing with his team stores several rolls of white paper and has of eight. The second component of the specific contracts in place with printing Emergency Kit is the e-mailing. E-mails plants in case of disasters. This is an designed just like the letters from the important component, says Berheide: “In charities are sent within hours. The third the past, our customers let us know that measure consists of calling through lists although we did some very good work, we “The earthquake hit on a of donors. But in the two years that the were not quick and flexible enough. That Tuesday, Wednesday morning Emergency Kit has been on the market, was when we developed our Emergency this has never been requested. “Most Kit.” All the major charities such as Unicef, we received the order, and Germans reject the idea of telemarketing,” Doctors Without Borders, SOS Children’s on Saturday morning, says Berheide. “Besides, you never know Villages and Welthungerhilfe have already if you have called someone at a good used the emergency package. But AZ 800,000 letters had already time. Maybe the kids are annoying them, Fundraising Services offers even more: As reached potential donors.” or the mop bucket has just spilled all over one of Germany’s leading service provithe floor.” A letter, however, can be put ders to charities, the company also handaside for reading at a better time, and eles lead generation, gaining new donors mails can be left unread, he says. through mailing and e-mailing AZ Fundraising Services responded campaigns, and the production and especially quickly to the disaster in Haiti. mailing of newsletters and promotional As Welthungerhilfe was already on the letters. ground with various Jörn Berheide, the emergency helper projects, they had when catastrophe strikes, actually makes an overview of the regular donations himself. “I have an idea situation and knew of the work carried out by organizations,“ how they could use he says. “For me, there’s no question the money. In order that the money really does go to the right to produce the place.“ And at Christmas his entire deletters within the partment gets together to consider which shortest possible organizations will get an extra donation – time, the Arvato even in the absence of time pressure and subsidiary always acute disasters. 107 Our Commitment social commitment Get out of debt More and more Germans are slipping into insolvency: Arvato Infoscore has joined forces with the Diakonie Baden-Baden to help. O n German television there is a support. Its portfolio of services includes reality format that is already in its risk management, billing, accounting, ninth season, and has won every payment processing, as well as dunning major award – the Grimme Award, and debt collection. In short: Infoscore is the Golden Camera, the German Televian expert on debt. The company donates sion Award – the RTL show “Raus aus “We commit all our expertise to profunds for the Diakonie’s den Schulden” (Get Out Of Debt). Its viding debt advice,” explains Wolfgang success is no accident: Ever more people Hübner, a member of the Arvato Infoscore social aid work. But its in Germany are going bankrupt. According Executive Board. “We communicate support doesn’t stop at to Germany’s Federal Statistical Office, regularly with employees of local charities financial donations: the number of personal bankruptcies in with the aim of jointly finding ways to get Germany rose from 3,000 in 1999 to over clients out of the debt trap.” Infoscore is also an 100,000 ten years later. Nicole Schieler, who is responsible expert on the subject All over the country, people need help for the project at Infoscore, explains the of debt. with debt – even in the wealthy state of details: “If, for example, a debtor contacts Baden-Wuerttemberg, where the Badenus because of an outstanding claim from Baden and Rastatt Diakonie has operated one of our customers, our employees may a debt consultancy for two years. Arvato support them in drawing up a joint debt Infoscore, a subsidiary of Arvato headplan.” The Diakonie appreciates this supquartered in Baden-Baden, supports the port: “Arvato has inspirational staff who charity’s practical work very constructively with us,” says debt advice work by Gerhard Klaar, a qualified social worker at donating €10,000 the Diakonie. per year. But Arvato also benefits from the coBut Infoscore operation. For example, one employee was does more than just invited to sit in on one of the Diakonie’s give financial advice sessions to learn about the prob108 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 lems of borrowers firsthand. In particular, she was confronted with people who could no longer afford to pay their rent – an experience that Arvato benefited from as the company was planning a consulting service for housing associations at the There are a number of consulting time. Besides, this kind of role reversal programs available in Germany for debtors who feel there is no way out – the Diakonie broadens people’s horizons: “Seeing the Baden-Baden offers one in partnership real-life impact of our work was definitely with Arvato Infoscore. a good experience for her,” says Klaar. But the social worker does not only help when it is nearly too late; he also provides debt prevention counseling services that draw on Infoscore’s experience. Both rely on the preventive effects of educational work, because “with a little help, personal bankruptcy can often be avoided,” says Klaar. He also helps teenagers, as people now often start “racking up debt” before their 18th birthday. “Young people need to learn to deal with money,“ he says. 109 Facts and Figures 04Facts and Figures To continually measure and improve our performance, we monitor key indicators in our business operations. In doing so, we aim to create transparency about what we do and how we do it. Therefore, on the following pages we have compiled relevant financial, employee-related and environmental indicators. 110 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 ECONOMY Business development Group Figures (IFRS) (in € millions) 2008 2009 2010 Bertelsmann’s performance in ﬁscal 2010 was Business development very positive, with revenues and earnings up sharply. Revenues from continuing operations Consolidated revenue 16,118 15,110 15,786 reached €15.8 billion, up from €15.1 billion Operating EBIT 1,568 1,438 1,852 in the previous year, and operating EBIT from Operating EBITDA 2,130 2,000 2,400 continuing operations came to €1,852 million, Return on sales in percent 1) 9.7 9.5 11.7 up from €1,438 million in the previous year. Bertelsmann Value Added (BVA)2) 88 50 371 The growth in revenues and earnings was fueled by the economic recovery, especially Group profit 270 35 656 the rising advertising market, and by the costInvestments 1,095 662 753 cutting measures. The return on sales rose to 11.7 percent (previous year: 9.5 percent), a new Employees (number) record. Group proﬁt increased sharply by Germany 38,421 36,930 36,462 €621 million to €656 million. In 2010, tax expenses totaled €248 (previous year: International 67,662 65,774 67,957 €249 million). Bertelsmann expects the ecoTotal 106,083 102,704 104,419 nomic recovery to continue in fiscal 2011. Dividends to shareholders of Personnel expenditure Bertelsmann AG (in € millions) 120 60 180 Distribution on profit participation Expenditure on personnel increased to 76 76 44 certificates (in € millions) €4,513 million in 2010 (previous year: Employee profit sharing (in € millions) 75 64 118 €4,379 million). Figures for fiscal year 2009 adjusted; others as reported in the respective fiscal year. 1) Based on Operating EBIT. 2) Bertelsmann uses the BVA as a key performance indicator to evaluate the profitability Social insurance of the operating business and the return on investment. Varying forms of pension plans exist in the Personnel expenditure Group, including defined-contribution and (in € millions) 2008 2009 2010 defined-benefit models. While expenses for defined-contribution plans during the Wages and salaries 3,651 3,563 3,643 reporting year amounted to €25 million Statutory social security contributions 623 640 641 (previous year: €23 million), €174 million Profit sharing 75 64 118 was spent on defined-benefit commitments Expense for pensions and similar obligations 99 96 97 to employees (previous year: €168 million). Other employee benefits 14 16 14 Total personnel expenditure 4,462 4,379 4,513 Employees of Bertelsmann AG worldwide based on the ongoing business activities of Bertelsmann AG. Figures for fiscal year 2009 adjusted; others as reported in the respective fiscal year. 111 Facts and Figures Employees Around 100,000 people worldwide work for Staff structure steady at this level over the last few years. the success and continuous development of Given the demographic trend – nearly our company on a daily basis. We therefore In 2010, Bertelsmann AG companies em17 percent of employees are now over 50 give high priority to our responsibility for ployed people in 51 countries on all five years old – Bertelsmann has been quick to employees. As a consequence of the global continents – nearly 35 percent of them in respond in order to mitigate its effects. For economic crisis in 2009, Bertelsmann initiGermany. Bertelsmann also has a particuinstance, Bertelsmann offers various workated restructuring measures and reduced larly strong presence in France, where the ing-time models to help enable a smooth its workforce. In the spirit of our corporate Group has 17,703 employees. By expanding transition to retirement. Furthermore, the culture of partnership, we worked closely activities in Africa, the number of employergonomic design of workplaces is increaswith employee representatives to find ees there has increased by about a third to ingly taking the changing needs of older socially acceptable solutions (2008: 106,083 3,808 over the past few years. Eighty-two employees into account. To counter a possiemployees, 2009: 102,704 employees). In percent of the Group’s staff are full-time ble shortage of skilled staff – the proportion 2010, one of the most successful years in the employees. This proportion has increased of employees under 30 currently stands at company’s 175-year history, the number of slightly in the last three fiscal years. The 35 percent and is falling – Bertelsmann gives employees increased by 1,715 year-on-year average age of Bertelsmann employees was special emphasis to training and continuing to 104,419 (as at Dec. 31, 2010). 37.1 in 2010, a figure that has remained education for its employees. Age structure Fluctuation In the markets in which its firms oper>65 years ate, Bertelsmann not only advertises for 61–65 years customers but also for the best personnel, 56–60 years in order to ensure the company's long-term 51–55 years success. Most services businesses are highly dynamic, which is also reflected in staff 46–50 years turnover. Based on the BDA formula, the 41–45 years fluctuation rate for companies in Germany 36–40 years was 13 percent in 2010. In regions where 31–35 years labor markets can fluctuate very rapidly 25–30 years (the rest of Europe and other countries), lo<25 years cal companies also recorded a high level of 12% 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% 2% 4% 6% 8% 10% 12% fluctuation. Despite these strong changes, the average length of employment has increased over the last three years and is now Women Men Permanent and temporary employees as at Dec 31, 2010 at 7.4 years. More than 16 percent of the 112 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Fluctuation 2008 2009 2010 Other Other Other European European European Germany Countries USA Other Germany Countries USA Other Germany Countries USA Other 12,000 (33%) (104%) 10,000 (24%) (67%) 8,000 5,298 (24%) 6,054 (59%) (22%) Arrivals 6,000 4,701 4,123 4,757 3,463 2,975 (14%) (13%) 4,000 (33%) 2,153 (20%) 5,265 2,118 2,000 4,211 1,491 (16%) 3,348 825 3,477 3,528 3,435 3,662 1,895 2,005 689 1,085 1,448 709 0 -685 -1,069 -2,073 -1,941 -1,866 -644 -2,604 -853 -3,285 -3,769 -3,697 -3,397 (-16%) -3,651 2,000 -3,616 (-20%) -1,741 -1,922 -1,941 -1,871 4,000 (-13%) (-13%) (-43%) (-15%) Leavings -4,710 -3,718 -3,682 -4,482 -3,695 6,000 -4,451 8,000 (-74%) (-62%) (-63%) (-25%) (-24%) (-24%) 10,000 Net 1,848 2,270 -12 3,076 199 167 -924 -388 351 257 69 439 change (6.3%) (7.2%) (-0.1%) (30.4%) (0.7%) (0.5%) (-10.4%) (-3.3%) (1.2%) (0.8%) (0.8%) (3.8%) Percentages refer to the average number of Arrivals Female Arrivals Male Leavings Male Leavings Female permanent employees during the fiscal year. workforce has been employed by the Group the Bertelsmann publishing company's many. The range of apprenticeships offered for over 15 years. private vocational school (page 114) more is as diverse as the businesses the Group than 45 years ago, laying the foundations is engaged in. Alongside budding media for the Bertelsmann Group’s present-day designers, industrial clerks and warehouse Education and training system of education and training. At logisticians professionals these also include “Employee skills and qualifications deteryear-end 2010, 1,339 young people were future industrial mechanics and cooks, and mine the success of the company.” Based in training in a total of 46 different profeseven, for the first time, a sports and fitness on this realization, Reinhard Mohn founded sions at Bertelsmann companies in Gerspecialist. 113 Facts and Figures Trend in training figures many training and continuing education Bertelsmann University offerings across all divisions. A continuing education 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 catalog with a print run of 10,000 copies was 35 1,000 1,400 53 49 distributed to all company sites in Germany 177 895 and is also available online. It provides an 176 191 1,200 overview of the 75 different seminars on of128 800 153 172 fer. On average, each employee in Germany 719 1,000 1,072 completed 6.1 hours of training in 2010 977 594 927 (2008: 8.6 hours; 2009: 6.4 hours). 600 800 594 600 400 400 Training hours by subject area in Germany 200 200 2008 2009 2010 45 39 36 0 350,000 Total Total Total 2,963 0 1,412 1,359 1,339 99,011 300,000 Programs Participants Trainees (commercial and industrial sector) 250,000 7,363 Dual study program 4,070 72,734 Volunteers/student interns 200,000 20,906 66,989 52,696 Bertelsmann University Journalism students 10,325 Founded in 1998, the Bertelsmann Universi150,000 15,826 38,812 39,136 ty offers future-oriented content and classes 96,746 for Bertelsmann group executives world100,000 75,294 Bertelsmann has been serious about its role 68,141 wide. The Bertelsmann University’s proas a training company for many years and gram boosts the growth and development 50,000 has long been able to keep the number of 40,136 39,724 of businesses and the establishment of 37,718 trainee slots through the group at a high networks across divisions and hierarchical 0 level. Total Total Total levels. The Bertelsmann University develops 326,748 240,594 221,245 An analysis of the results of the global customized programs for group executives Employee Survey in 2010 revealed that there in collaboration with renowned partners Leadership management training was room for improvement in the area such as the Harvard Business School, Insead of continuing education. In addition to Expert training and seminars and the HEC. The number of participants numerous measures initiated by the indiMethods and techniques varies according to the programs on offer, vidual divisions to address this issue, the Junior executive program which reflect the needs of the individual Bertelsmann Academy was founded in Jandivisions and the group. Language training uary 2011 and now offers – for the first time in the group’s history – all employees in GerConsulting and coaching 114 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 2008 2009 2010 ethnic background, gender, age, religion, Ratio of male/female staff sexual orientation and disabilities are of Women on the Superno consequence in our company. Although visory Board of Bertelsmann AG 2% 3% 3% the proportion of female employees is very high, this is not reflected in the propor13% 20% 23% tion of top management positions held by Women on the Group women in the group (17 percent). 53% Executive Board 0% 0% 0% Bertelsmann supports the “Genera0% 0% 0% tion CEO” initiative to promote women in 47% management and will continue to actively Women in divisional work on this issue. Against the backdrop of management demographic change, Bertelsmann cannot RTL Group 0% 0% 0% afford not to use the potential of female 0% 0% 0% managers. In the summer of 2011, the department Women Men Random House 2% 4% 6% of “Diversity Management” was created as a Permanent and temporary employees as at Dec 31,2010 29% 31% 43% first step at group level. Gruner + Jahr 0% 0% 0% People with disabilities 0% 0% 0% Ratio of basic salary of men Direct Group* 0% 0% 0% Performance knows no limits – true to this to women 0% 0% 0% motto, Bertelsmann AG has for years been Bertelsmann is competing for skilled committed to people with disabilities. For *The Direct Group businesses were transferred to Corporate Investments with effect from June 30, 2011. employees. Market conditions and perinstance, appropriate steps are taken to formance form the basis for remuneration create conditions that offer people with disat Bertelsmann. There is no discrimination abilities the same opportunities for self-deDiversity on the basis of race, gender, age, religion, velopment that people without disabilities Equal opportunity for all – no matter sexual orientation or disability. Remuneraenjoy. Therefore, among other things, we who you are. This right applies to all tion is determined according to the type have developed innovative aids for employBertelsmann locations worldwide and is of activity performed, as set out in the ees with disabilities, e.g. “Lisa” – a system firmly anchored in our core values. In 2010, job description. Individual performance, that alerts hearing-impaired employees to Bertelsmann was active in more than 50 experience and developments in the labor incoming e-mails by means of vibration countries. In Germany alone there were emmarket are also taken into account. Women and light signals, and a standing wheelchair ployees from 97 different nations. Diversity and men are treated equally. that allows wheelchair-bound employees to and differences are commonplace for us – a reach high shelves. At the end of 2010, natural part of our work, and an enduring Bertelsmann companies in Germany emfoundation of our success. ployed 1,520 employees with severe disabiliThe people who work for Bertelsmann are ties or similar impairments and thus almost as different and diverse as the markets in 10 percent more than in 2008 (number of which Bertelsmann does business. Respect employees with disabilities: 2008: 3.7% for each individual employee demands that 2009: 3.9% 2010: 4.2%). 115 Facts and Figures Work-Life-Balancet the company: from a health week with an activity program during lunch breaks, to the All Bertelsmann company divisions offer creation of a company sports team, through their employees a variety of working-time to special deals with local fitness centers. models, to enable a better work-life-balIn Germany last year there were 128 days ance. In addition to the various flextime of health campaigns with more than 3,200 models, there are companies that offer participants – twice as many as in the previemployees flexible lifetime or annual workous year. The increase in sick leave in recent ing accounts and family-friendly working years is taken very seriously. The systematic hours on the basis of trust-based workexpansion of BeFit activities is an attempt ing hours. Moreover, there is a variety of to reverse this trend (sick leave quota: 2008: part-time working models designed to suit 4.6% 2009: 4.9% 2010: 5.1%). each company and its business activity. In Germany, 23 percent of employees take the opportunity to work part time. Health and safety at work Bertelsmann companies in Germany have been compiling data on accident statistics Health management for years, taking into account reportable acMore exercise, better nutrition and comcidents at work and en route. The increase prehensive, preventive health care: getting in the accident rate is largely due to an inand staying fit is enormously important crease in the number of accidents en route for each and every one of us. Since 2008, to work. The reason for this is the extreme Bertelsmann’s various occupational health weather conditions of the past two winters, management activities have been grouped as lengthy periods of black ice and low temunder the name “BeFit.” To help employees peratures significantly increase the risk of maintain their health long term, there are en route accidents. In addition, local work programs and information on topics such safety committees analyze and discuss the as sports, medicine, prevention, nutritrend in accident figures in depth, so that tion and nonsmoker protection. The BeFit further measures for reducing the number campaign takes many shapes throughout of accidents can be developed. Accident rates (Germany) 2008 2009 2010 Number of accidents at work and en route 725 886 919 Accidents per 1,000 employees 19.1 23.7 25.4 Days incapacitated 8,236 11,675 13,265 Days lost per accident 11.36 13.18 14.43 Average number of employees in the fiscal year* 37,895 37,417 36,233 *Permanent and temporary employees, excluding trainees. 116 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Environment Bertelsmann is primarily active in the (such as tightened efficiency standards), Carbon footprint 2010  production and sale of books, magazines, and physical risks (damages due to natural 10,152 10,229 (0.8%) digital storage media, in television and film disasters). By counteracting these risks early (0.8%) 90,438 production as well as in media and commuon, for example, by increasing energy and (6.9%) 50,810 nication services. resource efficiency, negative consequences (3.9%) Against this background, we see our key are sought to be diminished. At the same environmental challenges in the area of patime, environ-mental and climate protec195,332 (15.0%) per and climate protection. Therefore, envition can open up new opportunities for the 680,905 (52.2%) ronmental management in printing plants corporation, such as new green business 267,324 and in CD and DVD production as well as models in the media and service sectors (20.5%) the responsible use of paper are core to (e.g. CO2 emission compensating printing our environmental effort. The basic and climate-neutral logistics). goals we pursue are manifested in the For the fiscal year 2010, other environTotal 1,305,190 t CO2eq Bertelsmann Environmental Policy and in mental indicators relevant to the operations the Bertelsmann Paper Policy. They have of Bertelsmann AG were collated for the first Arvato Direct Group* been applied throughout the Group since time, in addition to the carbon footprint. Prinovis Random House 2004 and 2005. The policies can be found at The Institute for Energy and Environmental Gruner + Jahr Corporate Center www.bertelsmann.com/environment Research (IFEU) in Heidelberg, Germany, RTL Group Bertelsmann AG considers climate supported us in the collection of environchange to be one of the central chalmental data. PricewaterhouseCoopers con* The Direct Group businesses were transferred to Corporate Investments with effect from June 30, 2011. lenges of the 21st century. In 2008, the ducted an audit in order to give a limited Bertelsmann Executive Board initiated the assurance on the environmental indicators. becomes apparent in the carbon footprint. corporate-wide environmental and climate Information audited by PricewaterhouseIn comparison to the carbon footprint protection strategy, “be green.” A central pilCoopers is marked by “”. of 2008 (1.475 million t CO2eq )1, around lar of the “be green” strategy is the regular The carbon footprint describes which 11.5 percent less greenhouse gas emissions compilation of a corporate carbon footgreenhouse gas emissions can be ascribed were emitted. The reduction can partly be print and the collection of other relevant to business activities in a given period. ascribed to our reduction measures and key environmental indicators. The aim of Besides carbon dioxide (CO2), other greenpartly to changes in the corporate structure. Bertelsmann’s environmental and climate house gases such as methane (CH4) were Changes in the corporate structure also protection efforts is to reduce emissions of taken into account and assessed according include, in particular, the gradual sale of greenhouse gases (GHG) and to minimize to their climate effectiveness. Therefore, the Direct Group’s 2 international businesses the overall environmental impact of its carbon footprint is reported in CO2 equivasince 2008. Therefore, the comparability of business activity. lents (CO2eq). the figures of 2008 versus 2010 is limited. As part of the “be green” strategy, In 2010, Bertelsmann’s total GHG emisthe risks due to climate change for sions amounted to around 1.3 million GHG emissions by scope Bertelsmann AG were assessed. They can metric tons CO2eq. The greatest share of be categorized as follows: financial risks greenhouse gas emissions were emitted by By far the largest share of GHG emissions (such as rising costs for energy and emisthe Arvato and Gruner + Jahr divisions, as can be attributed to the provision of heat sion trading), reputational risks (e.g. loss of well as by Prinovis. The printing units and and electricity. Bertelsmann’s direct emistrust among stakeholders and diminishing other production facilities in these divisions sions result from the use of fuels such as gas appeal as an employer), regulatory risks use a lot of electricity, gas and heat, which and domestic fuel oil in our heating systems 117 Facts and Figures and in some of our production assisting sions. An overview of input and waste can products. Over half of all printing plants are equipment. Regarding electricity, we took be found at the end of this section. Paper is PEFC-certified. Another important resource into account our proportionate share of CO2 a particularly important resource for us as for Bertelsmann is fresh water. In 2010, total emissions at our electricity suppliers’ power a media company with its own publishing water consumption amounted to 4.5 million stations, including the provision of combusand printing plants – paper accounts for cubic meters. In addition to the consumptible material they use. 96.6 percent of all raw materials used in the tion of water for daily use in offices and At the printing plants, electricity congroup. We committed ourselves in our Paper production buildings, the largest share is sumption has a huge impact on the overall Policy to increasing the use of recycled incurred at the printing plants. amount of emissions. At our offices and adpaper. The share of recycled paper in the For instance, in rotagravure printing, a ministration buildings, however, most emisoverall use of paper amounts to 13 percent lot of steam is needed to adsorb the solvent sions originate from the heating system. in total. toluene from the exhaust fumes through Business travel includes those GHG Furthermore, we give preference to the activated carbon filters, a procedure used to emissions caused by air or rail travel and the use of paper which stems from certified recover solvents from the print cycle. use of rental cars. Business travel accounts sustainable forestry. For example, already for 3.4 percent of the overall emissions of 98.5 percent of paper used at Gruner + Jahr Bertelsmann AG. The transport segment reis FSCor PEFC-certified. Random House Biodiversity flects the emissions of our various in-house Germany uses exclusively FSC-certified Bertelsmann’s main impact on biodiversity vehicle fleets, which cause 1.9 percent of paper. Besides the use of certified paper, it results from the use of paper. By procuring emissions. is also possible to certify businesses for the and using paper responsibly, as laid down correct handling of FSC or PEFC 4 papers. in our Paper Policy, we aim to contribute Random House UK is FSC-certified for its to the protection of forests and the conUse of resources own direct paper purchases. In total, 80 servation of biodiversity. In addition, we Overall, Bertelsmann strives for an efficient percent of Bertelsmann’s printing plants are review the impact of our business activities and responsible use of resources in all divicertified for processing and distributing FSC on adjacent nature conservation areas. At GHG emissions by scope 2010  Transport: 24,569 (1.9%), Calculating greenhouse gas emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol)3 Business Travel: 43,804 Scope 1 Bertelsmann calculates its greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the guidelines of the Green(3.4%), Scope 3 house Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). The GHG Protocol is the world's most widely used standard for determining GHG emissions and is published by the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development. Of particular significance for the determination of organization-wide GHG emissions under the GHG Protocol is their division into three “Scopes”: Scope 1 denotes all emissions generated directly by production or combustion in the company’s own facilities (e.g. domestic fuel oil in heating systems, in-house block heating plants). Scope 2 accounts for all emissions associated with electricity and district heating). Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions, such as emissions associated with business travel or paper manufacturing, for example. The Bertelsmann AG carbon footprint includes all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and some Scope 3 Energy: emissions (business travel). Those emission factors applied for the calculation of Scope 2 emissions 659,110 Energy: take into account climate gas emissions associated with the extraction and transport of energy sources. (50.5%), 557,706 Those additional Scope 3 emissions which originate from the use of raw, auxiliary and operating maScope 2 (44.3%), terials (predominantly paper, plastics, ink and packaging material) as well as those emissions caused Scope 1 by the distribution of our products, were not included. With over 1,000 single companies in around 50 countries, the benefits would be outweighed and stand in no reasonable relation to the efforts required for collating the data of these emissions. Total 1,305,190 t CO2eq  118 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Itzehoe (Schleswig-Holstein, Germany), responsibilities, the collation process and the nized emission factors (IFEU 2010, based on Prinovis operates a rotagravure printing reporting boundaries. GEMIS, assessed in accordance with national site (204,750 m2) adjacent to a flora-fauna IEA data). habitat along the river Stör. However, the To determine the proportionate climate activities on site have no relevant impact on Details on the calculation of impact of business travel, kilometers traveled the nature conservation area. GHG emissions were taken from bills of travel expenses and Emissions taken into account: The carbon broken down into air, rail and car rental. footprint takes into account direct GHG emisInformation from the databases of EcoPasReporting boundaries sions from in-house production facilities and senger, UIC (International Union of Railways), The carbon footprint and the environmental vehicles, as well as indirect GHG emissions TREMOD (IFEU) and the German Federal indicators relate to all companies in from generating electricity and business travel Environment Agency were used as emission which Bertelsmann AG and its divisions (air, rail, car rentals, etc.). factors for company-owned cars and business (RTL Group, Random House, Gruner + Jahr, Calculations and factors: The baseline for travel. Arvato) hold a share of greater than 50 perdirect GHG emissions was the 2010 annual 1 The overall figure of greenhouse gas emissions in 2008 was cent. In the case of these majority shareholdconsumption of natural gas, domestic fuel oil, revised downward. The reason for this deviation in comparison to the originally released carbon footprint 2008 are corrections in the figures ings, total rather than proportional volumes fuels, etc. The resultant emissions were calcureported for Prinovis, which were rechecked (corrected figure for Prinovis in 2008: 279,808.12 t CO2eq instead of 336,906.0 t CO2eq). were taken into account. lated using, among others, the factors of IFEU 2 Since the collection of data for the carbon footprint 2008, most of For non-producing sites, energy con2010, and those in accordance with GEMIS. Direct Group’s international businesses have been gradually sold. With effect from June 30, 2011, Direct Group is no longer a division sumption, business travel and a smaller set The conversion factors of the Intergovernof Bertelsmann. The Clubs and Direct Marketing remaining within of relevant input and output streams were mental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2007, Bertelsmann in Germany, Austria and Switzerland as well as Spain are administrated under Corporate Investments. considered. These include office paper, were applied to convert the global warming 3 The Greenhouse Gas Protocol – A Corporate Accounting and Reportprinter cartridges and toner as well as deterpotential into CO2 equivalents. ing Standard. Revised edition (2004). http://www.ghgprotocol.org/ standards/corporate-standard gent and relevant waste. The respective national energy mix is 4 The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) as well as the Program for the In collaboration with the IFEU institute, taken into account by calculating indirect Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PFEC) have both developed a certification system respectively. According to these systems, a guideline for measuring the indicators was greenhouse gas emissions from electricity sustainably managed forests and products, whose raw materials originate from these forests, can be certified and labeled. developed. It comprises specifications on consumption, using internationally recogCertifications and indicators in relation to papers at Bertelsmann AG printing plants (2010) Printing plants FSCPEFCDivision/Company Number certified  certified  Paper use  Recycled paper Arvato 16 12 5 2,380,348 t 190,428 t 8% Gruner + Jahr (print) 4 3 3 345,355 t 27,628 t 8% Prinovis 5 5 5 1,073,768 t 257,704 t 24% Printing plants total 25 20 13 3,799,471 t 475,760 t Total share of Share in relation to total number recycled paper at of printing plants 80% 52% printing plants 12.5% 119 Facts and Figures Other key indicators  Input streams 2010 Units Raw materials, total 3,972,696 t from printing/office paper 3,837,232 t from plastic materials 31,664 t from ink & varnish 70,181 t Auxiliary materials 102,399 t Operating materials 10,204 t Water, total 4,448,879 m³ Water, own wells 2,517,679 m³ Water, public supply 1,931,201 m³ Energy used Heat and combustible materials 3,230,125,252 MJ Electricity 1,435,000 MWh Fuels 246,002,753 MJ Business travel total 198,258,885 km Air travel 149,447,920 km Rail travel 28,730,245 km Car rental 20,080,720 km Output streams 2010 Units Waste, total 525,876 t Waste for deposit 16,259 t of which industrial waste 13,214 t of which hazardous waste 3,045 t Waste for recycling 509,617 t of which plastics 162 t of which paper 213,677 t Wastewater (sewage disposal) 1,940,323 m³ NOx total 2,567 t Sulfur dioxide total 1,209 t 120 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Product Responsibility The media are both a business and a culCustomer information and the process of opinion-building in society. tural asset. Whenever we create, bundle or advertising On the contrary: It is an essential part of our disseminate media content and products, As a media group, Bertelsmann places a business model. We aspire to deliver highwe fulfill important functions in society: to strong priority on advertising and marketing. quality content wherever our users want it. inform, entertain and educate. This is asWe do not knowingly engage in or promote The possibilities of new technology are of sociated with a particular responsibility. misrepresentation or fraud in the marketing particular benefit to us in this. Today, more or advertising of our products and services. people than ever have access to media. We also expressly committed to this in the Thanks to digitization, information spreads Customer satisfaction and Code of Conduct adopted in 2008. It is emilike wildfire all around the world. We want data protection nently important for Bertelsmann as a media everyone to be able to access our offerings at We are therefore committed to providing company to retain editorial and journalistic any time and from anywhere. By offering our our customers with high-quality products independence in the procurement and discontent in different versions and on differand services. The safety of our products and semination of news. Accordingly, our Code ent platforms, we also make it easier for the services is of vital importance. They must of Conduct prescribes a clear separation of socially marginalized, the elderly or people not contain defects or unsafe features that advertising and editorial content. You will with disabilities to access information, as the could lead to the endangerment of people find examples of our efforts in this area on following examples show: or to loss of value or damage to property. pages 46–109. RTL Group’s traditional business is “freeWe are especially careful about handling to-air TV”: The series, movies, magazines, our customer’s personal information. When news, shows, and sports it broadcasts are free collecting, storing, processing or transmitInformation and entertainment of charge. Main source of funding is advertisting personal information such as a name, for everybody ing. This is also true for its online offerings: address, phone number, or date of birth, Access to information is part of the univerRTL Group’s “catch-up TV” sites let viewers we pay special attention to ensuring strict sal human right to freedom of expression: watch programs they missed, for free, for a confidentiality as well as complying with all Everyone should be able to participate in certain period after their TV broadcast. applicable laws and regulations. the free flow of information and to obtain Having programs accessible to all has always We interact with our customers in many information, unhindered, from freely accesbeen rooted in RTL Group’s philosophy of ways and use proven instruments – such as sible sources. For Bertelsmann, the providoing business. For elderly or disabled peoreader letters, hotlines and the option of consion of information is not merely a duty that ple, M6 in France have prioritised subtitling tacting the editors online – to get open, reguarises from our special responsibility as a for the deaf and hard of hearing with 100 per lar updates about our customers’ satisfaction. media company namely, that of facilitating cent of content programming being subtitled 121 Facts and Figures in 2010. Similarly, RTL Television in Germany access to literature for vision-impaired or “self-defense” options for rights owners in launched in December 2010 sub­titles service slow readers. In addition, our imprints pubthe fight against copyright infringements on for the hearing-impaired offering numerous lish many of their titles as audiobooks. the Internet. prime time movies with a subtitle option. We regard digitization and the online And because children are also part of its audicommercialization of our content as a great ence, RTL Television’s Standards & Practices Protection of intellectual property opportunity. For a sector that is changing as department ensures the channel’s broadcasts As a company that sells content and services, rapidly as ours, it is essential to try out and are of a suitable nature to young viewers. the protection and defense of intellectual advance new approaches and new business In the print sector, Gruner + Jahr offers property is a fundamental basis for our busimodels. In this process, the question of how discount subscriptions to many of its titles ness model. We are a home for artists and copyrights can be transferred from the analog for people on low incomes, e.g. school creatives who trust us to commercialize their to the digital realm in a comprehensive and children, apprentices and those doing comcreative output in the best possible way. fair manner plays a key role. This is the only munity service as an alternative to military Intellectual property protection is esway for us to remain competitive and able to service. Alongside Internet use, much of our sential to our ability to do business. The invest in new content over the long term, and content – both video and text – is also availterm “intellectual property” describes the thereby to do our part for cultural and creaable for mobile use, such as on cell phones or products of creative and intellectual work. tive diversity. via iPhone apps. This includes works of literature, journalistic We emphasize accessibility in our webarticles, music, movies, TV programs, graphic sites: As far as possible, we design them to artwork and software. Intellectual property is give all visitors unrestricted (fully accessible) protected by laws, e.g. copyright, trademark use, regardless of their physical or technical and patent laws, trade secrets and other laws. capabilities. Our divisions also develop speLaws governing intellectual property proteccial offers for the visually impaired: At tion vary around the world. Gruner + Jahr, there has been a full Braille Our businesses involve developing, proversion of “Brigitte” since May 2002. “Stern” ducing, transmitting, licensing and selling magazine has dedicated itself to the blind products and services that are protected and partially sighted for over 40 years. Selectas intellectual property. We strive to comed articles are published in the “Stern-Zeit” mercialize the achievements of the authors, newspaper for the blind, and are available creative talents and artists associated with free of charge as podcasts and audio downour company in a comprehensive manner. loads on the website of the German Central Against this background, we feel a special Library for the Blind in Leipzig. commitment to intellectual property The new e-book technology, with adjustprotection and favor a high level of protecable font sizes on special readers, facilitates tion worldwide. We also advocate improved 122 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Our CR Agenda Goals: Strategy and Management Measures realized (2010 and 2011) Measures planned (2012) Establish and expand in-house C onstituted and established the cross-divisional CR Council Continue developing Bertelsmann’s CR strategy CR management (August 2010) Timeline: ongoing since 2010 Status: on schedule Expand internal and external  ublished the first Communication on Progress as part of our P Publish Bertelsmann’s first CR Report in compliance with CR communications UN Global Compact membership (November 2010) Global Reporting Initiative guidelines Continue promoting the understanding and awareness of Timeline: ongoing CR through intensified in-house communications Status: on schedule CR stakeholder dialog, Included various questions on sustainability in the global Derive and implement decentralized and topic-specific internal and external Employee Survey 2010 measures based on CR-relevant results from the employee Participated  in the development of industry-specific indicators survey for sustainability reporting, to be included in the GRI Media Finalize the GRI Media Sector Supplement Sector Supplements (since 2010) Carry out a materiality analysis as part of the next Bertelsmann CR Report Timeline: ongoing Continue dialog with CR experts at other companies and in Status: on schedule science, as well as with NGOs Goals: Employee Responsibility Measures realized (2010 and 2011) Measures planned (2012) Promote the corporate culture W orks council elections held at more than 140 workplaces Complete and realize a new pension contract (IV) of partnership/Promote staff 41 training courses held for employee representatives Carry out labor-law training for employee representatives and participation at work employees from HR departments O rganized four divisional works council conferences with Deadline: ongoing more than 400 employee representatives from German Status: on schedule companies and the Bertelsmann Executive Board Promote the integration of Increased  the number of employees with severe disabilities F  urther sensitize managers and employees to dealing with people with disabilities in Germany: 2008: 1,384 (3.7%); 2009: 1,460 (3.9%); 2010: people with disabilities 1,520 (4.2%)  old a conference for representatives of severely disabled H Deadline: ongoing P  articipated in about 20 international conferences and trade employees Status: on schedule shows Revise the group's Integration Agreement Promote diversity among Created an internal analysis of the proportion of female Implement diversity action plan employees managers (women's quota among senior executives: 17%)  E  stablish the Department of “Diversity Management“ at group level in summer 2011 H old a “Women in Leadership Conference“ with top female executives hosted by the CEO (September 2011) Deadline: ongoing Develop an action plan to implement diversity policies at Status: on schedule Bertelsmann 123 Facts and Figures Measures realized (2010 and 2011) Measures planned (2012) Promote employee participation C  onducted the third global Employee Survey in June 2010 Prepare the fourth global Employee Survey and improve working conditions with a record participation rate of 85.1% Extensive analysis and discussion of the results at team, company, divisional and group level, followed by joint definition of measures at the various levels Identified appropriate corporate measures and put them into action – e.g. founding of the Bertelsmann Academy on January 1, 2011 to improve continued training in Germany and promote in-house filling of vacancies A  nalyze internal job market, with subsequent demand-driven Deadline: ongoing revision, to better inform employees about group-wide career Status: on schedule opportunities Internal knowledge building H  osted the second Bertelsmann HR Summit in early 2011 Prepare the third HR Summit 2013 as an international for HR managers as an international conference for HR managers conference for HR managers Hosted  33 events for the HR coordination committees that Continue regular events for HR coordination committees Bertelsmann maintains in different countries and regions in all countries and regions in which Bertelsmann is active Launched the HR Circle as a network and training program for Continuation of the HR Circle as a network and qualification Deadline: ongoing top HR staff in the group, under the patronage of the group program for top HR staff in the group dealing with current Status: on schedule HR Director and divisional HR directors HR issues Expand group-wide health Held  more than 125 BeFit health action days (2008: 31; 2009: Keep offering the sports program; expand leisure offers; management activities 62; 2010: 127.5) carry out burnout prevention measures and health checks Expanded offerings at decentralized locations across Germany (2009: 945 participants; 2010: 1,143 participants) E  xpanded sports program activities (participants in 2008: 7,900; 2009: 8,500; 2010: 8,800) Deadline: ongoing H  ost BeFit workshop for occupational health management; Status: on schedule further develop health contact points Ensure the employability Clear commitment of Bertelsmann AG to the “dual-mode Keep making apprenticeship slots available at group compaof young people degree course“ principle in Germany and active participation nies in Germany in the development of appropriate training for new careers Permanently establish the “Du bist Deine Zukunft“ (You are Maintained number of apprenticeship slots offered by group your future) training program for young people who have Deadline: ongoing companies in Germany (training ratio in 2008: 3.8%; 2009: been trying in vain for an apprenticeship Status: on schedule 3.6% 2010: 3.6%) Goals: Environmental and Climate Protection Measures realized (2010 and 2011) Measures planned (2012) Establish a proactive, compreIncreased bundling of all climate protection measures in the Continue developing the group-wide “be green“ climate hensive approach for environ“be green“ team, an international work group comprised protection strategy mental and climate protection as an umbrella for the activities of environmental representatives from the Bertelsmann Update Bertelsmann’s Environmental Policy (deadline: 2012) in the corporate divisions divisions Update the Bertelsmann Paper Policy (deadline: 2012)  eveloped group-wide climate protection strategy called D “be green“ and launched it throughout the group, achieved first milestones (see below) Deadline: ongoing  dopted and published worldwide the “be green“ mission ­A Status: on schedule statement Expand Group-wide reporting  Published first worldwide carbon footprint Calculate third worldwide carbon footprint for 2012 reporting on environmental and climate (for 2008: 1.475 million tons CO2eq.) period (deadline: 2013) protection  Published second worldwide carbon footprint Regularly and systematically report on relevant environmental (for 2010: 1.305 million tons CO2eq.) indicators Deadline: ongoing Status: on schedule 124 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Measures realized (2010 and 2011) Measures planned (2012) Promote environmental awareP  ositioning of the issue on the top level by the Chairman & Hold next international be green Day 2012 ness and knowledge among staff CEO (statements/interview) T  rain Bertelsmann apprentices to become “climate ambasCarried out international be green day in October 2011 with sadors“ to promote climate protection in their place of training comprehensive envrionmental and climate protection activi(deadline: 2012) ties for employees at 45 sites in 15 countries (25 percent Expand “be green“ communications to the inand outside, more sites compared to be green day 2010), which was including the ongoing publication of “green news“ on the comprehensively documented on the intranet for employBertelsmann intranet and Bertelsmann’s Corporate ees around the world Responsibility Portal (deadline: 2012) P  roduced and published a “be green“ motivational movie for employees (German/English) Deadline: ongoing Set up a “be green“ section on the Bertelsmann intranet Status: on schedule dedicated to the topic of environmental protection Increase Bertelsmann AG’s  eld a workshop on energy efficiency and green IT for H Derive measures to increase energy and resource efficiency energy and resource efficiency environmental managers/officers based on the 2008 and 2010 carbon footprints (deadline: 2012) Carry out further workshops on topics including energy Deadline: ongoing efficiency and energy sourcing Status: on schedule Expand stakeholder dialog on Launched official “be green“ stakeholder dialog with Draw up a concept for continuing and broadening the environmental and climate NGOs on June 9, 2011 (Greenpeace) stakeholder dialog on environmental and climate protection protection (deadline: 2012) Deadline: ongoing Status: on schedule Internal knowledge building for  arried out a benchmark study on environmental protecC Update existing studies and carry out further studies environmental managers/officers tion in 14 international media companies and published it in-house Deadline: ongoing  arried out “Green Innovations in Practice“ study about C Status: on schedule green business models and published it in-house Goals: Ethics & Compliance Measures realized (2010 and 2011) Measures planned (2012) Further implementation of the Implemented E&C Program at newly acquired Group Implement E&C Program at newly acquired companies, and global Ethics & Compliance companies support Code distribution to newly hired employees Program Developed a brochure for business partners, to further Inform business partners about Bertelsmann’s E&C Program enhance their awareness of Bertelsmann’s E&C Program Continue to conduct an annual compliance risk assessment Conducted a compliance risk assessment to evaluate Enhance anti-corruption training for potential at-risk employees potential compliance and ethics risks Deadline: ongoing E stablished an E&C Program review process Status: on schedule Promote awareness and T rained employees on the Bertelsmann Code of Conduct Continue Code training for newly hired employees and in newly knowledge among company Received feedback on the effectiveness of communication acquired companies colleagues and key stakeholders and training initiatives from the global Employee Survey Conduct anti-corruption training for potential at-risk employees Conducted additional compliance training for the Bertelsmann AG Executive Board and other Executive Boards within the company Deadline: ongoing Conducted annual workshops and webinars with E&C Status: on schedule representatives from subsidiaries Ensure effectiveness of  onitored compliance with Code principles M Continue to monitor compliance with Code principles whistle-blowing channels Held regular Corporate Compliance Committee meetings Hold regular Corporate Compliance Committee meetings Deadline: ongoing Status: on schedule 125 Facts and Figures ASSURANCE REPORT PwC Independent Assurance Report relevant to the proper determination of the In a limited assurance engagement the To Bertelsmann AG, Gütersloh Environmental Indicators and the selection evidence-gathering procedures are more and application of appropriate methods limited than for a reasonable assurance We have been commissioned to perform for determining the Environmental Indicaengagement, and therefore less assurance is a limited assurance engagement on the tors as well as estimates, which given the obtained than in a reasonable assurance enenvironmental indicators marked and circumstances, are plausible. gagement. The procedures selected depend set out in the section “Environmental Indion the practitioner’s judgment. The scope of cators” on pages 117 to 120 of the “Corpoour work included performing the following Practitioner Responsibility procedures, among others: rate Responsibility Report 2010/2011” of Bertelsmann AG, Gütersloh (the “EnvironOur responsibility is to express a conclusion Inspecting the documentation of the mental Indicators”). based on our work performed as to whether systems and processes as well as further anything has come to our attention that documents regarding the Environmental causes us to believe that the Environmental Indicators Management's Responsibility Indicators marked have not been deterInterviewing the technical experts of The responsibility for the determination of mined in all material respects in accorthe “be green” teams of Bertelsmann AG the Environmental Indicators in accordance dance with the GHG Protocol criteria. The about division-specific processes with the criteria presented on pages 8 and 9 information regarding the Environmental and monitoring the collation of Environof the publication “A Corporate Accounting Indicators evaluated by us is labeled with mental Indicators and Reporting Standard – Revised Edition” black ticks. Moreover, we have been comEvaluating the environmental data unof the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative missioned to express recommendations for derlying the Environmental Indicators (World Business Council of Sustainable Defurther development of the management of and their central aggregation performed velopment / World Resources Institute) and reporting on Environmental Indicators by the IFEU – Institut für Energieund relevance, based on the results of our limited assurUmweltforschung Heidelberg GmbH completeness, ance engagement. (Institute for Energy and Environmental consistency, We conducted our work in accordance Research), Heidelberg, on a sample basis transparency and with the International Standard on AssurUnderstanding the single steps of the accuracy ance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This Stancalculation of the absolute value of the (the “GHG Protocol criteria”) lies with the dard requires that we comply with ethical Environmental Indicators Executive Board of Bertelsmann AG. This requirements and plan and perform the asComparing the basic data to the informaresponsibility includes the development, surance engagement, under consideration tion obtained from internal systems of the implementation and maintenance of of materiality, to provide our conclusion company on a sample basis systems and processes insofar as they are with limited assurance. 126 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Conclusion General Terms of Engagement Based on our limited assurance engageWe issue this report on the basis of the ment, nothing has come to our attention engagement agreed with Bertelsmann AG, that causes us to believe that the EnvironGütersloh, which comprises the attached mental Indicators marked have not been General Terms of Engagement for Wirtprepared in all material respects in accorschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsge­ dance with the GHG Protocol criteria. sellschaften as of 1 January 2002, which are also applicable to third parties. Emphasis of Matter – Berlin, September 30, 2011 Recommendations Without qualifying our conclusion based PricewaterhouseCoopers on our limited assurance engagement as Aktiengesellschaft presented above, we recommend the folWirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft lowing for the further development of the management of and reporting on Environsigned Andreas Bröcher signed ppa. Dr. Moritz Nill mental Indicators: Wirtschaftsprüfer We recommend the further development, (German Public Auditor) formalization and documentation of the process evaluating data from the data source to the group management level as well as the implementation of specific control systems. We recommend Bertelsmann AG to advance the further development of a strategy for environment and climate protection across the whole Group and to set ambitious targets for the medium and long term. 127 Facts and Figures 128 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 PUBLICATION DETAILS Publisher Publishing House Layout Bertelsmann AG G+J Corporate Editors GmbH Jasmin Wagner-Göttling (FR), Corporate Communications Stubbenhuk 10 Thorsten Lange (FR), Adriane Carl-Bertelsmann-Straße 270 D-20459 Hamburg Krakowski (FR), Susanna D-33311 Gütersloh High Concept: Joerg Strauss Goonawardana (FR, Bildredaktion) Responsible: Karin Schlautmann, Editorial supervision: Executive Vice President Corporate ComMargitta Schulze Lohoff Final editing munications, Public Affairs and Marketing Textra GmbH, Hamburg Authors Project Management Dr. Franziska Bossy (FR), Expert Advice Barbara Kutscher, Stephan Burgdorff (FR), Lisa Louis (FR), akzente kommunikation und Director Corporate Responsibility Viktoria Meinholz (FR), Michael Saur (FR), beratung gmbH Helmut Ziegler (FR) Contributors Production Mathias Damaschke, Mara Davis, Art Director Litho: MWW, Hamburg Katrin Gaertner, Bettina Grab, Ilga Tick Print: Mohn Media, Gütersloh Stephan Knüttel, Martina Mönninghoff, Lara Wagner, Eva Winkelmann Photography Quote Reinhard Mohn: “A Global Lesson”, Christian Schoppe (FR) p. 132 (C. Bertelsmann Verlag, 2008) Rights: May only be reproduced in whole or in part with the express permission of Bertelsmann AG. Photo credits: Cover: Christian Schoppe, p. 6-7: Kumicak & Namslau, p. 11: Christian Schoppe, p. 20: Bertelsmann, p. 25: Bertelsmann, p. 29: plainpicture, p. 30-39: Christian Schoppe, p. 40: Gruner + Jahr, p. 49-51: Kumicak & Namslau (Still), istockphoto (3), Fotolia, dpa, Masterfile, Thinkstock, p. 52: istockphoto, p. 53: Dirk Uhlenbrock, p. 54: PR, istockphoto, p. 55: Corbis, p. 56-57: Thinkstock PR (2), p. 58-59: Kurt Bendlin (2), Fotolia, p. 60-61: PR, dpa, p. 63-65: Kumicak&Namslau, istockphoto, Gettyimages, PR (6), p. 66-67: istockphoto, PR, p. 68-69: PR (2), p. 70-71: PR (3), p. 72-73: PR (2), p. 75-77: Kumicak&Namslau, PR (2), Nils Hendrik Müller, istockphoto (5), Fotolia, p. 78-79: istockphoto (2), PR, p. 80-81: istockphoto (2), p. 82-83: Masterfile, Gettyimages, p. 84-85: PR (2), Nils Hendrik Müller, p. 87-89: Kumicak&Namslau, Thinkstock (2), istockphoto (2), Verena Brandt, Corbis, Gettyimages, die Kleinert, p. 90-91: PR, p. 92-93: Thinkstock, Nils Hendrik Müller, PR, p. 94-95: thinkstock, PR (2), p. 96-97: istockphoto, Verena Brandt, p. 99-101: Kumicak&Namslau, istockphoto (7), Gettyimages, p. 102 istockphoto, p. 104-105: Nils Hendrik Müller, PR, p. 106-107: Fotolia, istockphoto, p. 108-109: istockphoto, Gettyimages, p. 130-131: Kumicak&Namslau, PR Paper: This report has been printed entirely on FSC-certified recycled paper. 129 Facts and Figures A small selection of our sustainability-related products RTL Group Arvato 130 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Random House Gruner + Jahr Corporate 131 GRI Index Bertelsmann AG’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 follows the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 3.0). The following GRI Index documents where in the report information about the respective indicators can be found. It also provides information about the extent to which the GRI indicators were taken into account during the reporting period. The GRI Index also serves as Bertelsmann’s “Communication on Progress“ as a member of the United Nations Global Compact. In it, Bertelsmann gives account about its efforts to fulfill the ten principles of the Global Compact. Global Compact G3 Key indicators Status Links 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO and the Supervisory Board Chairperson 10 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 15, 16, 123–125 2. Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the company 2, 14 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 13, 14 2.3 Operational structure and major divisions 8, 13, 14 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 14 2.5 Number/names of countries with either major operations 13, 14 2.6 Nature of ownership 14 2.7 Markets served 14 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 13, 14, AR 3 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure, or ownership 13 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Bertelsmann Corporate Responsibility Portal www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility 3. Reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Bertelsmann Corporate Responsibility Report 2005; since then, ongoing updates on the Bertelsmann Corporate Responsibility Portal at www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual reporting of financial and employee figures; environmental indicators reported every two years 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 135 3.5 Processes for defining report content 2, 15, 17, 20, 22 3.6 Boundary of report 2 3.7 Statement on specific limitations concerning the report’s scope 2 3.8 Basis for the reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. 2 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 2, 119 3.10  Explanation of any restatements of information No new restatements 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods No changes 3.12 GRI index 132–134 3.13 External verification of the report 126 4. Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure, incl. responsibility for sustainability 14, 21, AR 160 4.2 Independence of the Supervisory Board Chairperson 14 4.3 No. of independent Supervisory Board members 14 4.4  echanisms to provide recommendations to highest M 14, 22, 23 governance body 4.5 Linkage between senior management compensation AR 161 and sustainability goals completely met partly met not met Abbreviation AR = Annual Report 2010 Global Compact G3 Key indicators Status Links 4.6 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 3, 4, AR 164 4.7 Expertise of highest governance body in terms of sustainability 21 4.8 Corporate mission, values, and Codes of Conduct 3, 4, 18, 19, 27 4.9 Board-level processes for overseeing sustainability performance AR 161–164 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's performance AR 164 on sustainability matters 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary principle 124 4.12 External initiatives that the organization endorses 15, 20 4.13 Significant memberships in industry and business associations 20 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 20 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to engage 20 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement (type/frequency) 20, 22, 26, www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility, Facts and Figures: ratings and rankings 4.17 Response to key concerns raised by stakeholders 2, 17 Management approach and performance indicators Economic – management approach 13, 14 EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed 13, 111 7 EC2 Financial implication of climate change 24, 117 EC3 Coverage of benefit pension plan obligations 111 EC4 Financial assistance received from government EC6 Spending on locally-based suppliers 6 EC7 Local hiring for senior management positions EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public 54, 55, 70, 71, 90, 91, 106, 108 benefit Environmental – management approach 19, 21, 24, 119, 125 8 EN1 Weight/volume of materials used 120 8, 9 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled 118, 119 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption: primary sources used by company 120 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption: primary sources used through energy hased 120 8, 9 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 102 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 120 8 EN11 Land used in protected areas 119 8 EN12 Significant impacts of activities on protected areas 119 8 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on 119 biodiversity 8 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 117–120 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 118 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 120 8 EN21 Water discharge by quality and destination 120 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 120 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills none 7–9 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 102–104 and services 8, 9 EN27 Percentage of recycled products completely met partly met not met Abbreviation AR = Annual Report 2010 Global Compact G3 Key indicators Status Links 8 EN28 F ines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations 8 EN29 Key sources of environmental impact through transportation 118 Labor practices and decent work – management approach 3, 21, 22, 112, 114, 115, 123, 124 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, and region 13, 112, 113 6 LA2 Breakdown of employee turnover by age group, gender, 113 and region 1, 3 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 3 LA5  inimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes M 1 LA7 Injuries, absentee rates and work-related fatalities by region 116 1 LA8 Prevention and risk-control programs regarding serious diseases 116 LA10 Training hours per year per employee by employee category 114 1, 6 LA13 Composition of senior management and breakdown of employees 112, 115, AR 160, 161 (gender/culture/age) 1, 6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 115 Human rights – management approach 3,19, 21,26 1-6 HR1 Investment agreements with HR clauses or screening 1–6 HR2 S  uppliers and contractors that underwent screening on human rights 1–6 HR3 Employee training on human rights aspects 27, 125 1, 2, 6 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken 3 1–3 HR5 Operations with risks to freedom of association/collective 3 bargaining at risk 1, 2, 5 HR6 Operations with significant risk of incidents of child labor 3 1, 2, 4 HR7 Operations with significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labor 3 Society – management approach 3, 4, 17, 19–21, 26, 46, 125, www.reportconcerns.com www.ethics.bertelsmann.com express concerns SO1 Policy to manage impacts on communities 10 SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 10 SO3 Employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies 27 10 SO4 Action taken in response to instances of corruption 26 1–10 SO5 Positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 20 SO8 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product responsibility – management approach 3, 21, 23, 27, 121, 125 1 PR1 L  ife cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products 121 and services are assessed for improvements 8 PR3 Principles/measures related to product information/labeling PR5 Customer satisfaction 121 PR6 Programs for adherence of laws and voluntary codes 72 PR9  ines for non-compliance with regulations concerning the use F of products and services All core indicators are presented. Some numbers have been omitted, as the additional GRI indicators are not recorded in the index. We rate our performance when it comes to meeting the GRI-G3 guidelines as B+. completely met partly met not met Abbreviation AR = Annual Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010/2011 Contact Corporate Responsibility/Diversity Management responsibility@bertelsmann.de For Journalists Media Relations and Financial Information Phone +49-5241-80-2466 presse@bertelsmann.de For Analysts and Investors Investor Relations Phone +49-5241-80-2342 investor@bertelsmann.de For Applications Recruiting Services createyourowncareer@bertelsmann.de www.createyourowncareer.de Information on Bertelsmann as an employer can also be found at The Corporate Responsibilty Report is also available online, together with all the latest news on Bertelsmann: www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility For further information on our divisions, go to: www.rtlgroup.com www.randomhouse.com www.guj.com www.arvato.com The Corporate Responsibility Report is also available in German.
