Communication on progress (COP) 2011 Cermaq ASA The 10 principles, our approach and response are summarized in the table below. The COP response can be found on our WEB site: http://www.report2011.cermaq.com/our-approach/endorsing-global-initiatives/ Principle Approach Response HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and We support the UN Declaration of  Cermaq ethical and corporate respect the protection of Human Rights and have made a responsibility guidelines internationally proclaimed human commitment to respecting human  Supplier code of conduct rights. rights throughout our operations,  Human rights performance; LA4, including in our supply chain. LA7, HR6 2. Businesses should ensure that they We focus on increasing awareness in  Cermaq ethical and corporate are not complicit in human rights our operations where Human Rights responsibility guidelines abuses. are most at risk. In 2011, we did a  Supplier code of conduct Human Rights risk analysis at our  Human rights performance; HR9, operations in Vietnam. HR6 LABOUR STANDARDS 3. Businesses should uphold the We are committed to dialogue with  Cermaq ethical and corporate freedom of association and the employees and their unions, and responsibility guidelines effective recognition of the right to respect collective agreements at all  Labour standard collective bargaining. levels. performance; LA4, HR6 4. Businesses should uphold the We will not tolerate any form of forced  Cermaq ethical and corporate elimination of all forms of forced and and compulsory labour in our responsibility guidelines compulsory labour. operations or in those of our business  Human rights performance; HR6 partners. 5. Businesses should uphold the We condemn child labour and do not  Cermaq ethical and corporate effective abolition of child labour. permit such conduct at any of our responsibility guidelines sites or with our suppliers  Supplier code of conduct  Human rights performance; HR6 6. Businesses should uphold the We do not tolerate any form of  Cermaq ethical and corporate elimination of discrimination in respect discrimination or harassment. responsibility guidelines to employment and occupation.  Labour standard and human rights performance; HR6, EC7 Principle Approach Response ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a We are committed to minimize the  Cermaq ethical and corporate precautionary approach to environmental impacts of our responsibility guidelines environmental challenges operations. 8 of our 10 operating  Link to environmental performance; companies have management systems EN26 certified according to ISO 14001 standards. Cermaq has developed own environmental indicators for GRI reporting relevant for our feed and farming operations, which do not yet have globally established GRI indicators. 8. Businesses should undertake We have promoted environmental  Cermaq ethical and corporate initiatives to promote greater responsibility within our own responsibility guidelines environmental responsibility operations as well as in the industry.  Environmental performance; EN We have participated in several 3,4, 5, 12, 26, 28 and all CEQ initiatives; the Salmon Aquaculture indicators Dialogue (SAD), the Global  IFFO Aquaculture Alliance (GAA) standard  SAD for sustainable salmon farming,  GAA and IFFO R/S (International Fish Oil and Fish meal Organisation Responsible Sourcing) standard. 9. Businesses should encourage the Through our research unit, EWOS  Cermaq ethical and corporate development and diffusion of Innovation, we improve feed responsibility guidelines environmentally friendly technologies. processing and feed composition. We  Environmental Performance; EN 5, also, collaborate with providers of new 26 environmentally friendly technology, and are currently testing a sea-water based closed containment for fish farming. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against all Cermaq is member of Transparency  Cermaq ethical and corporate forms of corruption, including International (Norway), and we do not responsibility guidelines extortion and bribery. tolerate any forms of corruption  Anti-corruption performance; SO 3 including extortion and bribes. In 2011, we conducted a due diligence on corruption in our operations in Vietnam, and we have trained our management in anti-corruption.
