SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Index Message from CEO 03 AXTEL Foundation 50 History 53 Company Profile 06 Our Philosophy 54 AXTEL 07 Men and Women Working History 08 Annual Co-Investment Program Certifications in Social Projects 57 and Recognitions 09 NGO Strengthenings 60 Services and Technology 10 Institutional Investment 60 AXTEL Culture 24 Other causes 61 Mission 24 Vision 24 Economic Perspective 62 Values 25 Human Rights 26 Corporate Governance 28 Social Perspective 69 Board of Directors and AXTEL Collaborators 70 Managemet Team 28 Composition of our work staff 72 Risk Management 33 Integral and Occupational Health 75 Business Ethics 34 Collaborator Integral Agenda 77 Training 79 AXTEL Sustainability 40 AXTEL Families 81 AXTEL Sustainability Policy 42 AXTEL Sustainability Model 44 Environmental Perspective 83 Sustainability Statement 45 Stakeholders 46 Memory Parameters 90 GRI Index 93 02 MESSAGE FROM CEO ESSAGE FROM CEO MESSAGE FROM CEO MESS ROM CEO MESSAGE FROM CEO MESSAGE F EO MESSAGE FROM CEO MESSAGE FROM ESSAGE FROM CEO MESSAGE FROM CEO MESS ROM CEO MESSAGE FROM CEO MESSAGE F EO MESSAGE FROM CEO MESSAGE FROM Message from CEO [1.1, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3] In AXTEL we are committed Thirteen years after having started operations, we have consolidated as one of the companies with the to our Country. greatest development in the telecommunications industry. We are the company with the largest growth in the broad band segment in Mexico, offering the most robust solution portfolio in Information Technology and Communication. Connectivity among the different markets we serve, represents nowadays a crucial factor in the development of our Country. Thus, our commitment extends beyond our enterprise since we are a company that, besides collaborating with progress in the community we serve, it contributes to its technology and economic development. Serving the great challenges that global markets bring, maintaining sustained growth in our organization, developing our collaborators to improve their quality of life and their families, contributing in the solution of social needs in our Country, as well as caring for the environment through our responsible operations, are challenges in which we are working arduously. As part of this commitment, you have before you our First Sustainability Report, document that shows the strategies, actions and advances achieved by AXTEL in the year 2011 in this field. 04 Message from CEO The decision to publish this report is establishing more competitive In the environmental field, we have based on our transparency commitment negotiations, reducing costs and making implemented internal campaigns for with all our stakeholders. Thus we our commercial portfolio more robust in energy savings, material reutilization and present the actions representing our differentiated solutions in Information waste recycling, without neglecting the efforts in the economic field, our concern Technology and Communication. commitment to analyze the impact of our in promoting fair competition in the operations in the environment and work Telecommunication Industry in Mexico, Through AXTEL Fundation we have in actions focused on mitigation. our collaborators’ commitment, our developed social and environmental respect to the communities where we programs that support different This report we present annually reflects operate and our concern in contributing organizations that work for these causes. our efforts in the sustainability field in caring for the environment. We have engaged our personnel in carried out by our company. Through it we volunteer activities, participating actively want to communicate our engagement During 2011 we focused our efforts on in associations that work in favor of a with society and consolidate our trusting aligning all these aspects to the strategies more equitable and fair society. During ties, service quality and attention to in our business, not as isolated actions 2011 we supported 30 projects in 14 those who have believed in us. I hope our but with the objective that this work locations, providing benefits to more than readers may find this information useful. philosophy may be part of the culture in 18 thousand people. our organization, strengthening in this way our permanence and growth in the On the other hand, our concern for our market on the long term. As a part of employees’ health and safety is one this conviction we have joined the Global of our priorities. In 2011 we were able Compact United Nations endorsing our to decrease the incidence, frequency commitment to meet the ten principles and severity of work accidents through that govern this international initiative. continuous training programs for our personnel and we continue working to As part of our achievements in the guarantee the physical integrity of all Tomás Milmo Santos economic field, in 2011 there were those people who day after day make it strategies generated that will enable, possible for AXTEL to provide an excellent President of the Board and amongst other things, to enlarge service to its users. Chief Executive Director of the utilization of our infrastructure, AXTEL 05 COMPANY PROFILE Y PROFILE COMPANY PROFILE COMPANY P MPANY PROFILE COMPANY PROFILE COMPA COMPANY PROFILE COMPANY PROFILE CO OFILE COMPANY PROFILE COMPANY PROFI Y PROFILE COMPANY PROFILE COMPANY P MPANY PROFILE COMPANY PROFILE COMPA AXTEL [2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.8] Our world class network comprises networks, Internet page hosting, data We are the Mexican different access technologies such as centers, managed security, services for Telecommunications Enterprise optical fiber, fixed wireless access, point other telecommunication operators and with the greatest growth in the to point and point to multi-point links, voice services, among others. Broad Band segment, and one of offering customized solutions to our the leader companies with TIC (IT clients’ needs. AXTEL is a public company listed in and Communications) solutions in the the Mexican Stock Market since 2005, corporate, financial, and governmental The AXTEL offering includes the largest operating under the “AXTELCPO” symbol sectors. fixed wireless telephone network at and since 2008 its titles are part of the a world level, the fastest Broad Band Price and Quotation Index (IPC). With corporate offices located in service in the Country, the most Monterrey and with presence in 39 cities advanced solutions for data transmission in the Country, we operate our Enterprise and implementation of virtual private *UGI´s: Revenue Generating Units. with the support of more than 8 thousand collaborators, providing service during 2011 to one million 476 thousand UGI’s*, 436 thousand Broad Band Internet subscribers, 368 thousand Internet users with WiMAX technology, and 48 thousand clients with FTTH or AXTEL X-tremo technology. We serve all the segments in the market -business, financial, governmental, wholesale and residentialwith the most robust offering of integral communication services in Mexico. 07 Company Profile / AXTEL [2.1, 2.6] History 1994 We established the enterprise “Telefonía Inalámbrica del Norte, S.A. de C.V. 1996 We obtained the license for the Public Telecommunications Network is received. 1997 We won the operation of the radio-electric spectrum that enabled us ofering our services at a national level. 1998 We became one of the enterprises with more resources in radio-electrical spectrum in the Mexican market. 1999 We launched of our commercial name AXTEL and operation start-up in the Monterrey area. 2000 The Mexican President officially opened AXTEL at a national level. Operation start-up in Mexico City, Monterrey and Guadalajara. 2001 Starting this year we extended our operation to 36 more cities. 2003 We issued debt bonds for $175 million dollars in the global market. 2005 The entered to the process of public issuing of shares in the Mexican Stock Market (BMV), becoming a public entity. 2006 Acquired Avantel. 2009 We received the license to offer Pay TV or Satellite TV services. 2010 We launched AXTEL X-tremo, the fastest and more advanced Broad Band service in México. 2011 We adhered to the United Nations Global Compact. 08 Company Profile / AXTEL [2.10] Certifications and Recognitions As part of our commitment with quality, service, and continuous improvement, we have received different recognitions and certifications granted by national and international organizations who guarantee our constant determination and effort to continue being a world class enterprise. ISO 9001 BUREAU VERITAS Certification Year obtained and/or renewed Description The affiliation to the United Nations Global Compact was signed (ONU). The distinction as Socially Responsible Enterprise, granted by the Centro Mexicano para la Filantropía was obtained for the fourth consecutive year (CEMEFI). We achieved the Managed Services Channel Partner (MSCP) certification from Cisco in Mexico and Cisco Gold Partner, with which we proved having the abilities to provide and guarantee the clients the operation of their managed services, aligned to the best IT and ITIL practices. This 2011 makes us the only Carrier in Mexico that has achieved this recognition. ICREA is an international association formed by engineers specialized in computer center design, construction, operation, maintenance, acquisition, installation and auditing. AXTEL is classified in Level 3, which means we have reliable computer rooms with Certified World Class Environment S-WCQA (Safety World Class Quality Assurance). For the second consecutive year we received the certification for the Standard for Excellence in Contact Centers (NECC) . 2007 thru 2011 During these years we have received and renewed the following certifications: ISO 9001, ISO 27001 and ISO 20000. 2010 PCI Certification, from Security Standards Council, in the modality of service supplier. This achievement enables AXTEL to be positioned as the first service supplier (SOC, Data Center and MPLS Internet) that meets best practices in security in the telecommunications industry, as well as for the clients who use credit card payment. The certification was renewed in 2011. AXTEL was recognized by Asociación Iberoamericana de Relación Empresa Cliente (AIAREC) as the best Enterprise in client experience in the 2008 and 2009 fixed Telecommunications sector. 09 Company Profile / AXTEL [2.2, 2.7] Services and Technology Our commitment is placing our The services we offer in AXTEl on the residential, business and governmental telecommunications networks segments comprise a broad range of plans and programs enabling our users to have day after day in service of alternatives according to their needs. more Mexicans. Service Residential Business Government AXTEL Universal Access: Internet plus telephone. AXTEL X-tremo: extreme speed zone in Internet connection. AXTEL Home Plan: savings when hiring plans with different service combinations. AXTEL Telephone: telephone service communication. AXTEL With Me: portable telephone line through WiFi connection. AXTEL WiFi Networki: wireless connection network at home. 10 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology Service Residential Business Government AXTEL Membership: service packages for emergency assistance, medical discounts and life insurance, providing benefits for all the family. AXTEL Store: offers the possibility to acquire different products in installments. AXTEL Cards: pre-paid telephone cards that enable making calls to all Mexico and abroad from any public or private telephone in the Country, United States or Canada. AXTEL Expert: expert advisor service to help resolve situations or problems with the user’s computer. AXTEL Broad Band: navigation service from every location. Data and Networks: VPN Broad Band AXTEL, Ethernet, Internet2, Dedicated Internet, Broadband Internet, Private Lines, IP Multiservices. Equipment: CPEAXTEL Equipment, CPE Maintenance, Switches/ Routers. Data Centers: Shared WebHosting, Virtual WebHosting, Dedicated WebHosting, Co-location. Managed: Broad Band Management, Managed Monitoring, IPPBX Management, Content Filtering, Clean Pipes, Managed Security, Network Management. AXTEL Voice: AXTEL Intelligent Line, AXTEL Virtual Line, IP Trunk lines, Digital Trunk Lines, Long Distance, 800 Services, Audioconnection, Audio-messaging. For greater detail of the benefits provided AXTEL Integrated Services, Infrastructure: Site by each one of our Adaptations, Structured Cabling, Contact Center. services visit: http://www.axtel.mx AXTEL Integrated Services, Applications: Electronic Invoicing, Netconference. 11 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology AXTEL Regions TIJUANA MEXICALI BCN CD. JUÁREZ SONORA HERMOSILLO CHIHUAHUA CHIHUAHUA NUEVO COAHUILA LAREDO REYNOSA MATAMOROS MONTERREY TORREÓN SINALOA NUEVO LEON CULIACÁN SALTILLO BCS DURANGO DURANGO TAMAULIPAS MAZATLÁN ZACATECAS CD. VICTORIA ZACATECAS SAN LUIS POTOSI SAN LUIS TAMPICO POTOSÍ AGUASCALIENTES AGUASCALIENTES CANCÚN NAYARIT MÉRIDA LEÓN YUCATAN GUANAJUATO GUADALAJARA QUERÉTARO QUERETARO U JALISCO CR RO PACHUCA RA O SAN JUAN HIDALGO VE NA DEL RÍO Z UI MORELIA TLAXCALA XALAPA NT MÉXICO A MICHOACAN TEXCOCO VERACRUZ Q MEXICO COLIMA DISTRITO FEDERAL CAMPECHE CUERNAVACA MORELOS PUEBLA COATZACOALCOS IRAPUATO PUEBLA VILLAHERMOSA MINATITLÁN TABASCO North-West Region GUERRERO CELAYA Cities in North-West Region ACAPULCO OAXACA CHIAPAS TOLUCA Center-South Region Cities in Center-South Region 12 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology [PR5] AXTEL Customer Satisfaction Our key objective is our customers’ satisfaction while serving their communications needs and exceeding their expectations. In During 2011 we AXTEL we are working to provide these services in a sustainable manner: socially, ecologically, and economically. served and gave follow-up to 6 million 285 thousand 100 interactions with our 2011 customers through Interactions with Our customers have different mechanisms our clients our different Contact to contact the company, either to Centers. communicate service malfunctioning, to solve technical -operational and 96% Telephone administrative– problems, to hire our services, as well as to give their opinion regarding the satisfaction provided 2%Chat by our company. This is done through Customized Service Modules, Customer 2% E-mail and Social Networks Service Centers, surveys and service calls. Our Internal Policy for Customer Service has been developed and implemented We have available forms of contact for in order to give follow-up and respond all the complaints recieved from our customers with extended service PROFECO (Federal Consumer Protection Office) and from COFETEL (Federal schedules. Telecommunications Commission). 13 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology AXTEL Customer Satisfaction Assessment Our interest in continuous improvement This methodology generates information has prompted us to carry out biannual related to our customers’ satisfaction satisfaction evaluations with AXTEL enabling us to redefine and focus customers. our attention strategies and establish improvement actions in those attributes These evaluations are carried out through recognized as perceived value by the an external marketing service provider users. that uses a standarized methodology to identify and measure the attributes with We evaluate each one of the moments the greatest relative importance for the of truth that the customer goes through, customer. that is, all the interactions the customer has with the company. In these survey exercises, users from all the segments in which we provide • Pre-selling and selling services participate: process • Residential • Installation process • Micro and Small Businesses • Use of products and services • Businesses • Customer service • Corporate • Malfunctioning repairs • Government • Invoicing • Collections 14 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology / AXTEL customer satisfaction assessment AXTEL Customer Satisfaction Index 2011 Segment Average* Corporate 4.9 Enterprise 4.01 Government 4.05 Business 3.93 Residential 4.47 *On a scale from 1 thru 5 These measurement exercises provide relevant information for our analysis and decision making: Customer Satisfaction Index by segment, with which we carry out the analysis to verify our continuous improvement. Net Promoted Score (NPS®), is a value that indicates the degree of customer recommendation regarding service and enables us to benchmark with international references and from different industries. Analysis of attributes and their importance in the moment of truth evaluation, as well as key drivers for our customers. 15 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology AXTEL Technology We have the most advanced technology resources in the market to provide the best communication solutions. The access technologies we use in our operation are: optical fiber cable, fixed wireless access, point-topoint radio, point-to-midpoint radio and copper technology. AXTEL Digital Network The AXTEL Digital Network comprises the Integration of local, long distance telephone services. Internet and value combination of the best technology solutions added services. Allows us to offer one invoice for all the services requested, existing in the telecommunications market. besides significant savings for our users. These are the result of years of research, development, and experience in the field Combination of state-of-the-art technologies. Our access technologies from leader companies around the world. include optical fiber cable, fixed wireless access, point to point radio, point to multipoint radio and copper technology. Among the advantages emerging from our Digital Network we can find the following: Totally digital Network. Having a totally digital network enables us to provide a service with better quality, security, reliability and speed than the one offered through analog transmission. Reliability. The AXTEL Digital Network has the necessary attributes to provide services in case of any contingency. Fast installation. Services may be installed and activated the same day. 16 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology / AXTEL Technology Complete compatibility. The technology solutions we offer in AXTEL are totally compatible with the existing telephone devices in the market, with private switchboard equipment (PBX) and other devices. Easy updating and enlargement. Being totally digital, the AXTEL network enables carrying out equipment updates or service enlargement without any difficulty. Flexibility. Enables our clients to integrate different communication solutions according to their needs easily. 17 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology / AXTEL Technology Optical Fiber For clients who require high capacity Greater quality and reliability in voice and data digital transmission. transportation and a direct connection to the network, AXTEL offers solutions through Utilization of advanced SDH (Synchronous Digital Hierarchy) technology optical fiber cable. The advantages in this to broadcast information faster and less expensive than traditional PDH technology include the following: (Plesiochronous Digital Hierarchy). It handles a great band width (1 a 1,008 E1s). Offers greater distances for transmission. Enables redundant ring configurations, increasing the reliability of the services even more. More durability of the network since lost links are identified fast and are routed again without even noticing it. This same network supports MetroEthernet technology to make type LAN-LAN (Local Access Network), connections, making it possible to extend the scope of the clients’ local networks at a metropolitan level, integrating in this way different offices in the same local network with the highest reliability and security. The extension of the optical fiber network to residential areas with FTTH (Fiber To The Home) technology enables delivering very high capacity services for the home, as well as for small and medium size businesses. 18 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology / AXTEL Technology Fixed Wireless Access It is an ideal solution for residential clients Complete transmission services for voice, data and Internet. and small businesses. This access is carried out using 50 MHz spectrum within AXTEL Solutions (value added services) including caller-ID, call waiting, call the 3.4GHz band at a national level. This forwarding, tripartite call, and voice mail and call control. access enables providing local, long distance telephone service, Internet and Security. value added services. It is not a mobile telephone service. Flexibility. The advantages of fixed wireless access Fast installation. are: Total compatibility. Reliability. The AXTEL service for residences and small businesses is based on FWA wireless technology (Fixed Wireless Access). Quality. This technology supports the traditional telephone services (local and long Lower maintenance costs. distance) as well as Internet and value added services. Faster network deployment. In order to meet the clients’ needs and be able to offer new services, the WiMAX technology was integrated, enabling us to deliver data links with Coverage in areas with difficult access in wire networks. higher speed using the IP protocol in a native manner, making converging services a reality thanks to this. Minimum impact on environment. 19 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology / AXTEL Technology Point to Multipoint Radio For clients who require medium capability Quality and clarity in transmission. for voice and data services, we have point to multipoint technology. For this Dedicated data services (n x 64). technology, in AXTEL we have available 60 MHz spectrum, with national coverage, Security. within the 10.5 GHz band. Fast deployment of multiple lines according to client needs. Advantages of point to multipoint radio: Reliability. Low maintenance costs. Broad geographic scope. Minimum impact on environment. Symmetric high speed services for private connections. 20 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology / AXTEL Technology Complete transmission services: voice, data, and Internet. Point to Point Radio Total security in calls. In order to satisfy our clients’ communication Fast deployment of E1 capabilities. requirements who require high capacity and broad coverage services we offer this Useful as access and transportation technology. digital technology. For the point to point communication at a national level, AXTEL High reliability in voice and data transmission. has 100 MHz spectrum within the 23 GHz band and 120 MHz spectrum within the 15 Greater clarity in voice transmission. GHz band. Low maintenance costs. Advantages of point to point radio: Broad geographic scope. Minimum impact on the environment. 21 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology / AXTEL Technology Intelligent Network At AXTEL we use this technology to expand the possibility in the creation of switching services in a more reliable and versatile way, with a platform designed exclusively for this purpose. Advantages of the Intelligent Network: More reliable voice services. More versatile voice services. Services customized according to the client’s needs, such as general information services, automation and customization for incoming calls, customer service, Contact Centers, probing and surveys, 800 and 900 numbers, amongst others. 22 Company Profile / AXTEL / Services and Technology / AXTEL Technology Technology Suppliers Airspan HP Motorola Wireless telephone network in FWA Operation support systems WiMAX technology Cisco IBM Comverse KENAN Router platform: Operation support systems Invoicing system Internet supplier Corporate network Oracle SUN AXTEL network Database for operation support Operation support systems Alcatel-Lucent Symantec Siebel (Oracle) All Wave optical fiber Network security CRM PBXs MetroEthernet Sycamore Networks Tellabs Transportation network Optical fiber multiplexor equipment Microsoft Electronic messaging Genband (Antes Nextpoint) EMC Operating systems Network equipment Operation support systems Nortel Networks Comptel Panasonic Telephone DMS 100-250 exchange System activation and mediation Multi-line equipment Optical fiber equipment Private switchboards (PBX) Softswitches SAP Business management Jnetx Nokia Siemens Networks Intelligent network services Microwave point to point and multi-point radio Huawei Local numeric portability Multiplexing Optical fiber equipment DWDM optical network Softswitches Sixbell-Nekotec Routers Local numeric portability gateway Ericsson AXE telephone exchange Microwave Networks Telcordia Optical fiber equipment (Marconi) Ethernet radios Network inventory system Microwave and PMP (Marconi) Radios High capacity radios for the network Stratus SRT Telecom Harris Mediation equipment Microwave point to multipoint system Management systems integration Signaling equipment for numeric portability (PMP) and Broad Band Microwave radios 23 AXTEL Culture At AXTEL we promote congruency in our daily behavior amongst those who are part of the organization and all those with whom we relate. We want to continue being a leader enterprise in supplying Mission telecommunication services, providing Improving communication to improve on life. quality and progress to our Country. Likewise we want to promote a work culture with the convergence of individuals who are critical in their daily work and engaged with society, highly qualified as professionals and responsive to our clients’ needs through adjustment to the change processes Vision demanded by the global market. Innovating communication experiences getting people closer to what is most important for them. 24 Company Profile / AXTEL Culture / Values Values Commitment Communication Honoring promises: meeting what I promise. Improving the quality of our dialogues at every Increasing possibilities. moment: sharing what we are, do, and learn. Making complaints or declaring satisfactions. Making clear requests. Contributing with society. Declaring improvement areas. Feedback. Honesty Thanking and recognition. Respecting the truth: deciding to do the right thing. Building trusting relationships. Innovation Respecting others. Making new ideas in a reality: transforming life. Declaring and learning from my mistakes and Improving others’ life. successes. Generating new experiences. Responding requirements realistically. Creating new ways to do things. Service Excellence and attitude when doing something in favor of others: listen and satisfy needs. Surprising others positively exceeding their expectations. Making proactive offerings. Enriching our work taking care of the way. 25 Company Profile / AXTEL Culture / Human Rights Human Rights Convinced that respect toward the human rights for all individuals is the only pathway to achieve harmony, development and promoting values, in 2011 we voluntarily adhered to the United Nations Global Compact, initiative that promotes 10 universal principles for entrepreneurial sustainability: Human Rights Work Standards Environment Enterprises must support and respect Enterprises must respect freedom Enterprises must support preventive the protection of human rights of association and an efficient methods in regards to environmental proclaimed in the international arena. recognition of the right for collective problems. negotiation. Enterprises must ensure not being an Enterprises must adopt initiatives accomplice in human rights abuse. Enterprises must eliminate all forms to promote a greater environmental of forced or mandatory work; accountability. Fight against corruption Enterprises must abolish child labor Enterprises must promote the Enterprises must work against effectively and development and communication corruption in all shapes and forms of harmless technologies for the including extortion and bribery. Enterprises must eliminate discrimination environment. in regards to employment and occupation. 26 Company Profile / AXTEL Culture [HR4] Likewise, in AXTEL we are committed media and/or contact, any complaint to complying with the current laws in related to discrimination or Human Rights our Country in regards to human rights violation incidents. and Federal Labor Law and respecting the individual and collective agreements With the objective of continuing to from our workers. promote respect for all individuals -inside and outside the organizationour This is shown in our Human Rights Policy* commitment for 2012 is integrating the in which we declare our standpoint toward subject related to Human Rights into the individual’s respect in all its expressions, Ethics Code governing us, and giving the rejecting discriminating actions, child appropriate communication to ensure its labor, forced labor, abusing behaviors, content is known and it is practiced. coercion and threat. In 2011 AXTEL did *In order to learn the complete document not receive through its communication please visit: www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad 27 Corporate Governance [4.5] Board of Directors and Management Team Board of Directors The Board of Directors is the supreme guidelines for our business strategies and entity governing corporate decisions oversees their compliance. The operation at AXTEL. Integrated by a group of 11 of the Board of Directors and the Auditing proprietary board members – four of Committee and Company Practices carry them independent – and 10 substitute out their functions following the current board members, we have achieved a Stock Market Law (LMV), published in the Governance structure that is robust, Official Federation Gazette. capable of identifying crucial aspects and potential risks in our company. The Likewise, retribution to the members key function of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors is determined is, leading, together with the Chief annually by the Shareholder Meeting of Executive Officer, the administration of the Company. the Enterprise. The Board of Directors, chaired by our Chairman and CEO, is who establishes the 28 Company Profile / Corporate Governance / Board of Directors and management team / Board of Directors Their main obligations are: I. Establishing the general strategies to guide the company and the individuals it controls. II. Supervising management and guidance of the company and the individuals it controls, as well as the performance of the relevant directors. III. Approving representative policies, guidelines and operations for the company; naming, electing and, in its case, removing the General Director; policies in regards to loans and collaterals; waivers for board members and/or directors to take advantage of business opportunities which correspond to the company or the individual it controls; guidelines in regards to internal control and internal auditing; accounting policies; financial statements; hiring an individual who provides the external auditing services and, in its case, additional or complementary services to the external audit. IV. Submitting reports to the General Shareholder’s Meeting celebrated at the end of the social administration. V. Giving follow-up to the main risks to which the company and individuals it controls are exposed. VI. Approving the information and communication policies with the shareholders and the market, as well as the board members and relevant directors. VII. Determining the corresponding actions in order to rectify known irregularities and implement the corresponding corrective measurements. VIII. Establishing the terms and conditions to which the General Director will adjust while executing acts of ownership. IX. Ordering the General Director to openly reveal the important events he has knowledge about. 29 Company Profile / Corporate Governance / Board of Directors and management team / Board of Directors [4.1, 4.2, 4.3] The Board of Administration is also responsible for overseeing compliance of the agreements emerging from the shareholder meetings, which can be carried out through the Committee that performs the auditing functions to which this Law refers. AXTEL Board of Administration Substitute Board Members Tomás Milmo Santos Alberto de Villasante Herbert (Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer) Thomas Milmo Zambrano Balbina Milmo Santos Lorenzo H. Zambrano Treviño Francisco Garza Zambrano Alberto Santos de Hoyos Alberto Santos Boesch Patricio Jiménez Barrera Andrés Velázquez Romero The Independent Alberto Garza Santos David Garza Santos Board Members at AXTEL are not linked with the Fernando A. González Olivieri Ramiro Villarreal Morales Management team of the company, Héctor Medina Aguiar* Mauricio Morales Sada * thus they have an impartial point of view and are free of Bernardo Guerra Treviño* José Jorge Yáñez Cervantes * conflicts of interests while not being Fernando Quiroz Robles* Benjamin Jenkins * subject to personal patrimonial or economic interests. Lawrence H. Guffey* *Independent Board Members 30 Company Profile / Corporate Governance / Board of Directors and Management Team [4.4] Committees The Auditing and Company Practices Likewise, it recommends the Internal and The email to send comments is: Committee reports directly to the External Auditing areas the actions to contacto@axtel.com.mx Board of Directors and comprises three follow in regards to significant financial independent board members. matters for the company. This Committee is one of the The areas for Investor Relations communication channels of the Board of and Relationship with Media are Directors with the management levels in the communication routes assigned the company. Among its main functions for receiving the comments and/or it has surveillance of management, recommendations that our stakeholders guidance, and administrative and wish to send to the Board of Directors financial execution of AXTEL. members. 31 Company Profile / Corporate Governance / Board of Directors and Management Team Management Team President and Chief Executive Officer Tomás Milmo Santos Auditing Director Gerardo González Villarreal Executive Direction Executive Direction Executive Direction Executive Direction for Process for Enterprise for Marketing and for Negotiations and Transformation and Market Innovation Strategic Accounts IT Andrés Velázquez José Luis Bruno G. Alberto M. de Romero Luna Cárdenas Ramos Maza Villasante Herbert Executive Direction Executive Direction Corporate Executive Executive Direction for Field Services and for Human Resources Direction for Mass Market Network Operation and Communication Noé Garza Felipe C. José Eloy Antonio De Nigris González Canales Tijerina Valerio Treviño Sada 32 Company Profile / Corporate Governance / Risk Management Risk Management The structure of Corporate Governance The Key Risks for our company are Service delivery at AXTEL comprises business individuals determined through a risk assessment Information Technology Strategies with a high level of knowledge in the matrix according to the exposure we have (TI) business field, all of them with expertise in regards to the aspects identified and Entity level Controls in different industries ensuring that our the likelihood they have in impacting our enterprise may be guided appropriately transactions. In order to ensure the appropriate through the identification, assessment management of the potential risks to and decision making of key aspects for During 2011 the Internal Auditing area which our company can be exposed, we our growth. Their expertise enables us, at carried out a review of the Internal Control have identified 49 factors related with the the same time, to identify and manage the System without detecting deficiencies or following aspects: potential risks to which we are exposed. material deviations. The most relevant Risks related with the company processes for AXTEL related with the Risks related with the The Internal Auditing area reports to the following subjects were reviewed in this Telecommunications Industry in General Director and it is the organization period: Mexico responsible for monitoring the Internal Revenue recognition Risks related with Mexico Control System through which the Capitalization of in-process projects Risks related with CPOs -financial and non-financialbusiness Capitalization of operation expenses processes of all the company are Inventories Other risk factors assessed: Revenues Supply Chain Corporate Governance Related parties Asset safeguards Information Technology Law and Regulation Compliance 33 Company Profile / Corporate Governance / Business Ethics Business Ethics At AXTEL honesty is part of our values. Working under a frame of integrity in our daily behavior is essential for our enterprise. We seek to generate AXTEL, as a socially responsible Enterprise adheres relationships based on the constructive to the guidelines established by the Inter American dialogue that trust amongst all our stakeholders promotes. Convention against Corruption and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, emphatically According to our commitment with rejecting any action that implies or promotes bribery honesty and ethics, as part of the or extortion. business philosophy at AXTEL we have an Anti-corruption Policy and an Ethics Code, taking as a reference the guidelines against corruption established in the tenth principle of the United Nations Global the company, investors, clients, creditors, Relationship with clients, community, Compact. Through these documents we suppliers, competitors, and authorities. government and suppliers promote making our collaborators and board members the role models with The Ethics Code* addresses the following Promotion and selling their behavior in any deal or negotiation core guidelines for our organization: Environmental accountability on behalf of the company, working under Work behavior the legal frame of our Country and with Our commitment for 2012 is strengthening those with which we have commercial Communication the communication for its knowledge exchange. Conflict of interests amongst a hundred per cent of our Personnel hiring personnel. The Ethics Code also provides a guide to solve conflicts of interest that may Honesty, loyalty, and integrity emerge between collaborators and Confidential information *In order to learn the content of all the external entities with whom we interact, document please visit the web page: as well as the ethical obligations toward Work security www.axtel.mx 34 Company Profile / Corporate Governance / Business Ethics Transparency Mailbox The main objectives in this mechanism are: The Transparency Mailbox is an efficient mechanism that helps us oversee a) Receiving, maintaining, and treating the complaints received in the company, compliance in policies, procedures, and in regards to accounting, internal control, faults to the Ethics Code, stealing or obligations on ethical character. asset abuse, inappropriate use of privileged information, bribery, policy noncompliance, amongst them the one related to No Presents, Anti-corruption and This system can be accessed by our Suppliers, and activities that may be assumed as fraudulent. employees and the community in general so they may report anonymously or b) Providing total security to the accuser regarding treatment and confidentiality of personally any situation affecting trust their complaint through the Transparency Mailbox. in our values and/or going against our Ethics Code. c) Protecting against any revenge or reprisal action to the individuals who denounce any irregularity in good faith. AXTEL provides the trust of maintaining under confidentiality The Auditing Direction is the internal entity responsible for the identity of the claimant, considering that during the receiving, giving follow-up and solving complaints, for sensitive investigation it might be necessary to identify the source of issues reviews are carried out along with the Committee for the claim for the purpose of the investigation, without implying Honor and Justice, integrated by the Legal Director, the Human that the claimant is openly exposed. Resources Director and the Auditing Director. 35 Company Profile / Corporate Governance / Business Ethics Complaint flow in the AXTEL Transparency Mailbox Audit Direction Complaints are The sensitive cases receives comments filtered and allocated are reviewed together and/or complaints. appropriately for their with the Honor and attention. Justice Committee. There is a report A summary or report submitted annually to is carried out from the Corrections are carried out according Auditing procedures the Auditing Committee result and submitted to Sanction Code. are carried out. regarding the to the Executive complaints. Direction. 36 Company Profile / Corporate Governance / Business Ethics Channels to carry out complaints The channels available to deliver a complaint to the Auditing area, anonymously and confidential are: email, telephone or personal interview. In order to carry out such complaints, you must address the following contacts: Free telephone line: The email and telephone 01 800 087 0909 number are available 24 hours 365 days a year. E-mail: transparenciaaxtel@axtel.com.mx In our corporate offices with the Auditing Director and/or Corporate Governance Manager Information available for clients and suppliers in the web page www.axtel.mx in the following section. • Regarding AXTEL/contact/Transparency Mailbox 37 Company Profile / Corporate Governance / Business Ethics [SO4] In 2011 we received 107 complaints, none of them were related to the breaching of the Anti-corruption Policy. Complaints received through the Transparency Mailbox in 2011 20% Labor issues 26% 17% Clients and personal relations Asset preservation 37% Policy non-compliance 38 Company Profile / Corporate Governance / Business Ethics Ways for complaint receiving in 2011 30% E-mail 70% Telephone The allocation of the complaints for their attention was carried out in the following way: 43% was handled by the Human Resources area, 31% by Customer Service, 25% by auditing, and 1% by Loss Prevention. 39 AXTEL SUSTAINABILITY USTAINABILITY AXTEL SUSTAINABILITY AXTE AXTEL SUSTAINABILITY AXTEL SUSTAINABIL ABILITY AXTEL SUSTAINABILITY AXTEL SUS USTAINABILITY AXTEL SUSTAINABILITY AXTE AXTEL SUSTAINABILITY AXTEL SUSTAINABIL ABILITY AXTEL SUSTAINABILITY AXTEL SUS AXTEL Sustainability Sustainability at AXTEL is a topic that takes our time nowadays. Determining, measuring and caring for the most important aspects in the economic, social, and environmental matters in our company, as well as impact that our operation may cause on the environment, on society and on our stakeholders is now an aligned strategy focusing only one way. Thus in 2011 we worked on developing and implementing policies that guide our actions regarding these topics. Year after year we search to improve the relevant indicators for AXTEL and include – in all our activities – actions focused on optimizing our performance, administrative as well as operational, always considering that these must not affect future generations in any way. 41 AXTEL Sustainability Policy The commitment with Sustainability at AXTEL is shown in: Managing our activities integrally, ethically, and in a transparent manner. Working to improve not only communications but also the lives of our collaborators, clients, suppliers, shareholders, investors and stakeholders. Executing actions that ensure economic, social, and environmental sustainability. 42 AXTEL Sustainability / AXTEL Sustainability Policy Loyal to the principle of generating value for the enterprise and Rejecting bribery, corruption or any other type of society, AXTEL collaborators are governed by a Sustainability contribution practices, to obtain business advantages. Policy that includes the following guidelines: Promoting a culture of respect for the environment focused Meeting the municipal, state and federal current on reducing environmental impact from our activities, regulations. defending biodiversity and fostering care for Nature. Establishing policies to protect collaborators’ labor rights, Informing all our stakeholders, truthfully and timely, about as well as their physical integrity, promoting hygiene and the activities carried out by the company. safety practices and a healthy and safe environment in all the facilities and buildings. Developing programs that contribute with social sustainability in the communities, promoting productivity, Respecting human rights, developing a favorable frame for education and personal growth, with the support and labor relations based on equality, respect for diversity, and collaboration of all our collaborators. no discrimination, rejecting forced labor, slavery, and child labor. Searching for continuous improvement in all our processes, projects and personal development, in developing Adopting Corporate Governance practices, based on technologically innovating products and services that business ethics and transparency, carrying out strict contribute in the growth of our society. control for risks, promoting trust in our collaborators, clients, investors, shareholders, and stakeholders. 43 AXTEL Sustainability Model Ethics, Responsibility and Quality Environment Innovation in Information Technology and Communication Labor Wellbeing Social Investments 44 AXTEL Sustainability Declaration As the basis of the AXTEL Global Sustainability Strategy With our work and environmental practices, we search to contribute to a more AXTEL Sustainability sustainable future with the honest, ethical and responsible proposition for innovating Model, its application, solutions that make access to information technology and communication affordable for society. development and consolidation is AXTEL Economic Strategy supported on the Our commitment is to manage honestly our technology, economic and financial resources, in order to efficiently operate under strict risk control and adhered to the definition and legislation, enabling the successful and sustainable growth of the company. establishment of a Sustainability Strategy AXTEL Social Strategy We promote sustainable development of our society, carrying out actions that benefit which leads key our collaborators and our external communities, providing them tools that enable decisions and actions in them to have access to better opportunities in education, health and an honorable life. the enterprise. AXTEL Environmental Strategy We seek to reduce negative impact in our operational practice in the environment, reviewing our procedures, developing new technologies and improving our methods to preserve resources and establishing a harmonious relationship with Nature. 45 [4.14, 4.15] Stakeholders Employees The inclusion and participation of Stakeholders with which AXTEL relates Investors and is a key aspect in the development and Financial Sector execution of our Sustainability Strategy. For those of us who are part of AXTEL it Clients is crucial to promote trusting and close relationships between clients, suppliers, collaborators and all the entities that interact with our company. Suppliers With the purpose of developing effective communication strategies, we have carried out a recognition exercise for those individuals and organizations with Government which we have a greater interaction and influence in our operations, identifying 41 groups we have unified into seven large Civil Society blocks: Organizations and Groups Competitors 46 AXTEL Sustainability / Stakeholders Current Communication Mechanism Intranet E-mail Employees Corporate Communication Board Individuals performing a function to serve AXTEL, as well as those individuals or groups AXTEL meeting with General Director who have a direct relationship with our Monthly Electronic Newsletter collaborators or may impact its productivity. Transparency Mailbox Printed materials and brochures Internet Web page, section Investors Relationship Investors and Face-to-face meetings Financial Sector Telephone conferencing Entities and/or individuals that maintain Annual Shareholder Meeting financial interests in AXTEL or collaborate so Transparency Mailbox the information for these groups may be clear Mailbox for investors contact and timely. Mass communication media E-mails Invoicing Clients Brochures Individuals or groups that use AXTEL Contact Center services, sometimes or periodically, to cover Web page their communication needs. Transparency Mailbox Contact Mailbox Facebook Twitter Suggestion Mailbox (at Customized Service Modules) 47 AXTEL Sustainability / Stakeholders Current Communication Mechanism Supplier Extranet E-mails Suppliers Face-to-face meetings Organizations or individuals with whom Committees AXTEL maintains commercial relations Group of official spokespeople for the exchange of goods or services that support the execution of our administrative External Communication Department and operational activities. Internal Communication Department Transparency Mailbox Contact Mailbox Government Face-to-face meetings Government entities with which AXTEL Committees interacts for the correct execution and service Group of official spokespeople rendering, always respecting the legal frame Corporate Communication Department that governs in Mexico. Transparency Mailbox Contact Mailbox Civil Society Organizations and Groups AXTEL Foundation Civil society organizations with which the company is related with the purpose AXTEL Foundation e-mail of exchanging services, knowledge and/ Transparency Mailbox or mutual support (or in one way), for the Contact Mailbox benefit of the enterprise, the members of the organizations, or both parties. Competitors Information Technology Enterprises that offer Committees the same or similar services as AXTEL with which there is constant dialogue in order to Transparency Mailbox achieve a competitive development in the Face-to-face meetings Telecommunications Industry. 48 AXTEL Sustainability / Stakeholders During 2011 we carried out specific communication activities in relation to the following Stakeholders and topics: In AXTEL we have a Social Responsibility policy in the The Ethics Code has the specific guidelines regarding the Commercial Interaction with Competitors that establishes behavior of our collaborators at an internal level as well as respect to the existing regulation to generate competitive external from the company. market conditions, offering conditions of equal treatment to the dealers. We have a Code of Trade Practices approved by COFETEL (Federal Telecommunications Commission), We communicate our Anti-Corruption and No Present public document with the purpose of regulating AXTEL Policy among our suppliers and collaborators, to ensure relationships with its clients. that negotiations are carried out within a frame of ethics and accountability. This instrument serves as a guideline for clients as well as for AXTEL employees in regards to any clarification, We send a communication to all our suppliers and service service definition, dispute or complaint related with * Document available providers requesting compliance of the current legislation telecommunication services provision. for consultation at our in regards to labor matters, as well as ensuring their ability AXTEL Integral Center and in the Customized to provide professional services respecting human rights To promote dialogue with our Stakeholders, the Transparency Service Modules and current laws in our Country. Mailbox has been formalized and is available in the Internet web page 24 hours, 365 days a year, through email and a free telephone line (1-800087-0909). 49 PROJECTS THAT TRANSFORM LIVES AXTEL Foundation Six years working for a better Mexico Convinced that social transformations emerge from profound changes in individuals and their communities, since 2005, at AXTEL Foundation we have supported more than 200 projects related to human, community, and environmental development in Mexico. Priority causes for AXTEL Foundation Human Development Community Development Through this program, in AXTEL Our objective is promoting sustainable Foundation we promote processes and equitable community development. that support individuals in learning We support the work in organizations and strengthening their personal and whose projects search a better quality professional abilities. of life and development opportunities for We support economically projects that their inhabitants and also consider the develop abilities in individuals and social and environmental aspects in an strengthen their individual and social integral, fair, and responsible manner. responsibility, assisting them in taking control of their own life and actively participate in the transformation of their social environment. 51 AXTEL Foundation / Priority Causes for AXTEL Foundation Environment and Development Through AXTEL Foundation we search to support causes promoting sustainable We privilege donations social development by means of actions that do not harm natural resources that will be required by future generations. to organizations whose projects favor respect for the environment and promote a responsible use of natural resources. 52 History 2005 Fundación AXTEL, A.C. is legally established. Second-tier organization financed with company resources and volunteer donations from collaborators. 2006 The Annual Co-Investment Contest in Social Projects starts providing equal opportunities to all NGOs.The External Assessing Committee is implemented to select the causes. The AXTEL Volunteer Program starts. 2007 We begin the partial operation of on-line system starts so NGOs can apply to the Annual Co-Investment Contest. 2008 Start-up of NGO Strengthening Project, with the objective of promoting synergies amongst organizations. 2009 The system for the application to the Annual Co-Investment Contest in Social Projects is institutionalized to operate 100% on-line. 2010 Maximum support for NGO’s is increased from 175 thousand to 250 thousand pesos. The image of AXTEL Foundation is renewed. AXTEL-CEMEX Alliance for 2011 family orchards starts up. The Citizen Educational Alliance for Nuevo León Program starts. 53 Our Philosophy We seek to be part of the generation of a better Mexico and The importance of generating a better world, recognizing that the only way to achieve it is maintaining the balance of our environmental, economic, and sustainable development. social factors in each one of our actions. The need to address the rootWe recognize that the social problems respond to multiple variables, cause of the social problems with thus we seek to impact them integrally, from a preventive and educational stand point. an integral vision. In a constant atmosphere of change where resources are limited, Joining efforts and inter-sectorial we recognize and embrace the philosophy of working with alliances alliances as a driver. (between institutions and between sectors), as a basic ingredient for development. Civil society plays a very important role in the generation of social The strength of organized civil equity and the changes that development demands. society in generating great We recognize its value and besides supporting them in project implementation, we seek to strengthen them so their impact may changes. be always greater. 54 AXTEL Foundation / Our Philosophy Individuals as the axis of their own Through knowledge and development of their great abilities. development. Being co-responsible with the community and being engaged in the creation of growth opportunities and environmental improvement. The individual’s engagement with Either as a volunteer in a cause or as an engaged citizen, the his/her community. individual who gives, transforms his personal life receiving even more. We recognize and respect wisdom in every person and community, The value of sharing the thus we value the change propositions emerging from the basis, from their knowledge and internal intuition, from their own knowledge generating experience. experience. We motivate means to share the best experiences and generate with this a greater development. We establish our actions on the principles of honesty and Honesty and transparency as the transparency, recognizing ourselves as part of a social system where we converge with AXTEL clients, collaborators, suppliers axis of our behavior. and shareholders, as well as civil society organizations and the community in general. 55 Men and Women Working In 2011 we financed 30 projects in 14 locations, through the Co-Investment Program in Social Projects. With the support of a group of AXTEL Volunteers more than 18 thousand people received the benefit. With a consolidated team of advisors, collaborators and volunteers, in AXTEL Foundation we supported civil organizations whose social purpose provides sustainable benefits to the population. Through AXTEL Volunteers we carried out projects such as “Entrepreneurs since young age”, from Impulsa Junior Achievement, program that operates in public elementary schools where our volunteers participate as instructors. 56 AXTEL Foundation / Men and Women Working Annual Co-Investment Program in Social Projects Since it’s launching in 2006 we have provided benefits to more than 477 thousand people . Projects supported annually 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 26 36 39 38 29 30 The first call for the 6º Co-Investment Contest in Social Projects AXTEL Foundation was published in 2011. Through this event we invite civil organizations that develop high value projects and programs to participate as allies in marginal areas in the cities where we have operations. Through this program we search to support initiatives that may be replicated and, due to their impact, innovation, efficiency and effectiveness level, enable the transformation of individuals and their communities. 57 AXTEL Foundation / Men and Women Working As a result of this call, in 2011 we granted economic support to 30 projects promoting the following causes: Distribution of Economic Supports by Cause 2011 43% Community Development 50% 7% Human Development Environment 58 AXTEL Foundation / Men and Women Working Amounts of Economic Supports by Cause, AXTEL Foundation 2011 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 3,500,000 0 Community Development 2,945,000 Human Development 2,542,000 Environment 453,000 *Amounts in mexican pesos. 59 AXTEL Foundation / Men and Women Working NGO Strengthening Through inter-institutional alliances we search to promote the richness of the experience to generate impact in society through synergies with institutions searching the same objectives as AXTEL. Likewise, we support NGO training programs in subjects related to fund raising, volunteer management, resources management, transparency and alliances. Institutional Investment Education in Mexico is a priority in AXTEL Foundation. Thus we support social projects guaranteed by recognized educational institutions in the Country. Besides the NGO’s supported by the CoInvestment Contest, in 2011 we granted economic donations to 12 organizations whose causes promote education, health, and human development. 60 AXTEL Foundation / Men and Women Working Other Causes Patronato Reconstruyamos Nuevo Leon (Rebuilding Nuevo Leon Patronage) In AXTEL we actively participate in this Private Charity created to support and help recover and rebuild the housing of families victims of hurricane “Alex”, natural disaster that affected the population and infrastructure in the North of Mexico in the year 2010. Through this Patronage there have been more than 2 thousand 300 families benefited with economic support to purchase material, equipping basic services, reconstruction, and direct construction. Alianza Educativa Ciudadana por Nuevo Leon (Citizen Educational Alliance for Nuevo Leon) Organization headed by Tomás Milmo Santos, President and CEO at AXTEL. This Alliance seeks to improve the educational quality in the State of Nuevo León through the physical transformation and technology equipment of schools, collaborating in the integral development of the education process and generation of opportunities and self-sustainment of the communities. Red SumaRSE Institution with the participation of 28 enterprises and led by AXTEL Foundation. Red SumaRSE promotes strengthening of the civic capability and reconstruction of the social fabric in the metropolitan area in Monterrey. Huertos Familiares Together with CEMEX we participate in a program developed to train the community in the generation of urban orchards. Through it, families are trained in planting fruits and vegetables in orchards with easy installation and maintenance in the urban areas. This program has been used successful in Monterrey and the possibility of extending it to cities where both companies operate is being analyzed. 61 ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVE IC PERSPECTIVE ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVE NOMIC PERSPECTIVE ECONOMIC PERSPEC E ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVE ECONOMIC PER CTIVE ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVE ECONOMIC ERSPECTIVE ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVE ECO IC PERSPECTIVE ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVE Economic Perspective The basis of our Sustainability Model In 2011 we focused our efforts on five is centered in AXTEL economic large business lines since they have performance. Taking care of our business demonstrated a positive performance and At AXTEL in 2011 profitability is what provides support to have become a comparative advantage in all our transversal activities in this matter. our company in these markets: we reaffirmed our positioning as a Increasing the real and perceived value Infrastructure, offering mainly Data company with the of our enterprise for our shareholders, Center services customers, suppliers and stakeholders Security highest percentage of is part of our objective. Thus, in 2011 Contact Center subscribers growth we deployed initiatives that will enable us Applications to continue consolidating AXTEL in the Desktop and collaboration in Broad Band in Telecommunications Industry in Mexico. Mexico, increasing our consolidated market share in 39% achieving 436 thousand members. 63 Economic Perspective [EC1] Results (Millions of pesos) 2011 The total income in 2011 Revenues 10,829 reached 10 thousand 829 million pesos, an Operatin profit 437 increase of 177 million Net profit -2.043 pesos compared to 2010. Likewise, the operating cash flow or Indicators EBITDA reached 3 thousand 575 million pesos compared to 3 thousand 228 million in 2010, an increase of 347 EBITDA / Revenues 33% million pesos. The 11% improvement in Operating profit / revenues 4% operating cash flow is due to the positive result in our businesses which offset Net profit / revenues -19% the negative effect of the agreement termination with an important wholesale Interest coverage 3.6 client, a strict discipline in spending, and regulatory benefits which translated into Liability / Equity 2.88 lower costs. Total personnel 8,024 64 Economic Perspective Broad band subscribers (Thousands) 2011 436 2010 315 It is important to point out that in 2011 there were significant improvements in regulatory matters, particularly in regards to tariff reduction in interconnection to portable users and Annual sales (Millions of pesos) long distance endings. These advances evidence that our effort during many years have not been useless and they are being translated into lower operating costs and a fair 2011 10,829 and equitable competition, that will undoubtedly bring important benefits for the users. 2010 10,652 Annual EBITDA (Millions of pesos) 2011 3,575 2010 3,228 65 Economic Perspective Economic Performance AXTEL 2011* Concept 2011 Revenues 10,829,405 Economic Value Revenues due to interests 22,340 Generated Other earnings -419,450 (EVG) The direct economic value generated and distributed in VEG 10,432,295 2011 in AXTEL, including earnings, exploitation costs, employee retribution, donations and other investments in the community, non-distributed benefits, and payments to capital investors and governments, are presented in the Operating costs 2,799,269 Services acquired following chart: (Outsourcing) 427,855 Economic Social benefits Value (Payroll and Derivates) 2,014,782 Distributed Taxes paid 69,314 (EVD) Payment to fund providers 763,536 Investments in the community (Donations) 22,068 VED 6,096,824 Economic Value EVG + EVD 4,335,471 *Thousands of MXP (Mexican Financial Information Standards) Retained 66 Economic Perspective Markets Served Government Sector We increased revenues in 10% in this market. Mass Market We were able to achieve a significant The Revenue Generating Units (UGI’s), that growth of 39% in Broad Band, vis-à-vis represent voice lines and Broad Band Internet the prior year. Additionally we achieved 42% penetration on Internet services subscribers that produce recurrent revenues for based on the lines in service. the enterprise, reached near 1.5 million by the end of 2011, representing an increase of 9% Enterprise Market We worked strategically in five vis-à-vis the closing date in 2010. businesses: Security, Infrastructure, Desk, Applications and Contact Centers, as well as vertical solutions for different markets. 67 Economic Perspective Achievements 2011 As part of the constant search for an equitable competition an important cost reduction that promoted significantly in the Industry, during 2011 there are three events which our market share. become very important for AXTEL: As a result of the aforementioned, in 2011 we increased net Reduction of interconnection rates for long distance sales in voice services to other operators, achieving near 5 service in more than 60% in regards to the reductions billion minutes in long distance. previously obtained in 2009 and 2010. On the other hand, important negotiations with strategic The resolution of the Supreme Court of Justice in the suppliers were also carried out in 2011 in order to strengthen Nation preventing that the resolutions in issues related to the user experience and offerings of new products. interconnection may be subject to suspension. Opening of interconnection of long-distance calls to portable phones, which was denied by portable operators to AXTEL since 2006. The latest achievement enabled us Lean Six Sigma AXTEL Program Due to the importance of maintaining our operations focused During this year, 30 internal consultants leaders in the on continuous improvement in order to achieve an increase methodology were certified and we integrated the Center for in productivity and results, there were 30 projects under this Quality Excellence to potentiate the Lean Six Sigma program in methodology implemented during 2011 covering all the areas AXTEL, highlighting the following topics: operational efficiency, in the organization and directly engaging 200 collaborators. information quality and productivity in service delivery. Thanks to this, there were economic benefits achieved for more than $ 1.5 million dollars. 68 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE ERSPECTIVE SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE SOCIAL CTIVE SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE SOCIAL PERSPE IAL PERSPECTIVE SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE SO SPECTIVE SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE SOCIAL PE E SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE SOCIAL PERSPECTIV ERSPECTIVE SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE SOCIAL [LA14] Social Perspective AXTEL is comprised by a human team of 8 thousand In 2011 the work 32 employees distributed in 92 work centers in all group in AXTEL the Country. This work force enables us to develop comprised 8 our business successfully since they perform their thousand 32 work with professionalism and dedication. collaborators. AXTEL Collaborators As fundamental part in the excellence of hired or promoted based on professional new area, we have created a development our services, at AXTEL we are interested competencies without making distinctions program in order to take him/her as fast in developing competencies and skills in due to gender, race or any discriminatory as possible to the optimum performance our collaborators, so we may guarantee condition. level. their professional development, as well as the performance desired in their work Likewise, based on our Hiring, Promotion The hiring procedure for top executives area. and Transfer Policy we promote the applies in the same manner for the rest development of our employees in equal of the collaborators. In this management We have a Recruitment, Selection, and circumstances, considering our internal team, 206 are Mexican and six are Personnel Hiring Policy with which we personnel who meet the competencies foreign. Likewise, 86% of them are native ensure having the best personnel for required for the vacant position as our first from the areas where we have operations each activity. It specifies the selection option. In cases where the collaborator in the Country. criteria for personnel selection, which are requires support for his/her inclusion in a 70 Social Perspective / AXTEL Collaborators [EC7] Assignment of AXTEL Executives by geographical region 14% Executives native from the regions where we have operations. 86% Executives native from other regions where AXTEL does not have operations. *Top executives are all those collaborators occupying positions as Managers, Directors or Executive Directors. 71 Social Perspective / AXTEL Collaborators [LA1, LA4] Composition of our work staff In this section we submit the Percentage of AXTEL employees covered composition of AXTEL collaborators by collective agreement by age, gender, type of contract and annual turnover during 2011. 19% Work staff breakdown by type of employment, by contract and by region. Unionized Non-union Region Total Full Time Part Time Full Time Part Time Mexico, Center, South 725 0 1307 0 2,032 North-West 844 0 4,314 842 6,000 Total 1,569 0 5,621 842 8,032 72 Social Perspective / AXTEL Collaborators [LA1, LA2] Work staff breakdown based on age, gender and region 18-30 31-40 41-50 50+ Region / Age Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Mexico Center-South 754 150 685 188 197 19 35 4 North-West 1,989 1,392 1,493 598 385 89 49 5 Percentage of collaborators by age and gender 35 30 34% 25 27% 20 15 19% 10 10% 5 6.9% 2% 1% 0.1% Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Age 18-30 Age 31-40 Age 41-50 Age 50+ 73 Social Perspective / AXTEL Collaborators [LA2] Employee turnover by age and gender Age Men Women TOTAL 18 30 1,142 692 1,834 31 40 566 279 845 41 50 118 45 163 50 + 21 1 22 * The main cause for dismissal in AXTEL during 2011 was personnel downsizing Total 1,847 1,017 2,864 carried out at an organizational level as well as turnover in areas where hiring is per Annual turnover average * 35% project (Call Centers). Net employee numbers Employee turnover by age, gender and geographic region 18-30 31-40 41-50 50+ Region / Age Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Mexico Center-South 229 99 201 69 53 12 12 0 North-West 913 593 365 210 65 33 9 1 74 [LA6, LA7] Integral and Occupational Health At AXTEL we recognize human capital For the field collaborators, the program as our main fortune and we understand “Take 5” was implemented; it comprises Rate of work accidents that health and integral wellbeing are key 5-minute presentations focused on and days lost in 2011 conditions in order for our collaborators making them aware of matters related to be productive and develop efficiently. to safety, preventive behavior, and selfprotection against work accidents. Thus we promote a culture that fosters Likewise, the Safety and Hygiene Integral and Occupational Health in an Coordinator carries out regular visits to active manner in all the collaborators. the different AXTEL facilities in order to Accidents 113 detect unsafe conditions, decreasing risks and meeting the current regulations. Days lost due to 2,563 accidents During 2011 there have been 225 presentations that have positively Average personnel contributed in decreasing the incidence In AXTEL we have created of accidents up to 20%. In 2011 there exposed to risk in 6,034 18 Safety Commissions that the year were 113 work accidents, the severity represent 45% of our personnel. indicator decreased in 18.74% and the Average days lost percentage of compliance in the use of In 2012 we will integrate the personal protection equipment increased due to accident 22.68 necessary commissions so that in 87% in the field. 100 percent of our collaborators Average of accidents per 0.044 are represented in one of them. person Fatalities 0 75 Social Perspective / Integral and Occupational Health [LA8] As an action plan to face the insecurity problem that the such as mugging, robbery and kidnapping, and there were 30 country is undergoing, the Loss Prevention area delivered our presentations at a national level given with the attendance of collaborators 8 thousand brochures with information related 1,236 collaborators. to personal security and protection to prevent risk situations AXTEL Industrial Hygiene and Safety Training 2011 Number of courses Man – hours Courses Participants industrial hygiene and taught safety training Safety, Course for 80 1,558 12,464 Technicians Safety in climbing telecommunications towers 15 281 6,744 Civil Protection 2 24 96 Information from Boss to Collaborator (Civil Protection) 10 425 425 Practice Drills 2 1,984 425 Safety Alerts 2 1,608 160 111 5,880 20,314 76 Collaborator Integral Agenda In 2011 we implemented the Collaborator Integral Agenda, where the objective is developing a system of experiences that provide the employee spaces and opportunities to develop integrally in areas such as health, education, culture, family, community, and work. Agenda Action Total Participants Education workshops with curricular value at AXTEL 21 467 facilities and universities Education AXTEL Education Fair 1 629 As part of this project, the following actions were carried outT: Family members tours to AXTEL facilities 17 318 Family National Invitation for Children Talent 1 94 Health Health Actions 13,976 28,368* *Our collaborators’ families participated. TOTAL 29,876 77 Social Perspective / Collaborator Integral Agenda Within the activities performed as part of the Collaborator Integral Agenda Program, there were health brochures distributed and programs taught on education, training, counseling, prevention and control for health risks. Topics on health brochures AXTEL 2011 Month June July August September October November December Gastritis, Stress / The healthy Smiling keeps Metabolic Visual Topic colitis and Healthy Self-protection eating dish you healthy syndrome sharpness constipation breakfast Total activities Coverage Medical services carried out carried out (No. of people) 13,964 Consultations 5,480 National vaccination campaigns for: HPV, influenza, 4 chickenpox and pediatric 8,032 1 Institutional nutrition program: “Nutrevolución” 285 6 Health brochures 8,032 *Our collaborators’ families Health Fair* participated. 1 6,539 78 [LA10] Training Developing and updating our personnel in state-of-the-art At AXTEL we have developed two ways to provide training: subjects for our industry enables us to maintain the favorable being present and self-directed or e-learning, the latter is position we have achieved in the market having collaborators through the AXTEL University. with the necessary skills and competencies to meet our clients and users’ expectations. AXTEL Training 2011 Number of Average of Number of Total hours Modality collaborators training hours courses taught trained trained per employee* Being Present 6,479 153 152,408 23.52 *The average training hours per employee is calculated taking the number of Virtual 6,766 738 65,898 9.37 collaborators trained as the base. 79 Social Perspective / Training In AXTEL we are undergoing a stage of Approved cultural change focused on increasing Nombre del curso employees efficiency in all our collaborators. In order to achieve this change successfully, we have developed the Action Coordination 8,076 Institutional Platform “Being AXTEL”, that integrates a group of programs that Environment 6,648 enable a homogeneous training for all our collaborators, when sharing tools Institutional Process 6,624 that help them coordinate effectively and enlarge their perspective on the behaviors AXTEL Induction 8,738 that can contribute to improve their work style and the one in their teams. Effective Meetings 7,766 In 2011 there were eight emblem courses taught through the Being AXTEL Institutional 5’S Program 8,019 Institutional Platform addressing the following topics: Feedback 9,326 Customer Service 8,286 Total 63,483 80 AXTEL Families In AXTEL our collaborators’ families are very important and are part of our team. That is why we carry out different activities framed in the Collaborator Integral Agenda. The key objective of this program is strengthening our employees’ integral development, as well as the benefits they receive. In 2011 the following activities were carried out: National Invitation for Child Talent Family Day Office Tours National Invitation for Child Talent 2011 Event with the purpose of engaging the collaborators’ families so they learn AXTEL Education Fair philosophy and values, shown through images. This contest has three categories where children from three years old through 12 years old participate. In 2011 we have Health Fair the participation of 59 children in the drawing category and 35 in video. Family Day Annual event carried out in different recreation and entertainment sites in all the cities where AXTEL has operations, with the purpose of generating identification and sense of ownership in the collaborators and their families. There are cultural and recreation activities carried out in the event promoting the corporate values. Attended 12 thousand 555 employees and their families. 81 Social Perspective / AXTEL Families AXTEL Family Tours 2011 AXTEL opened its doors for the first time to our collaborators’ children so they know their parent’s work place and activities they carry out. The tours were carried out in the months of june, july, and august. 13 cities participated receiving 318 visitors in their installations. AXTEL Education Fair 2011 This event offers the possibility for the collaborators from different cities where AXTEL operates to learn about the different opportunities for development offered by the local education institutions and national (from pre-school to post degree) who attend at the facilities to offer information regarding their studying plans, financing as well as preferential prices for their families. In 2011 we had the participation of 630 collaborators from the different cities where AXTEL has operations, as well as 37 educational institutions. Health Fair Event where the different health institutions invited participate such as hospitals, clinics, opticians, gyms and dental offices. It is carried out to offer our employees options for their health care and their family. Likewise, there are presentations given by specialists in different interesting subjects. With some of the speakers there are agreements in order for them to provide discounts or special prices. 82 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE NVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE ENVIRONME VE ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE ENVIRO PECTIVE ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE EN ERSPECTIVE ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIV AL PERSPECTIVE ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPE ENTAL PERSPECTIVE ENVIRONMENTAL PE Environmental Perspective In AXTEL we are interested in integrating the environmental care in all our actions, administrative as well as operational. Thus we have developed strategies with a holistic vision with the purpose of collaborating actively in caring for our Planet. Our efforts in the environmental field campaigns and carrying out projects are channeled mainly through our related with ecology and environmental Environmental Committee, created at a care. national level in 2008. This Committee is integrated by collaborators from With the purpose of aligning these different areas in the company who meet actions to our organizational strategies, monthly to plan, develop, and implement we have developed different policies improvement ideas in the environmental and procedures that are the basis of our field. Their key objective is creating an actions in this field: environmental awareness amongst the AXTEL collaborators. Environmental Policy Waste Management and Disposal This Committee has the participation Policy of a representative in each city who Energy Savings Policy is accountable for implementing the 84 Environmental Perspective Environmental Policy This document has guidelines for reducing Reducing emissions of polluting gases and preventing environmental impact to the atmosphere. in our activities, inside and outside the company, at a local, state, and national Although our activities have a relatively level. low environmental damage due to the nature of our operations, in AXTEL we This Policy is integrated in the AXTEL want to decrease, as much as possible, environmental sustainability strategy the impact that our organization in the that seeks to preserve resources and environment. establish a harmonious relationship with Nature. One of the actions supporting this commitment is training to our In AXTEL we are committed to. collaborators. In 2011 we taught 6 thousand 648 collaborators the basic Preserving the Planet. course on Environment through the AXTEL University, where they were prepared in Preventing pollution. the following subjects: Decreasing environmental impact from our activities. Impact on the personal ecology footprint. Managing hazardous and nonWater. hazardous waste, at an internal and Electric energy. external level. Purchasing and consumption habits. Contributing in water and land Alternatives for optimum use of preservation. resources at home as well as at the office. Promoting material recycling and General recommendations. reutilization. 85 Environmental Perspective Waste Management and Disposal In our Waste Management and Disposal During 2011 we carried out the following Policy we establish guidelines for programs in our facilities at a national appropriate control of those accessories, level: We are carrying instruments, equipment that, due out the process to its content and/or conformation, Separation of waste generated by may generate hazardous and/or nonAXTEL collaborators (paper, carton, to obtain the hazardous solid waste in all the locations PET plastic, plastic bags, and Certification for at a national level at AXTEL. aluminum). Environmental Collection of alkaline and lithium/ Materials are defined by type of waste, cadmium/nickel/mercury batteries. Quality and/or Clean treatment given to each one of them as Reutilization of bond paper in printers. Enterprise granted well as the guide to identify the waste Recycling of paper, PET, aluminum by PROFEPA, as generated in a recurring manner in our and plastic. company. well as ISO 14001 in Shipping of batteries for special confinement. 2012. Likewise, we have procedures established according to Mexican Official Accountable disposal of computer Standards (NOM) and the Environmental and obsolete electronic equipment. and Natural Resources Secretariat Shipment of empty toner and ink (SEMARNAT) for collection of toners and cartridges for recycling. printer cartridges, batteries and obsolete computer equipment. 86 Environmental Perspective / Waste Management and Disposal [EN1, EN22] Recycling Campaign at a National level Non-Renewable Materials Recycled * Materials 2010 2011 Thanks to our recycling campaign, Aluminum 1.62 0.20 in 2011 we prevented Toner cartridges 0.54 0.92 the emission of 76 tons of CO2 to the Paper 29.57 20.36 atmosphere. PET plastic 1.08 1.34 Amounts expressed in tons. The material recycled does not represent 100% of the consumption at AXTEL in each line. Waste management in AXTEL is monitored by the Environmental Committee that Domestic Solid Waste in AXTEL 2011* evaluates the correct channeling of waste from our 92 facilities in Mexico. 3,109 tons In 2011 we generated a total average of 388 kilograms of waste per employee. *Information obtained according to internal calculations from AXTEL 87 08 Environmental Perspective [EN3, EN4] Energy Capturing our engagement for environmental caring, we implemented Direct Energy Consumption the Energy Savings Policy through which all AXTEL collaborators are urged Source 2011 to make an efficient use of electric energy and contribute in decreasing Gasoline 5,643,673 the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. This document makes Diesel 254,504 concrete recommendations regarding the expected behavior of all our employees L.P. gas 135,768 within the facilities in our company. Amounts expressed in liters We are submitting the electric energy consumption at AXTEL divided into primary sources. This with the purpose and commitment of monitoring our Indirect Energy Consumption energy consumption and taking actions toward energy savings and caring of our Planet. Source 2011 Electric energy 70,351,873 Amounts expressed in Kwh 88 Environmental Perspective [EN16] Air Emissions The daily functioning of the 92 facilities that comprise the AXTEL installations Tons of CO2 Sent cause the generation of diverse to Atmosphere in 2011 consumptions resulting in greenhouse gas emissions sent into the atmosphere. Source 2011 The sources considered in the following table are: Electric energy 35,176 Electric energy, fundamental in the Fuels 13,199 operation of our business. Domestic waste 191 Use of fuels, to provide installation and maintenance service to our Total 48,566 networks and users. Domestic waste. Recovered via recycling 77 processes Net total 48,489 89 MEMORY PARAMETERS S MEMORY PARAMETERS MEMORY PARAME MORY PARAMETERS MEMORY PARAMETERS Y PARAMETERS MEMORY PARAMETERS ME ARAMETERS MEMORY PARAMETERS MEMO METERS MEMORY PARAMETERS MEMORY P ETERS MEMORY PARAMETERS MEMORY PA [2.9, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7] Memory Parameters The first AXTEL Sustainability Report has the purpose of informing and revealing the economic, social, and environmental information of the company. In this document, the reader will find data corresponding to year 2011, referring to immediate prior years in the cases specified, with the objective of clarifying and/or responding to certain indicators. During this period the company has suffered significant changes in size, structure or property. The report structure has been defined taking Guide G3 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in Level C as a reference. There are indicators incorporated which are considered as materials for AXTEL that were determined based on the assessment of the Strategic Plan of the company. The information comprised in this report shows the performance of AXTEL corporate offices in Monterrey, as well as the centers where the company has operations in the Country. Responsible for addressing matters related with the data presented in this report: Name: Cristina M. Cuéllar García Social Responsibility Coordinator Address: Bulevar Díaz Ordaz Km 3.33, L1 Col. Unidad San Pedro, San Pedro Garza García, N.L. E-mail: sustentabilidad@axtel.com.mx Telephone: +52 (81) 81141244 Web Page: www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad 91 Memory Parameters GRI Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self-declared Reviewed by third parties Reviewed by third parties Reviewed by third parties Reviewed by Third Parties Optional Reviewed by GRI 92 GRI INDEX [3.12] GRI G3 Index / AXTEL Report 2011 Level C Indicator Environment Sub-theme Page 1.1 Statement from top responsible for decision making in the organization 04 2.1 Name of the organization 08 2.2 Key services 10 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 07 2.4 Location of the main headquarters of the organization 07 Strategy 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 07 and analysis 2.6 Nature of the property and legal format 08 2.7 Markets served 10 2.8 Dimension of the informing organization 07 2.9 Significant changes in size, structure and property of the organization during the memory period 91 2.10 Awards and distinctions received 09 3.1 Period covered by memory 04 3.2 Date of most recent prior memory 04 3.3 Memory presentation cycle 04 Profile 3.4 Point of contact for matters related to memory 91 Memory 3.5 Process for memory content definition 91 parameters 3.6 Memory coverage 91 3.7 Limitations of memory scope or coverage 91 3.8 Basis to include information in the case of joint businesses N/A 3.10 Description of re-expression of prior memories N/A 3.11 Significant changes related to prior periods in memory scope, coverage or valuing methods N/A 3.12 Table indicating the location of memory basic content 94 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 30 4.2 Position of the president of the maximum governance entity 30 4.3 Number of independent members in maximum governance entity 30 Government 4.4 Shareholder and employee mechanisms to communicate recommendations or indications to maximum governance entity 30 4.5 Link between retribution of the members of maximum governance entity, top directors and executives 28 4.14 Relation of stakeholders that the organization has included 46 Stakeholder participation 4.15 Basis for stakeholder identification and selection with which the organization is committed 46 94 GRI G3 Index AXTEL Report 2011 / Level C Indicator Environment Sub-theme Page Economic Direct economic value generated and distributed, including earnings, exploitation costs, employee retribution, donations, and other investments in EC1 performance the community, non-distributed benefits and payments to capital providers and to governments Economic Market Perspective EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of top managers coming from the local community in areas where significant operations are presence developed LA1 Breakdown of workers by type of employment, by contract, and by region 72, 73 Employment LA2 Total number of employees and employee average turnover, detailed by age group, gender, and region 73, 74 Business relations / LA4 Percentage of employees covered by a collective agreement 72 workers Total percentage of workers represented in joint health and safety committees for management-employees, established to help control and LA6 75 advice regarding health and safety in the job programs Health and safety LA7 Absenteeism rates, professional diseases, lost days, and number of fatalities related with work in the region 75 in the job Social Perspective Programs on education, training, counseling, prevention and risk control that apply to workers, their families or members of the community in LA8 76 regards to serious diseases Education and LA10 Average of training hours per year per employee, detailed by employee category 79 Evaluation Equitable remuneration Relation between men base salary vis-a-vis women base salary, detailed by professional category by region where there are significant LA14 70 between men operations and women Human Rights / No HR4 Total number of discrimination incidents and corrective actions taken 27 discrimination Corruption SO4 Measures taken in response to corruption incidents 38 Client health PR5 Practices regarding customer satisfaction, including the results of customer satisfaction research 13 and security 95 GRI G3 Index AXTEL Report 2011 / Level C Indicator Environment Sub-theme Page EN1 Materials used by weight and volume 87 Environmental Perspective EN3 Direct energy consumption detailed by primary sources 88 Materials EN4 Direct energy consumption detailed by primary sources 88 EN16 Total greenhouse gas emissions, direct and indirect, in weight 89 Emissions, spills, and waste EN22 Total weight of waste managed, according to method type and treatment 87 96
