2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Multiplying impact through the power of networks. Welcome to Cisco’s seventh Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report, covering the 2011 financial year (FY11). The report sets out our approach, objectives, and performance on CSR issues in five key areas: Governance and Ethics, Value Chain, Our People, Society, and Environment. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A3 < Previous View Contents Introduction Value Chain Society GRI Index How to Use This Report A4 Message from John Chambers, C3 Embedding Sustainability in E2 Our Strategy We encourage you to use the complete Chairman and Chief Core Business Processes report PDF, which includes all sections Executive Officer E3 Education and allows full access to videos, C4 Partnering with Suppliers KPIs/Report Card search capabilities, and bookmarks. to Improve Performance & E5 Healthcare Alternatively, if you visit us online, you A5 Message from Tae Yoo, can access each section of our report Build Capability H2 Our People KPIs Senior Vice President, E6 Economic Development individually. We’ve also created an Corporate Affairs H3 Society KPIs Executive Summary, which provides an C7 Working with Industry Groups E8 Critical Human Needs & overview of our achievements in fiscal A6 Cisco, CSR & Innovation Disaster Relief H4 Environment KPIs year 2011 (FY11). C8 Looking Ahead A6 About This Report E9 Employee Engagement H8 Report Card Bookmarks This pdf is bookmark enabled. We A6 About Cisco have pre-populated bookmarks in the E10 Supplier Diversity Our People Environment section only. E11 Product Accessibility Appendix Recommended Software D2 Changes to Our Workforce Governance & Ethics E12 Looking Ahead • Adobe Acrobat* Version 7.0 and above D2 Working Together I2 1. About the Environment Section • QuickTime B2 Governance I4 2. Employee Engagement D4 A Safe & Healthy Work B4 CSR Management Environment Environment I7 3. Global Supplier B7 Ethics D5 An Open & Diverse Culture Management Letter F2 Cisco Environmental B8 Privacy D6 Employee Opportunities Sustainability I8 4. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration B9 Human Rights D7 Rewarding Our People F8 Materials (Avoiding Business Travel) B11 Looking Ahead D8 Looking Ahead F9 Energy and GHG Emissions I9 5. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking F31 Water Use (Avoiding Employee Commuting) F32 Biodiversity and Land Use F33 Non-GHG Emissions F34 Effluents (Liquid) F34 Waste F41 Looking Ahead 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A4 < Previous View Compact and its 10 principles covering human rights, instigated a series of decisive actions that included Introduction labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. simplifying our organizational and operating model to > Message from make Cisco easier to work for and do business with, Chairman & CEO At the core of our CSR efforts, we use the same reducing annual costs by US$1 billion, and divesting or expertise, technology, and partnerships that we use in exiting from underperforming operations. Message from Sr. Vice President, working with our customers. We believe this is the best Corporate Affairs way for us to have the greatest impact, because we know As we look to the future, we believe that no other Cisco, CSR, & Innovation that an intelligent network is not only a powerful tool for company has our breadth and depth in networking. No doing business, but also for transforming lives, building one has our ability to innovate on such a broad scale, About this Report communities, and protecting the environment. nor our global reach and geographic balance, nor our About Cisco workforce of world class talent and expertise. And For example, this year we completed our three-year I’m particularly proud to say that no other company Watch the Video! Chairman and CEO John Chambers talks about the importance engagement in Sichuan, China, where we built a human possesses our commitment to manage the social Governance & Ethics of corporate social responsibility to network of multiple partners to help the region recover and environmental aspects of our business in our Cisco’s business. and rebuild after the devastating 2008 earthquake. characteristically ethical and responsible way. Value Chain Working together, we implemented collaborative networking technologies in 66 healthcare facilities We believe that by integrating CSR into our business, Our People Network innovation, strategic and 102 educational organizations. By using the same we not only benefit the communities in which we work Society decisions, and responsible technology and business principles that we apply to working with our customers, we multiplied our impact and the planet on which we live, but we also benefit our business. Our CSR engagements are opportunities to Environment actions all characterize a time across Sichuan, enabled seamless medical insurance apply and showcase the power of the network, and the of transformation at Cisco and claims processing for 60 million rural patients, and increased the reach of 21st century education to societal and environmental relevance of our products. We also build stronger relationships with our customers GRI Index rapid change in the markets and 135,000 students. and partners, government and business leaders, and our KPIs/Report Card communities we serve globally. Environmental sustainability is enhanced through our employees through our CSR activities. And more than ever, Cisco’s genuine, long-term commitment to CSR is Appendix products and solutions, which help Cisco and our a key influencer on how people feel about our company As we navigate these transitions, Cisco remains deeply customers reduce energy consumption and save and brand. committed to corporate social responsibility (CSR)—to money. For example, Cisco smart grid products, Cisco acting responsibly, operating sustainably, and contributing EnergyWise, Cisco Connected Workplace, Cisco I am proud that Cisco continues to change the way the to the communities in which we work and live. We have TelePresence, and our teleworking solutions reduce world works, lives, plays, and learns. Therein lies the witnessed the positive impact that CSR has had on our greenhouse gas emissions across industry sectors challenge and our opportunity to use the network to employees, communities, the environment, and also our such as utilities, buildings and transportation. Cisco’s multiply our impact on both business and society. Cisco business. That is why we believe that CSR is both our business and the environment benefit from these will meet that challenge. responsibility and a competitive differentiator. innovative solutions. This CSR report, our seventh, details our CSR efforts in This year was clearly not without its challenges. We had the areas of governance and ethics, our people, society, to take some necessary but difficult steps to streamline our value chain, and the environment. The report also our business in order to remain fully focused on delivering provides evidence on how we operate in a manner the best to our customers, shareholders, employees, John T. Chambers consistent with our continued support of the UN Global partners, and the global community. That is why we Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A5 < Previous View While our corporate social responsibility (CSR) manifests understand emerging issues, learn best practices and Introduction itself in the way we run our business, our CSR program is identify CSR opportunities and challenges.  Message from also designed to help our nongovernmental organization Chairman & CEO (NGO), multilateral, public sector, and private sector For example, in developing this report we put our partners connect with others—enhancing their ability to technology to work in gathering real-time feedback on > Message from Sr. Vice President, make a positive impact on the world. our CSR performance and reporting, an approach that Corporate Affairs allowed us to collect input from stakeholders around the Cisco, CSR, & Innovation Our CSR efforts focus on five key areas: world without a single person having to board a plane. Using Cisco TelePresence technology, we held CSR About this Report • Governance and ethics: promoting responsible stakeholder discussions with 25 opinion leaders in 12 About Cisco business practices with every employee at every level countries. This high-definition technology provides a of our business rich lifelike feel to a virtual meeting, while limiting carbon • Value chain: embedding sustainability into routine emissions, increasing productivity, and enhancing the Governance & Ethics business practices at every stage of the value chain work-life balance of all those involved. product lifecycle Value Chain The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the world’s largest • Employees: building Cisco’s people, a unique culture repository of greenhouse gas emissions reporting, used Our People You + networks = impact and organizational capacity Cisco TelePresence at its September 2010 global launch Society multiplied. That’s our equation for • Society: bringing people together to collaborate on innovative solutions to social issues including event, connecting speakers on five continents with the speakers and audience in New York City. Like Cisco and Environment a better life and a healthier planet. education, healthcare, economic empowerment, and Cisco’s customers, CDP is changing how they work, Why are we so determined to critical human needs and disaster relief reducing GHG emissions while being more productive and saving money. GRI Index • Environment: improving our customers’ and our own make it happen? environmental sustainability through technology and KPIs/Report Card We are enormously proud of the work our people and advocacy partners are doing around the world to multiply the We believe technology is a powerful tool to bring people Appendix We address social issues through technology product positive impact of those striving for a better world. This together to improve lives, build communities, and grants, cash grants, collaborative partnerships and our report tells some of their stories and provides examples preserve the environment. It’s why we apply the same own expertise. We want to inspire Cisco employees, of how we are multiplying the impact of our CSR efforts technology and expertise we use to help our customers, our NGO partners, and our broader set of stakeholders by engaging technology and human networks. to also help transform lives, communities and the planet— multiplying the positive impact. to combine the power of their people and technology Or to put that more succinctly: networks to multiply the impact of their activities. You + networks = impact multiplied. We conduct our business in a way that respects and ultimately benefits people, communities and the planet. The Sustainable Business Practices team within In his letter (see previous page), our Chairman and CEO Corporate Affairs oversees Cisco’s multi-stakeholder John Chambers explains why that’s good for society, engagement approach to CSR. We see the group’s good for business and good for Cisco. role as a super-networker, linking Cisco people to relevant CSR stakeholders around the world. They listen Tae Yoo to a broad set of stakeholders throughout the year to Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A6 < Previous View Introduction Cisco, CSR, and Innovation About This Report Assurance The data in this report and the methodology for collecting Innovation is at the heart of everything we do at Cisco. Our CSR strategy and reporting prioritize the issues it have been verified internally. We held focus groups  Message from Chairman & CEO Our vision is for our technology to change the way that are most important to our business and to our with CSR thought leaders during 2011 to assess our people live, work, play, and learn. Of course, incremental stakeholders, identified through a formal materiality CSR strategy and reporting, and we had extensive Message from Sr. Vice President, changes can make a difference, but in our view it is the assessment. We encourage feedback from stakeholders, engagement with non-profit and nongovernmental Corporate Affairs big ideas that are needed to disrupt the status quo and and we use this report to respond to those with whom organizations and CSR experts to gather their views on > Cisco, CSR, & Innovation stimulate sustainable change. we have engaged throughout the year. In FY11, feedback specific issues throughout the year. included requests for: > About this Report We believe that the above philosophy is as important > About Cisco to social and environmental issues as to anything else. • More information about how Cisco is using products About Cisco And by applying this ethos of innovation to Cisco’s CSR and services to drive the sustainability agenda. • Cisco is headquartered in San Jose, California, activities, we are striving to develop solutions that help • More transparency in social areas such as human USA, and has more than 460 offices in more than Governance & Ethics us and our customers address social issues and promote rights and our value chain. 165 countries. environmental sustainability. • A searchable PDF of the full report and better • Approximately 13 percent of Cisco’s annual revenue Value Chain is invested in research and development (R&D). The videos highlighted in this report and on our 2011 Cisco navigability of the report. Our People CSR Report website profile just some of our innovative • Cisco has more than 70,000 employees globally, solutions—from helping customers monitor and reduce This year’s report attempts to respond to these issues. one-third of whom are engineers. Society their energy use with EnergyWise to improving work-life Each section of the report leads with an explanation of a • Almost 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced. balance at Cisco through LifeConnections. Each video is Cisco product and service and how it contributes to our • We work closely with more than 1000 suppliers Environment introduced by one of the Cisco people behind the solution. CSR agenda. Our PDFs allow for easy navigation within around the world that support our value chain in the the report (see How to Use This Report), and the Value Americas, Europe, and Asia-Pacific regions. GRI Index Chain section provides more details on our efforts to manage labor issues throughout our value chain. KPIs/Report Card Changes to our approach can take time, but we aim to Appendix be open and transparent about our progress, as well as about the challenges we face. Scope and Data This report covers performance data and activities in our 2011 fiscal year, which runs from August 2010 through July 2011, related to all our operations around the world unless stated otherwise. Watch the Video! The power of the network allows Cisco to multiply our impact on society, from connecting the world and improving education and healthcare, to enabling energy efficiency and helping people collaborate and work smarter. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback A7 < Previous View Who We Are and What We Do Introduction Cisco designs, manufactures, and sells innovative  Message from networking solutions related to the information and Chairman & CEO communications technology (ICT) industry, and provides Message from services associated with these products and their Sr. Vice President, use. We aim to solve our customers’ most important Corporate Affairs business problems by delivering intelligent networks and Cisco, CSR, & Innovation technology architectures built on integrated products, About this Report services, and software platforms. Our vision is to change the way we work, live, play, and learn. > About Cisco Founded in 1984, Cisco has pioneered the development How a Network Works of Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking technologies. The Internet Protocol (IP) is a series of specifications set out by various standards organizations, primarily the Internet Governance & Ethics Our products include routing, switching, and other Engineering Task Force (IETF). The IETF publishes specifications that, among other things, detail how information is network-based technologies such as application organized into IP “packets” to be transported across the Internet. Each IP packet is unique to an IP address. Value Chain networking services, collaboration, home networking, Every device (for example, a computer, printer, or smart phone) has an IP address assigned to it that identifies the device’s security, storage area networking, telepresence systems, location and how it interacts with the broader network (through unique IP packets). Each IP packet has a source and Our People unified communications, unified computing, video destination address, which is called an IP address, and a static address that uniquely identifies a device, called a MAC systems, and wireless. We also provide a range of (Media Access Control) address. Society technical support and advanced services. The Internet infrastructure comprises primarily two types of devices: switches and routers. Switches are designed to identify and respond to a static MAC address. It switches traffic accordingly, typically between ports on the same device. Environment Our customers’ success is at the core of our operational A router is designed to identify and respond to the dynamic source and destination IP address of the particular IP packet strategy and execution. During FY11, our customers and route traffic accordingly, across numerous devices. GRI Index included public sector organizations and enterprise Most switches are very localized—the traffic flowing inside a switch, and the decisions a switch makes on network traffic KPIs/Report Card businesses, service providers, commercial customers, are based specifically on the switch ports inside one device. Routers, however, are typically “network-aware” and make and consumers. sophisticated decisions about internetworking based on current conditions in the network, including (but not limited to) route availability, route congestion, and opportunities for multicast (the delivery of a message or information from one Appendix source to multiple destinations in a single transmission). Each router utilizes a continuously updated routing table that Cisco’s Vision gives the routers a real-time updated network “map” that allows the routers to work in parallel to manage the flow of IP Changing the way we work, live, play, and learn. packets within the network. The decisions that a router is able to make on specific traffic flows can add substantially to the manageability, efficiency, and scalability of a network. Cisco’s Mission Network Security To shape the future of the Internet by creating Security is a serious concern when it comes to using networks. Hackers, denial of service attacks, identity theft, and even unprecedented value and opportunity for customers, cyber terrorism are very real dangers. As the foundations of network infrastructure, routers and switches are crucial in employees, investors, and partners. the efforts to detect and prevent such attacks. Business-class routers and switches, such as those produced by Cisco, incorporate features that address security, performance, reliability, and manageability. For example, Cisco integrated services routers include built-in firewalls, intrusion detection and prevention, and encryption, among other features. In addition, hackers can be tracked because source and destination addresses are identified in each IP packet. This helps to deter attacks in the first place. Internet routing allows service providers to see the address of the sender of information and the address of the recipient. Without adequate encryption, service providers can also see the contents of messages and attachments. Both forms of network security (protection of the network itself from denial of service and other attacks, and protection of users from spam, hacking, and virus attacks) require network operators to have capabilities that can be used to block access to websites or to copy and download users’ communications. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B1 < Previous View Introduction Governance & Ethics Governance CSR Management Ethics Privacy Human Rights Looking Ahead Value Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index Watch the Video! Interactive and live training, which draws on the expertise of multiple Cisco business functions, reinforces the ethical conduct of Cisco employees globally. KPIs/Report Card Governance and Ethics Appendix Cisco’s commitment to ethical conduct and strong corporate governance has helped us build a robust company with a recognized corporate social responsibility (CSR) program. Our leadership team believes in the importance of all facets of CSR. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B2 < Previous View Introduction Governance & Ethics Governance are intended to simplify the way we run our business: to accelerate decision-making, increase management We draw on the experience and expertise of employees We believe in the power of collaboration. That philosophy accountability, and improve our responsiveness to Governance & Ethics around the company in developing our framework for is reflected in Cisco products, systems, and services and customers, partners, and employees as we clarify roles > Governance ethical and responsible business conduct. in our approach to corporate governance. This approach and responsibilities in each business unit. helps us manage risks effectively, enabling business CSR Management Our global CSR programs guide the ethical, social, and continuity and sustainable growth. An important significant change has been to reinforce our Ethics environmental efforts of individual business units, while consistent customer focus around the world by reducing our Privacy helping Cisco maintain a strong reputation and supporting Management Approach cross-functional councils and boards from nine to three: Human Rights a successful business strategy. We collaborate on management decisions across the company. In FY11, Cisco went through significant • The Enterprise Business Council (EBC) leads Cisco Looking Ahead Ethical behavior makes our company more resilient. The structural changes that affected individual business in transforming our enterprise, commercial, and overriding objective of our Code of Business Conduct units and the company’s overall strategy. The changes small business market operations. It uses a cohesive and governance is that all Cisco employees live up to our strategy, fostering alignment between functions and Value Chain high ethical standards in all their business activities. simplifying the business. The EBC helps Cisco focus on the competition in these markets and improve Our People revenue, profitability, market share, and productivity. Cisco Technology in Action: Cloud Society • The Service Provider Council seeks to establish and The Product: As Internet-based (cloud) computing becomes more pervasive, Cisco is enabling customers to rapidly adopt maintain Cisco’s position as a trusted business partner cloud by using the network to connect the different worlds of cloud. Environment to its service provider customers. These include In its simplest form, cloud computing refers to making shared resources, software, and data available via the Internet. telecommunications companies, cable operators, GRI Index These elements are stored on remote servers that can be accessed by devices such as PCs and smart phones around the media companies, and network providers. The council world. Public, private, and community organizations can offer access to cloud computing through their own purpose-built clouds. helps these customers grow revenue, increase KPIs/Report Card subscriber loyalty, improve competitiveness through Cisco’s vision is a world of many clouds. Cisco enables organizations to build cloud offerings, and we connect and Appendix sustainability, and manage costs as they address link different clouds through what we call a unified cloud fabric: namely, a network infrastructure that supports interconnectedness. the growth of data traffic and use of devices on their networks. How Our Cloud Offering Supports Our Governance and Ethics Program: As the use of cloud computing has increased, privacy and data security have become serious concerns of customers, employees, and partners. It is crucial to our • The Emerging Countries Council guides our entry business that we maintain the trust of all these stakeholders as we enhance our cloud services. Cisco cloud security and operations in emerging markets, and helps Cisco offerings help customers take a more holistic approach to cloud adoption that includes robust security measures. to contribute to sustainable economic development We offer: by being an effective partner to aid growth and • Capabilities to help cloud service providers and subscribers secure their cloud infrastructure development. • Cloud-based email, web, and threat intelligence security for customers Corporate Governance • Secure cloud access to help organizations control access to resources and software hosted on the cloud, enabling a Cisco’s corporate governance policies are designed to trusted cloud environment foster ethical conduct and help us comply with regulatory These security services are as important to Cisco as they are to our customers and partners. Sensitive personal and requirements and applicable laws for publicly listed company data become susceptible to various security threats as new technology is used to build cloud offerings. We use companies. our cloud security offerings to help Cisco maintain the integrity of our own operations, reducing risks and improving the privacy of proprietary information. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B3 < Previous View A majority of the members of our Board of Directors The Board of Directors, acting directly and through • Global Safety, Security and Business Resiliency: Introduction are independent Directors who meet regularly without its committees, is responsible for overseeing risk This group works to safeguard the physical safety Cisco management. Our Board has adopted clear management. With the oversight of the Board, Cisco and security of Cisco employees and facilities, and Governance & Ethics governance policies for: has implemented practices and programs designed to it responds to internal or external disruptions and > Governance help manage the risks to which we are exposed in our threats that may affect our employees and our • Board composition business and to align risk-taking appropriately with our business. Our response plans prepare for worstCSR Management • Board meetings and materials efforts to increase shareholder value. The business case scenarios, and our business continuity teams Ethics functions involved in risk management include: are focused on identifying and mitigating gaps with Privacy • Board committees business continuity plans. Human Rights • Stock ownership guidelines for non-employee • Global Risk Sponsors: This executive-level group • Supply Chain Risk Management: This team works Looking Ahead Directors and executive officers that meets quarterly to review risks and opportunities on the continuity of supply for our customers. It • Management responsibilities and manage action and accountability. All of the also builds resiliency into our products and global members of this group are executives at Executive operations. All members of the Board’s Audit, Compensation Vice President level and above. Value Chain and Management Development, and Nomination and • Governance, Risk and Controls: This team assists Our People Governance Committees are independent Directors. the Audit Committee and company management to Business Resiliency Put to the Test in Japan carry out their financial responsibilities and internal The Japan earthquake and subsequent tsunami and Society Our internal audit function is responsible for overseeing controls. It also monitors risks and controls throughout nuclear threat in March 2011 required companies and Cisco’s operational and financial processes. It reports the company in real time, and provides independent communities around the country to respond quickly Environment regularly to the Audit Committee. See our Corporate review and consulting to improve the management of and efficiently. Cisco’s business resiliency and risk Governance website for further information. Cisco’s operations. As part of our Governance, Risk management operations went into immediate effect to GRI Index check on the safety of employees and suppliers, as well and Controls team, our Enterprise Risk Management as our business continuity. We have established a specific Policy Function within KPIs/Report Card group works across the business to identify, assess, Cisco that centralizes corporate policies and approves As part of our business resiliency and risk management govern and manage risks and Cisco’s response to changes. The function has launched a new Policy Central strategy, we establish local Incident Management Teams Appendix those risks. at high-risk sites. Cisco’s Customer Crisis Team also intranet site to make it easier for employees to access • Global IT Risk Management: This team focuses prepared comprehensive action response and mitigation and understand our policies. on managing critical IT risks for Cisco, including IT plans to minimize the impact to customers to the extent possible. Risk Management service continuity, IT compliance, and embedding risk Cisco is founded and built on innovation. We continue to management into IT projects and processes. These teams implemented business continuity and risk mitigation plans for our operations and vendors push boundaries in our efforts to connect the world and • Worldwide Brand Protection: This function looks around Japan in the wake of the disaster. The plans achieve long-term growth opportunities for our company. to preserve the integrity of Cisco’s corporate brand included impact assessments for our entire supplier Managing inherent risks is essential as we enter new by reducing potential damage caused by counterfeit and manufacturing base. There has been no significant markets and introduce new products. and unauthorized market activity. Its activities include impact to our supply chain. We continue to monitor the situation and remain in close contact with all of our protecting routes to market, influencing intellectual Japanese suppliers. property protection, and operating as the antiWatch the Video! Interactive and live counterfeit center of excellence within Cisco. training, which draws on the expertise of multiple Cisco business functions, reinforces the ethical conduct of Cisco employees globally. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B4 < Previous View Introduction CSR Management Our CSR Business Process Cisco manages CSR activities by engaging the insight Governance & Ethics and expertise of internal and external stakeholders. This Cisco’s CSR Business Process helps us set goals, develop and implement policies, and monitor and report on performance. Governance helps us focus on the areas that are most important to our business and the people and communities with whom > CSR Management we interact. Business Functions Sustainable Business Ethics Practices Team Privacy CSR Governance 6 Human Rights The Sustainable Business Practices team monitors Measure 1 CSR Reporting emerging CSR issues and identifies areas for potential Performance Looking Ahead action. The team draws on expertise from around the company, collaborating with relevant subject matter experts on strategies and initiatives that create long5 Value Chain term, sustainable benefits for our business and the global Implementation 2 Stakeholder community. Our People Engagement and Analysis The team is responsible for CSR reporting, stakeholder Society engagement, and benchmarking. It also works with executive leadership to collaboratively prioritize CSR 4 Environment Stakeholder programs and review performance. Prioritization, 3 Feedback to the Goals, and Initiatives Business GRI Index Global Initiatives and CSR Frameworks KPIs/Report Card Several global frameworks inform and guide our work on CSR. These include: Appendix Stakeholder Engagement • UN Global Compact Cisco values the input of external stakeholders in the • UN Millennium Development Goals development of our CSR strategy and initiatives, as well Cisco values the input of external • Clinton Global Initiative as the ongoing improvement of our CSR reporting. It stakeholders in the development of our • World Economic Forum helps us align our business more closely to society’s CSR strategy and initiatives, as well needs and helps us prioritize issues, while gaining as the ongoing improvement of our valuable insight into external perspectives and building Global CSR Management Standards and Guidelines ongoing relationships with key influencers. CSR reporting. • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): CSR reporting guidelines (see our GRI Index) Our Sustainable Business Practices team manages • ISO 14001: Environmental management standard collaboration and feedback between Cisco and (see Environmental Management) stakeholders. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B5 < Previous View Introduction Key Stakeholders (continued) Governance & Ethics Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples of How Cisco is Responding to Issues Raised Governance > CSR Management Communities We engage with communities through our social investment programs, including Water access is an area of increasing concern in the developing world. Through partnerships with corporations, nonprofits, governments, and NGOs. Our employees our Critical Human Needs portfolio, Cisco supports technology-based solutions Ethics also engage with their local communities through volunteering activities and local to increase access to water and to increase sustainability of water projects and Privacy civic councils. transparency about their effectiveness. We launched our focus on water last year, and so far have supported water.org, the Blue Planet Network, and Water for Human Rights People. See the Society section of this report for more information. Looking Ahead Customers We engage with customers as part of our everyday business operations through our Customers are asking more detailed questions about a broader number of sales and support services. Since 1992, we have conducted an Annual Customer environmental topics, including product energy efficiency and product carbon Value Chain Satisfaction Survey. Using the valuable input our customers give us, we establish lifecycle impacts. Their interest has prompted changes to our standard business the principal objectives for each of our functional areas. processes in the form of general-purpose supplier surveys, specific bid proposal questions, and required contract language. Our People Customer interest remains strong in legislation areas such as the Restriction of Society Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive and Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical Substances (REACH). See the Environment section for more information on how Cisco responds to these requirements. Environment GRI Index Employees We engage with employees informally every day through team meetings and Cisco’s FY11 Employee Pulse Survey found increased employee satisfaction in internal communications, as well as more formally through quarterly “All Hands” the Respect for People and Manager Index categories. Issues for improvement, KPIs/Report Card meetings, annual leadership and sales meetings, and various focus groups. Our however, included recognition and organizational alignment. Cisco is seeking annual Employee Pulse Survey helps us understand satisfaction levels around the to address these employee concerns using four key programs: Cisco Talent company and identify areas where we can improve. Connection, Cisco Performance Connection, Cisco, Certified Management Appendix Professional, and The Leader Playbook. See the Our People section of this report for more information. Governments and Our Global Policy and Government Affairs team works with governments to Cisco’s critical policy priorities include increasing broadband and next-generation Regulators help develop and influence public policy and regulations related to our industry. network deployment globally, reforming the U.S. patent system, and encouraging Government representatives contribute to our blog on High-Tech Policy: Thoughts continued innovation in network security. Visit our Government Affairs page for and Opinions on Government Affairs. We also work with governments on collaborative more information on our key policy priorities and trade associations. partnerships that focus on social issues, such as education and healthcare. Industry Cisco participates in industry partnerships to promote the role of ICT in Our industry engagement currently focuses on the industry response to conflict sustainability, respond to new regulations, and help develop standardized minerals and e-waste disposal and recycling, through collaboration with approaches to challenges. For example, Cisco is working with the International organizations such as the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition. See the Value Electronics Manufacturing Initiative to standardize lifecycle assessments of Chain section of this report for more information partnering with industry groups. electronics products. (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B6 < Previous View Introduction Key Stakeholders (continued) Governance & Ethics Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples of How Cisco is Responding to Issues Raised Governance > CSR Management Investors and We communicate our business and CSR performance to investors through our In FY11, we responded to questions about Cisco’s human rights approach through Analysts Annual Report and this CSR Report. We meet regularly with investors and welcome this CSR report and other activities, including investor dialogue, blog updates, and Ethics their views at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, following their adherence to other forms of communication. Privacy appropriate procedures. Cisco also provides CSR information to sustainability investment indexes such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. See our Investor Human Rights Relations website for more information. Looking Ahead Sales Business We conduct a quarterly and annual survey that is designed to capture Cisco’s Some of the actions we have taken as a result of listening to our partners include: Partners performance with our partners and to understand what we need to do to help Fast Track program, which makes it easier to access and sell high-volume Cisco Value Chain partners grow their business. The results are reviewed by the Cisco management technology; an easy to use Quick Pricing Tool designed to quickly generate a bill team and have helped us identify new programs and services that the partner of materials and estimate pricing for Cisco solutions; and partner support SMART needs, as well as understand their priorities for investments. Designs that provide standardized best practice designs, removing the guesswork Our People from building network solutions. Read more from Andrew Sage, Vice President of Worldwide Small Business Sales. Society Environment Suppliers Cisco works with our global suppliers to incorporate CSR into all aspects of the Our partnerships with suppliers aim to address the environmental and social issues supply chain, from product design to manufacturing and shipment. that we both face in the value chain. See the Value Chain section of this report for more information. GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Material Issues Appendix Cisco Invites Global CSR Stakeholders to the Virtual Boardroom Ongoing stakeholder engagement helps us gain insight Cisco technology is playing an important role in helping the world shift to a low-carbon economy. In FY11, the Sustainable on key CSR issues and how they impact Cisco. In FY11, Business Practices team showcased this potential to our CSR stakeholders. We did so by inviting 25 CSR experts from we carried out a formal third-party materiality analysis 12 countries to provide feedback on our CSR performance and reporting in three sessions that used Cisco TelePresence that assessed the social interest in 23 relevant issues technology. together with their impact on Cisco and associated The three sessions included participants from academia, institutional investors, nonprofit organizations, and peer opportunities or risks. companies. These sessions revealed that stakeholders’ primary concerns are that Cisco provide better disclosure on social and environmental challenges. Cisco’s business is closely linked to sustainability, and we heard that our performance on As a result of these efforts, we have been able to climate change and energy efficiency is comparatively leading edge, but participants wanted to understand more about prioritize issues with the highest impact on Cisco and what we are doing to promote the use of our products and services to drive the sustainability agenda. They also asked us the highest societal interest. We increased our focus to provide clearer, bolder environmental targets and report performance against them, as well as improved transparency on human rights issues. on issues that we consider to have growing associated risks or opportunities. The materiality process is ongoing, We were pleased that stakeholders recognize Cisco’s strong sustainability performance. However, we understand that our and our CSR communications and reporting reflect this challenge is to provide more information through our reports and public communications. With this CSR report, we aim to address some of these issues. regular analysis. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B7 < Previous View Introduction Ethics The Ethics Office also raises awareness about business Reported concerns cover a broad range of subjects. In ethics among employees, business partners, and FY11, they included conflicts of interest, policy issues, Ethical business conduct is crucial to helping us attract suppliers. It offers ethics training for employees, helping release of proprietary information, use of company Governance & Ethics and retain customers, business partners, and talented them recognize ethics-related situations. For example, assets, gifts and gratuities, and computer network and Governance employees. The world is changing, and new products and some associations and nonprofit organizations seek information security, among others. services carry new ethical challenges. When we conduct the technical expertise of Cisco employees and ask CSR Management business ethically, we reduce the likelihood of civil and them to serve on their boards. Cisco encourages We make it a priority to investigate all concerns raised > Ethics criminal penalties, as well as human rights breaches. community service, but stipulates that any decisions our and take appropriate disciplinary action when warranted. Privacy Violations may result in disciplinary action, including employees make as board members need to be made Human Rights Code of Business Conduct termination of employment in certain cases. independently, and without bias or conflicts of interest. The Cisco Code of Business Conduct defines our Looking Ahead When contacted by employees, the Ethics Office reviews expectations for our employees’ ethical behavior. All Employee Training organizations, the level of board member influence (as employees must follow this Code, which provides Senior leaders and the Board of Directors mandate ethics advisors rather than managers of operations), and how information about our policies and procedures, guidelines training, and employees are increasingly requesting it, Value Chain the Cisco employee would be compensated for board for decision-making, and real-life examples of potential particularly topic-specific and interactive training. Our service. Also, if the boards are making any decisions work-related ethical dilemmas. programs aim to reflect these requests. Our People related to purchasing IT products or services provided by Cisco or our competitors, Cisco employees must remove The Code requires: Our online Ethics Resource Center offers training Society themselves from any involvement in those decisions. modules, a discussion forum, links to ethics and • Honest and ethical conduct compliance policies, and videos. It includes our awardEnvironment Reporting Concerns • Full, accurate, and timely disclosures to government We encourage employees and other stakeholders winning “Ethical Mindset” training video series. GRI Index agencies and in other public communications where to report concerns to us about suspected unethical Each year, we require all regular employees (in countries appropriate behavior promptly. The ways they can do this include: KPIs/Report Card where this is permitted by law) to recertify compliance • Protection of confidential and proprietary information with the Code of Business Conduct, to refresh their • Speaking to a manager or human resources belonging to Cisco, our customers, and our suppliers commitment to ethical conduct, and to get updated Appendix representative • Compliance with applicable government laws, rules, information on any changes Cisco has made to the Code. • Contacting the legal department or Ethics Office about In FY11, all of Cisco’s eligible employees completed and regulations legal or accounting questions recertification. Newly hired employees must certify • Prompt reporting of violations • Contacting the Ethics Office directly by email or within three weeks of joining Cisco. The certification is The Cisco Supplier Ethics Policy sets similar expectations webform (more than 70 percent of concerns are available online in 13 languages and in an Americans with for our business partners. Both require compliance with reported this way) Disabilities Act (ADA)-accessible version. all applicable regional and national laws and regulations. • Reporting concerns through our global helpline, which In FY11, we added two training videos to the certification is run by a third party and available to people outside Cisco’s Ethics Office oversees compliance and revises after Cisco’s Audit Committee requested more ethics Cisco. The Ethics Line is available in more than 150 the Code annually, as needed. Revisions to the Code training. The videos focus on the Code’s comprehensive languages and open 24 hours a day. Calls can be in FY11 included expansion of the anticorruption and content and how employees can get ethics assistance. made anonymously if preferred (in countries where antibribery section to make the overall language more They use humorous scenarios to improve engagement. this is permitted by law). Our Ethics@Cisco website global. The changes are meant to align our Code with the When employees were surveyed through questions contains dialing instructions for over 60 countries. new U.K. Bribery Act and global best practices. embedded in the certification website, more than 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B8 < Previous View 85 percent of respondents said the videos enhanced Introduction their understanding and found the mix of humor Awards and Honors for Cisco’s Ethics Program and serious content effective. To support our global Governance & Ethics workforce, the videos play automatically with translated Recognition from industry leaders and compliance experts helps us confirm best practices and strive for improvement. External Governance subtitles if the certification is accessed in any of the nine benchmarking helps us keep our Code of Business Conduct aligned with current standards. CSR Management most frequently used languages. Recent Awards for Our Governance and Ethics Program Ethics We provide on-demand training tailored to specific > Privacy employee groups when it is requested by business or •Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies 2011: Cisco was included on the list for the fourth consecutive year Human Rights regional management. These have included: •Ethisphere’s “Ethics Inside”: Cisco achieved this certification, which includes third-party verification of ethics and compliance Looking Ahead programs, in 2008, 2009, 2010 • A course on the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act for employees who interact with government •Corporate Secretary Magazine’s Award for Best Overall Governance, Compliance and Ethics Program: Cisco was a winner 2009 and 2010 representatives and officials, monitored by our Value Chain dedicated public sector compliance team •EthicalQuote rankings: Cisco was ranked in the top five by Swiss CSR company Covalence in 2010 and 2011 •New York Festivals 2011: Cisco was a Gold World Medal winner for our Ethical Mindset training videos Our People • Advice for managers on talking to employees about ethics and handling disclosures made by employees Society Recent Awards for Our Code of Business Conduct • A program for Human Resource professionals, designed to provide the tools they need to act as Environment • Ethisphere’s Code Review 2011: The Cisco Code of Business Conduct received an A grade ethics advocates and respond to employee questions GRI Index related to the Code of Business Conduct • A quarterly course for new recruits with senior KPIs/Report Card and reputation through a vetting process that includes Privacy managers addressing Cisco’s commitment to ethical corporate and executive background checks as well as a business practices review of its current and previous business dealings. The growing popularity of cloud (Internet-based) Appendix computing is changing the way organizations and • Live training for employees joining our sales teams (Cisco Sales Associates) Cisco partners must follow the ethical guidelines set individuals share data. It is crucial to our business that out in our document “Promoting Successful Business we maintain the trust of our customers, partners, and • Mandatory training for Sales/Services employees Relationships.” Once contracted, Cisco direct partners employees as we build our offerings in this area. in China must periodically undergo additional background investigations. People are understandably concerned about how their Ethical Business Partners personal information is used and shared, and they want Business partners include resellers, systems integrators, Cisco relies on our global network of business partners to feel confident that data communicated or stored distributors, sales agents, and consultants who support to be responsible for the integrity and ethical behavior of online is secure. Cisco works regularly to enhance sales. Whether they operate under a direct contract or an any of their respective subcontractors, agents, or other robust processes and systems that protect customer indirect agreement, we expect all partners to meet our third parties. and employee data and to raise awareness about the high ethical standards. importance of data protection and privacy. In addition, we promote ethical behavior throughout our Before inviting a potential partner company to enter into value chain through our Supplier Code of Conduct. To a direct contract with Cisco, we evaluate its credentials qualify as a Cisco supplier, companies must also sign Cisco’s Ethics Policy. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B9 < Previous View Introduction We implement best practices to keep our networks, experience with them as well. In FY11, we launched an Human Rights systems, and information protected. Twice yearly, we external Privacy Portal showcasing our program, which analyze and publish security trends, changing threats, incorporates industry-leading privacy and security Cisco supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of Governance & Ethics Human Rights and the United Nations Global Compact, a and innovative ways to transform IT and business models practices. For example, we recently included our top five Governance for greater security, using the results to identify early tips to avoid the pitfalls of social media and shared our strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed warnings. For example, social media has rapidly become policy that provides guidance regarding expectations of to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally CSR Management a key communication vehicle for businesses. But its use employees in terms of online conduct. accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, Ethics comes with threats such as malicious code, malicious environment, and anti-corruption. We regularly evaluate and Privacy We have also been awarded TRUSTe’s Privacy Seal. address human rights issues within our business operations advertising, regulatory and legal actions, and social > Human Rights engineering. For Cisco employees, we have developed This seal indicates that our privacy policy and programs and in the communities in which we operate. Looking Ahead a social media policy that establishes guidelines and meet best practices for transparency, accountability, and choice regarding the collection and use of personal Cisco was pleased to see the 2011 publication of answers frequently asked questions regarding what is information. Professor John Ruggie’s report, Guiding Principles on expected of Cisco employees in terms of online conduct. Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United Value Chain Privacy Compliance Cisco participates in, or is a member of, privacy Nations “Protect, Respect, and Remedy” Framework, and Compliance with regulations on privacy and data associations and alliances, including: the endorsement of these principles by the UN Human Our People protection is managed by a cross-functional team with Rights Council in June 2011. Cisco supports Professor representatives from our legal, IT, information security, • Cloud Security Alliance Ruggie’s framework and guiding principles, which were Society sales, marketing, and HR departments. Training is a • Health Information Trust Alliance developed to give companies guidance on promoting and Environment major component of our compliance program, and we protecting human rights throughout their operations. We • International Association of Privacy Professionals provide comprehensive privacy and security training anticipate that Professor Ruggie’s framework will become GRI Index for employees specific to their responsibilities. Online • National Cyber Security Alliance a best practice tool for the management of human rights privacy training modules and resources are available to all • Payment Card Industry Board of Advisors in companies around the world. KPIs/Report Card employees and contractors via our internal privacy portal. Additionally, we have collaborated with CSR organizations Appendix Privacy and security standards are part of our Code of Privacy by Design such as Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), as well Business Conduct. Our cross-functional program for as with peer companies that are considered leaders in The increase in cloud computing applications in recent reporting and tracking incidents provides a standard, the implementation of this framework, to help inform our years has been accompanied by growing customer global process to report, categorize, monitor, refer, and concern about the personal information that these approach to integrating the framework into management investigate alleged incidents. applications collect about them. Designing privacy into processes. We plan to continue to monitor the use of our products helps Cisco maintain a market-leading the “Protect, Respect, and Remedy” framework by third Assessing Suppliers position for our applications. “Privacy by Design” is parties as we develop a roadmap in 2012 to apply the Our supplier review program assesses service providers the concept that privacy is not an add-on, but a core framework and guiding principles. We intend to draw on component of our products, services, and systems. to mitigate potential risks, especially with respect to expertise across Cisco to develop the roadmap. cloud solutions. We base our assessment on guidance We have created guidelines for our engineers and developed by the Cloud Security Alliance, an organization product managers to make sure they understand the Responding to Human Rights Issues privacy and data protection needs of new applications. promoting the use of best practices for providing security Cisco evaluates and addresses human rights issues This helps the development team design features and assurance within cloud computing. functionality that make it easier for Cisco, customers, within its business operations regularly. Cisco’s Board of and users to comply with legal and business Directors and our management invest significant effort Collaboration on Privacy requirements to protect personal information. reviewing our activities and policies on an ongoing basis We value the insights and collaboration of peers in our with the aim that they promote, and are consistent with, work to protect customer security, and we share our our initiatives regarding the improvement of human rights around the world. We engage with a number of 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B10 < Previous View stakeholders, including non-governmental organizations Introduction and industry peers, on human rights issues. As an Freedom of Access to Information example, some investors have taken an interest in Cisco’s Governance & Ethics Cisco strongly supports free expression and open communication on the Internet. We are proud to have played a leading human rights approach. We aim to respond to questions role in helping to make Internet technology ubiquitous, allowing billions of people in nearly every nation to access information Governance through investor dialogue, blog updates, our CSR Report, previously unavailable to them. Our goal in providing networking technology is to expand the reach of communications and other forms of communication. systems, and our products are built on open, global standards. CSR Management Supporting open standards. Adherence to open standards is critical in the efforts to overcome censorship. We Ethics Cisco believes that the freedoms derived from fundamentally believe in and adhere to global standards. This is vitally important in enabling the world to stay connected Privacy connection, including access to information, are crucial because if products were not interoperable, the Internet’s incredible power would be diminished. > Human Rights to protecting and advancing human rights. We believe We do not support attempts by governments to balkanize the Internet or create a “closed” Internet, because we believe Looking Ahead that a positive and important by-product of our products’ that such attempts undermine the cause of freedom. We do not customize or develop specialized or unique filtering ability to connect populations globally is the increasing capabilities to enable different regimes to block access to information, nor do we supply the mediation equipment that provision of education and healthcare to people in allows interception of VoIP communications. The equipment we supply in China is the same equipment we provide worldwide, which includes industry-standard network management capabilities that are the same as those used by public remote and underserved communities. For example, Value Chain libraries in the United States, allowing them to block inappropriate content for children. For more information on how a Cisco Networking Academy operates in 165 countries, network works, see the Introduction section of this report. Our People bringing ICT skills education to approximately 1 million Moreover, Cisco has not and will not sell video surveillance cameras or video surveillance management software in its students. We also work with humanitarian organizations public infrastructure projects in China. Our work on the Smart+Connected Communities project in Chongqing, China, is Society such as NetHope, a collaboration of 32 humanitarian based on standard, unmodified Cisco routing and switching equipment, and does not include video surveillance hardware organizations, toward the goals of meeting the critical or software. Environment human needs of people in disaster areas and helping to We believe that the threat to Internet freedom today does not reside in standardized equipment, but rather in efforts to protect human rights. See the Society section for more force suppliers to adopt special protocols or standards that deviate from global norms and enable special censorship or GRI Index information. filtering systems. We have worked in opposition to such efforts, and will continue to do so. See our Government Affairs website for evidence of this work and for more information. KPIs/Report Card For our employees, Cisco’s mandatory Code of We support the principles of the Global Network Initiative (GNI) applicable to operators of public Internet access networks. Business Conduct outlines the ethical principles that In particular, were we to operate such networks, which we do not today, we would insist upon the due process protections Appendix guide our day-to-day activities. Our employee policies set forth in the GNI principles relative to supplying user information. Where we have offered to build such networks and and guidelines incorporate relevant laws and ethical operate them temporarily, we have included contractual terms specifically permitting us to act in this manner during principles, including those pertaining to freedom of any period in which we might operate the networks. We do operate some of the networks providing services that are used primarily by enterprises such as WebEx and Callway (which allows for bridging of telepresence services). In those association, non-discrimination, privacy, compulsory circumstances, we support the GNI principles. The nature of Internet routing is such that service providers can always see and child labor, immigration, and wages and hours. the address of the sender of information and the address of the recipient, and, absent adequate encryption, the contents With regard to our supply chain, Cisco is a member of of messages and attachments. Individuals, companies, and countries make their own decisions with respect to how they the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). The operate networks, and indeed, both network security (both protection of the network itself from denial of service and other EICC’s Supplier Code of Conduct specifically addresses attacks, and protection of users from spam, hacking, and virus attacks) requires operators to have capabilities that can be used to block access to websites or copy and download users’ communications. Cisco cannot shut down such networks— human rights issues, including forced or involuntary only network operators have that capability. What we do advocate is that users have access to workable encryption, and labor, child labor, wages and benefits, working hours, we have opposed efforts of some governments to block users from adequate encryption. non-discrimination, respect and dignity, freedom Please read more about our position on this issue from Mark Chandler, Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary. of association, health and safety, protection of the environment, supplier management systems, supplier ethics, and supplier compliance with laws. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback B11 < Previous View Introduction Our Value Chain program aims to help build the Looking Ahead experts on challenges and opportunities, enabling capabilities of suppliers to deliver strong performance on us to provide better leadership and direction in our all CSR issues, including human rights. We audit suppliers Cisco’s established CSR governance approach reflects identification, management, and reporting of CSR issues. Governance & Ethics our company culture, business strategy, and structures. with the aim of uncovering any supplier human rights Governance violations, and we likewise work with suppliers to improve We will continue to review and refine this approach to Our strong culture of ethics and the Code of Business their performance in various other CSR areas. Cisco is learn from and incorporate examples of best practices Conduct that have helped Cisco to earn its reputation as CSR Management committed to partnering with suppliers that share the from other companies and organizations. a trusted company and valuable partner will continue to Ethics same values about human rights and expects suppliers support responsible and sustainable business practices Privacy In FY12, we aim to better align our CSR business as we face new challenges. We will continue to use to address any issues identified as a top priority. See Human Rights processes with Cisco’s overall business by encouraging insights from customers and suppliers as well as other the Value Chain section for more information about closer collaboration through issues-based working stakeholders to review and strengthen our governance > Looking Ahead the program, and about Cisco’s response to human groups and operating committees. By doing so, we will practices to meet these challenges. rights issues, including the use of juvenile labor, conflict obtain timely cross-functional input from subject matter minerals, and human trafficking and slavery. Value Chain Cisco’s sales activities are conducted in strict compliance with U.S. export rules and regulations, which are Objectives for FY12 Our People informed and guided by human rights principles. Society Continue to undertake robust stakeholder engagement on all CSR issues, including governance, to guide our CSR activities and resources. Environment Use credible research firms and indices, such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and Oekom Research, to benchmark GRI Index Cisco against peer companies and CSR leaders. KPIs/Report Card Create issues-based working groups to inform our responses to recent CSR recent developments, such as the publication of the John Ruggie’s report, Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect, Appendix and Remedy” Framework. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C1 < Previous View Introduction Governance & Ethics Value Chain Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Processes  Partnering with Suppliers to Improve Performance and Build Capability Working with Industry Groups Looking Ahead Our People Society Environment Watch the Video! Smart design reduces the environmental impacts of packaging. Cisco’s design-led approach to packaging has reduced waste and decreased GRI Index transportation costs. Value Chain KPIs/Report Card Appendix We take a holistic approach to corporate social responsibility (CSR) in our value chain, managing sustainability issues at every stage of the lifecycle of our products. Working closely with suppliers is a priority to help maintain our high standards for ethics, labor rights, health and safety, and the environment throughout the value chain. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C2 < Previous View Introduction Value Chain Cisco Technology in Action: Cisco TelePresence Our core business is designing innovative products and Governance & Ethics bringing them to market. Cisco’s value chain is almost The product: Cisco TelePresence combines high-definition audio and video for live, life-size, face-to-face interaction over the network. entirely outsourced, with a network of more than 1000 Value Chain How we use telepresence to collaborate with suppliers: We encourage our preferred suppliers to install Cisco suppliers providing services that include the manufacture, TelePresence facilities to enhance collaboration. Cisco TelePresence enables us to communicate better and address Embedding Sustainability testing, shipping, return, reuse, and recycling of our critical issues face-to-face without the need for travel. This supports our CSR program by allowing us to engage more in Core Business Processes products. Clear communication and close collaboration effectively with suppliers’ senior management to follow up on audit findings and any other issues. At the same time, it Partnering with Suppliers with these suppliers are critical to our ability to deliver reduces travel costs and related carbon emissions. to Improve Performance & high-quality products to customers while meeting our Build Capability CSR goals. Working with Industry • Component suppliers: A much wider group of Groups We communicate our expectations through our Supplier suppliers, often contracted directly by Cisco to provide Value Chain Profile Looking Ahead Code of Conduct, with which all suppliers must comply, parts to our contract manufacturers according to our Map of Cisco value chain suppliers and facilities. and we monitor compliance through supplier selfspecifications assessments and third-party audits. Cisco also plays • Logistics service providers: A small number of a broader role in raising standards throughout the Mouse over any of the six regional labels Our People suppliers that we use to distribute our products to below for an enlarged view. ICT value chain by working directly with suppliers and customers Society by supporting industry initiatives designed to build North America Asia/Pacific sustainability capabilities. We also work with suppliers to collect and recycle our Latin America Europe Environment products at end of life, where environmental impacts are Our strategy focuses on three key areas: the main focus (see Environment). Africa Middle East GRI Index • Embedding sustainability into routine business Preferred Suppliers KPIs/Report Card practices at every stage of the value chain product Fewer than 100 “preferred suppliers” account for the lifecycle majority of our expenditure with value chain suppliers. Appendix • Working with our direct suppliers to make These include all of our contract manufacturers and improvements in our immediate supply chain logistics service providers as well as some component • Partnering with industry consortiums to develop and materials suppliers. common standards and tools to address broader Preferred suppliers have committed to work closely with sustainability challenges in the ICT value chain Cisco and to invest in a long-term, strategic relationship Our value chain management operations encompass that delivers innovation and value to our customers. everything involved in the development, manufacture, They have a high level of engagement with Cisco across distribution, and takeback of our products. This includes all aspects of the business, including sustainability. To product design, demand management and planning, qualify and maintain their status, preferred suppliers must We focus our efforts on preferred suppliers because sourcing, order management, manufacturing, and consistently achieve a high level of performance in key the majority of our value chain expenditures and new delivery. The suppliers to our value chain operations are areas such as cost, quality, technology, fulfilment, and business opportunities go to them. We began our audit numerous, complex, and globally dispersed. Three main responsiveness. We are also introducing new criteria program and capability building efforts with our contract types of suppliers are involved in our value chain: on sustainability as part of our scorecard process for manufacturing suppliers, but now we are expanding our monitoring their performance. efforts to include component suppliers in our audits and • Contract manufacturers: A select group of suppliers scorecard process. that produce finished Cisco products 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C3 < Previous View Introduction Embedding Sustainability in Suppliers’ performance against these metrics will be Promoting Supplier Diversity Core Business Processes reviewed as part of their business reviews at least twice Promoting the growth and use of diverse suppliers a year. (in the form of womanand minority-owned businesses) Governance & Ethics We manage every stage of our value chain throughout within the value chain is both one of Cisco’s Value the lifecycle of our products against four CSR or To integrate sustainability into core business processes Chain Sustainability Guiding Principles and an important Value Chain sustainability pillars: and effectively raise awareness of our requirements element of the “social responsibility and human rights” > Embedding Sustainability among suppliers, it is essential that our supplier pillar of our value chain strategy. Working with diverse in Core Business Processes • Social responsibility and human rights management teams understand sustainability and suppliers gives us access to a broader range of Partnering with Suppliers • Environment communicate about it confidently. This is increasingly innovative supply chain partners, enhances value chain to Improve Performance & important as these teams become responsible for competitiveness, and increases customer satisfaction. Build Capability • Ethics and governance monitoring sustainability performance as part of the Working with Industry • Health and safety scorecard. We promote support for diverse suppliers throughout the Groups value chain by: Looking Ahead We aim to embed these pillars into routine business In FY11, we developed and began rolling out a webpractices so that they are an integral part of every based training module on sustainability and the Supplier • Using our relationships with our contract aspect of our own operations and our relationships Code of Conduct for employees who engage regularly manufacturers to encourage them to use diverse with suppliers. Achieving this will further improve the with suppliers. The rollout will continue during FY12. The component and materials suppliers on our approved Our People management of our value chain and ensure business training is based on a course developed by the EICC supplier list wherever possible, and report on their continuity by reducing risk (see Risk Management). that we have customized to address Cisco programs related expenditure Society and procedures. Supplier management teams will take • Encouraging other preferred suppliers to buy products Cisco has adopted the Electronics Industry Citizenship refresher training as necessary to update themselves on Environment and services from diverse suppliers, and periodically Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct for all value chain changes to the Code and other emerging issues. suppliers. It sets out our expectations of suppliers in each reporting their diverse expenditure to us GRI Index of the four pillars outlined above and related management • Providing a range of mentoring and networking KPIs/Report Card systems. In FY11, we amended our four pillars to better Cisco Value Chain Sustainability opportunities to help diverse suppliers develop their align them with key elements of the Code. The Code Guiding Principles global businesses capability and competitiveness Appendix is reviewed and updated regularly so that it continues These overarching principles apply to our own The supplier diversity program is underpinned by the to reflect best practices and take account of emerging operations and those of our global suppliers: issues. The next formal update will be in early 2012. extensive involvement of our executive management • Operate ethically and in compliance with applicable team. Several of our senior executives have volunteered Compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct is laws to mentor diverse suppliers and provide coaching and part of our contractual agreements with suppliers. • Value employees, embrace diversity, and promote a guidance to help them grow their business with Cisco In FY11, we further embedded sustainability into our fair and respectful workplace and others. In FY11, our diverse suppliers achieved relationship with preferred suppliers by developing new • Provide a safe and healthy workplace and strive to impressive results in expanding their global footprint sustainability criteria that are being integrated into the reduce the environmental footprint of products and and building their business capability and scalability. business scorecard we use to establish their status as operations The achievements of diverse suppliers are recognized preferred suppliers and to monitor their performance. We • Be an asset to local communities by supporting with an award at our annual Supplier Appreciation Event. consulted with our suppliers in developing these criteria educational, healthcare and critical community to better target the most relevant issues. Our goal is needs, and economic development We also link our support for diverse suppliers to for sustainability to be an integral part of the scorecard • Promote the growth and use of diverse suppliers programs such as our Cisco Networking Academy for ICT for preferred suppliers in FY12 and beyond, alongside skills and other programs that build business skills and • Maintain and improve management systems that other criteria such as quality and technical requirements. capabilities. For more information on supplier diversity, govern responsible operations see page E10. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C4 < Previous View Introduction Partnering with Suppliers to Improve Supplier Audits systems. Auditors use the standard protocol and audit Performance and Build Capability All audits, whether EICC-validated or Cisco-sponsored, tools developed by the EICC. This includes: are conducted by third-party auditors at suppliers’ Governance & Ethics We generally follow a six-step process for • Reviewing documentation, including policies and facilities. Cisco representatives participate in selected communicating our Supplier Code of Conduct to audits where potential high-risk issues have been procedures, personnel records, time sheets, and Value Chain suppliers, monitoring compliance, and helping them identified in the supplier’s self-assessment or by other relevant permits Embedding Sustainability improve performance. means. Audit criteria include environment, ethics, health • Conducting a site tour to assess conditions in different in Core Business Processes and safety, labor standards, and related management areas, including production lines, cafeterias, resting > Partnering with Suppliers areas, and dorms if applicable to Improve Performance & Build Capability • Gathering information from management Cisco Supplier Code of Conduct Working with Industry • Interviewing employees in their local language Groups separately from management Looking Ahead 1 2 3 The audit team produces a report based on the audit Share our Supplier Code of Evaluate suppliers to identify Evaluate those facilities through that is shared with Cisco and the supplier. For any Conduct with suppliers and higher risk facilities self-assessments issues identified the supplier must produce a corrective Our People communicate our expectations action plan and subsequently provide evidence that the on how it should be applied Society corrective actions have been implemented. Action must be taken on priority issues within 30 days, and all findings Environment We include The Code in our agreements with Our risk assessment of each supplier facility is Suppliers identified as high risk are asked to are expected to be addressed within 180 days, except for suppliers and we communicate any changes to based on factors such as our budget with the complete a self-assessment for each facility the Code as appropriate. supplier, the country where the facility is based that supplies Cisco. certain issues that require long-term improvement plans. GRI Index (using external global risk indices), number of employees, and type of product or service provided. Audit Findings KPIs/Report Card In FY11, we completed a series of audits of supplier facilities, the findings of which are shown in the chart on Appendix the next page. As was the case last year, the majority of 4 5 6 the findings related to labor, health, and safety. All major issues identified in these audits have been resolved, or have If warranted, commission an Work with suppliers on corrective Validate that issues have been corrective action plans in place that we are continuing to audit of facilities, either via the action plans to resolve issues resolved and continue to monitor. We are also continuing to analyze the findings of EICC-validated audit process, raised by audit findings monitor and talk with suppliers a number of other audits conducted in FY11, the results or using Cisco-sponsored third-party auditors of which will be published in our FY12 report. We prioritize facilities to audit based on the Priority issues must be resolved within 30 days. Documentary evidence must be provided to We have conducted initial audits, and in many cases results of our risk assessment and the Other issues are expected to be closed within demonstrate that issues have been resolved and, repeat audits, of all of our contract manufacturing subsequent self-assessment, or if we identify 180 days, with the exception of certain issues if needed, we will conduct a follow-up audit to any other significant factors that may warrant an that require long-term improvement plans. In confirm this. We engage with suppliers to suppliers’ facilities, and in FY11 we began to focus more audit. We participate in joint EICC audits where these cases, suppliers must regularly update understand the corrective actions they are taking our needs align with those of other EICC member us on progress. and continue to work with them until their of our audits on component suppliers, which supply parts companies. Facilities are generally audited every performance improves. two years. Some are audited more frequently, to our contract manufacturers. depending on audit results or relevant information that comes to light between scheduled audits. Audit findings and corrective action plans enable us to identify trends and opportunities to help suppliers enhance their sustainability capabilities. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C5 < Previous View Introduction FY11 Supplier Audit: Summary of Findings Governance & Ethics Total Audit Elements 577 Findings Identified as Major Value Chain 457 Findings Identified as Minor Embedding Sustainability 356 361 in Core Business Processes 267 > Partnering with Suppliers 143 to Improve Performance & 108 Major nonconformance: A significant failure in the management system that renders established Build Capability 11 7 25 48 9 7 16 41 4 18 36 29 6 28 processes or procedures ineffective. Working with Industry Groups GENERAL CODE LABOR ETHICS HEALTH ENVIRONMENT LABOR & ETHICS EHS Minor nonconformance: Typically, an isolated or & LEGAL & SAFETY MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT Looking Ahead COMPLIANCE SYSTEM SYSTEM random incident that does not necessarily indicate a systemic problem with the management system. Our People Examples of Audit Findings and Responses in FY11 Society Category Finding Response Environment Labor Excessive overtime and consecutive days worked. Supplier is meeting local labor Supplier has agreed to implement measures to achieve compliance with EICC GRI Index regulations on working hours, but not those set out in the EICC standard. standard. KPIs/Report Card Improper deductions from pay. Supplier has withdrawn its policy of deducting wages as a penalty. Withheld wages Appendix have been refunded to workers. Health & Dormitory area being used to store semi-finished goods. Production goods were immediately removed and new controls have been Safety implemented to regulate proper use of the dormitory area. Lack of appropriate controls for workers to prevent exposure to chemical agents. A process has been established to strengthen controls, and training is being conducted for relevant workers and managers. Environment Wastewater discharged from compressors exceeded local limits. New filters have been installed in the sewage system, and a specialist has been hired to improve the wastewater control system. No process in place to check if air emissions are compliant within legal limits. A system for measuring air emissions has been established and documented as part of the overall Environment, Health, and Safety program. External lab tests are to be conducted on an annual basis to monitor performance. Labor & Safety No appropriate management system in place for labor and safety management. Supplier has committed to establish an appropriate management system to meet this Management requirement. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C6 < Previous View Capability Building Cisco’s comprehensive Juvenile Labor Guidance Introduction To improve sustainability performance globally, we work document, for example, clarifies suppliers’ obligations in Working with Suppliers in China to Governance & Ethics closely with our preferred suppliers to help them improve relation to legally hiring and managing workers younger Improve Wastewater Quality their performance. In FY11, we engaged with many of than 18 years of age. It sets out the requirements of In April 2010, the Institute of Public and Environmental Value Chain our preferred suppliers to communicate our sustainability key regulations and international conventions as well as Affairs (IPE), a Chinese NGO, found that a number priorities, understand their priorities and challenges, and specific examples of potential non-compliances. We of electronics manufacturing facilities supplying Embedding Sustainability identify opportunities where we can partner to improve began sharing the guidance document with suppliers components to global ICT brands did not comply with in Core Business Processes overall sustainability performance. These discussions in FY11 and will complete this process with existing regulations for emissions of heavy metals in wastewater. > Partnering with Suppliers helped to align priorities and better prepare suppliers to suppliers in early FY12. One of our suppliers was implicated by the IPE’s to Improve Performance & implement programs that support Cisco’s sustainability report, although it was not supplying products to us Build Capability We aim to raise sustainability standards throughout the at the time of the investigation. After we saw the IPE goals. The integration of sustainability metrics into our Working with Industry supply chain by working with our suppliers to help them report, we contacted the supplier and commissioned scorecards and business reviews for preferred suppliers a third-party audit of its environmental procedures Groups improve their management systems and put in place will help to continue this engagement. to understand how heavy metals had entered the Looking Ahead similar processes to work with their own suppliers. Our wastewater and to determine if there was an ongoing We also identify areas for improvement, and Supplier Code of Conduct requires our Tier 1 suppliers problem. As a result of these studies, the supplier took opportunities to partner, through our audits of suppliers’ (those with whom we have a direct relationship) to appropriate corrective actions to improve its wastewater performance, as well as focusing on any specific apply these same standards to their own suppliers. management system. Our People issues raised by stakeholders. Where suppliers are We also encourage them to join the EICC to participate We used our experience from working with this Society not meeting our requirements, we help them take in wider industry efforts to build capability and drive facility to produce and share guidance with our other appropriate corrective actions and work with them to standardization. manufacturing suppliers to help them both understand our strict requirements and accurately assess their Environment raise standards. We believe this is the most effective way environmental performance. We continue to engage to embed sustainability awareness and promote ongoing The environment is another key focus of our capabilitywith IPE through the EICC to increase compliance with GRI Index improvements among suppliers. building activities. Helping suppliers improve their environmental regulations across the industry. management of environmental issues and reduce their KPIs/Report Card Our tailored support includes talking about sustainability impacts can, in turn, help us reduce the overall impacts issues with our suppliers’ senior managers, discussing of our products throughout their lifecycle. In FY11, we Appendix audit findings and appropriate corrective actions, worked closely with our logistics providers to improve and conducting regular reviews of their sustainability environmental performance in the transportation of our performance. We also provide guidance documents on products to customers. By shifting transport of one specific issues. of our larger products from land to sea freight, and consolidating freight where possible, we achieved an estimated reduction of 33,000 tonnes in greenhouse gas Watch the Video! Smart design emissions. Many of our logistics providers also replaced reduces the environmental impacts of existing vehicles in their fleets with lower-carbon electric packaging. Cisco’s design-led approach or hybrid vehicles. For more information on our approach to packaging has reduced waste and decreased transportation costs. to managing environmental issues throughout the lifecycle of our products, see the Environment section. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C7 < Previous View Introduction Working with Industry Groups Through the EICC, we are developing common industry metals in their products. It requires any company that tools to support suppliers in improving sustainability makes products containing these metals to conduct a The toughest sustainability challenges facing the ICT performance. In FY11, Cisco helped create new training reasonable country-of-origin inquiry and due-diligence Governance & Ethics supply chain cannot be resolved by one company courses, including those on code of conduct awareness, process on their supply chain, and publish a report alone. Cisco promotes responsible practices in the occupational health and safety, and worker management disclosing whether those minerals originated from the Value Chain wider ICT value chain through industry collaboration and communications, that focus on workers’ rights and DRC or its adjoining countries. Embedding Sustainability participation in global industry consortiums such as the creating a positive working environment. Cisco invited in Core Business Processes EICC and the International Electronics Manufacturing some of its major suppliers to take part in pilots for these This regulation, and the underlying issue, is not Partnering with Suppliers Initiative (iNEMI). These forums enable Cisco to exchange courses. We are also working through the EICC on the exclusive to the electronics industry. It affects many to Improve Performance & ideas and pool resources with industry peers, share issue of conflict minerals (see below). other industries that use these metals in their products, Build Capability best practices, respond to stakeholder concerns, and including aerospace, automotive, and jewelry. Resolving > Working with Industry influence the development of industry standards. Our participation in iNEMI focuses on reducing the this issue demands extensive collaboration with many Groups environmental impacts of the supply chain. For participants within and outside the ICT value chain. Looking Ahead We have adopted the EICC Code of Conduct for our example, Cisco leads a work group to define standard suppliers and currently are working with the EICC to methodologies and approaches to simplify lifecycle Through our participation in the EICC Extractives Working develop the latest version of the Code, which is due for analyses for the ICT industry, as well as projects to Group, we are supporting industry initiatives to better publication in FY12. The ethics and governance elements identify alternatives to PVC and halogenated flame understand the challenges of establishing a chain of Our People of the Code will be a key focus of this review to see that retardants in printed circuit boards. For more details custody for these minerals, and to develop tools to trace Society they adequately address the requirements of: on Cisco’s activities in this area, see the Environment them back to their source. The working group brings section. together a wide range of stakeholders from miners, Environment • The US Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer smelters, and brokers to capacitor makers and other Protection Act (see Conflict Minerals). Tackling Conflict Minerals manufacturers of electronic components and products. GRI Index • The 2010 California Transparency in Supply Chains Act Increased scrutiny from campaign groups and growing interest from governments have put a spotlight on Two key initiatives have come out of this engagement and KPIs/Report Card • The updated Organisation for Economic Co-operation the use of certain metals in the electronics industry, are now underway: and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational specifically those derived from potential “conflict Appendix Enterprises • An in-region sourcing program to trace minerals from minerals,” namely: Coltan or columbite-tantalite (refined • The UK Bribery Act, which came into force in 2011 to produce tantalum); Wolframite (refined to produce the mine to the smelter tungsten); Cassiterite (refined to produce tin); and Gold. • A conflict-free smelter assessment program to certify Due to come into effect in January 2012, the 2010 smelters and refiners that source only conflict-free California Transparency in Supply Chains Act will require The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) is among minerals large retailers and manufacturers that do business in the the world’s primary sources of these minerals, and many state of California to provide information about their efforts of the mines and transportation routes are under the Cisco is working with the EICC to develop a standard to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their control of armed groups. The concern is that the mining methodology for auditing the metals supply chain, which supply chains. Cisco is a member of the EICC’s new task and purchase of these minerals from the DRC and its is intended to create a common way of collecting and force on Freely Chosen Employment that will recommend adjoining countries may be directly or indirectly financing reporting this information. suitable tools to test compliance with the Act and revise or benefiting armed groups in the region that are often the Supplier Code of Conduct, which already prohibits accused of major human rights abuses. In addition to our participation in these industry efforts, the use of forced, bonded, or child labor. We also support we are engaging directly with our suppliers to understand the EICC’s goal to develop a business environment that The US Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer their processes to track the source of metals and enables substantial reduction of excessive overtime in Protection Act, passed in July 2010, puts the burden on minerals used in their products. For more information on manufacturing facilities based in China, an issue that was companies to know and disclose the source of these industry initiatives, see www.eicc.info. highlighted by NGO campaigns in FY11. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback C8 < Previous View Introduction Looking Ahead Objectives for FY12 Stakeholders continue to ask companies for more Governance & Ethics information about the sustainability impacts of their Embedding Integrate sustainability questions into our business scorecard for preferred suppliers to better understand supply chain, with NGO campaigns, customers, financial Sustainability in their performance, identify where they need support, and promote ongoing improvements Value Chain Core Business analysts, and new regulations requiring companies to Processes Embedding Sustainability demonstrate increased transparency. Launch a Supplier Appreciation Award for Sustainability to recognize suppliers that demonstrate an in Core Business Processes outstanding commitment to sustainability Partnering with Suppliers A major focus in FY12 will be demonstrating that to Improve Performance & requirements and due diligence procedures are in place Provide additional training on sustainability issues for employees who engage regularly with suppliers Build Capability to meet new regulations such as the US Dodd-Frank Act Working with Industry and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. We Partnering Communicate and require suppliers to acknowledge the revised Supplier Code of Conduct Groups will share our responses to these and other issues with with Suppliers > Looking Ahead stakeholders as they evolve. to Improve Performance and Enact processes that meet the requirements of the US Dodd-Frank Act and the California Transparency Using our systematic approach (consistent with Build Capability in Supply Chains Act of 2010 international standard ISO 26000), we will further Our People integrate sustainability into existing value chain business Partner with suppliers to identify and realize sustainability improvements processes by, for example, including sustainability criteria Society in our business scorecard for preferred suppliers. Working with Continue to work through industry groups such as EICC and iNEMI to develop tools and standards to Industry Groups address global sustainability challenges Environment We will continue to work closely with our suppliers to GRI Index help build their sustainability capabilities, as well as contributing to industry efforts to promote standardization KPIs/Report Card and implementation of best practices throughout the ICT supply chain. An important focus of this work in FY12 and Appendix beyond will be on improving labor practices in our supply chain, which remains a challenge. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D1 < Previous View Introduction Governance & Ethics Value Chain Our People Changes to Our Workforce Working Together  A Safe & Healthy Work Environment   An Open & Diverse Culture Employee Opportunities Rewarding Our People Looking Ahead Society Environment Watch the Video! State-of-the-art facilities such as Cisco LifeConnections help to maintain the health, wellness, and work-life balance of employees. GRI Index Our People KPIs/Report Card Appendix Inspiring our employees is critical in fulfilling our vision. We want them to feel that working at Cisco is more than just a job. We depend on the ideas, energy, and commitment of our people, and we continue to focus our efforts on building an engaged, talented, and motivated workforce that will contribute to our ongoing success. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D2 < Previous View Introduction Our People Changes to Our Workforce Our collaborative technologies continue to change the way employees work and communicate with one another Our employees are experts in engineering, sales, and In response to the changing economic environment, across business functions, markets, and regions by Governance & Ethics business support with diverse backgrounds, skills, and we have transformed the way we operate. In FY11, facilitating collaboration, regardless of location. experience. At the end of FY11 we employed more we undertook a comprehensive action plan to simplify Value Chain than 71,000 people1. Over 17,000 are based at our the organization, refine operations, and reduce annual Communications Our People headquarters in San Jose, California, and the others work operating expenses. This resulted in a global reduction It is essential that all employees understand our in over 470 offices in 165 countries. in our workforce of 6500 people, including 2100 who goals and expectations, and we must listen to their > Changes to Our Workforce took voluntary early retirement packages. This reduction feedback, especially in times of change. Our employee > Working Together Collaboration lies at the heart of our people strategy, represented 9 percent of our regular full-time workforce, communications aim to foster a culture of openness, with which focuses on five key areas: and all functions were affected. The roles impacted by the goal that our individual business functions are aligned A Safe & Healthy Work Environment the workforce reduction were determined by the results with our internal vision, strategy, and execution. • Working together: Embedding a collaborative working of comprehensive workforce and functional business An Open & Diverse Culture culture planning that took into account company priorities Employees have an opportunity to engage with senior Employee Opportunities management and learn about the company’s strategy • A safe and healthy work environment: Focusing on and product portfolios. Employees affected by the Rewarding Our People our people’s safety and promoting their physical and restructure received generous severance packages and through events such as: Looking Ahead mental well-being outplacement assistance. We are committed to treating all of our employees with uncompromising integrity and • Annual virtual strategic leadership meetings for all • An open and diverse culture: Engaging our employees respect throughout these difficult processes. employees of director and higher grade, and virtual and promoting diversity and inclusion Society sales meetings for our entire sales organization • Employee opportunities: Realizing the potential of Affected employees had the opportunity to use Cisco • Quarterly companywide and leadership (managers Environment our employees through development and training Talent Connection to apply for the limited internal only) meetings, earnings announcements and videos, opportunities opportunities that were then available. In addition, our and functional meetings GRI Index • Rewarding our people: Rewarding employees through Career Transition Service provider continues to connect • The Cisco Employee Connection intranet site, which competitive, performance-based compensation and them to opportunities with select customers and partners KPIs/Report Card runs short surveys to help executives keep their benefits through the Cisco Partner Placement Program. fingers on the company’s pulse Appendix In FY11, Cisco announced the sale of our manufacturing • The Cisco “Insight Series” with John Chambers to Cisco Technology in Action: facility in Juarez, Mexico, to Foxconn, as part of our help employees understand how we are navigating the Cisco Virtual Office efforts to streamline operations. The deal closed in FY12. changes to our operations and workforce The Product: Cisco Virtual Office • Dedicated resource pages on our intranet to help Working Together employees understand how we are simplifying How We Use Cisco Virtual Office to Support Our Employees: Cisco Virtual Office allows our people to operations work from home and improve their work-life balance by Communication and collaboration are at the heart of our offering a seamless home office experience comparable working environment. We promote the use of flexible, Pulse Survey to working in a Cisco office. It provides wired and cross-functional teams that work together to exploit Our annual Pulse Survey is one of the most important wireless data connectivity, voice service capabilities, new business opportunities. Our Collaboration Across listening tools at Cisco. It is a confidential, online survey and support for video over broadband Internet access. for all employees that helps leaders pinpoint the most Cisco program recognizes exceptional cross-functional Cisco Virtual Office gives our people more flexibility as well as reducing costs and providing workforce teamwork and provides teams of Cisco employees effective ways to improve the employee experience. The continuity during emergencies. with opportunities to be recognized throughout the response rate remained high in FY11, with 81 percent of company. This is one of many ways that we encourage employees taking part in the survey, although this is a collaboration. slight decline from the record 85 percent response rate 1. This number does not reflect the results of the workforce reduction or the sale of our Juarez manufacturing facilities. we achieved in FY10. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D3 < Previous View Unfortunately, consistent with the slight decline in the Introduction overall participation rates, several of the individual Pulse Survey Results categories were also down from FY10, as seen in the Governance & Ethics Category 2009 Scores1 2010 Scores1 2011 Scores1 Pulse Survey results table. Similar to the previous two Value Chain years, Recognition continued to be a low-scoring area, although it has improved from FY10. Organizational Employee Engagement Index 87 82 79 Our People alignment also declined, reflecting the employee sentiment prior to the recent restructure. Results from the Collaboration 86 85 85 Changes to Our Workforce survey helped us identify opportunities for improvement, > Working Together and we are working to develop long-term solutions to Respect for People 83 82 84 A Safe & Healthy Work areas of employee concern. In response to the survey Environment results, we are focusing on four key programs to address Communication 77 79 79 An Open & Diverse Culture these challenges in FY12: Employee Opportunities • Cisco Talent Connection: Identifies career movement Organizational Alignment 82 79 66 Rewarding Our People opportunities and sources talent from within the Looking Ahead company Inclusion Index 79 78 79 • Cisco Performance Connection: Creates the platform for development opportunities and performance Innovation and Excellence 78 77 73 Society dialogue between managers and employees Environment • Cisco Certified Management Professional: A Manager Index NA 77 83 certification program, coming in FY12, that is designed GRI Index to build excellence in leadership and management Development 73 72 75 capabilities and inspire outstanding people KPIs/Report Card management practices Recognition 65 65 68 Appendix • The Leader Playbook: A step-by-step resource for managers and directors to engage employees during 1. Pulse asks employees to indicate their level of agreement on positively phrased statements using a five-point scale, with responses ranging from “Strongly Disagree” to “Strongly Agree”. We consider 80 percent or above to be a positive result, 70-79 percent indicates room for improvement times of transition and below 69 percent identifies an area of opportunity. We saw an increase in Respect for People scores from Collaborative Leadership thought leaders. The channel connects world leaders 82 to 84 and a significant increase in our Manager Index The Cisco Center for Collaborative Leadership focuses and leadership gurus such as Madeleine Albright, former from 77 to 83. The Manager Index refers to specific areas on organizational transformation, executive talent United States Secretary of State, and Deepak Chopra, that managers can directly affect, such as supporting management, and leadership development. Cisco’s doctor and spiritual leader, with Cisco’s leaders through employees in balancing work and family life and fostering competency model, C-LEAD, defines what leadership Cisco’s collaborative technologies. In FY11, Bersin and the fair treatment of employees within their teams. Pulse looks like at Cisco and is named for five capabilities: Associates awarded Cisco’s Leadership Channel with a and function-level survey results have been available to Collaborate, Learn, Execute, Accelerate, and Disrupt. Leader in Learning Award. all employees since 2009 to encourage openness and communication. In FY10, we launched a new Leadership Channel for In FY11, Cisco developed the Emerging Markets Leadership our leadership and management, offering collaborative, Incubator to focus on developing leadership capabilities technology-based events, blogs, moderated chats, and in emerging markets. The program will accelerate discussion forums with both Cisco and external global leadership skills in important growth markets for Cisco. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D4 < Previous View Introduction A Safe and Healthy Work Environment Health and Well-being We provide health insurance covering medical, disability, We are committed to protecting the health and welland life benefits to eligible employees. Our programs Governance & Ethics being of all our employees. We do this by using our cover common health-related issues such as pregnancy, collaborative technology to offer people the freedom to healthy living, and condition management to encourage Value Chain choose how, when and where they work and by providing healthy, balanced lifestyles. Our Wellness Challenges, Our People a range of health and well-being programs. six-week programs that encourage healthy behaviors, are open to employees and their spouses or domestic Changes to Our Workforce Health and Safety partners. Past challenges have focused on eating The health and safety of our employees is crucial. The Working Together healthfully, improving sleep habits, and increasing purpose of our Occupational Health and Safety Program > A Safe & Healthy Work exercise. We offer participants US$100 per challenge, is to identify and reduce the risk of injury and illness Environment and there is no limit on the number of challenges across our operations. We do this by standardizing health An Open & Diverse Culture employees and their spouses/partners can participate in, and safety management while allowing location teams to although they are only offered once per quarter. Employee Opportunities monitor effectiveness. Rewarding Our People U.S. employees have access to additional support The majority of employee workplace injuries are ergonomic Looking Ahead programs from prenatal to eldercare assistance, and our issues, and in FY11 we continued to focus on ergonomicSan Jose headquarters offers a health center, pharmacy, related injury awareness and prevention. Our office-based fitness center, and vision center. Employees at our Easing the Burden of Chronic Conditions employees benefit from our Global Ergonomic Program Society Research Triangle Park main campus in North Carolina Cisco’s Condition Management is a confidential that provides in-person and virtual support to help identify, can also visit an onsite clinic that’s an extension of the voluntary program available to Cisco employees and Environment measure, and reduce ergonomic risks. San Jose health center. In addition, we provide a health their families with chronic conditions such as diabetes, and fitness center in Bangalore, India. Employee-led heart disease, or asthma. By working with nurses, GRI Index We follow global regulatory and industry standards in our employees create a plan to manage their ongoing health community and resource groups allow employees to share Lab Safety Program, using a risk-based approach that needs. Nurses have helped Cisco employees improve their experiences and offer support on a range of issues. their diet, maintain a healthy work-life balance, and KPIs/Report Card provides guidance on assessing, communicating, and managing lab-based safety hazards. Remote workers fall develop effective exercise programs. We are committed to helping our employees balance Appendix under our wider occupational health and safety scheme. family and work demands. In FY11, we opened a new childcare center in Bangalore, India, which serves nearly Our employee injury and illness rate for U.S. operations 100 children, in addition to our existing onsite childcare fell from 0.33 in FY10 to 0.30 per 100 full-time employees centers at our headquarters in San Jose, California. Watch the Video! State-of-the-art (FTEs) in FY11, and the rate of injuries and illnesses Many of our sites around the world offer mothers’ rooms facilities such as Cisco LifeConnections resulting in lost time decreased from 0.14 in FY10 to 0.03 that provide space for breastfeeding. We offer referral help to maintain the health, wellness, per 100 employees in FY11, a return to our FY09 level. services for employees having difficulty balancing and work-life balance of employees. Cisco’s Global Safety, Security, and Business Resiliency work and personal demands, a global employee tuition department is responsible for the protection of employees, assistance program, and a child scholarship fund for the property, revenue, and physical assets. This group children of deceased employees. manages significant global, regional, and local incidents such as tsunamis, earthquakes, and typhoons as well as social and political unrest, which can affect our operations (see Risk Management). 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D5 < Previous View Introduction Flexible Working An Open and Diverse Culture Our employees have the opportunity to use Cisco technology to work flexibly. Cisco solutions such as Cisco Fostering an environment of diversity and inclusion Governance & Ethics creates a culture that celebrates differences and unique Virtual Office, Cisco TelePresence, and Cisco WebEx all facilitate remote working and flexible work practices. ideas. We recognize that inclusion and diversity of people Value Chain These have been widely adopted by our employees: and perspectives bring value to our business, foster Our People an innovative environment, and help us to develop a • Telecommuting is used by 95 percent of employees, workforce that mirrors our customers and communities. Changes to Our Workforce and the number of remote workers (employees Working Together primarily working from home) rose from 1100 in FY10 We value diversity and seek to provide tailored support to 1232 in FY11. for employees. For example, we developed a Pacific A Safe & Healthy Work Environment Rim Asian Talent Development Pilot to help our Pacific • Remote working was expanded in FY11 to reach 90 Rim Asian employees develop their networks, improve > An Open & Diverse Culture percent of the regions in which we operate. presentation skills, and influence without the use of Employee Opportunities • Part-time opportunities are available in Europe and authority, taking into account Asian traditions and values. Rewarding Our People the United States, and some sites in the Asia Pacific We will measure the success of this program by the Looking Ahead region. The number of part-time workers at Cisco rose number of Asian leaders at Cisco in the next 5 to 10 from 220 in FY10 to 225 in FY11. years. • Our Off/On Ramp program also allows eligible In the U.K., we piloted JUMP, a personalized development Society employees to take a career break for one to two Supporting New Parents program for non-management-level women. The years and then return to the company, as long as Environment In FY11, we opened a new center in India to offer program enables each participant to determine her own they secure an open position before the end of their our Bangalore-based employees better childcare development goals, and incorporates individual mentoring leave. Participating employees are not paid but are still facilities and enable them to visit their children during GRI Index eligible for company-paid benefits during the first year. and ongoing virtual follow-up. Participants complete the day. The Cisco Globalization Childcare Center at the Cessna Business Park in Bangalore offers statethree modules over nine months, covering leadership, KPIs/Report Card of-the-art, custom-designed facilities, including career planning, and execution. Following a successful specialty classrooms, a music and movement room, pilot in 2010, we now plan to extend the program into Appendix a gymnasium, sleeping areas, and a language center FY12 and to women in other locations. focusing on language development. Children benefit from freshly prepared meals onsite and eat together Diversity Performance Fostering an environment of diversity with their teachers. In FY11, women made up 22 percent of our global and inclusion creates a culture The center will enable Cisco to better support new workforce, a 2 percent decrease since FY10. The parents as they return to work and provide the proportion of women in new hires also dropped slightly that celebrates differences and employees who use this resource the opportunity to from 22 percent in FY10 to 19 percent in FY11. However, unique ideas. grow professionally while balancing their personal commitments. We also offer subsidies for use of the the number of women in senior roles of Vice President or childcare center based on the employee’s salary and above remained at 15 percent. the number and ages of their children. We use an affordability index to make sure that employees pay no more than 15 percent of their Cisco base salary per child for each month of childcare and tuition. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D6 < Previous View Introduction In the United States in FY11, 45 percent of our employees Awards and Recognition in FY11 Employee Opportunities reported that they were non-Caucasian, compared to 44 percent in FY10. The proportion of new hires who A highly skilled workforce is imperative to remain Governance & Ethics Recognizing Our Company economically competitive and sustain our ongoing declared that they were non-Caucasian rose from 42 percent in FY10 to 47 percent in FY11. Non-Caucasians success. Our flexible learning opportunities enable us to Value Chain made up 24 percent of Vice Presidents in FY11 •W  inner of the Inclusive Culture category at the U.K. respond to market conditions and support innovation. We Our People (compared with 22 percent in FY10). Opportunity Now Awards recognize our employees’ core skills and address their • Awarded the Disability Matters Employer of Choice Award development needs and career aspirations. Our formal Changes to Our Workforce and informal learning and development opportunities •C  isco-Lawrenceville awarded the Gold Presidential Working Together Volunteer Service Award by the Atlanta Community Food support employees’ ongoing success. This, in turn, helps A Safe & Healthy Work Bank us to retain top talent. Environment •R  ecognized as one of the Best Companies to Work for by We offer a variety of standard and customized An Open & Diverse Culture Fortune 100 courses for management, technical, and professional > Employee Opportunities •R  ecognized as one of the Top 25 Public Company development. In FY11, Cisco spent more than US$113 Diversity and Inclusion Leaders by Racing Toward Rewarding Our People Diversity magazine million on employee training and development. EightyLooking Ahead two percent of employees participated in at least one •R  ecognized by the Hay Group as one of the Top 20 Best Companies for Leadership course, collectively spending more than 2.4 million hours in learning and development training courses. •A  warded the Alfred P. Sloan Award for Business Society Excellence in Workplace Flexibility In FY11, we launched Cisco Performance Connection, a Environment Cisco Employees Celebrate Diversity year-round performance management and development Recognizing Our People process that enables alignment and prioritization of Cisco employees joined the global celebration of the UN GRI Index World Day for Cultural Diversity on May 21, 2011. During work, and creates opportunities for development the month of May, we invited employees to join millions •C  isco employee Sabrina Dar was nominated for the and performance dialogue between managers and KPIs/Report Card of people worldwide in “doing one thing for diversity” by Business Leader of the Year by the Asian Women of employees. Discussions between managers and experiencing another culture, or making a difference for Achievement Awards employees include setting performance and development a cultural group. Approximately 300 employees around Appendix •Y  oung Women’s Christian Association of Silicon Valley’s goals at the start of the year, which sets a baseline for the world participated, sharing their efforts through our 27th Annual Tribute to Women Awards honored three dedicated Voices of Cisco discussion thread and by performance reviews thereafter. Cisco employees: Marilyn Nagel, Alison Gleeson, and uploading a photo or video to our “Do One Thing” photo Kathy Bries gallery. Employees shared traditional meals with their To encourage talented employees to build their careers teams and attended cultural events. •C  isco employee Akilah Smallwood was featured by U.S. with Cisco, we promote opportunities for career Black Engineer and Information Technology magazine progression within the company. Cisco Talent Connection •U  .K. Women in Technology Awards recognized Nikki is a platform for internal recruitment that establishes a To further broad inclusivity, we work to make our Walker and Bernadette Wightman marketplace of opportunities for employees and enables products and systems accessible for employees •J  aime Valles was named one of the Top 50 Technology managers to respond quickly to changing business with disabilities through the companywide Cisco Executives in Latin America at the HITEC Top 50 Latin needs. Accessibility Initiative. This is a program that stresses the American Symposium and Awards importance of creating accessible products, websites, and documentation. For more information, see Product Accessibility. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D7 < Previous View Introduction Rewarding Our People Cisco Employee Benefits We believe in sharing our success with our employees. Governance & Ethics Our competitive performance-based pay and benefits • Adoption Assistance (U.S.) •H  ealth Insurance: Medical, disability, and life benefits; dental reward innovation, collaboration, and profitability. and vision where prevalent (Global) Value Chain • Autism Benefit (Global) • Insurance: Healthcare Domestic Partner eligibility (Global) Compensation and Recognition • Baby Gift Program (Global) Our People • Onsite Cafeterias (Multiple locations) Our total rewards philosophy is focused on providing •C  hildren’s Scholarship Fund for the children of deceased Changes to Our Workforce compensation, benefits, and long-term savings packages employees (Global) •O  nsite Childcare Centers (two centers in San Jose, CA, one in Bangalore, India, a and backup childcare program for Working Together that are competitive in each of the markets where • Cisco Equipment Discount Program (U.S.) Research Triangle Park, NC) we operate. We align employee and company goals • Death Benefits for Family (Global) A Safe & Healthy Work • Onsite Fitness Center (Multiple locations) Environment through our bonus program, which makes a direct link • Education Benefits: Employee Tuition Assistance (Global) between the company’s performance, the individual’s •O  nsite Health Centers (San Jose, CA, Bangalore, India, An Open & Diverse Culture • Family Crisis Assistance (Global) HealthPresence in RTP) performance, and employee pay. Employee Opportunities • Eldercare Program (Global) • Onsite Pharmacy, Vision Center (San Jose, CA) > Rewarding Our People Exemplary contributions from high performers are • Employee Assistance Program (Global) • Relocation Assistance (Global) Looking Ahead rewarded by cash and stock awards. Outstanding sales • Employee Bonus Program (Global) •T  ax-Advantaged Long-Term Savings with company performance, collaboration and technology, and longcontribution (such as 401(k) retirement accounts) • Employee Discount Program (U.S., Canada, and U.K.) term service milestones are also recognized with awards. •E  xpert Medical Opinion (Outside U.S. only, launched in •O  ff/On Ramp Program (Up to two years off work, unpaid Society U.S. in FY12) but first year with medical benefits) Additional benefits include tax-efficient retirement savings support with company contributions, tuition • Financial Education (U.S.) • Employee Stock Purchase Plan Environment assistance, paid time off and paid holidays, culturally • Flexible Work Practices (Global) GRI Index relevant family leave, and an employee stock purchase • Health & Wellness Programs (Multiple countries) plan, as well as a range of health benefits. KPIs/Report Card Cisco provides culturally relevant leave-of-absence and time-off programs for employees globally. Examples of these programs in the United States include: Appendix • Adoption Leave: Paid • Military Leave: Differential Paid • Bereavement Time Off: Paid • Paid Time Off (vacation): Paid We believe in sharing our success • Educational Leave: Unpaid • Paternity Leave: Unpaid with our employees. Our competitive • Jury Duty Time Off: Paid • Personal Leave: Unpaid performance-based pay and benefits • Pregnancy Disability Leave/Maternity Leave: Paid reward innovation, collaboration, and profitability. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback D8 < Previous View Introduction Looking Ahead Objectives for FY12 One of the biggest challenges Cisco is facing, and will Governance & Ethics continue to face in FY12, is the retention and engagement Explicit, visible leadership commitment to a differentiated employee experience: Senior leaders will invite employees to help of our exceptional talent due to uncertain economic times build “the Next Cisco” as it relates to their function. We have developed a playbook with information and checklists to support Value Chain leaders in guiding their teams through transitions in a way that increases engagement. and our recent transition to simplify our operations. We Our People aim to continually show our employees how we invest in their success and reward their performance, and Compensation and recognition: We offer total compensation that is higher than most of our comparator companies and Changes to Our Workforce how our processes and practices for doing this are differentiated rewards opportunities for our highest performers. We expect to introduce conservatively funded base pay increase and promotions programs in October, and would like to provide additional funding for these programs later in the year Working Together consistent and transparent. The Cisco leadership team to align with any improvement in overall company results. A Safe & Healthy Work is implementing a plan to address these challenges that Environment focuses on key areas. Manager-employee relationships: These relationships are critical to long-term employee engagement, and we will continue An Open & Diverse Culture to focus on this through existing programs such as Cisco Performance Connection and Cisco Talent Connection for internal Employee Opportunities movement and promotion. Over the next three years our Learning and Development Solutions group aims to put 90 percent of our Directors and people managers through training at no cost to individual departments. Rewarding Our People > Looking Ahead Society Environment GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Appendix 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E1 < Previous View Introduction Governance & Ethics Value Chain Our People Society Our Strategy Education Healthcare Economic Development  Critical Human Needs & Disaster Relief Employee Engagement Supplier Diversity Product Accessibility Looking Ahead Watch the Video! Cisco Networking Academy teaches students regardless of their background. Deaf Aid in Kenya, East Africa, is changing the way society perceives people with hearing difficulties. Environment Society GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Appendix Information and communications technology (ICT) is changing the way people live and work. Networking and communications products provide access to essential information and services, promote economic development in underserved communities, and bring together people and ideas to encourage innovation. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E2 < Previous View Introduction Society Cisco Technology in Action: Cisco WebEx We want Cisco products and services to benefit Governance & Ethics communities globally. In many parts of the world, poverty The product: Cisco WebEx technology enables users anywhere in the world with an Internet connection to participate in dynamic web-based meetings, share presentations and documents in real time, and promote collaboration without the and inequality restrict access to ICT and its benefits. need for travel. Value Chain We are working to overcome these barriers, which we How we use it to support our social investment strategy: Cisco WebEx is a valuable tool for us to engage with Our People believe will help create more prosperous and healthy stakeholders and collaborate with partners on our social investment programs. It supports these programs by giving communities that also support our business growth. people interactive access to information, experts, and resources. For example, we use Cisco WebEx to deliver interactive Society Cisco Networking Academy courses, and to demonstrate how our technology can support collaborative work and learning. In FY11, Cisco Systems, Inc. and the Cisco Foundation Appleseed Academy, an NGO partner in Israel that provides access to technology for disadvantaged communities in > Our Strategy together made US$295 million in combined cash and inIsrael, uses Cisco WebEx for conducting meetings and reporting on Community Knowledge Centers. Education kind contributions, equivalent to 3.77% of earnings before In addition, we have provided free use of Cisco WebEx for minority industry councils to help diverse suppliers access Healthcare income tax. This includes Cisco Networking Academy training and facilitate meetings to explore business opportunities. We use it for meetings with these suppliers, reducing in-kind contributions1 of US$212 million which we are time and money for travel. We also use it, along with Cisco TelePresence technology, to mentor partners and suppliers Economic Development through our Executive Mentor Protégé Program. including in our corporate giving data for the first time  Critical Human Needs in FY11, and which we will include in all future corporate & Disaster Relief giving totals. This addition of the Networking Academy Employee Engagement to our total does not reflect new spending, but includes Our Strategy As well as products and expertise, we provide cash investments, in-kind contributions, and employee time. Supplier Diversity in-kind fair market value which had not been claimed Our social investment strategy aims to maximize the We encourage our people to get involved through Product Accessibility previously. To allow comparison with previous years’ data positive impacts of our business. We focus on four areas our employee volunteering program (see Employee of US$138 million for FY10, the total combined cash and where our products, services, and employees can make Looking Ahead Engagement). This helps to build leadership skills, in-kind contributions from Cisco Systems, Inc. and the the biggest difference: teamwork, and loyalty among our employees. Cisco Foundation without Cisco Networking Academy in-kind contributions for FY11 were US$82.5 million, • Education External Recognition Environment equivalent to 1.05% of earnings before income tax. • Healthcare In FY11, two of our education programs, Cisco GRI Index Networking Academy and GETideas.org (see page E3), Our social investment strategy prioritizes the areas where • Economic Development were recognized by the Computerworld Honors Program, we believe our technology and our people can make the • Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief KPIs/Report Card which highlights organizations that create and use ICT to biggest impact. The emphasis is on partnerships with promote and advance public welfare and benefit society. others that make a lasting difference. Our approach encourages innovation and entrepreneurship Appendix Our Connecting Sichuan Initiative (see page E5), which to create solutions that are scalable, replicable, and Improving the accessibility of our products for people helped rebuild the Sichuan region of China after the sustainable. By focusing on long-term solutions, we aim to with disabilities helps us expand the range of benefits 2008 earthquake, was also named as a finalist in the have our contributions make a lasting difference. to more people (see page E11). We can also make a Healthcare category. difference in communities and local economies by We partner with those who share our values and align Cisco received the 2010 State Department Award for supporting small and minority-owned businesses through with our focus areas. In many instances, we work with Corporate Excellence for our economic development our supplier diversity program (see page E10). them to improve their processes and effectiveness work in Palestine and in Israel (see page E6). through the use of ICT. We also were awarded the Corporate Engagement Award of Excellence by the Points of Light Institute, a prestigious award for our corporate volunteer programs. 1. Total Cisco Networking Academy contributions in FY11 were equivalent to US$212 million. This is based on a conservative estimate of the total value of our in-kind contributions covering all components of our support, including those not approved by the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy (CECP) Corporate Giving Standard criteria. Total Cisco Networking Academy contributions based on CECP approved criteria were equivalent to US$121 million. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E3 < Previous View Introduction Education As well as preparing students for internationally help provide ICT training courses for instructors and recognized qualifications such as Cisco CCNA students through a regional academy located in St. We support education to encourage long-term, certification, Networking Academy courses encourage Vincent and the Grenadines and 10 local academies Governance & Ethics sustainable economic growth in a number of communities innovation, problem solving, and entrepreneurial skills located in Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador, Peru, around the world. Our focus is on creating scalable through real-life examples, case studies, games, and Saint Lucia, and Grenada. Value Chain and self-sustaining initiatives that transform the way global competitions. In FY11, over 10,000 students in • China: We used our ICT expertise to transform the Our People education is delivered, and providing the skills that 82 countries competed in the NetRiders competition, delivery and quality of education in the Sichuan region people need for ICT roles. We work with NGO partners to with the top 15 participants visiting Cisco headquarters as part of our Connecting Sichuan Initiative, which was Society support education initiatives that use our core networking and meeting Cisco Chairman and CEO John Chambers. launched following the 2008 earthquake. By the end of technologies and expertise in both developed and The Networking Academy online gaming site, Academy Our Strategy FY11, multimedia and networking equipment had been developing countries. NetSpace, currently has more than 82,000 registered installed in more than 1140 classrooms in over 100 > Education users from 168 countries. In addition, the Cisco Cisco Networking Academy schools across the region, connecting schools and Healthcare Networking Academy Facebook community, with more enabling teachers to access teaching materials, share The Cisco Networking Academy is a cloud delivered, Economic Development than 200,000 fans, provides mutual support that helps ideas, and mentor their peers via Cisco TelePresence scalable, high-quality ICT education program that helps reduce Cisco’s operational costs associated with the technology, make courses more creative, and tailor  Critical Human Needs students develop the practical skills needed to design, & Disaster Relief Helpdesk. courses to suit local needs. Rural students can now build, secure, and maintain computer networks. Employee Engagement access expert teachers in city centers by attending The Networking Academy program underpins many of Supplier Diversity During FY11, more than 1 million students were enrolled virtual classes delivered over the network, helping to our initiatives to improve access to education and develop in Cisco Networking Academy courses at approximately narrow the gap between urban and rural education Product Accessibility ICT skills as part of our wider commitment to economic 10,000 academies in 165 countries. Over 4 million standards. The initiative will provide a scalable and Looking Ahead development around the world. For example, it provides students have participated in the program since it began replicable blueprint to modernize the country’s broadband and healthcare ICT courses through over 20 in 1997. The Cisco Networking Academy program is a education system using ICT. For more information on college and university locations as part of our Workforce strong example of public-private partnerships at work, our Connecting Sichuan Initiative, visit our website. Retraining Initiative in Michigan, U.S. (see page E5). Environment with all parties contributing to the establishment and • Global: GETideas.org is an ongoing public-service success of an academy. Courses are made available For more information, visit the Cisco Networking online community developed by Cisco to encourage GRI Index through educational institutions, nonprofit organizations Academy website. peer-to-peer dialogue between education thought and NGOs, governments, and community centers that leaders on the global challenges facing education. KPIs/Report Card provide classroom space, computer lab equipment, and Worldwide Education Engagements Over 2400 education leaders from more than 125 qualified instructors. Cisco provides free online, upWe work with partners, including governments and countries share ideas and resources on ways to Appendix to-date ICT curricula, teacher training, and extended nonprofit organizations, on education projects that transform the delivery and quality of education through professional development opportunities. support social and economic goals. Our contributions practical case studies, featured resources, virtual include products, expertise, and cash grants to improve roundtables, and blogs. the quality and delivery of education. For example: Watch the Video! Cisco Networking Academy teaches students regardless • Central and South America and the Caribbean: of their background. Deaf Aid in Kenya, We work with Trust for the Americas, through the East Africa, is changing the way Partnership in Opportunities for Employment through society perceives people with hearing Technology in the Americas (POETA), to improve the difficulties. quality of life for people with disabilities. Our efforts 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E4 < Previous View • Philippines: We run an intensive training and internship which aims to promote ICT as a career choice and Introduction program for Cisco partner wi-tribe Telecoms, Inc. increase awareness of Cisco among students and ICT to meet the need for additional engineers to run its professionals. Governance & Ethics wireless network. More than 250 Networking Academy • Turkey: Since 2006, Cisco has partnered with the Value Chain graduates applied and 19 were selected to attend a Youth Association for Habitat, the UN Development two-month course to strengthen their networking skills Program, Turkish Informatics Foundation, and Istanbul Our People to meet the company’s requirements. Fifteen were Technical University to deliver SPARK, a project to hired as shift engineers at the end of the internship. improve ICT expertise among youth while encouraging Society • Russia: Our two-year Cisco Networking Academies volunteerism. SPARK helps young people participate Our Strategy for Public Service program aims to improve the quality in the information-based global economy and realize and delivery of public services using ICT. Ten of these their full potential through advanced ICT skills. > Education academies will provide ICT training for nearly 600 • United States: The Cisco Foundation continued to Healthcare Russian students who will work on practical projects support the National Center for Learning Disabilities on Economic Development with approximately 300 public-sector agencies and Cisco Supports Teachers Without the Response to Intervention Action Network, which  Critical Human Needs organizations. Project partners include USAID and Borders in Mexico provides help for over 620,000 children with learning & Disaster Relief community education specialist PH International. A cash and product grant from Cisco helped Teachers difficulties. Cisco provided financial support, technical Employee Engagement • Slovakia: We developed a partner ecosystem to expertise, and equipment to help set up a website with Without Borders launch a national teacher training program in Mexico through a partnership with the Supplier Diversity provide Networking Academy students with support, information and networking opportunities for teachers Ministry of Education and the teachers’ union SNTE. By Product Accessibility including work experience and internships to improve and parents. the end of FY11, the program had reached nearly 4000 their employment prospects. Cisco also launched • United States: We made product and cash grants teachers and more than 100,000 students. It builds on Looking Ahead a Net Community website with human resource the organization’s free Certificate of Teaching Mastery totaling US$1 million to support City Year’s Whole course that teachers can take at their own pace to help specialist Adecco to help students network and search School, Whole Child program, which aims to prevent them improve their professional knowledge, classroom for job opportunities. students from dropping out of school early. Cisco techniques, and leadership skills. Environment • Tanzania: Four Cisco employees volunteered to networking technology is helping City Year improve Cisco supported Teachers Without Borders in developing GRI Index run a training workshop on ICT telephony, wireless, training and collaboration between student mentors an online platform called Maestros Sin Fronteras for and network security, as well as soft skills such as and expand the program to five underperforming Mexican teachers to communicate with each other and KPIs/Report Card communications, leadership, and team building. More elementary and middle schools in the San Jose, Calif., share resources and ideas. The platform was launched at the first Mexican Teacher Congress in 2009. than 100 university students, ICT professionals, and region, reaching over 2500 students. In addition to Appendix entrepreneurs participated. The workshop was part of the product and cash contributions to City Year, Cisco We have been working with Teachers Without Borders our Developing Local Talent in Technology program, provides employee volunteers to tutor students at since 2003, supporting the nonprofit with US$2.5 million in cash and product donations. these underserved schools. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E5 < Previous View Introduction Healthcare The facilities are used by more than 7000 healthcare to connect patients and physicians at the Al-Mafraq practitioners supporting approximately 15,000 inpatients Governmental Hospital in northeastern Jordan with ICT is transforming healthcare in developed and and 280,000 outpatients per month. Regional data centers specialists at Prince Hamzah Hospital in Amman for Governance & Ethics developing countries by helping to reduce costs for enabled claims processing for nearly 60 million medical nephrology, cardiology, and dermatology consultations. healthcare providers and increase access to quality insurance records and supported management of more Value Chain healthcare for people in remote and rural areas. Solutions than 400,000 electronic health records. The correct management and use of the Cisco Our People such as Cisco HealthPresence technology are opening HealthPresence technology, in line with the facility’s up new opportunities for healthcare professionals to As our Connecting Sichuan Initiative ended in FY11, expected future workflow, was as important to the Society collaborate and share patient information confidentially we transitioned the work to the Sichuan provincial deployment as the technology itself. Specialists and regardless of location. government. Our partners helped with program continuity consultants worked with qualified local physicians Our Strategy by implementing solutions that can be reproduced and to map expected future clinical workflow, and then Education Connecting Sichuan adopted easily elsewhere. We have established plans for created step-by-step guides for the technology’s > Healthcare Through our Connecting Sichuan Initiative, we installed ongoing support that involve government institutions and use in that work, which was officially approved by a ICT infrastructure in 66 healthcare facilities including local leaders, with a focus on long-term impact. We also clinical committee. Economic Development hospitals, township and community health centers, helped by:  Critical Human Needs and public health organizations as part of our efforts to Cisco conducted a thorough site survey to understand & Disaster Relief help rebuild and revitalize healthcare delivery following • Encouraging Cisco employees to support programs the facility’s overall needs, as well as onsite orientation Employee Engagement the 2008 earthquake in the Sichuan region of China. through volunteerism and the China Civic Council and awareness sessions. These included knowledge Supplier Diversity Examples include: transfer to local Jordanian clinicians through workshops • Promoting Networking Academy courses to increase Product Accessibility enrollment and ICT skills development and hands-on training. • Thirty-two “smart” hospitals that provide quick and Looking Ahead • Providing comprehensive solution guides to help easy access to patient information, such as laboratory After two months, patients who had remote access to tests and electronic health records, to help improve transfer technologies and knowledge to other regions specialists noticed improved diagnosis and treatment the speed and consistency of patient care • Establishing technical and leadership training plans. Attending and specialist physicians indicated that Environment programs, with a central leadership program at Peking they spent more time with patients and reached more of • Four telehealth networks equipped with Cisco TelePresence video conferencing technology that University them without the need to travel, saving travel time and GRI Index expense. allow doctors to examine and treat patients remotely, making care more timely and reducing travel and We will continue to support the region and use the KPIs/Report Card In FY12, we plan to implement Cisco HealthPresence at medical costs initiative as a blueprint to expand this model across China and to other markets. an additional rural hospital in an underserved location Appendix • Six regional healthcare cloud-based data centers to in Jordan. We also plan additional projects to address connect rural clinics with full-service hospitals and Jordan Healthcare Initiative mobile health and clinical collaboration. Department of Health resources across Sichuan Launched in FY11, the Jordan Healthcare Initiative • Three mobile clinics equipped with medical and is a strategic collaboration between Cisco and the Workforce Retraining networking technologies that extend services, such as Jordanian government, which uses ICT to improve the Launched as a pilot in 2009, Cisco’s Workforce disease monitoring and other public health operations, efficiency of and access to quality healthcare services Retraining Initiative in Michigan, U.S., aims to create new to less accessible regions by using handheld devices in Jordan. In June 2011, a rural health clinic began using opportunities for workers and spur economic growth Cisco HealthPresence care-at-a-distance technology through the Cisco Networking Academy program. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E6 < Previous View Introduction Similarly, the Health Information Networking course Economic Development to information on labor rights, training, education, and is helping to prepare people for new jobs in health financial literacy. Labor Link uses text and voice services information technology. It teaches students basic We aim to improve the quality of life for people from to deliver information free of charge directly to recipients’ Governance & Ethics underserved communities. Our strategy is to use information on healthcare settings, security and privacy mobile phones. The service has been piloted by over in healthcare, electronic health records systems, medical technology to contribute to the economic growth of 1000 workers in Peru, and we aim to reach over 100,000 Value Chain practice workflows and how to adjust workflows for communities and countries, and empower individuals workers in Peru and elsewhere by 2015. World of Good Our People electronic medical record implementations, among other by improving access to knowledge, skills, and financial also uses the service to collect information on issues things. services. Giving more people access to the network and such as compensation and working and living conditions, Society the opportunities it provides helps to foster innovation to help companies understand how to improve conditions By the end of FY11, the Health Information Networking and encourage investment that ultimately will help in their supply chain. Our Strategy course had been taught at nine college and university communities and individuals become more economically Education locations across the state, and 145 students had self-sufficient, while building trusting relationships with Supporting Entrepreneurship in the Palestinian Healthcare completed the course. We aim to make the course governments and NGOs, and creating new markets for ICT Sector available at Cisco Networking Academy facilities across our products and services. We focus on long-term projects that build business skills > Economic Development the United States in FY12. and encourage entrepreneurial activity to help bring  Critical Human Needs Skills Training and Workforce Development about sustainable solutions. Projects are often delivered & Disaster Relief Cisco HealthPath Program We support economic development in underserved through the Cisco Networking Academy to build ICT skills Employee Engagement Launched in FY11, Cisco’s HealthPath program is populations by encouraging employment and and expertise. Supplier Diversity delivering online education and training for doctors entrepreneurship success through improved access to Product Accessibility and nurses on electronic health records at small and skills, information, and resources. This includes technical For example, a three-year initiative to support the mid-sized practices in the United States. We believe and leadership skills, financial literacy education, as well development of the Palestinian ICT sector has grown Looking Ahead that digital healthcare has tremendous potential in as links to employment, social and career networking, into a self-sustaining business relationship with up to 40 transforming patient care and reducing administrative mentoring, and financing opportunities. Palestinian network engineers employed by Cisco. Ending costs. in FY11, our US$10 million investment in the Palestinian Environment For example, we provided cash grants to help fund ICT industry started as a project to demonstrate that Two courses are offered to help physicians and nurses the development of One Economy’s Digicon Staffing Palestinian IT companies have the capability to provide GRI Index understand certification of electronic health records Portal, which provides opportunities for employment, low-cost and high-quality outsourcing support. The systems, as well as federal requirements for obtaining entrepreneurship, and community service to Digital majority of participating companies have seen their KPIs/Report Card incentives as a Medicaid or Medicare provider. The Connectors graduates. The Digital Connectors program business grow, with almost half reporting new business HealthPath courses are endorsed by a number of provides ICT and leadership training for talented young contracts with customers in the Middle East, North Africa, Appendix healthcare organizations that have provided online people from underserved communities across the United North America, and Western Europe. access, including two Regional Extension Centers, States. Up to 1450 graduates from the program have O-Hitec and CalHIPSO, as well as AmericanEHR Partners used the portal to create professional profiles, learn We are also using the experience to develop and share developed by Cientis Technologies and the American about career opportunities, and apply for jobs advertised a model for economic development of the ICT industry College of Physicians. by a wide variety of organizations. One Economy can in developing countries. This has led to several spin-off also use the portal to track graduates’ progress, helping projects in Israel and the Palestinian territories: to measure the long-term social and economic impact of the program. • Cisco is working with T2 Venture Capital, the Palestine ICT incubator, and USAID to connect Palestinian Cisco cash grants are also helping to fund the entrepreneurs to a global network of investors, development and testing of World of Good’s SMS Labor partners, and customers as part of the Bedaya Link Initiative, which aims to improve the lives of low(Beginnings) program. Twelve Palestinian start-ups income workers (particularly women) by providing access are being mentored by a team of networking and 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E7 < Previous View entrepreneurial experts who provide in-person and ICT-based solutions to help microfinance institutions and Ethiopia. We have now committed to support our Introduction virtual support. Additional support is provided for startexpand the scale, efficiency, and social impact of their partners, including Appleseed Academy, Inveneo, ups through the Olive Tree Seed fund. work in underserved communities, and improve their and One Global Economy, in extending Community Governance & Ethics • We provide cash grants to support Tamkeen.net, a effectiveness by accurately measuring their impact. Knowledge Centers to other countries. Value Chain 12-month program providing business, marketing, For example, with funding from the Cisco Foundation, we The centers offer courses on ICT, entrepreneurship, human resources, and leadership workshops to Our People are supporting Grameen Foundation’s Progress Out of and language skills, along with other services ranging help 11 Palestinian software companies compete Poverty Index (PPI™), which is used by approximately 110 from telecommunications to office support. They are internationally. The program includes mentoring Society microfinance institutions and anti-poverty organizations supported by community-based websites that provide sessions with business leaders and venture capitalists. to measure their effectiveness in moving clients out locally relevant information on health, education, jobs, Our Strategy • Cisco has committed US$5 million to the Middle East of poverty, and tailoring products and services to and business, as well as offering access to microloans Education Venture Capital Fund L.P., which invests in Palestinianmeet clients’ needs. The PPI also encourages greater and knowledge to improve agricultural productivity. The Healthcare based Internet, mobile, and software start-ups. Other transparency and accountability in the sector as a whole project has had a clear impact on local communities in investors include a mix of government organizations, by helping donors and investors to understand how well spurring economic growth. > Economic Development foundations, and multinational corporations. microfinance institutions are performing against their  Critical Human Needs Working with Inveneo, we developed a solution to deliver • We are supporting grassroots community development goals. The number of organizations using the PPI is & Disaster Relief by connecting up to 90 schools and 30 youth clubs growing rapidly and is expected to reach 250 by the affordable Wi-Fi broadband services to these centers, Employee Engagement bypassing expensive fixed-line connections. Inveneo is to the Internet and supporting up-and-coming local end of 2012. Supplier Diversity Internet service providers. We work with NGO partner now using this solution to connect schools and youth Product Accessibility Inveneo, which designs and implements low-cost Guanghua Leadership Institute clubs and support local service providers in Palestine Wi-Fi networks, and we have provided US$200,000 to As a partner of the Guanghua Leadership Institute, Cisco and Haiti. Looking Ahead support the program, including product donations. is demonstrating how ICT can boost productivity and spur economic growth in China. Courses such as the • In Israel, Cisco is leading a coalition of 24 national and Government Leader Program and Enterprise Leader Supporting Economic Growth in Jordan Environment international ICT companies to help recruit and support Program are raising awareness and understanding In FY11, Cisco announced a US$10 million investment promising Israeli Arab students and graduates to of the role of ICT in promoting economic growth and to support job creation, ICT education, and economic GRI Index increase the number of Israeli Arabs in the ICT sector. development in Jordan. The Jordanian ICT sector has streamlining government services. The lessons are Over 200 candidates have been selected to join already being put into practice in some of China’s top grown rapidly from just 20 companies in 2002 to 450 KPIs/Report Card the program, which helps with recruitment, training, in 2011, now totaling over 14 percent of the country’s enterprises, where virtual meetings help to increase GDP and providing a significant export opportunity to mentoring, and integration. By the end of FY11, collaboration between workers and cut travel costs and Appendix boost economic growth. Our investment will continue 54 candidates had been recruited by participating carbon emissions. The Institute uses Cisco TelePresence to support small businesses that provide innovative companies. technology to conduct virtual meetings between products and services. campuses in Shanghai and Beijing and with other We are also participating in a multi-stakeholder Increasing Access to Financial Services universities in China and the United States. collaboration including national, regional, and More than 2 billion people around the world live on less international organizations to encourage further than US$2 a day. The vast majority have no access Clinton Global Initiative investment in the Jordanian economy. For example, to affordable, safe, and reliable financial products and In FY11, as part of our four-year, US$10 million Clinton Jordan is a leading destination for medical tourism, and services. As a result, they have no means to provide for under the agreement we are working with the Jordanian Global Initiative commitment to Africa, we helped start government to encourage the development of an ICTthemselves and their families, take advantage of business 15 Community Knowledge Centers in South Africa, based healthcare ecosystem (see page E5). opportunities, or plan for the future. Cisco supports joining 23 centers opened previously in Kenya, Rwanda, 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E8 < Previous View Introduction Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief • Over the past year, we have begun supporting them increase fundraising efforts and improve their technology-based solutions to increase access operational effectiveness. For example, we helped We use our skills, expertise, and technology to help to water. We work with Water.org, the Blue Planet fund the development of a Field Level Operations Governance & Ethics provide immediate relief following natural disasters and Network, and Water for People to support efforts to Watch mobile application for Water for People to to support long-term recovery and rebuilding efforts. increase access to clean drinking water. Cisco’s ICT improve data collection during field-based research. Value Chain These efforts include funding for food, shelter, and and networking support to these organizations helps Our People medicine, as well as communications support, such as satellite-based networks and Cisco Network Emergency Society Response Vehicles that provide communications hubs Project Samudaya to guide the quick and effective delivery of emergency Our Strategy Project Samudaya is a two-year, US$10 million effort to help reconstruction efforts aid. In the longer term, we support the rebuilding of ICT in response to devastating floods that swept through the Indian state of Karnataka Education infrastructure and foster socioeconomic development by in October 2009. In launching the project, Cisco committed to construct a total of Healthcare increasing access to services and resources. 3600 houses, two schools, and a healthcare center in five villages that had been flooded. Economic Development NGO Partnerships By the end of July 2011, villagers had returned to all five villages, over half of the > Critical Human Needs We work with leading humanitarian relief agencies houses had been constructed, and work had begun on the two new schools. & Disaster Relief including NetHope, CARE, the American Red Cross, and English, science, math, and social science lessons are being delivered daily Employee Engagement Red Cross affiliates throughout the world to respond to to children at four other schools using distance learning. Cisco employees are Supplier Diversity disasters and help meet critical human needs. Examples mentoring children through monthly events. Weekly Cisco HealthPresence sessions for villagers held at our campus in Bangalore, with local doctors from the Product Accessibility include: RxDx Multispecialty Health Centre, were so successful that Cisco HealthPresence Looking Ahead has been installed at the RxDx Multispecialty Health Centre where doctors are • In the aftermath of the March 2011 Japan earthquake now conducting five sessions per week with affected communities. and tsunami (see highlight box), we provided cash and product grants to support NetHope, a collaboration of Environment 33 humanitarian organizations, in providing emergency Responding to Natural Disaster in Japan relief. We are working with the group to improve Following the devastating earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan in March 2011, GRI Index the humanitarian response to future disasters by the Cisco Foundation made a US$250,000 cash grant to support immediate relief examining how to improve collaboration between aid efforts by the American Red Cross, including medical care, shelter, and food. KPIs/Report Card We also provided a US$125,000 corporate cash grant to support NetHope’s agencies and sharing information through social media immediate relief efforts. The grant, coupled with technical support from Cisco’s and emergency communications. Appendix Tactical Operations Team, helped to restore communications for 10 NetHope • For more than a decade, Cisco has supported the members working in Japan, which helped them to speed up delivery of supplies to American Red Cross through employee giving. We are over 500,000 victims and reunite families that had been separated in the aftermath of the earthquake. part of the Annual Disaster Giving Campaign, which raises funds and resources to respond quickly when Cisco’s Tactical Operations Team also worked with Cisco’s Customer Crisis Team a disaster happens. For the past two years, the Cisco to help our affected customers. The Cisco Customer Crisis Team donated satellite and mobile communications equipment to many evacuation centers. Foundation has committed at least US$500,000 to the Giving Campaign to help the American Red Cross Relief efforts were bolstered by over US$1.35 million in employee donations and respond more effectively to disasters in the United matching gifts from the Cisco Foundation for a range of organizations, including the American Red Cross, the Canadian Red Cross, Doctors Without Borders, States and the rest of the world. We also participate in Mercy Corps, the Netherlands Red Cross, Oxfam, Save the Children, and Second the “Ready When the Time Comes Program,” providing Harvest Japan. disaster relief training for employee volunteers for the American Red Cross to call on in emergencies. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E9 < Previous View Introduction Employee Engagement and a community calendar to search for volunteer • Global: Cisco engineer Brian Dickinson talked opportunities. to 85 underserved schoolchildren in the United We encourage employees to engage in their local States, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Nepal about his Governance & Ethics communities by supporting projects that they’re Community Connection has helped more than double experience climbing Mount Everest as part of a Cisco passionate about and that align with Cisco’s focus areas volunteer hours and increase employee donations by TelePresence science lesson led by Resource Area Value Chain for social impact. Their skills and enthusiasm help build 77 percent since its launch in FY10. In March 2011, for Teaching (RAFT). During his time in Nepal, Brian Our People strong relationships with our communities and partners, employees used Community Connection to coordinate donated toys and clothes to the NGO Early Childhood and strengthen our reputation as an active corporate their response to the Japan earthquake and tsunami. Development Centre in Kathmandu, where he hosted Society citizen. In FY11, employees volunteered 166,445 hours. Cisco employees donated more than US$680,000 this the lesson. way. Combined with matching funds from the Cisco Our Strategy Encouraging volunteering helps improve the morale of • Kenya: Nine Cisco U.K. employees traveled to western Foundation, they raised over US$1.35 million for the employees and supports their leadership development. Kenya to volunteer in an impoverished community. Education Japan Earthquake and Tsunami Relief Campaign Employees are encouraged to include volunteering Volunteers raised funds to buy solar panels for Healthcare (see page E8). objectives in their personal development plans, and we classroom power, constructed a sand filter to recycle Economic Development water, built a house for a local family in need, and encourage managers to organize volunteering projects as Other employee volunteering highlights include: Critical Human Needs part of team-building events. provided EcoSan (waste recycling) toilets for the local & Disaster Relief • Over 230,000 hours volunteered for the year-long school. > Employee Engagement Our Community Relations team and employee-led Volunteer Challenge launched in December 2009 to • Mexico: Over 100 Cisco employees and customers Supplier Diversity Civic Councils identify volunteer opportunities, manage celebrate Cisco’s 25th anniversary, beating our goal participated in a fundraising bike ride in Mexico community product and cash grants, and maintain of 200,000 hours by 15 percent, and raising US$1.3 City, Guadalajara, and Monterrey. The project raised Product Accessibility partnerships with nonprofit and nongovernmental million in matching funds for service, significantly US$8050 for ANSER, an organization that works Looking Ahead organizations. The Cisco Foundation matches employee surpassing our goal of US$1 million. with children with cancer needing bone marrow contributions of up to US$1000 per year per employee transplants; Ilumina, an association supporting people • A 57 percent increase in the number of employees for more than 2000 approved organizations in over 40 with visual disabilities; and SerHumano, an organization volunteering globally in FY11. Environment countries. supporting people in Mexico with HIV/AIDS. • Employees donated more than US$6.3 million, GRI Index Increasing Participation generating more than US$5.7 million in matching funds. • Netherlands: Twenty-eight new Cisco recruits spent We regularly monitor and refine our volunteering a weekend renovating the headquarters of Gered KPIs/Report Card program, responding to feedback from employees, Local Initiatives Gereedschap, a Dutch NGO that collects and services partners, and NGOs, so that it effectively meets the We encourage employees to support local initiatives old tools and machinery to improve the livelihoods of Appendix that have a positive impact on their communities. These people living in developing countries. needs and priorities of our business, employees, and communities. For example, we are using feedback from are some of the many projects our employees supported • United Kingdom and Ireland: Seventy Cisco interviews conducted with Cisco employees, partners, in FY11: employees contributed their time and donated more and NGOs during FY11 to review and improve our than 200 gifts for sick children in hospitals across • Global: Employees contributed more than 21,000 employee communications about these programs. England, Ireland, and Scotland as part of Cisco’s hours and raised over US$3.2 million in food annual “Connected Santa” program. Using Cisco Community Connection, our global matching gifts and contributions during our annual two-month Global technology, children were able to talk to Santa via volunteering IT solution website, helps employees learn Hunger Relief campaign. In addition, 60 employees video links as they received their gifts. Santa also about organizations they can support, report volunteer in Lawrenceville, Georgia, U.S., spent four days recorded personalized videos for children too ill to hours, make donations, and request matching funds. In assembling more than 6000 cans of food into a ninemeet him. We plan to expand the program to Northern addition, through the Cisco Citizen Volunteer website, foot-tall sculpture to raise awareness of hunger among Ireland in FY12. employees can use online tools including blogs, wikis, their colleagues before donating the food to local agencies. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E10 < Previous View Introduction Supplier Diversity This is part of a wider initiative involving organizations Increasing Supplier Diversity such as historically black colleges and universities, Relationship-building and networking help us expand our Our support for diverse suppliers, which includes Fort Bragg military base, and Cisco employee resource supplier base and create a network of diverse suppliers Governance & Ethics historically underutilized businesses such as women and groups including Veterans Enablement and Troop that encourage closer and more effective partnerships. minority-owned businesses (all of which are indirect or Support, the Cisco Black Employee Network, and the Value Chain non-manufacturing suppliers to Cisco), supports our Cisco Disabilities Awareness Network. Cisco Partner Operations Diversity Forums, held at national Our People social investment strategy by contributing to economic supplier diversity events in the United States, provide an development in underserved communities. Cisco’s Global Supplier Diversity Business Development opportunity for suppliers to meet with Cisco executives Society group made several Cisco WebEx software grants to and other Fortune 500 company representatives to As well as being a regulatory requirement for Cisco in historically underutilized supplier industry councils to help discuss potential business opportunities. In FY11, Cisco Our Strategy many of our markets, working with diverse suppliers promote supplier diversity. Councils use Cisco WebEx sponsored forums at the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Education supports our business by encouraging innovation. to provide education and training on how to become Commerce, Department of Commerce, Minority Business Healthcare Customers also expect us to support diverse suppliers. certified as a historically underutilized owned business, Development Agency, Minority Enterprise Development In FY11, we responded to information requests on our and to facilitate meetings between member companies Week, National Minority Supplier Business Development Economic Development diverse supplier expenditures from about 70 customers. and Cisco. Council (NMSDC), and Cisco’s Partner Summit. Critical Human Needs & Disaster Relief Building Capability We also participated in global business missions where Employee Engagement We support diverse suppliers through a range of Executive Mentoring Supports U.S.-based partners and suppliers joined Cisco on > Supplier Diversity initiatives that include the following: Supplier Growth business trips to Australia, China, South Africa, and the Product Accessibility United Kingdom. In FY11, NMSDC executives, Cisco • Basic skills building: Cisco funded scholarships Logistics supplier D.W. Morgan Company, Inc., has worked with Cisco for over a decade and has benefited representatives, and suppliers including D.W. Morgan Looking Ahead for three minority business enterprises (MBEs) from the Executive Mentor Protégé Program. Cisco Company, SeaAlaska, and Qivliq embarked on a nineto participate in a four-day skills development executive sponsors worked with the company to identify day business trip to Sydney, Australia, as part of the program at the UCLA Management Development for its strengths and weaknesses and help it understand NMSDC’s Global Link program. Their objectives included Environment Entrepreneurs Academy. how to better meet the needs of customers like Cisco. meeting with government officials and businesses, and Our involvement has helped the company expand its • Executive Mentor Protégé Program: Seven diverse business with Cisco and seek new opportunities in Asia having an opportunity to share experiences and meet GRI Index supplier CEOs received mentoring from Cisco and Latin America. potential partners at the Australian Indigenous Minority executives in FY11 (see highlight box). Supplier Council’s inaugural National Conference and KPIs/Report Card The company has won multiple awards, and in May 2011, founder and CEO David W. Morgan was honored Business Opportunity Fair. We provide additional support to build suppliers’ capacity Appendix with a Lifetime Achievement Award at the National using innovative programs such as the Cisco Networking Minority Supplier Development Council Awards. Nallawilli Solutions, a primarily Australian Indigenous Academy. For example, we are partnering with North owned ICT business, has been working closely with “We have been thrilled to participate in this innovative Carolina Central University and a women-owned supplier, initiative for the past two years,” he said. “In our Cisco since its inception in 2011 to gain a better NWN Corporation, as part of our Adopt-an-Academy experience, it’s unprecedented to see a large enterprise understanding of Cisco products and services with the Program, which develops local talent and supports local take such an interest in nurturing the success of aim of establishing business opportunities. With Cisco businesses by offering job placements, mentoring, and promising suppliers.” guidance, Nallawilli Solutions has been able to attain work experience for Networking Academy students. Select Partner accreditation. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E11 < Previous View Introduction Product Accessibility Using Cisco Technology to Improve We want as many people as possible to benefit from Communications for Deaf Students Governance & Ethics the social and economic opportunities that our products Cisco is working with the Kentucky School for the and services provide. Making our products accessible to Value Chain Deaf in the United States to provide Tandberg video people with disabilities is an important part of achieving communications equipment for the school’s 150 Our People this ambition. Designing accessible products helps us to students. The school’s Director of Technology, Deby comply with the accessibility requirements of many of our Trueblood, said, “Every piece of equipment we buy has customers, and it is also a competitive advantage. to meet the needs of both the deaf and the hearing, and Society that’s a hard job. Cisco built equipment just for us. It has two huge screens side by side—one for the interpreter Our Strategy The Cisco Accessibility Initiative is our companyand one for the presenter.” Education wide initiative to have our products, websites, and documentation conform to accessibility regulations. We As only 3 percent of the Kentucky population are Healthcare deaf compared with the national average of 10 make accessibility a priority at every stage of the product Economic Development percent, students have few opportunities to interact lifecycle, from design to shipping and end use. with other deaf people outside their school. Cisco’s Critical Human Needs videoconferencing system helps them to reach students & Disaster Relief We also work with partners, suppliers, and customers at schools in other states. Students benefit by having Employee Engagement to improve communications for people with disabilities access to teachers at other schools too, and the through the use of our products. For example, we are schools are able to share limited resources by teaching Supplier Diversity specialist subjects by videoconference. working with video communications specialists Purple > Product Accessibility Communications and various customers to develop a The school is also using the system to organize “virtual Looking Ahead field trips” so the children can experience museums unified video calling service to make it easier for users and other educational facilities by video link, saving the who are deaf or cannot speak to communicate using school significant costs for additional interpreters, food, different networks and equipment. We are also working and transportation. Environment with the Kentucky School for the Deaf (see highlight box). Cisco is continuing to work with the school to make sure it gets the most out of the new technology. GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Appendix 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback E12 < Previous View Introduction Looking Ahead Continuing high rates of unemployment in many of our markets will make our workforce retraining and vocational Objectives for FY12 The economic downturn continues to put pressure education programs increasingly valuable. We will focus Governance & Ethics on governments to cut costs and demonstrate value on these and the use of ICT to transform the delivery Launch a new global volunteer program to raise awareness for money in public services, including education and quality of education through collaborative and cloudof Cisco’s community programs, encourage more Value Chain employees to get involved, and recognize exceptional and healthcare. While this presents a challenge to based learning through Cisco Networking Academy contributions. Our People our business, we believe it is an opportunity to use programs and public-private partnerships. technology to increase efficiency while encouraging innovation and improving program outcomes. We will continue to work toward transforming the Incorporate the requirements of new U.S. legislation on Society accessibility into Cisco’s best practices and corporate delivery and quality of healthcare using the network as requirements, and raise awareness through training for our Our Strategy We expect to see an ongoing transition toward ICTthe platform. We believe our healthcare partnerships technology groups. Education enabled learning that delivers collaborative and with national and local governments, NGOs, and Healthcare customizable teaching with an emphasis on quality and commercial partners will play an important role in value for money. Science, technology, engineering, Maintain strategic relationships with the World Economic Economic Development advancing healthcare systems and improving the quality Forum and Clinton Global Initiative to inform our activities and math training will be increasingly important focus of patient care. We plan to expand our care-at-aand share best practices. Critical Human Needs areas, given their role in supporting innovation and distance and collaborative healthcare models to provide & Disaster Relief competitiveness. greater access to high-quality care in urban and rural Employee Engagement Continue to support partners such as the Grameen communities. Foundation to expand their Social Performance Supplier Diversity In economic empowerment, our twin goals will remain Management initiative, which enables poverty-focused focused on contributing to the economic growth of We anticipate that our work to help meet critical human organizations to accurately measure the social impact of Product Accessibility communities and countries, and empowering individuals needs will also be increasingly important as food prices program and service offerings. > Looking Ahead to achieve self-sufficiency through technology-based and stress on water supplies increase, and the rise in the solutions. We will use publicand private-sector number and severity of natural disasters puts strain on We will continue to work with partners including Tamkeen. partnerships to facilitate widespread and equitable the ability of humanitarian and relief agencies to respond. net and others to support development of entrepreneurship Environment access to workforce/skills development, entrepreneurship To meet these challenges, we will continue to look for in the Palestinian ICT sector. resources, and financial services. innovative opportunities to increase the efficiency, quality, GRI Index Enhance U.S. veterans programs across Cisco through and productivity of public services and disaster relief. existing channels such as employee resource groups KPIs/Report Card (ERG) and mentoring programs. We are planning Veterans Day events and developing strategic partnerships with Appendix recognized veterans projects and associations. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F1 < Previous View Introduction Governance & Ethics Value Chain Our People Society Environment Cisco Environmental Sustainability Materials Energy and GHG Emissions Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Waste Watch the Video! Cisco EnergyWise gives companies a global view of energy management. Energy use can be controlled through the network, delivering Looking Ahead economic and environmental savings. Environment GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Appendix Economic growth can be decoupled from energy usage through the use of information and communications technology (ICT). An improved standard of living for developing regions and underserved communities does not have to be at the expense of environmental sustainability. Developed economies can also benefit from innovative use of ICT to transform how people live, work, and learn. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F2 < Previous View Introduction Cisco Environmental Sustainability Another aspect of the energy and GHG emissions issue that is highly material to Cisco is the opportunity for Cisco Table 1: Materiality Tiers for Cisco Environment-related Issues This section of the Cisco Corporate Social Responsibility products to help reduce GHG emissions in other industry Governance & Ethics (CSR) report provides information regarding our sectors. According to a Gartner study and confirmed Tier Environment Topic environmental challenges and how we are managing by the SMART 2020 report, ICT energy consumption Value Chain them. Our environmental Key Performance Indicators is estimated to produce about 2% of all energy-related 1 Product energy efficiency Our People (KPIs) and our Objectives for FY12 are provided at the emissions. Through the use of ICT, emissions can be end. A review of the organization of this section and the reduced in other industry sectors such as transportation Energy consumption (operations) Society changes we made in response to stakeholder feedback is and buildings: what’s been called “The 98%.” provided in Appendix 1. Environment 2 Waste (product end of life) Cisco has focused its energy/GHG efforts on the For easier navigation within this section, please enable improvement of our operations, supply chain, product > Cisco Environmental the Acrobat bookmarks pane if it is not already visible on 3 Transport emissions (from product logistics) energy efficiency, and technology solutions that enable Sustainability the left. emissions reductions in other sectors for ourselves and Materials our customers. Potential water pollution (Liquid effluents) Energy and GHG Emissions Materiality Based on input from stakeholders and results of life cycle Cisco also works to minimize the environmental impact Water Use Waste (packaging ) assessments (LCAs) and other analyses of our products, of our products by providing comprehensive product Biodiversity and Land Use Cisco prioritized environmental impact into five tiers as end-of-life services for our equipment. Cisco has built a Non-GHG Emissions shown in Table 1. 4 Waste (operational “trash”) worldwide network of qualified recyclers. Through several Effluents (Liquid) programs discussed in more detail in a later section, This materiality is based on the overall impact of the ICT Controlled substances Waste customers can return any Cisco equipment for credit or industry sector, which helps prioritize issues globally, as Looking Ahead for recycling at Cisco’s expense. With advanced recycling well as additional criteria aiding prioritization for Cisco: techniques, essentially all recycled products are directed Water use the impact from Cisco’s operations, the impact from into various commodity waste streams for processing our supply chain, and the use of our products by our and recovery. Our challenge is to promote awareness Biodiversity and land use GRI Index customers. of our take-back and recycling programs among our KPIs/Report Card channel partners and customers in the event that they 5 Hazardous waste Energy and GHG emissions are the most important do not have their own network of world-class recyclers. and complex issues for Cisco. The issue of energy Appendix consumption includes not only our own operations, but Non-GHG airborne emissions Discussions of other issues listed in the Table 1 are the extended operations of our business/supply chain provided under the appropriate topic of the Environment partners because we outsource business functions such section. as manufacturing, component supply, and transport logistics. Product energy efficiency is material to Cisco because life cycle analyses of electronic products indicate that the use phase, depending on the product and assumptions made, can make up more than 90 percent of the carbon footprint of typical network products. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F3 < Previous View Principles to demonstrate at scale innovative and cost-effective operational change. These teams promote environmental Introduction Governing principles for environmental sustainability at methods to reduce GHG emissions, and to help our sustainability through cross-functional collaboration Cisco that inform policy development are: customers to do likewise. and a wide-reaching network of contacts across the Governance & Ethics • Cisco uses its position as a respected global leader business, including our customers. The teams focus on • Cisco integrates environmental responsibility into corporate-level initiatives that directly enhance Cisco’s Value Chain and an industry bellwether to environmental advocacy all aspects of our business while meeting customer environmental performance. groups, standards bodies, and policymakers to Our People expectations with respect to product function, delivery, effect practical and effective solutions to global quality, service, and end-of-life management. Performance-Based Compensation environmental challenges. Society • Cisco works with its suppliers (“extended operations”) At Cisco, we believe that environmental sustainability • Cisco believes that most effective leadership is done can be a part of each employee’s job. We are to integrate environmental responsibility into all phases Environment by example. We will effect continuing improvements encouraging employees to have environmental of Cisco’s product life cycles. in our environmental impact assessment, reporting, sustainability-related goals in our online performance > Cisco Environmental • Cisco uses the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and initiatives, and encourage our supply chain and management tool, which documents the results of the Sustainability performance indicators to define the minimum scope business partners to further develop best practices for performance review process and compensation and Materials of our environmental impact assessment, reporting, their own operations. bonus decisions. Currently, about 300 Cisco employees Energy and GHG Emissions and initiatives. All GRI indicators are accorded due have one or more environmental goals in their formal Water Use diligence to support a meaningful impact assessment. Organization development plans that will be reviewed as part of the • Cisco provides complete, accurate, and public Cisco utilizes an EcoBoard of senior executives Cisco Performance Connection evaluation process. Biodiversity and Land Use environmental reporting for our stakeholders. representing key business functions to set Cisco’s Cisco is working to increase the number of employees Non-GHG Emissions environmental strategy. The EcoBoard is a cross• Cisco maintains the following governance for our that have individual environmental performance goals. Effluents (Liquid) functional body made up of vice presidents and Each member of the EcoBoard promotes individual environmental sustainability efforts: senior vice presidents that is responsible for Cisco’s Waste environmental performance goals for employees in their -Cisco actively seeks out stakeholder feedback on environmental vision and strategy, including climate respective organizations. Incorporation of these goals in Looking Ahead materiality assessment, reporting, and the results change. The EcoBoard meets quarterly. In FY11, individual performance reviews effectively pushes the of our initiatives. EcoBoard membership included 14 business-unit and environmental agenda deeper into each functional area. -Cisco has made a long-term commitment to use operational organizations, including Legal, Corporate GRI Index Affairs/Sustainable Business Practices, Sales, Supply our executive-level EcoBoard to set policy and Environmental Management System priorities. Chain Operations, Communications, Finance, Product An environmental management system (EMS) refers KPIs/Report Card Development, Marketing, Services, and IT. Each of our to the management of an organization’s environmental -Cisco seeks and maintains ISO 14001 certification major geographic theatres is also represented. The Appendix impacts and programs in a comprehensive, systematic, for all sites with significant potential for EcoBoard establishes environment-related objectives and planned manner. It includes the organizational environmental impact. for Cisco that address GHG emissions from operations; structure, planning, and resources used for developing, -Cisco uses our CSR Business Process to tactically product energy efficiency; customer environmental implementing, and maintaining a policy for environmental drive reporting, stakeholder feedback, initiative requirements; customer solutions; and opportunities for protection, as well as setting environmental objectives prioritization, implementation, and metrics for employee education, awareness, and involvement. Laura and targets. An EMS: environmental sustainability issues. Ipsen (Senior Vice President and General Manager of the SmartGrid Business Unit) is founder and co-chair of the • Serves as a tool to improve environmental • The risk from increasing GHG concentrations in the EcoBoard. Laura reports to Marthin De Beer, who heads performance Earth’s atmosphere is real and significant. Cisco the Emerging Technologies Group. • Provides a systematic way of managing an supports the reduction of global GHG emissions organization’s environmental impacts, requirements, through improvements to our products, and The EcoBoard, in tandem with business functions and programs operations, and through the actions of our business that are covered by our environmental management partners. Cisco develops and uses our own products system (described below), create and implement 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F4 < Previous View • Addresses immediate and long-term impacts of an The application of these criteria allows us to apply All ISO 14001 certified sites have teams that pursue Introduction organization’s products, services, and processes on resources to the certification of sites that we believe environmental goals. Examples of these efforts include: the environment will make the greatest contribution to managing and Governance & Ethics • Waste reduction and recycling (25 sites) • Gives order and consistency for organizations to reducing Cisco’s environmental impacts. Once a site Value Chain address environmental concerns through the allocation has been certified, an analysis is performed to evaluate • E-scrap management (corporate level and 21 sites) of resources, assignment of responsibility, and ongoing its associated environmental impacts. This includes an • Energy management (corporate level and 10 sites) Our People evaluation of practices, procedures, and processes evaluation of corporate functional areas; the associated products, activities, or services at that location; and the • Environmental awareness (4 sites) and their impacts Society environmental impacts associated with the generation or • Wastewater management (1 site) • Focuses on the improvement of the system and use of materials, impacts on air and water, and depletion Environment environmental performance of natural resources. All of this information is incorporated In addition to the site operational teams, Cisco has our into the calculation of an environmental score, which then EcoBoard that sets goals, initiatives, and metrics that > Cisco Environmental Cisco seeks to decrease our negative impacts while Sustainability guides the prioritization of facilities and the mitigation of measure Cisco’s environmental performance on an enhancing our positive impacts on the environment, and the associated environmental impacts. internal ISO 14001 dashboard. We use performance Materials this concept and foundation are set out in our Corporate tracking, metrics, and governance to track our progress Energy and GHG Emissions Environmental Policy. Our Corporate Environmental Policy, Cisco’s EMS is certified to the internationally recognized toward meeting our goals, as well as to guide us in Water Use in conjunction with our EMS, provides an environmental EMS standard, ISO 14001:2004. All of Cisco’s ISO 14001 finding ways to improve our EMS. performance framework that enables us to monitor and certified sites are audited by an independent third party. Biodiversity and Land Use manage the environmental impacts that we find to be of Sites that were part of an acquisition are included in Audits are a key component of Cisco’s EMS, providing Non-GHG Emissions greatest material importance for our business. the scope of the Corporate Environmental Policy and regular assessments as to whether our environmental Effluents (Liquid) corporate environmental initiatives. processes and commitments are implemented, and Waste Cisco sites for ISO 14001 certification are selected based that we are improving our EMS at our certified sites. on a set of criteria that includes: See Table 2 for our ISO 14001 certification KPIs. Looking Ahead The frequency of these audits depends on set criteria, • Facility size and lab area such as the size and operational activities at the site, The EMS is used to identify the most significant in addition to the results of previous year-over-year • Building headcount capacity or persons housed environmental impacts at each Cisco site and set findings. Typically, within a three-year period, every site GRI Index relevant corporate and local environmental objectives • Primary facility function receives one onsite audit and one virtual audit. In FY11, or targets. Based on potential impacts, site teams adopt we conducted 33 site audits (14 of them virtually using KPIs/Report Card one or more initiatives to implement at a given site. Cisco TelePresence and Cisco WebEx). Appendix Table 2: Cisco Environmental Management System ISO 14001 Certification KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Number of Cisco sites with ISO 14001 certification 23 23 25 26 28 Calendar year certifications assigned to fiscal year (e.g., CY2011 assigned to FY2011) Employees at sites covered by ISO 14001 certification 74% 73% 70% 71% 69% Head count-based metric calculated per 2010. Future reporting will be by real estate footprint (below). Real estate portfolio with ISO 14001 certification 100% 96% 92% 92% 91% Real estate footprint viewed as better measure of potential environmental impact. Candidate ISO 14K sites filtered by minimum size and engineering lab function. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F5 < Previous View • Compare assembly and test scenarios to help develop • Design-for-recyclability and upgradeability Introduction Best Practices more energy efficient manufacturing processes • Recycling marking (ISO11469, SPI codes) Governance & Ethics An important component of our audit process is to • Inform packaging and accessory kit reduction projects • Packaging (reduction of materials and package identify best practices. These are shared across the on the trade-offs of alternative materials and the business functions through our internal EMS newsletter volume) Value Chain environmental impact improvement of reducing and our ISO 14001 committee meetings, which include • Design-for-longevity (designing products for long the ISO 14001 key partners. The best practices that materials Our People lifetimes) were identified in FY11 include: • Understand the relative carbon efficiency of different transport modalities of our products to logistics • Product take-back Society • A lab prototype in Netanya, Israel, that is ergonomically and environmentally designed using centers and customers less floor space and about 20 percent less energy Employee Training Environment We have incorporated environmental design principles than a typical lab To aid in performing LCA work in various areas, we > Cisco Environmental utilize data sources such as PE International’s GaBI into our products, systems, and solutions. The goal • Implementation of databases for improved and easy Sustainability access to Emergency Response Plans in Research and ecoInvent. In addition, we use data from the is to improve designs in order to reduce the use of Materials Triangle Park, North Carolina International Energy Agency (IEA), the U.K. Department raw material, packaging, and transportation while for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), and the enabling more effective recycling. The first step was Energy and GHG Emissions • Identification and management of critical electrical systems for data centers in Richardson and Allen, Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP). to incorporate environmental design features into our Water Use product requirements document. To support these goals, Texas Biodiversity and Land Use Design for Environment we implemented companywide informational and training • An “exceptional workplace resources” vendor Non-GHG Emissions management process that promotes performance, Although the largest impact of most of our products events such as Virtual Earth Day and video-on-demand Effluents (Liquid) environmental awareness, and minimization of comes from energy consumption, many other factors classes. These show employees how they can contribute environmental impact while vendors are onsite in related to materials, transportation, and disposal are to our environmental goal of reducing carbon emissions Waste Amsterdam considered during the design stage to reduce the by creating new products like SmartGrid, improving upon Looking Ahead existing product designs, and working with our supply environmental impact of our products. We employ design-for-environment principles in our product design chain to make upstream operations more environmentally Life Cycle Assessment standards. The benefits include: conscious. Cisco focuses current LCAs on estimating greenhouse GRI Index gas emissions associated with our products. Further Cisco launched a web-based course, sponsored by • Increasing the energy efficiency of our products KPIs/Report Card discussion of this work is provided in a later section the Cisco engineering leadership team, targeting all on Scope 3 emissions. LCA is a holistic approach • Shipping our products with less material employees who have a significant role in defining product Appendix to assessing the environmental impact of a system, • Shipping our products in tighter packaging footprint requirements or developing our products. Employees will process, or product from cradle to grave. At Cisco, LCA learn about Cisco’s green initiatives and what they can do • Designing our products for ease of recycling has the following benefits: to contribute to these efforts. In FY11, this training was We have incorporated design-for-environment into our made available in Mandarin. The web-based training has • Assess the materiality of various contributors to product requirements document template, which focuses been completed by over 1100 members of our product environmental impact on the following areas: development community. • Facilitate more informed material selection of alternative materials that are more environmentally • Energy efficiency (minimum 80 percent efficient power To further embed environmental practices as part of our friendly supply and component) standard business operations, Cisco offers employee • Hazardous materials (exclusion of hazardous materials training on our business management system, which • Understand the impact of product power consumption based on Cisco’s Controlled Substances Specification) includes an explanation of our EMS and environmental on product environmental footprint policy, and how it applies to each employee. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F6 < Previous View In FY11, we developed a web-based training module Cisco has adopted the EICC Code of Conduct for all use and discharge, solid waste, and hazardous Introduction on sustainability and the Supplier Code of Conduct for supply chain partners. Compliance with the Supplier materials management. Helping suppliers improve their employees who engage regularly with suppliers. The Code of Conduct is part of our contractual agreements management of environmental issues and reduce their Governance & Ethics rollout will continue during FY12. The training is based with suppliers and helps to drive environmental/ impacts can in turn help us reduce the overall impacts of Value Chain on a course developed by the Electronics Industry sustainability performance further into the business our products throughout their life cycle. Citizenship Coalition (EICC), which we have customized scorecard process that we use to establish preferred Our People to address Cisco programs and procedures. Supplier supplier status. We consulted with our suppliers in We want to raise sustainability standards throughout the management teams will be required to take refresher developing these criteria to help target the most relevant supply chain by working with our suppliers to help them Society training as necessary to update them on changes to the issues. Cisco’s goal is for sustainability, alongside other improve their management systems and put in place Code and other emerging issues. criteria such as quality and technical requirements, to be similar processes to work with their own suppliers. Our Environment an integral part of the scorecard for preferred suppliers in Supplier Code of Conduct requires our Tier 1 suppliers— Supply Chain FY12 and beyond. those with whom we have a direct relationship—to > Cisco Environmental To identify and reduce supplier environmental impacts apply these same standards to their own suppliers. Sustainability and support their improvement efforts, we have three Supplier Performance Monitoring We also encourage them to join the EICC to participate Materials We monitor the environmental performance of our supplier improvement programs: in wider industry efforts to build capability and drive Energy and GHG Emissions preferred suppliers using the business scorecard standardization. This topic is also discussed in the Value Water Use • Supplier selection criteria process mentioned in the previous section. For example, Chain section. Biodiversity and Land Use • Supplier performance monitoring/audit suppliers are scored as to whether they have measured and reported their GHG emissions to the Carbon Below we have included supply chain related information Non-GHG Emissions • Supplier improvement programs for water, biodiversity, non-GHG emissions, effluents, Disclosure Project. Our goal for FY12 is to review supplier Effluents (Liquid) performance against sustainability metrics as part of and solid waste. Supply chain GHG and energy topics are Supplier Selection Criteria Waste business reviews at least twice a year. This will help our discussed in the Energy and GHG section To be selected as part of Cisco’s supply chain Looking Ahead procurement team, suppliers must meet business preferred suppliers better understand their environmental performance, identify where they need support, and Water: Water quality and availability are of concern to performance criteria that include on-time performance, promote improvements around GHG emissions, water, Cisco not only in its operations but also within the supply quality, and cost. Embedding sustainability into the and waste. This topic is also discussed in the Value Chain chain. Water consumption in our supply chain wholly GRI Index process of supplier selection helps suppliers understand section. depends on the type of supplier. For Cisco’s suppliers our sustainability goals and vision. This includes our that manufacture finished goods, water is a very small KPIs/Report Card Supplier Code of Conduct, and working directly with Supplier Improvement component of environmental impact. However, water suppliers as well as through industry initiatives designed Suppliers that have gaps in defined capabilities, as consumption may be greater for other supplier types. Appendix to build sustainability capabilities. determined by the performance monitoring efforts, may For example, pure water requirements for semiconductor go through a supplier improvement program. After FY12, manufacturing becomes stricter as wafer technologies we expect to have enough data to assess gaps within our advance. supply chain and to work with suppliers to help raise their environmental awareness, capability, and performance. We will address the water issue through its incorporation Sustainability, alongside other as a sustainability metric into our preferred supplier criteria such as quality and technical Environmental management of our suppliers is outlined in scorecard. This scorecard is used to determine supplier requirements, will be an integral part of the Supplier Code of Conduct and is included as part of status and monitor performance. Performance against the audit and improvement process. The environmental these metrics is reviewed at least twice a year. the scorecard for preferred suppliers factors that we focus on are GHG emissions, water beginning in FY12. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F7 < Previous View Biodiversity: Cisco has no active programs addressing We used our experience from working with this • Employee Commuter Incentives: Cisco encourages Introduction biodiversity issues in our supply chain. As we work with facility to produce and share guidance with our other employee use of mass transit at some sites through our manufacturing partners on CSR reporting, it is our manufacturing suppliers to educate them on our strict programs that allow eligible employees to use pre-tax Governance & Ethics expectation that all GRI performance indicators will be requirements and to help them perform accurate dollars to purchase mass transit passes. Cisco has Value Chain addressed. assessments of their environmental performance. We begun installing electric vehicle charging stations continue to engage with IPE through the EICC to increase for our employees, discussed in a later section on Our People Non-GHG Emissions: Cisco has no active programs compliance with environmental regulations across the Scope 3/employee commuting. addressing non-GHG emissions in our supply chain. industry. This topic is also discussed in the Value Chain Society As part of our Supplier Code of Conduct, all local section. For more information on these efforts, see Appendix 2. environmental laws must be followed, including Environment those governing air emissions. As we work with our Solid Waste: We will be adding a solid waste Regulatory Fines manufacturing partners on CSR reporting, it is our performance measurement to our supplier scorecard GRI EN28: Monetary value of significant fines and total > Cisco Environmental number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance expectation that all GRI performance indicators will be process. Sustainability addressed. with environmental laws and regulations. Materials Employee Engagement Energy and GHG Emissions Effluents: Effluents consist of waste that is released from Cisco supports employee interest in the environment Our EMS certifications provide regular assessment of Water Use industrial outfalls into the environment. Water quality is an through several efforts: our environmental compliance. Our culture is one of important area of concern for our supply chain. Although transparency and collaboration, and employees are Biodiversity and Land Use our quantity of water use could be small, the quality of • Virtual Earth Day: An annual activity consisting of a encouraged to raise concerns or report issues without Non-GHG Emissions series of webinars on a variety of environmental topics fear of retaliation. We investigate any allegation of that water is vital. We are working with industry groups, Effluents (Liquid) such as the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs either specific to Cisco or of general interest to our noncompliance to determine root causes and implement Waste (IPE) in China and the Electronics Industry Citizenship worldwide employee base. corrective actions, if needed, to prevent their recurrence. Coalition, to identify water scarcity and water quality • Think Green, Act Green: An internal, quarterly Cisco’s proactive approach and close attention to Looking Ahead issues that may occur within the supply chain. newsletter summarizing Cisco environmental activities environmental requirements have resulted in no for the period. significant fines or penalties greater than US$10,000 in In April 2010, the IPE identified electronics manufacturing the past five years. GRI Index facilities supplying components to global ICT brands that • Civic Councils: Cisco sponsors more than 30 Civic did not comply with regulations for emissions of heavy Councils at major Cisco sites around the world. These KPIs/Report Card councils, discussed in more detail in the Society metals in wastewater. One of our suppliers was listed, although it was not supplying products to us at the time section, provide a means for groups of employees Appendix to volunteer in their local communities on social or of the release. After learning of inclusion on this list, we contacted the supplier and commissioned a third-party environment-related programs. audit of its environmental procedures to understand how • Employee Electronics Recycling (e-scrap): Yearly Cisco heavy metals had entered the wastewater and to find employees can bring in used electronics, which are out if there was an ongoing problem. The supplier took recycled using the same vendors and processes used appropriate corrective actions to improve its wastewater in Cisco’s business. management system. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F8 < Previous View Introduction Materials An example of one of the packaging reduction projects As a result of all of these efforts, we reduced our from FY11 is the Cisco Nexus 2000 pack, in which we packaging material by 1200 metric tonne during the FY11 GRI EN1: Materials used by weight or volume. reduced the height of the accessory kit to shrink the size and a total of 3000 metric tonne over the last three years. Governance & Ethics of the customer pack. This project reduced inbound and Packaging Value Chain outbound shipping costs as well as packaging costs and Watch the Video! Smart design The growing amount of municipal solid waste being had a weight savings of 1.84 oz of plastic and 6.1 oz of reduces the environmental impacts of added to landfills from product packaging has become packaging. Cisco’s design-led approach Our People corrugated cardboard per unit. an area of environmental concern. To minimize Cisco’s to packaging has reduced waste and impacts in this area, our packaging team designs decreased transportation costs. Society More than 95 percent of our packaging parts are made of packages to protect against shipping damage while one material or using materials that are easily separable Environment minimizing material usage. Each design goes through for recycling. However, the recycled content varies from Product rigorous drop and vibration testing because a product item to item and also varies with geographic regions. Understanding the materials that make up our products Cisco Environmental damaged in transit has both negative business and The ability of our customers to recycle our packaging helps Cisco identify opportunities to reduce or eliminate Sustainability environmental impacts as it needs to be disposed of and depends on the recycling facilities in place in their region. their use. Over the last three years, Cisco has used > Materials a replacement product shipped. Except for antistatic bags, which constitute a very small product dematerialization projects to identify and remove Energy and GHG Emissions percentage by weight of all packaging material, all Cisco unnecessary items that ship with our products. These After the basic packaging and material requirements have Water Use packaging is designed to be easily processed by the include removing excess or unnecessary accessory kit been met, Cisco evaluates four additional aspects of Biodiversity and Land Use local recycling infrastructure. items, such as documentation, bags, and hardware, from environmental package design: our products. Non-GHG Emissions In FY11, Cisco continued to work with packaging Effluents (Liquid) • Packaging material optimization: Designing a package suppliers to reduce the environmental impact of product Dematerialization projects are cross-functional, that provides protection for the product while reducing Waste packaging. These efforts included designing packaging collaborative efforts that reduce the auxiliary material the overall amount of packaging material used. Looking Ahead to minimize excessive space and materials, creating previously included with most products, and also allow • Space efficiency optimization: Because the multipacks in which we send our customers multiple units further packaging reductions. Best practices developed environmental impact from transportation and logistics in a single box with a configured quantity of accessories on these projects have been incorporated into our is greater than that from packaging material use, and documentation, and enabling configured shipping to product design cycle and processes. One example GRI Index increasing space/cube efficiency that fills the same reduce the amount of packaging required for the same is known as the pointer card, a small printed card amount of space in a transportation vehicle with more unit. We have also been working with our suppliers to that provides the customer links to access product KPIs/Report Card units of product can reduce a unit’s environmental get all of our corrugated materials certified by the Forest documentation and software on the web. The pointer Appendix impact. Stewardship Council (FSC) or similar agency. card has replaced large documents within accessory • Decreasing product size: Our product designers look kits in many product families. Our packaging is designed with the intent to meet or to decrease the size of the product in two ways: exceed all applicable compliance regulations, including Customers also have the option to order a “reduced -Shipping our products configured those in the European Union and Australia, and all of material” accessory kit, which provides a minimum -Designing our products with distribution in mind, our packaging materials meet relevant environmental set of supporting material, and eliminates items that taking into consideration characteristics such as standards and do not use hazardous constituents. All our customers may not need in their installation, protrusions, compactability, and fragility. Cisco engineered packages are subject to European such as console cables, large documents, and cable packaging standards including CEN 13428:2004, management brackets. • More environmentally friendly materials: After reducing CEN13430:2004, and CEN13431:2004. the overall material used for packaging, our packaging From projects initiated in FY11, Cisco has collectively team then focuses on using recycled content and eliminated 4.53 million pounds of material from our supply recyclable features. chain, through improvements including documentation, raw materials, and packaging. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F9 < Previous View Introduction Recycled Content Our dematerialization efforts help us optimize the Energy and GHG Emissions GRI EN2: Percentage of materials used that are recycled amount and type of auxiliary items that we ship with input materials. our products, without compromising the customer This section reviews Cisco’s environmental impacts and Governance & Ethics our initiatives concerning energy and GHG emissions. experience or product quality. For items that we can’t Packaging eliminate or minimize further, we work toward using as The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicator protocols Value Chain Where possible, Cisco uses corrugated cardboard many recyclable and recycled materials as possible. For place GHG emissions under the Emissions, Effluents, that is approximately 50 percent recycled content and example, recycled content documentation is a Cisco and Waste category. Because Cisco GHG emissions Our People thermoformed cushions that are made from 100 percent standard. are almost all directly associated with the use of energy Society recycled polyethylene. However, this type of cushion (typically electricity), we report GHG emissions with energy. is not suitable for every product, and therefore some All of our documentation specifications call for the use Environment products use foam cushions made from virgin material or of chlorine-free paper with at least 10 percent postCisco has made two GHG emission reduction goals: recycled substitutes. Cisco products also use recyclable consumer waste paper. In FY08, we added a provision Cisco Environmental polyethylene bags for certain purposes (for protection • September 2006: Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) to the approval process that all new vendors be FSC Sustainability commitment to reduce GHG emissions from all Cisco and accessory kit subassembly consolidation), but we are members. Because FSC membership requires complete Materials reducing the thickness and quantity of bags shipped with business air travel worldwide by 10 percent absolute chain of custody and reforestation for any materials, the > Energy and GHG Emissions products while maintaining adequate product protection. (against a FY2006 baseline). environmental impact of virgin paper is minimal. However, Water Use we continue to apply the 10 percent recycled content This CGI goal has been met and the commitment Cisco’s intention is to encourage and promote the use criterion where possible, even to FSC member printers. closed with CGI. Biodiversity and Land Use of recyclable packaging. There are some applications Non-GHG Emissions • June 2008: EPA Climate Leaders commitment to that require use of dissimilar materials joined together Our print vendors use state-of-the-art processes to reduce all Scope 1, 2, and business-air-travel Scope 3 Effluents (Liquid) that cannot easily be recycled, such as metallized static minimize their environmental impact, and where practical GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute by Waste shielding bags, or ESD bags, but in those cases we (on boxes or large print diagrams, for instance) we CY2012 (CY2007 baseline). Looking Ahead minimize the quantity and amount of material used and encourage our vendors to use natural inks. However, evaluate internal reuse programs for them. An alternative where clarity is important (safety materials, operating Cisco is on track to meet this EPA Climate Leaders is the use of antistatic, recyclable pink poly bags in place instructions), the vendor is expected to use a type of ink goal. This goal has not changed since the original of ESD bags where the amount and type of protection that does not bleed or fade. announcement. GRI Index required permits. Along with documentation, Cisco optimizes the thickness Cisco has been recognized for our greenhouse gas KPIs/Report Card Product reporting by both Greenpeace and Carbon Disclosure and types of plastic bags shipped with our products. This In addition to recycled packaging content, most allows us to use the appropriate size, type, and thickness Project (CDP). Appendix products have material that has been recycled from of bags for the items that they are protecting, which other products. Electronic products consist mostly • In December 2010, Greenpeace rated Cisco the #1 means being as efficient as possible with the plastic bags of circuit boards, steel, and plastics. In general, the company in its Cool IT Challenge (v4). We were also we ship with our products. enclosures and structures of our products utilize recycled rated #1 in the previous iteration of the Challenge. materials consistent with safety and performance Cisco did particularly well on our GHG emission requirements. We use reground plastic in our IP phones reporting, providing ICT solutions that our customers where structural rigidity is not required, and we use can use to reduce their GHG emissions, and recycled material in the steel that makes up enclosures calculating the impact of these solutions. of our products. Printed circuit boards typically use recycled material, such as copper, and most electronic components make use of recycled material that is reclaimed from electronics recycling. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F10 < Previous View • In September 2010, Cisco was rated the top IT Operations Scope 1 and 2 See Table 3 below for our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Introduction company in the world by CDP as reported in CDP’s GRI EN3: Direct energy consumption by primary energy KPIs. analysis of responses to CDP’s investor survey. source. Governance & Ethics All prior-year Scope 1, 2, and Scope 3 business air travel (Cisco was rated the #1 and #2 IT company in 2008 and 2009, respectively.) In September 2011, Cisco GRI EN4: Indirect energy consumption by primary source. emissions data vary to some extent from previously Value Chain was once again ranked the #1 IT company in the world reported values, either in the most recent CDP survey and was ranked #5 worldwide among all companies GRI EN16: Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas or in our FY10 CSR Report, because of updates to Our People in all sectors. A copy of our 2011 survey response is emissions by weight. emissions factors, methodology, and correction of Society available on the CDP website. minor errors found upon repeated review. To support Environment Table 3: Summary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Cisco Environmental Sustainability KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Materials > Energy and GHG Emissions Total gross GHG emissions: Scope 1, 51,399 51,661 53,453 53,363 60,382 Gross is used consistent with Carbon Disclosure Project Water Use metric tonne CO2e (CDP) terminology. Gross GHG emissions do not include reductions from renewable energy purchases. Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Total gross GHG emissions: Scope 2, 461,456 539,867 590,755 597,257 610,832 metric tonne CO2e Effluents (Liquid) Waste Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 2, 395,720 296,417 235,520 339,630 367,513 Contractual is used consistent with CDP terminology. metric tonne CO2e Contractual GHG emissions include reductions from Looking Ahead renewable energy purchases. Scope 1 and 2 emissions (gross) intensity, 14.7 15.0 17.8 16.2 15.5 metric tonne CO2e per million US$ revenue GRI Index Scope 2 emissions from primary date 96.4% 97.1% 96.9% 98.6% 98.0% KPIs/Report Card Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 1 and 2, metric 447,120 348,079 288,973 392,993 427,895 tonne CO2e Appendix Progress against reduction goal. na -22% -35% -12% -4% Cisco’s corporate GHG reduction goal was set as part Goal: reduce all Scope 1, 2, [and business-air-travel of U.S. EPA Climate Leaders program, which required a Scope 3] GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent calendar-year baseline. The Climate Leaders program absolute by CY2012 (CY2007 baseline) has since been discontinued. To avoid reporting both calendar and fiscal year data, Cisco is publicly reporting emissions using fiscal year data. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F11 < Previous View standardization and benchmarking across companies, Each year, Cisco has an independent third-party review GRI EN7: Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Introduction Cisco uses the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate our GHG inventory, including all emissions relevant to consumption and reductions achieved. Accounting Standard as the basis for our Scope 1, 2, and our current GHG reduction goal, which includes Scope 1 Governance & Ethics GRI EN18: Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 3 (business air travel) emissions calculations. The EPA and Scope 2 emission sources and Scope 3 businessClimate Leaders program provides additional program air-travel emissions. In FY11, this limited assurance and reductions achieved. Value Chain guidance. review was provided by WSP Environment & Energy in accordance with the ISO 14065 International Standard. GRI EN30: Total environmental protection expenditures Our People Cisco has reported to the CDP in all nine years that the and investments by type. Society CDP survey has been distributed. CDP is an independent, Use-weighted electricity emissions factors KPIs for all not-for-profit organization that holds the largest database Cisco facilities as well as for our major data centers are Reducing our energy consumption and enabling a diverse Environment of GHG emissions in the world. The CDP questionnaire provided in Table 4. energy supply for our facilities makes good business and our answers provide a comprehensive view of the sense as well as benefiting the environment. A number of Cisco Environmental Reducing Emissions from Operations programs and projects are underway to help us reduce following topics related to climate change: risks and Sustainability our present energy costs and future exposure to energy opportunities, actual emissions, reduction goals, avoided GRI EN5: Energy saved due to conservation and Materials emissions, and regulatory and policy activities. efficiency improvements. price fluctuations. These tactics help us stay competitive > Energy and GHG Emissions and reinforce our commitment to being environmentally Water Use responsible. Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Table 4: Electricity Emissions Factors Effluents (Liquid) Waste KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Looking Ahead International Energy Agency (IEA) world average EF, 508.4 504.5 500.0 500.0 500.0 Calendar year per IEA. Latest 2009 EF from IEA value g CO2e per kWh used for 2009-2011. GRI Index Cisco, global average electricity EF (gross) 437.1 448.8 456.9 460.9 443.2 g CO2e per kWh KPIs/Report Card Cisco, global average electricity EF (contractual) g CO2e 375.4 246.4 182.2 262.1 266.6 per kWh Appendix Cisco, major data center average electricity EF (gross) 397.5 401.3 418.8 435.4 435.0 g CO2e per kWh 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F12 < Previous View See Table 5 for a summary of all of our energy-related energy conservation projects. Since FY09, we estimate consumption is a priority for Cisco. Considering that over Introduction KPIs. that through our continued investment in energy projects, 60 percent of our electricity is used to power and cool Cisco has conserved approximately 67 million kWh of equipment in our engineering labs, making our labs more Governance & Ethics Our approach to reduce energy consumption and GHG energy and avoided 29,600 metric tonne CO2e. More energy efficient represents a large opportunity to reduce emissions from our operations is to: detail on these major reduction activities are provided in GHG and energy costs. Value Chain the following sections. • Deploy an updated building space policy to reduce the We have been evaluating and experimenting with Our People amount of our office space through implementation of Building Space Policy and Cisco Connected Workplace different ways to reduce electricity consumption in our Society Cisco Connected Workplace products As a result of Cisco’s new building space policy, we will labs, such as retrocommissioning projects, increasing • Improve the efficiency of our buildings, focusing on our expand the amount of Cisco Connected Workplace in lab ambient temperature, and installing smart power Environment engineering labs, which are Cisco’s largest consumer our real estate portfolio because all new and renovation distribution units (PDUs) to turn equipment off when not of electricity and source of GHG emissions projects must comply with Cisco Connected Workplace in use. In FY11, Cisco formed a lab energy management Cisco Environmental requirements. By the end of FY11, Cisco Connected team to update our global lab energy strategy, Sustainability • Purchase electricity from certified low-carbon and Workplace represented approximately 17.5 percent of coordinating three areas concerning lab energy use: Materials renewable sources where available Cisco’s total office space. Cisco Connected Workplace is > Energy and GHG Emissions • Produce electricity from low-carbon, onsite one of the most cost-effective GHG-reduction strategies • Improve the energy efficiency of the building Water Use technologies that we are deploying in our real estate operations. infrastructure that supports our labs Biodiversity and Land Use • Install and utilize power monitoring and control Through these collective efforts, in FY11 Cisco estimates Labs Non-GHG Emissions technologies in our labs that it has conserved approximately 16.9 million kWh Because Scope 2 emissions from electricity consumption Effluents (Liquid) of energy and avoided GHG emissions by 7400 metric make up more than 85 percent of our worldwide • Develop and execute a lab employee engagement Waste tonne CO2e through an investment of US$1.9 million in total Scope 1 and 2 emissions, reducing electricity program Looking Ahead Table 5: Energy Totals GRI Index KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments KPIs/Report Card Energy usage, GWh 1,282 1,438 1,533 1,524 1,629 Appendix Indirect energy usage, GWh 1,054 1,203 1,293 1,296 1,378 Indirect energy usage is electricity consumption. Direct energy consumption is the sum of Cisco’s natural gas and diesel usage for heating and back-up power generation and regular gasoline and diesel fuel used in Cisco’s fleet. Direct energy usage, GWh 228 235 240 228 250 Electricity usage, GWh 1,054 1,203 1,293 1,296 1,378 Natural gas usage, GWh 150 158 147 118 121 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F13 < Previous View Initial pilots have shown that significant energy can We worked closely with our real estate partner, Jones estate portfolio. This team includes Cisco employees Introduction be saved through a combination of these efforts. Lang LaSalle, to create “green leasing” terms and as well as our current facility manager partners, CB This program is now being deployed across the lab integrate these terms into our standard lease template Richard Ellis (CBRE) and Johnson Controls (JCI), that Governance & Ethics community. When completed, we expect that this lab in FY11. These terms vary depending on the size of the manage the day-to-day maintenance of our buildings. Value Chain energy program to reduce Cisco’s electricity costs by building and the length of the leasing contract, but in Cisco incorporated energy-efficiency requirements as approximately US$9 million per year and reduce GHG general, the larger the building and the longer the lease, part of our facility management contracts. These new Our People emissions by over 30,000 metric tonnes CO2e. the more stringent the green leasing terms. Sample contracts were implemented in FY10. For each year terms in the green leasing template include: of the five-year contract, our partners are required Society Data Centers to identify and implement various energy-efficiency A review of Cisco’s latest green data center is provided in • Temperature controls projects at Cisco facilities, including lighting-efficiency Environment a later section on cloud computing. • Sub-meters for major utilities upgrades, retro-commissioning, and HVAC upgrades. In FY11, approximately US$1.9 million in energy-efficiency Cisco Environmental Building Energy Efficiency • Building recycling program Sustainability projects were identified and implemented. Cisco takes three parallel approaches to making our real • No chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) used in HVAC system Materials estate portfolio as energy efficient as possible: Onsite Power Generation — Solar • Bicycle storage and facilities for cycling commuters to > Energy and GHG Emissions In FY11, Cisco installed and commissioned solar • Incorporate efficiency into a new or majorly renovated change for work Water Use photovoltaic (PV) systems at two of its data centers. space by following standards in accordance with the • Green building certification (e.g., LEED, BREEAM, Biodiversity and Land Use The first system was installed in Allen, Texas, on Cisco’s U.S. Green Building Council Leadership in Energy and ENERGY STAR) new data center, and the second system was installed Non-GHG Emissions Environmental Design (LEED) standards in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, on another Effluents (Liquid) • Use Cisco’s new “green leasing” standards in selecting Incorporating these terms into leases up front is data center. Both have a capacity of 100 kW. Cisco will leased space and working with landlords to improve important for Cisco because about half of Cisco’s real Waste use the experience gained through the use of these pilot the energy efficiency of their buildings estate footprint is leased rather than owned, and in many Looking Ahead systems to assess wider implementation. cases these leases exceed 10 years. In addition, if we do • Identify and implement energy-efficiency projects not specify any green leasing requirements at the time throughout our global operations of leasing, it can be extremely difficult to incorporate the GRI Index requirements later. We have made significant progress since our first KPIs/Report Card LEED-certified building was built in August 2009 toward Not all of the terms in Cisco’s green lease template are integrating green building standards into our real estate mandatory to implement in every lease. At a minimum, Appendix portfolio. By the end of FY11, 23 Cisco facilities had the template provides a tool for Cisco’s real estate achieved LEED certification, 15 of them Gold or Platinum team to negotiate with the landlord to promote Cisco’s status. These include our new data center in Allen, sustainability goals that its leased facilities are healthy, Texas, and a renovated data center in Research Triangle efficient, and sustainable, both now and throughout the Park, North Carolina, both of which achieved LEED term of the lease. Platinum certification in FY11. When we build or renovate significant new space, we will include LEED design Global Energy Management standards in the project and pursue LEED or similar Cisco maintains a global energy management team that certification. meets on a biweekly basis to discuss energy efficiency Cisco solar array at Allen, Texas data center. and onsite power generation opportunities in our real 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F14 < Previous View Purchasing Renewable Energy Introduction The percent of electricity purchased from renewable energy Table 7: Renewable Energy sources for various regions is shown in Table 6. Governance & Ethics KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Value Chain Table 6: FY11 Electricity Usage from Renewable Sources Electricity from renewable sources, GWh 110 342 469 351 358 Our People Electricity from renewable sources 10% 28% 36% 27% 26% Region Percent of FY11 electricity from renewable sources GHG emissions reduction from renewable energy, 65,736 243,450 355,235 257,627 243,319 Society metric tonne CO2e Environment Europe 64% Cisco Environmental Purchasing electricity generated from renewable and Scope 3 emissions cover a broad range of activities, and United States 27% Sustainability non-carbon sources has been an important component we have expanded our efforts to address all life cycle Materials of Cisco’s GHG reduction strategy. Cisco purchases emissions, including our supply chain, logistics, use Global 26% renewable power where it is available in the local power phase, and end of life. Cisco provides a comprehensive > Energy and GHG Emissions market. Cisco currently purchases power from noor response to Scope 3 questions on the CDP Investor Water Use low-carbon sources in both the United States and Europe survey. Cisco also initiated the GHGP Scope 3/Product Biodiversity and Land Use Cisco has increased renewable power purchases since and plans to support noor low-carbon energy sources ICT Sector Supplement under the auspices of the WRI Non-GHG Emissions FY06 by buying Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) in other regions of the world as they become available and WBCSD. Effluents (Liquid) and entering into green power contracts with various in the marketplace. Cisco’s global renewable electricity electricity suppliers in the United States to reduce GHG purchases are summarized in Table 7. The following sections provide additional detail on our Waste emissions from Cisco operations. Purchased RECs Scope 3 emissions reporting and reduction activities. A Looking Ahead are certified by Green-e, an independent auditor of Operations Scope 3 later section provides an overview of the Cisco solutions renewable energy products, and are generated from GRI EN17: Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas that help our customers reduce their own Scope 1, 2, hydropower projects in Washington; wind projects emissions by weight. and 3 GHG emissions. Cisco uses many of these same GRI Index in Iowa, Texas, North Dakota, and New Mexico; and solutions internally to test the effect on GHG emissions biomass projects in Tennessee and Kentucky. In addition, Cisco has prioritized its Scope 3 operations-related of our products at scale, as well as to understand the KPIs/Report Card Cisco purchased approximately 89 million kWh through efforts on reducing our business air travel, and “soft” challenges to successful implementation—the various European green power suppliers. We follow the developing business processes, management practices, necessary updates to business processes, management Appendix guidelines from the U.K. Department for Environmental information systems, and standardized methodologies for expectations, and employee behavior. and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and use the grid average when using network technologies to reduce air travel. During calculating emissions associated with this power. this time, Cisco actively participated in the development Scope 3 Business Air Travel of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) Scope 3 and GRI EN29: Significant environmental impacts of Cisco participates in the U.S. EPA’s Green Power GHGP Product accounting standards led by the World transporting products and other goods and materials Partnership. As of July 2011, Cisco was listed ninth Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for used for the organization’s operations, and transporting among the National Top 50 and seventh among Fortune Sustainable Development (WBCSD). members of the workforce. 500 companies in the EPA’s green power ranking. This ranking is updated quarterly by the U.S. EPA. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F15 < Previous View Cisco believes that the global problem of climate change Because of EPA requirements, our reduction goal is thousands of flights per year. That is, the same number Introduction requires a significant reduction in emissions in absolute stated in terms of calendar years. To avoid potential of planes are still flying. Of course, as more companies terms. For our operations, Cisco has made the following confusion from reporting very similar numbers for adopt these network technologies, the number of plane Governance & Ethics public commitments that impact Scope 3 emissions: fiscal and calendar years, we report only emissions by flights should decrease. Therefore, we have chosen not Value Chain fiscal year and use fiscal-year emissions internally for to complicate what is inherently a conceptual reduction • September 2006: Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) operational control and initiative planning. We will report by considering class of service flown in selecting Our People commitment to reduce GHG emissions from all Cisco against our CY12 EPA commitment in our FY13 CSR emissions factors. We use DEFRA air travel emissions business air travel worldwide by 10 percent absolute Report. Because of rolling updates to air flight data, priorfactors in our calculations. Society (against a FY2006 baseline). year business air travel emissions data vary slightly from This CGI goal has been met and the commitment values previously reported in either our 2010 CSR Report Our FY11 Scope 3 air travel emissions data and Environment closed with CGI. or our response to the Carbon Disclosure Project 2011 calculations were reviewed by a representative of Investor survey. WSP Environment and Energy. Our Scope 3 emissions Cisco Environmental • June 2008: EPA Climate Leaders commitment to reporting process has been audited in the past by both Sustainability reduce all [Scope 1, 2, and] business-air-travel Scope We have not adopted different emissions factors for Cisco’s internal audit team and our external ISO 14001 Materials 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute by different classes of air service, for two reasons. First, auditor, but was not selected for either audit in FY11. > Energy and GHG Emissions CY2012 (CY2007 baseline). Cisco’s focus is on using Cisco ICT remote collaboration Water Use Cisco is on track to meet this EPA Climate Leaders technologies to not travel. Reporting reduced emissions Reducing GHG Emissions from Scope 3 Business Air Travel goal, which has not changed since the original because a larger fraction of employees flew economy To replace physical travel and meet our EPA Climate Biodiversity and Land Use announcement. class this year compared to last moves the focus away Leaders reduction goal, Cisco is relying on Cisco remote Non-GHG Emissions collaboration technologies, including Cisco TelePresence, from travel substitution. Second, we are unsure of the Effluents (Liquid) This section reviews our progress meeting the EPA treatment of using different emissions factors for different products from the acquisition of Tandberg, and Cisco Waste Climate Leaders goal and provides additional information classes of air travel for a given company. Even though WebEx desktop conferencing. Looking Ahead concerning our Scope 3 emissions. Cisco’s total global Cisco is a large company, it is likely that scheduled GHG emissions from business air travel over the last five Worldwide utilization of general-use Cisco TelePresence air service has not been impacted by our reduction in fiscal years are shown in Table 8. units has remained steady at just under 50 percent based air travel, even reductions measured in hundreds of on a 10-hour day. Many Cisco TelePresence units are GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Table 8: Scope 3 Air Travel Greenhouse Gas Emissions Appendix KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Total air travel GHG emissions: Scope 3 205,796 197,867 118,602 106,783 127,232 Primary air travel data adjusted to represent 100% of metric tonne CO2e Cisco business-air-travel. Scope 3 air travel emissions from primary data 98.0% 98.5% 97.9% 96.1% 98.2% Progress against reduction goal. base year +4% -42% -48% -38% See prior comment on Scope 1 and 2 portion of Goal: reduce all [Scope 1, 2, and] business-air-travel reduction goal. Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute by CY2012 (CY2007 baseline) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F16 < Previous View booked at or over 100 percent capacity based on a 10EBC stands for Executive Briefing Center, one of Introduction hour day. The larger, three-screen Cisco TelePresence numerous regional meeting facilities that Cisco uses for systems have a higher utilization rate. For example, our presentations to customers. Many executives have Cisco Governance & Ethics CTS-3200 series units, which seat 18 people, have a TelePresence units in their offices, typically the CTS-500. Value Chain utilization rate of about 65 percent based on a 10-hour We also have rolled out thousands of Tandberg, desktop, day. Higher utilization of the larger Cisco TelePresence hardware-based (e.g., EX60, EX90) and software-based Our People rooms is constrained by room availability or because of (Movi), high-definition video conferencing units in a move substantial time differences between endpoints. Table 9 to make high-definition video interaction pervasive at Cisco. Society illustrates our rollout of Cisco TelePresence across the company since September 2006, which is in the first We have installed various Cisco TelePresence models Environment quarter of our FY07. at many locations to accommodate the different requirements of each site. This includes models that Cisco Environmental Sustainability Materials Table 9: Cisco-internal TelePresence Room Cumulative Deployment > Energy and GHG Emissions Cisco CTS-3000 TelePresence unit (6 users) with CTS-3200 TelePresence (18 users) Water Use Cumulative, as of End of Total Number of Cisco Total Number of Cities Total Number of Countries Fiscal Year TelePresence Rooms Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions accommodate anywhere from one or two users in a 2007 (general use) 72 50 20 Effluents (Liquid) private office setting to larger group meetings of up to 18 people. By having a range of Cisco TelePresence Waste 2008 (general use) 179 109 37 units available, more types of interactions can be Looking Ahead virtualized, avoiding more physical travel and reducing 2009 (general use) 369 156 44 travel expenses and GHG emissions. Up to 42 screens in multiple locations can be scheduled for an internal GRI Index 2010 (general use) 534 214 59 meeting using the Cisco TelePresence Multipoint Switch. KPIs/Report Card 2011 (general use) 601 238 67 Appendix 2007 (private or EBC) 26 6 3 2008 (private or EBC) 53 12 7 2009 (private or EBC) 179 47 21 2010 (private or EBC) 334 73 26 2011 (private or EBC) 433 98 28 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F17 < Previous View Cisco WebEx and Cisco MeetingPlace products are can effectively be completed remotely. About 42 percent Avoided GHG Emissions from Scope 3 Business Air Travel Introduction also part of the suite of solutions our employees use to of our global ISO 14001 site audits were performed using It is difficult to project with certainty what might collaborate virtually with other Cisco employees, and Cisco remote collaboration solutions. This real-world have happened to Cisco air travel emissions without Governance & Ethics our customers, partners, and other stakeholders. Table experience guides product development and supports widespread use of these collaborative technologies. 10, our use of Cisco MeetingPlace and Cisco WebEx rollout of the supporting management practices. Use of However, in response to stakeholder inquiries, Cisco Value Chain continues to grow, mirroring a similar growth in Cisco and familiarity with these and related products continue has compared changes to our actual air travel emissions Our People TelePresence use. A “people-hour,” as used in the table, to expand at Cisco for more functions and business against changes to revenue and headcount. Revenue and is one person attending a remote meeting for one hour, activities. Decisions are made faster, cross-cultural headcount are the two factors believed to be the primary Society either by teleconference or via the web and a personal communications are improved, stakeholder and customer drivers of air travel. In Figure 1, actual emissions on the computer. Five people attending a two-hour meeting feedback from around the world is better disseminated x-axis are plotted against revenue (light green line, left Environment would equal 10 people-hours. within the company, and products move to market faster. axis) and headcount (dark green line, right axis).  Cisco Environmental Sustainability Table 10: Cisco WebEx and MeetingPlace Usage Figure 1: Avoided CO2 Emissions from Use of Remote Collaboration Technologies Materials > Energy and GHG Emissions Year Total Web Conferencing (Millions of People-hours) 45 Water Use 2011 Biodiversity and Land Use 2007 4.7 40 2010 Tandberg acquisition 2008 Non-GHG Emissions (FQ3) 2008 7.6 Effluents (Liquid) 35 2009 2007 CGI commitment (FQ1) Waste TelePresence start (FQ1) 2009 13.3 Looking Ahead 30 CISCO REVENUE ($US BILLION) 2006 WebEx acquisition 2010 19.3 (mid-year FQ3) 25 2005 GRI Index 2004 2011 23.0 20 2011 KPIs/Report Card 60,000 CISCO AVERAGE DAILY HEADCOUNT 2009 2008 Appendix Cisco TelePresence and WebEx now interoperate 15 (WebEx users see TelePresence video), expanding 2010 Tandberg 50,000 acquisition (FQ3) 2007 CGI commitment (FQ1) the types of remote collaboration experiences that are 10 TelePresence start (FQ1) enabled by our network technologies. 2006 WebEx acquisition 40,000 5 Using Cisco TelePresence, Tandberg products, and (mid-year FQ3) 2005 web conferencing, Cisco has piloted and developed 2004 0 the business processes and management practices 30,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 350,000 400,000 for virtual company meetings, executive operational reviews, department “all hands” meetings, our annual GHG EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNE CO2e) sales meeting, and our annual senior leadership “offsite” meeting, thereby expanding the types of interactions that 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F18 < Previous View The timing of Cisco’s acquisition of WebEx in mid-FY06, Replacing business air travel with remote collaboration Introduction the start of Cisco TelePresence use and our CGI air travel requires more than just installing more technology. Table 11: Cisco Virtual Office Installations in Employee Homes emissions reduction commitment in early FY07, and our Business processes, management practices, and Governance & Ethics As of End of Calendar Year Total Installations Tandberg acquisition in the second half of FY10 are also culture need to be adapted to take full advantage of shown. From FY04 to FY06, changes to GHG emissions these new network technologies. As experience with (Cumulative) Value Chain were roughly proportional to changes in revenue and remote collaboration technologies increases, both within Our People headcount. This observation is consistent with the fact Cisco and among our customers and partners, remote 2005 1,467 that about two-thirds of Cisco’s air travel emissions were interactions will progress from the exception of a few Society from our sales and service organizations, both “high years ago, to standard practice within Cisco, and to the 2006 5,006 touch” business functions. The more products sold and expected behavior worldwide in the future. Environment the more customers Cisco serves, the more the potential 2007 8,234 for business travel. Scope 3 Employee Commuting Cisco Environmental Teleworking Sustainability 2008 9,214 The case for collaborative technologies to reduce The employee skill sets developed to reduce businessMaterials air-travel and the accompanying business processes physical travel and GHG emissions is unambiguous. > Energy and GHG Emissions With a 25 percent increase in revenue and headcount and management practices are also used to reduce 2009 13,457 Water Use compared to FY07, in FY11 air travel emissions have employee travel between home and work, as well as dropped almost 40 percent on an absolute basis between buildings at a Cisco site. The wide availability 2010 16,449 Biodiversity and Land Use compared to FY07, exceeding our EPA Climate Leaders of sophisticated collaboration tools within Cisco permits Non-GHG Emissions goal of a 25 percent absolute reduction. In prior years, employees to become well versed in integrating these 2011 (through July) 20,487 Effluents (Liquid) technologies into daily business activities. Several Cisco Cisco worked to first overcome upward pressure on Waste travel from business growth, and then achieved absolute technologies permit flexible working environments, Looking Ahead reductions in emissions compared to the base year. including Cisco Virtual Office and Cisco OfficeExtend. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations As a result of this earlier effort, we experienced an Cisco Virtual Office is based on an 800-series, Cisco In FY11, Cisco installed nine electric vehicle charging initial reduction in air travel emissions starting in FY08. Integrated Services Router providing secure, wired stations for use by Cisco employees and guests at Because of the economic downturn first seen toward the and wireless voice, data, and video service for small GRI Index several headquarters campus locations in San Jose. beginning of FY09, the emissions-reduction emphasis commercial offices or an employee home. OfficeExtend We are providing these charging stations to expand the changed to growing customer relationships in spite of is a simpler, remote wireless access point in the KPIs/Report Card employee base that could commute to work using a restrained travel. As the economy has slowly recovered, employee home that provides secure communications to plug-in hybrid or an all-electric vehicle. Appendix our travel has increased from last year, but we are still a WLAN controller at the company campus. well below our committed goal. The net effect of our As shown in Table 11, employees have rapidly adopted collaborative technologies has been a reduction in travel, Cisco Virtual Office, which includes an Integrated carbon emissions, and travel costs with an increase in Services Router and IP phone, to effectively work employee productivity and work-life integration, while remotely. Although telecommuting or working in a maintaining and growing the customer relationships flexible office space does not directly reduce air travel, needed for continued revenue growth as the worldwide it does afford opportunities to become more proficient economy improves. in using collaborative technologies. This proficiency can be applied directly to business activities where remote collaboration does reduce air travel. Electric vehicle charging at Cisco (San Jose, California) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F19 < Previous View The charging stations are located next to Buildings Cisco is committed to shaping our industry in this area In this analysis, a global average electricity emissions Introduction 10, 21, and J. Charging is currently free for registered through two avenues: factor based on unit shipments was used. Larger core employees and Cisco guests. routers and switches are even more heavily weighted Governance & Ethics • Industry involvement to the use phase. For lower power devices, especially Scope 3 Life Cycle Emissions • Internal research to develop our capabilities consumer-premises equipment (CPE) that might have Value Chain Cisco’s general use of life cycle assessment (LCA) a shorter life time and might often be turned off or in Our People techniques was discussed in an earlier section. Carbon Our internal LCA studies have focused on our most a lower power, nonoperating mode, the percentage of footprinting, the LCA specifically focused on the common products, including IP phones, standalone emissions from the use phase is less. Society environmental impact from GHG emissions, is the subject switches/routers (which covers a substantial portion of multiple standards activities as well as increasing of our product line), and Cisco TelePresence. For our Cisco actively participates in ICT industry efforts to work Environment numbers of channel partner, service provider, and endswitching and routing systems, we have determined toward a common approach to assessing environmental use customer inquiries. that the use phase dominates, with between 80 and 90 impacts of products, including: Cisco Environmental Sustainability percent of the carbon life cycle impact. (There may be ISO 14040:2006 provides the principles and framework as much as a 25 percent uncertainty in these values due • GHG Protocol Scope 3 and previously referenced Materials for life cycle assessments as part of environmental product accounting and reporting standards to variation in assumed product use.) Global emissions > Energy and GHG Emissions management. factors can vary by a factor of three, which impacts • Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 3/Product ICT Sector Water Use emissions factors and use phase emissions. Supplement (Cisco is a founding member and chapter Cisco has adopted the five product life cycle stages Biodiversity and Land Use editor) defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol in its 2011 The results of a typical analysis for a mid-level, Layer 2/3, Non-GHG Emissions Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard, • European Telecommunications Standards Institute metro access switch is shown in Figure 2. Effluents (Liquid) which is based on the ISO 14040-series standards: (ETSI) LCA assessment of telecommunication Waste equipment and service, DTS/EE-00014 1. Material acquisition and pre-processing Looking Ahead Figure 2: Distribution of GHG Emissions • iNEMI Eco-Impact Evaluator Project to develop a 2. Production Across Life Cycle for Mid-Level, Layer 2/3, simplified LCA tool for ICT products (Cisco is 3. Distribution and storage Metro, Access Switch (ME-3400) co-editor) GRI Index 4. Use ~1% EOL • Massachusetts Institute of Technology PAIA (Product 3% Final Transport Attribute to Impact Algorithm) program, developing a KPIs/Report Card 5. End of life simplified, top-down footprinting methodology, that is 7% Materials & Manufacturing sharing data and best practices with iNEMI Appendix • Sponsorship of Stanford University civil engineering graduate program project and Massachusetts Institute of Technology internship on sustainability 89% Use 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F20 < Previous View The collective intent of these efforts is to build and share for business activity specific to their Cisco business, it 4. Set a GHG emissions reduction goal Introduction knowledge, apply life cycle concepts to our product would be impractical. The scale of the data collection 5. Request that their business partners also report to CDP design and operations, build engagement with academia, effort would be very large and entail many companies Governance & Ethics and support the ICT sector working toward practical with which Cisco has no direct business relationship. Our open letter to our suppliers and business partners is Value Chain and useful methodologies to assess the GHG emissions To address stakeholder concerns about supply available in Appendix 3. impact of our products. chain emissions, Cisco utilizes life cycle assessment Our People techniques and software, discussed in the previous We recognize that not all partners can complete all five Scope 3 Extended Operations Emissions (Supply Chain) section, to understand the relative contributions of the steps in their first year of reporting. As such, we are Society Cisco receives numerous inquiries from stakeholders various phases of product life. currently tracking, via a subscription to CDP’s Reporter concerning supply chain emissions. This interest is Services software, what percentage of Cisco spend is Environment properly founded on the concern that GHG emissions To target supply chain emissions, we are using our with suppliers that report to CDP. “disappear” from Cisco’s Scope 1 and 2 reporting when business relationships to encourage our business Cisco Environmental a business function, such as manufacturing or component partners to report to CDP. In February 2011, Cisco We currently are tracking CDP reporting KPIs from five Sustainability supply, is subcontracted to a business partner. Cisco requested approximately 1500 business partners to categories of suppliers, as shown in Table 12. Materials subcontracts assembly of our final products and also report to CDP. It is Cisco’s long-term objective for > Energy and GHG Emissions relies on a worldwide network of component suppliers business partners to: We want to continue to push this approach to GHG Water Use and logistics providers. These business partners in turn reporting accountability to other categories of business rely on additional supply chain partners to support their 1. Report to CDP annually partners. We will also start measuring against criteria 2-5 Biodiversity and Land Use respective contribution to Cisco’s products. 2. Make their responses publicly available listed previously. Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) While it might be theoretically possible to collect 3. Provide external review of reported GHG emissions Waste emissions data from these multiple tiers of partners data collection, analysis, and reporting Looking Ahead Table 12: Supply Chain Partners Reporting to CDP GRI Index KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments KPIs/Report Card Suppliers Reporting to CDP Appendix • Contract manufacturing, by planned spend na 63% 82% 100% 100% Tier 1 partner. Goal: 100% (met) • AVL component, by planned spend na 54% 59% 69% 69%* *Pending CDP Reporter Services 2011 data analysis; Tier 2 partner. Goal: 80% • Logistics, by supplier count na na na 50% 50%* *Pending CDP Reporter Services 2011 data analysis; Tier 2 partner. Goal: 90% 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F21 < Previous View Scope 3 Logistics As global energy use has risen, so have GHG emissions. Introduction Logistics, the delivery of new products to our customers, While the ICT industry accounts for only 2 percent of Table 13: Selected Example Energy-Efficiency Regulations is part of the transportation sector and includes shipment the world’s GHG emissions, it too is growing as adoption Governance & Ethics General from our manufacturing sites to our end customers. and use of technology expand globally. Product energy Value Chain This may include stops at warehouses and channel and efficiency (or cutting wasted energy usage by our distribution partners. The largest impact to Scope 3 products) is a big issue for Cisco because of the number • EU EuP Lot-6 on Standby Our People emissions in product logistics comes from shipping by air. and type of energy-consuming products that we sell • EuP Lot 26 on Networked Standby Losses of EuPs To minimize our impact from product transport, we are each year. Some of these devices are replacements • E-standby and MEPs Society taking the following approach: while others are additive, contributing to the emissions from IT equipment. The largest proportion of energy they • Mexico Energy Consumption Labeling Regulation Environment • We are engaging with our transport and logistics consume, and thus their GHG emissions, is during the use partners to set expectations for sustainability phase of their life cycle. Product energy that efficiency External Power Adapters Cisco Environmental performance and regularly measure and score our has emerged as a key design criterion in our products Sustainability partners on environmental performance. Our transport with our increasing awareness of climate change issues. • EuP Lot 7 External Power Supplies Materials partners have led the industry in sustainable solutions, •C alifornia CEC Title-20 Appliance Energy Efficiency > Energy and GHG Emissions which includes fleet upgrades and introduction of Customers and regulators, too, are increasingly requiring standards for EPS (+ various state level energy efficiency Water Use biofuels. Our primary logistics partners with activities products that minimize energy costs and GHG emissions. standards that mimic CEC standard) Biodiversity and Land Use in North America are U.S. EPA SmartWay-certified. Every year the number of environmental sustainability•A ustralia MEPS for EPS-Minimum Energy Efficiency • We work closely with our transport logistics partners related inquiries from analysts, customers, shareholders, Standards for external power adapter (EPS) Efficiency Non-GHG Emissions to develop more efficient means of transporting our and NGOs continues to increase. Cisco tracks energy level III (Mandatory) Effluents (Liquid) products. This includes packaging reduction, which use regulations and certification programs of all countries • The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 Waste in which we do business. Examples of various energytherefore leads to package volume reduction and • Korea MEPS Looking Ahead higher shipping efficiency, but also opportunities for efficiency regulations are listed in Table 13. •E nergy Star EPS specification Ver.2 for EPS Voluntary shipping consolidation (which leads to fewer trips) and endorsement labeling standard for EPS For these reasons, improving product energy efficiency the opportunity to use alternative modes of transport. • Swiss Energy Regulation represents more than just a regulatory requirement GRI Index To promote sustainability in our supply chain, there for Cisco; it is a significant opportunity for us to help needs to be a strong partnership with our suppliers. This customers save on energy costs, reduce global Set-top Boxes KPIs/Report Card includes supporting public reporting and setting reduction energy demand, and lower GHG emissions. Product Appendix goals. In the second half of FY11, we began scoring energy efficiency is a key part of all product design • Australia MEPS on Set-top Boxes suppliers on providing sustainability performance data and generation improvements at Cisco (see Design for • EuP Lot 18 on Complex Set-top Boxes and any important initiatives that have led to reduction in Environment). the environmental impact of delivering our products. • Swiss Energy Regulation Set-top Boxes without HD Advocacy and Standards Development Scope 3 Product Use Phase (Energy Efficiency) Cisco actively engages with governments and standardGRI EN6: Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or setting bodies around the world to monitor and influence renewable energy-based products and services, and the development of emerging product energy-efficiency reductions in energy requirements as a result of these requirements, particularly around climate change. Cisco initiatives. believes that product energy-efficiency standards can promote innovation by being performance-based; by GRI EN26: Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of taking into account product functionality; and by relying products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. on objective criteria, real-world data, and system-level efficiency. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F22 < Previous View Cisco engages with these regulatory and standards Introduction bodies, directly and as part of industry groups, to Table 14: List of Energy-efficiency-related Initiatives & Organizations influence the development of standards and requirements Governance & Ethics Organization Area/Issue of Engagement that are clear and effective. This engagement includes Value Chain Cisco’s engineering, suppliers, facilities, compliance, regulatory affairs, government affairs, and corporate ATIS (North America) Cisco is an active member of ATIS and engages with other member organizations to develop Our People affairs teams. We believe that these regulatory and standards relevant to Telecom industry. In 2010, Cisco took a lead role in the development of standards activities when done properly bring clarity the ATIS TEER standard for the measurement of product energy efficiency. Society and consistency to the global marketplace, creating predictable requirements and a level playing field that Australia and Korea MEPS Energy performance requirements and maximum power consumption of Standby modes Environment reduces risk. Cisco Environmental ETSI (Europe) Cisco is currently engaged with ETSI in the development of standards for energy efficiency Improving Product Energy Efficiency and energy consumption for implementation of Broadband Code of Conduct. Sustainability Cisco is working to qualify its most efficient products with Materials the U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR program; to date the focus EU/EuP (Europe) Code of conduct that sets power consumption targets for external power supplies and > Energy and GHG Emissions has been on set-top boxes: cable, satellite, IP, or other reduced energy consumption during “network standby”. Water Use devices whose primary function is to receive television Biodiversity and Land Use signals from a specific source and deliver them to a IEEE (worldwide) Cisco was a major contributor to the IEEE 802.3az (Energy Efficient Ethernet) and IEEE 2030 consumer display or recording device. ENERGY STAR (Smart Grid Interoperability) projects, both of which were published in the last year. Cisco Non-GHG Emissions qualified set-top boxes are at least 40 percent more continues to contribute to maintenance, revisions, and extensions for both of these programs. Effluents (Liquid) efficient than conventional models. According to the EPA, Waste if all set-top boxes in the United States met ENERGY ITU (worldwide) Cisco is a major contributor to ITU-T SG5, Lead Study Group on ICTs and climate change. Looking Ahead STAR requirements, consumer energy cost savings Cisco presented to ITU the ATIS TEER methodology, which was then incorporated into would grow to about US$1.8 billion each year, reducing Measure L: Energy efficiency metrics and measurement for telecom equipment, creating the greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to those from more opportunity for a single worldwide metric. than 2 million vehicles. ENERGY STAR qualified set-top GRI Index box products are listed on the program website. METI (Japan) Minimum energy efficiency requirement for networking router and switch product groups. KPIs/Report Card In 2009, Cisco was coeditor for several of the Alliance for U.S. DOE, EPA Green Grid Cisco has been actively working with the EPA to define ENERGY STAR standards for Appendix Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) standards, networking equipment. Cisco provided the initial framework about three years ago. Since Energy Efficiency of Telecommunications Equipment: then, Cisco has actively worked with Lawrence Berkeley National Labs, the EPA technical Methodology for Measurement and Reporting standards, arm, on measurement methodologies and metrics. Cisco routinely provides feedback to the specifically: EPA on draft standards and actual power measurements on network products. • Server and server blade (ATIS-0600015.01.2009) Climate Savers Computing Cisco has been supporting CSCI on the exploration of issues and development of white Initiative (CSCI) papers on server power and network product energy efficiency. • Transport/network systems (ATIS-0600015.02.2009) • Router and Ethernet switch products (ATIS-0600015.03.2009) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F23 < Previous View These ATIS TEER standards created a framework for Introduction measuring product energy usage that takes into account Figure 3: Energy Efficiency Performance Improvements Between Two Generations Governance & Ethics product functionality and uses real-world loads to of Cisco Integrated Services Routers determine energy efficiency. This is important because 1000 Value Chain it enables companies like Cisco to compare energy Cisco ISR G2 2009 Products usage design improvements from product generation 900 Our People to generation, and it enables consumers to make more 2901 3945 informed purchasing decisions. 800 Society 2911 Cisco is in the process of applying the router and switch 3925 Environment standard to develop energy profiles for products within 700 2951 ATIS TEER (NORMALIZED BITS/WATT) the enterprise and ISP router and switch product family  Cisco Environmental categories. Representative models within the following 600 2921 Sustainability product families have been tested: Materials 500 > Energy and GHG Emissions Table 15: Cisco Product Families Tested Using the ATIS 400 Water Use 3825 3845 TEER Methodology Biodiversity and Land Use 300 Non-GHG Emissions CRS1 and CRS3 Nexus 7000 2851 2821 Effluents (Liquid) 200 2801 Waste ASR 9000 15454 2811 100 Looking Ahead GSR 1900 Cisco ISR G1 2004 Products 0 GRI Index Catalyst 6500 2800 KPIs/Report Card The products tested make up approximately 90 percent been released in other product lines. The results show Catalyst 4500 2900 of Cisco products in ATIS TEER scope. In 2010, we that across the products measured, there was about a Appendix collected baseline performance data for a representative threefold increase in normalized bits/watt performance Catalyst 2900 3900 product from each category. The goal is to measure between the two generations of products. products as new generations are released to gauge Catalyst 3800 improvement between generations. From 2006-2010 Cisco was a major force behind Energy Efficient Ethernet (IEEE 802.3az) which specified an Figure 3 presents performance improvements per industry standard protocol to allow networked devices watt consumed from a selected sample set of Cisco to save energy based on utilization. In 2011, Cisco has products for which firstand second-generation proposed and initiated a project to add a similar energy energy performance was measured using the ATIS efficiency protocol for ultra high speed network interfaces TEER standard. This is the same data used in our 2010 within the project for enhanced 100Gb/s operation CSR Report, as next-generation products have not yet (IEEE P802.3bj). 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F24 < Previous View Cisco is working to reduce energy demand by cutting models. Cisco is developing new ASIC chips that are not designed for the specific operating parameters of Introduction the power used by the Application-Specific Integrated configurable to the specific features within the product individual products. Thus the power supply is operating Circuits (ASICs) used in most Cisco products. ASICs using such ASIC chips. As an example, such a chip at a low utilization, and the result is products using Governance & Ethics are designed for a particular application in a particular would not draw the power needed to manage 48 ports power supplies that manage and use more energy than product. Lower cost, higher volume products that Cisco when it is placed in a 24-port switch. the product requires. The opportunity for Cisco is to Value Chain sells use off-the-shelf OEM-designed ASIC chips. For specify the actual range of power demands for a given the enterprise and data center switches (Cisco Nexus • Voltage scaling: To compensate for the performance Our People product and then design the power supply to manage and Cisco Catalyst series), Cisco designs its own ASIC variation inherent in manufactured products, Cisco is and provide power within this range. Members of Cisco’s chips. As shown in Figure 4, ASICs consume a significant scaling, or adjusting, the energy consumed by ASICs Society to achieve performance standards and minimize product design teams are engaged in efforts, such as the percentage of board-level energy consumption. Climate Savers Computing Initiative, to identify the best energy consumption. Cisco is adjusting the ASIC chip Environment approaches to resolving these problems. energy requirement (up and down) to compensate for Cisco Environmental Figure 4: Example of Board-Level any manufacturing variation in performance. Scope 3 Product End of Life Sustainability Energy Consumption by Function • Adaptive power management: This enables an ASIC The last product life cycle phase defined in the GHG Materials to actively manage the energy it requires based on the Protocol Product standard is end-of-life management. > Energy and GHG Emissions Miscellaneous load of work it is processing. There are minimal emissions associated with this life Water Use CPU cycle phase, mostly connected to the transport of the These ASIC energy management mechanisms will soon returned product and recycling. The GHG emissions Biodiversity and Land Use Memory be available to designers to drive down the energy benefit from recycling is reducing upstream emissions. Non-GHG Emissions requirements for devices. These refinements have been Effluents (Liquid) shown, in lab tests, to reduce energy consumption As Cisco introduces initiatives to increase the return of ASIC Waste between 10 and 30 percent. used or end-of-life products, we will need to study the Looking Ahead relative environmental impact of earlier or later product Cisco has outlined in our Product Requirement Document retirement. Energy efficiency improves with each product a mandate that all power supplies be at least 85 percent generation, so earlier product retirement can decrease FPGA efficient. As an example, improving the efficiency of the overall emissions (because the use phase emissions GRI Index power supply for our Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switch dominate the product life cycle). However, creating new from 80 to 90 percent can enable annual savings of more products introduces other environmental impacts. A KPIs/Report Card Cisco is developing energy savings approaches for these than 3500 kWh. See more details on how we cut power similar dynamic exists in the auto industry. Overall, is it chips that include: use for the Catalyst 6500 Series on the Cisco website. better to retire a relatively new 30 mpg car for a 50 mpg Appendix car? We will use LCA techniques to inform our strategy in • Feature-based energy management: ASIC chips are Power supply efficiency is only a portion of the problem. this regard. often developed to be rich in features and capability Often in the electronics industry, power supplies are so they can be used in a large number of product 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F25 < Previous View Benchmarking GHG Emissions Reduction Goals The Enabling Effect—The 98% where ICT sector products and services can be used Introduction Some stakeholders have requested reduction goals In the previous sections, we provided an overview of our to enable reductions in GHG emissions in other industry beyond 2012. While we focus in the near term on Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions from our own operations, sectors. For example, high-definition videoconferencing Governance & Ethics executing for FY12 and meeting our EPA Climate Leaders metrics addressing the emissions of our supply chain (ICT sector) can be used to simulate face-to-face Value Chain commitment, we will review possible Cisco roles in as well as other phases of the product life cycle. An interaction in order to avoid air travel (transportation meeting the global challenge of climate change. Figure 5 additional consideration when accessing the carbon sector), or energy monitoring and control of IP-enabled Our People places our 25 percent reduction goal in the context of the footprint of a product or service over its life cycle is the devices (ICT sector) can be used to reduce energy 80 percent goal for developed countries highlighted by so-called “enabling effect.” The term “enabling” is used consumption in buildings (real estate, industrial sectors). Society the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Environment To estimate Cisco’s 1990 emissions levels for the above Figure 5: Idealized Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Model figure, we assumed the average worldwide rate of  Cisco Environmental emissions growth from 1990 to 2007 and calculated Sustainability 600,000 a generic 1990 baseline. Cisco’s actual 1990 energy 2007 Materials consumption data was not collected, so is not available > Energy and GHG Emissions and would be unrealistic to use as a baseline given how 5% 25% Reduction 500,000 Water Use rapidly our business has grown. Our FY1990 revenue Per Year Idealized 1990 Biodiversity and Land Use was only 0.2 percent of FY09 revenue. More discussion 2012 Emissions will be needed in FY12, informed by COP17, to better GHG EMISSIONS (CO2 e METRIC TONNE) Non-GHG Emissions 400,000 understand how emissions allocations for developed and Effluents (Liquid) emerging countries will affect expectations for Cisco’s IPCC Guidance: Waste next reduction goal. Developed Country 300,000 4.1% Per Year Looking Ahead 80% Reduction Cisco will continue to develop products that leverage network technologies and implement the recommendations of the SMART 2020 report. Roughly 200,000 GRI Index 75 percent of energy-related GHG emissions are KPIs/Report Card from buildings and transportation. By advancing Cisco solutions discussed in this section, we are well positioned 100,000 Idealized 2050 to reduce not only our own building and transportation Emissions Appendix emissions, but also the aggregated emissions of our customers. 0 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 YEAR 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F26 < Previous View According to data from the International Energy power/energy, and industry. Innovative application of • Offering low-carbon ways to avoid business travel and Introduction Agency (IEA) and U.S. Energy Information Agency network technologies promotes change through our employee commuting: Customers are rethinking their (EIA) summarized in Figure 6, about 75 percent of solutions, our products, and our operations. behaviors and finding innovative, network-enabled Governance & Ethics energy-related GHG emissions are from buildings and alternatives, such as web-based collaboration rather transportation. Cisco sponsored and participated in a September 2010 than travel, and telework rather than daily commuting. Value Chain follow-on study, with Boston Consulting Group and WSP • Providing connected energy management: Customers Our People Although the use of ICT products such as computers, Environment & Energy, which began to gather methods can employ the network as the platform to measure, data center devices, and network equipment consumes to quantify the enabling effect and test methods for monitor, report, and plan for greater energy Society energy, there is substantial opportunity to use ICT applying ISO 14040 and various LCA techniques to this efficiencies. products to reduce global energy-related GHG emissions problem. The GHG Protocol Scope 3/Product ICT Sector Environment and make the world more energy efficient. In FY09, Supplement mentioned previously is intended to fully At Cisco, we are developing solutions for both Cisco sponsored and contributed to the SMART 2020 develop this methodology for use by practitioners in mitigating and adapting to climate change. To help Cisco Environmental report, which identified opportunities for the ICT the field. mitigate avoidable emissions, we are looking for ways Sustainability sector to develop and apply network technologies to to increase energy productivity or energy efficiency, Materials Cisco customers are looking for ways to reduce reducing annual GHG emissions by 15 percent, which slowing growth in energy demand and reducing the rate > Energy and GHG Emissions is a substantial positive impact considering that the ICT their energy-related costs and their carbon footprint. of increase in global GHG emissions from increasing Water Use sector was projected to be responsible for only 3 percent This creates market opportunities for Cisco. Cisco is energy use. Cisco data center virtualization technologies, of global emissions in 2020. Potential abatements are researching, developing, piloting, and delivering network Biodiversity and Land Use for example, significantly reduce the number of data concentrated in the areas of transportation, buildings, technologies that can help reduce GHG emissions by: Non-GHG Emissions center components. Fewer components mean less Effluents (Liquid) electricity used to operate both the ICT equipment and the HVAC equipment used for data center cooling. Fewer Waste Figure 6: Industry Sector Breakdown of Greenhouse Gases from Energy Use components also reduce emissions from the manufacture Looking Ahead of underutilized equipment. U.S. Energy Information Agency (EIA 2009) International Energy Agency (IEA14 2004) Cisco recognizes that the application of technology alone GRI Index will not result in a drop in emissions. Changes in culture, 26% 26% 26% Passenger management practices, and business processes are also KPIs/Report Card Industrial Manufacturing Transport needed to achieve the full potential of the technology. 34% Transportation However, this evolution to collaborative technologies, Appendix smart buildings and work spaces, and connected energy management creates additional benefits, including faster decision making, improved cross-cultural communications, broader dissemination of information around the world, and increased ability to efficiently 14% deploy scarce internal resources. 19% 11% Buildings Buildings Freight Services Commercial 21% Buildings Residential 22% Buildings Household 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F27 < Previous View The following sections highlight Cisco customer solutions The figure in Appendix 5 depicts the second use case Because of the additional, dedicated equipment, Introduction and R&D programs that not only address the key sources for transport substitution: business-as-usual employee Cisco carefully studied the energy/GHG from Cisco of energy-related GHG emissions shown in the previous commuting (requiring travel) and teleworking, using TelePresence operation. Most of the energy/GHG cost is Governance & Ethics pie chart, but also address the challenges associated many of the same technologies used to avoid business from the operation of the end-user equipment (screens, Value Chain with adapting to climate change. travel (plus high-definition video-capable broadband lighting, and local electronics), accompanying local HVAC, to the home). and vampire loads. Several orders of magnitude less Transportation power is used by network aggregation and backbone Our People There are two use cases that utilize Cisco remote The left side of the figure depicts car, bus, and rail functions, as shown in work partly sponsored by Cisco Society collaboration technologies: avoiding business air travel commuting to a multi-building campus. The teleworking (IEEE, UCSB). and avoiding employee commuting. depiction on the right side of the figure shows a campus Environment with fewer buildings, augmented by employees working As discussed previously, Cisco has driven industry efforts to The figure in Appendix 4 depicts the business-as-usual from home or from nearby satellite offices used by one or push such calculations into the standards arena. Cisco Environmental (BAU) business meeting (requiring travel) and the remote more companies. Sustainability collaboration meeting (utilizing ICT) that provides voice, Buildings Materials desktop sharing, and high-definition video among Several calculators have been released to estimate the Virtualization and Cloud Computing > Energy and GHG Emissions multiple locations. enabling effect for Cisco solutions. According to a Forrester Consulting study commissioned in 2009 by VMware, firms initially deployed virtual servers Water Use The increasing interoperability of our remote collaboration Cisco has developed calculators for Remote in order to improve hardware utilization. Today these Biodiversity and Land Use products, Cisco TelePresence, Cisco WebEx, and Collaboration, Cisco Virtual Office/Telecommuting, firms cite improved power and cooling efficiency as the Non-GHG Emissions Tandberg, further extend the potential for remote Connected Buildings, and Connected Workplace. We’ve motivation to adopt virtualization technology. Cisco data Effluents (Liquid) collaboration. For instance, Tandberg and Cisco collected these interactive calculators into a single center solutions achieve resource savings of up to 70 Waste TelePresence products can both be endpoints in a single PowerPoint file. percent through virtualization. meeting. WebEx is integrated into Cisco TelePresence, Looking Ahead so that WebEx attendees who may not be near a Cisco Each calculator has eight or nine tabs at the top— At the Cisco Efficiency Assurance Program website, TelePresence room can still see the TelePresence video accessible when in full-screen mode―divided between information on power consumption can be found through stream and hear the audio. inputs (on left) and results (on right). Results are net the “planning” box, the calculators and planning tools GRI Index emissions. The input tabs and the provided DOMANI being midway down the list of choices. A tutorial on the Cisco TelePresence exchanges, similar to telephone validation letters provide an explanation of assumptions. calculator is available. A product-specific calculator for KPIs/Report Card switchboards, are now in place with partners such as the ASR 1000 Aggregation Services Router for service AT&T, BT, and Tata, so that Cisco TelePresence calls can There is also a web implementation of the TelePresence providers is also provided. Appendix be made both within a single company and between tab of this spreadsheet. companies through the exchanges. As an example of interoperability, Cisco sponsored the September The current PowerPoint revision is slightly ahead of the 2010 (FY11) Carbon Disclosure Project Global Forum web version, which is being updated. by connecting Cisco TelePresence screens on the An additional standalone web-based calculator for auditorium stage in the Bank of America building in New TelePresence has also been released for mobile phones York City with units at Walmart in Bentonville, and in and web browsers. Cisco offices in Washington DC, San Francisco, Beijing, Sâo Paulo, Nairobi, and London. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F28 < Previous View Cisco opened a new green data center in Allen, Texas, The new data center is designed to achieve a Power Two schools in Lisbon (E. S. D. Dinis and E. S. Fonseca Introduction with an architecture deploying Cisco’s entire data center Usage Effectiveness metric of 1.35. This metric was Benevides) were outfitted with SMART technologies, technology portfolio spanning computing, switching, and developed by the Green Grid an industry consortium to including Cisco EnergyWise. EnergyWise was used to Governance & Ethics data storage access to support Cisco’s internal private specifically measure data center energy efficiency. An control switches, WAPs, IP phones, PCs and laptops, Value Chain cloud. All of these technologies are available to our interview showing various features of the data center IP cameras, IP-enabled projectors, and electronic customers to improve the efficiency of their data center was done by Data Center Knowledge in June 2011. whiteboards. At the E. S. D. Dinis school, a month of Our People operations. The new data center is paired with a second one in base operations (without EnergyWise) followed by a Richardson, Texas, to form what we call a Metro Virtual month of operations (using EnergyWise) demonstrated Society Our new data center incorporates numerous features to Data Center. Together, the data centers form a virtualized, an approximate 25 percent energy reduction. This reduce environmental impact: dynamic IT services cloud, also serving as backup sites magnitude of reduction is thought to be possible in most Environment for one another. This enables both data centers to run buildings (and homes). • Instead of hundreds of batteries typically used in older real-time critical applications, such as Cisco WebEx, Cisco Environmental data centers, the uninterruptible power supply (UPS) simultaneously in both places for world-class business Through our developer network, Cisco has partnered Sustainability room in the 5 MW data center (expandable to 10 MW) resiliency. with a half-dozen vendors of EnergyWise compliant Materials uses rotary flywheels, which require little energy to power distribution units (PDUs). Each plug of the PDU is > Energy and GHG Emissions continue in motion, to start the diesel generators in This next-generation data center tightly integrates Cisco individually addressable for EnergyWise instruction and Water Use case of power loss. Unified Fabric, Unified Computing, and Unified Network for power monitoring. Because almost every energyBiodiversity and Land Use • The data center is cooled by an air-side economizer Services into a holistic data center fabric designed to using device has a power cord, EnergyWise compliant design that reduces the need for mechanical chilling be simple, scalable, and highly secure, delivering any PDUs are a universal means for power monitoring Non-GHG Emissions by using ambient air when the outside temperature application across any location, within the data center, and device control, regardless of vendor or date of Effluents (Liquid) is low. Cisco calculates the facility can use filtered, across data centers, and to the cloud. manufacture. Waste outside unchilled air 65 percent of the time, saving an Looking Ahead expected US$600,000 per year in cooling costs. EnergyWise Cisco EnergyWise won the Best of Interop 2009 award in Cisco EnergyWise is an energy management technology the Green category for leadership in improving corporate • A lagoon captures rainwater to irrigate the indigenous, that allows organizations to report and reduce the energy energy efficiency and lowering operational costs with drought-resistant landscape plants. use of all IP-enabled equipment. Cisco EnergyWise its energy-management architecture. For the average GRI Index is embedded in our switching and routing portfolio • Solar cells on the roof generate 100 kW of power for size Cisco customer, EnergyWise has the potential to the office spaces in the building. and helps improve operational efficiency and reduce reduce energy usage by 20 percent in the first phase KPIs/Report Card energy costs and GHG emissions across the corporate of deployment and realize significant cost savings. A • Cisco submitted the data center for Gold certification Appendix infrastructure, potentially impacting any powered calculator for estimating energy savings is available on by Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design device. EnergyWise is a part of Cisco IOS software, but the Cisco website. (LEED). Developed by the U.S. Green Board Council, interfacing hardware is upgraded to enable the hardware LEED provides builders with a framework for to understand EnergyWise commands. The purpose As part of Cisco’s commitment to open standards and measurable green building design, construction, of EnergyWise is to control power-over-Ethernet at the energy savings, Cisco has led a new working group operations, and maintenance solutions. switch or, if the end-user hardware device has also been within the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) to upgraded, at the end-user device itself. apply the principles used in EnergyWise in an open and interoperable manner that may be used without restriction by any developer in the industry. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F29 < Previous View Cisco Connected Workplace Improved network infrastructure will help utility Combined with smart meters and time-of-day pricing, Introduction Cisco Connected Workplace is a flexible work companies optimize power supply and demand by customers will see how power is being used in order to environment designed to support employee mobility and routing power more efficiently and allowing demandinfluence behavior to reduce energy consumption or shift Governance & Ethics improve collaboration by providing a variety of workplace side management and two-way, real-time information demand in time to permit use of lower-carbon sources settings and enhanced technology tools. The initiative exchange with customers. This information is critical of electricity. Pilot projects, including a report sponsored Value Chain takes advantage of the fact that workplaces today are for implementing dispersed renewable generation and by the U.S. Department of Energy Pacific Northwest Our People vacant up to 60 percent of the time because people are adding plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles to the utility Laboratory, have shown a 10 to 15 percent reduction working away from their desks, collaborating formally and grid. An Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) report in household energy use with smart grid technologies. Society informally in person, and using rich remote technologies projects the role of both technologies in the low-carbon Cisco is partnering with General Electric, Florida Power such as Cisco WebEx and Cisco TelePresence. electricity mix through 2030, as shown in Figure 7. & Light, and Silver Spring Networks on Energy Smart Environment Miami, a pilot to a comprehensive smart grid deployment. Watch the Video! Cisco EnergyWise Renewables and plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) are Cisco is participating in the Pecan Street Project to make  Cisco Environmental gives companies a global view of seen to constitute a significant part of the projected the city of Austin, Texas, a test bed for clean energy and Sustainability energy management. Energy use can generation mix in 2030, but only if enabled by smart smart grid goals. Cisco is also a member of the GridWise Materials be controlled through the network, grid technologies. Alliance, advocating for the adoption of smart grid > Energy and GHG Emissions delivering economic and environmental savings. technologies. Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Cisco Connected Workplace case studies show reduced Figure 7: Contribution of Renewables and PEV to Projected Future Energy Supply Non-GHG Emissions costs associated with real estate, furniture, workplace Low-carbon generation enables electrification and CO2 reductions in other sectors of economy Effluents (Liquid) services, and IT infrastructure. Such environments Waste typically support 30 percent more employees than a 3500 Looking Ahead traditional layout, thereby substantially reducing footprint demands and associated costs. 3000 Utility/Smart Grid GRI Index Energy-related carbon dioxide emissions from the U.S. ELECTRIC SECTOR CO2 EMISSIONS Efficiency generation of electricity are about 40 percent of total 2500 KPIs/Report Card energy-related GHG emissions. That is, industrial Renewables processes, buildings, and some transportation are Appendix 2000 Nuclear powered directly by electricity and total about 40 percent (MILLION METRIC TONS) of all energy-related emissions. Therefore, efficiency Fossil Efficiency improvements in delivering electricity have significant CCS 1500 potential to reduce GHG emissions. PEV ElectroIn the electricity industry, the pace of change and 1000 Technologies opportunity for disruption are accelerating. Thirty years of energy policy and industry structural changes are combining 500 with accelerated social and technological evolution. This is creating significant pressure for fundamental changes in the design, operation, structure, and regulation of the 0 electric industry. Strategies to aid these changes require 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 alignment among policy, economics, and technology in what Cisco calls Gridonomics. © EPRI 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F30 < Previous View Integrated Solutions on the supply of these resources given environmental of the water-food-energy-land nexus, and address the Introduction Smart+Connected Communities degradation, land use change, increasing variability increasing impact of weather extremes. See more details Cities currently account for 75 percent of the of weather conditions and resource productivity, and on the Planetary Skin Institute website. Governance & Ethics world’s GHG emissions. Cisco has launched the the threat of catastrophic climate change. Further Smart+Connected Communities initiative globally to take complicating this trend are the complex trade-offs in Connected Urban Development Value Chain advantage of the thought leadership, ideas, and solutions and between the different resource classes embedded Management of the Connected Urban Development incubated by the Connected Urban Development in the land-water-energy-food-climate nexus. The (CUD) program, originally funded in September 2006 as Our People program and drive economic, social, and environmental second trend is data abundance, driven by an increase a US$15 million Clinton Global Initiative pilot program, has Society sustainability to our customers around the world. Cisco’s in low-cost sensor networks and network-enabled data been transferred to The Climate Group. Please visit the Smart+Connected Communities is a global initiative that collection systems; explosion of social media data; and CUD website for information on its activities. Environment uses the network as the platform to transform physical data mining capabilities. Planetary Skin Institute (PSI) communities into connected communities that are run on aims to address the challenge posed by the first trend Cisco Environmental networked information to enable economic, social, and with the opportunity presented by the second. Sustainability environmental sustainability. The initiative is leveraging Materials the network to deliver integrated offerings across real PSI is a global nonprofit research and development > Energy and GHG Emissions estate, transportation, safety and security, utilities, health, organization, initially incubated by Cisco and NASA, that Water Use education, and government to improve community aims to improve the lives of millions around the world Biodiversity and Land Use management, economic growth, citizen quality of life, and by developing risk and resource management decision sustainable development. services. PSI partners with research and development Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) partners to incubate replicable and scalable innovations Cities currently account for 75 percent of A range of additional material is available on our Internet that can significantly increase the resilience of Waste Business Solutions Group website concerning the role of the world’s GHG emissions. Information communities; increase food, water, and energy security; Looking Ahead the network in creating sustainable cities. A Forbes article and protect key ecosystems and biodiversity. and communication technology enables provides an overview of the potential impact of IT on city economic, social and environmental development and living. PSI aims to support the efforts of communities, sustainability. governments, businesses, think tanks, international GRI Index Planetary Skin funding organizations, academic institutions, and other Two powerful trends are reshaping the world. The stakeholders by creating open-platform capabilities and KPIs/Report Card first trend is resource scarcity, the result of explosive tools that meaningfully advance the world’s resource growth in demand for resources (water, energy, food, and risk management capabilities. PSI is committed to Appendix fiber, minerals) driven by growing populations with the development of global public goods that address rising incomes pushing against increasing constraints the resource scarcity challenge, unpack the complexity 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F31 < Previous View Introduction Water Use our water use so we can better understand the impact of • Installed irrigation controls: These controls track our programs. Given the size and geographic dispersion variables such as plant type and weather patterns to GRI EN8: Total water withdrawal by source. of our operations, this has been a challenging task, as dispense the least amount of water needed via the Governance & Ethics many of the locations where Cisco shares a building with drip system. This resulted in an approximate 8 to 10 GRI EN9: Water sources significantly affected by percent water savings. Value Chain other tenants do not have water submeters installed. In withdrawal of water. FY11, we were able to continue collecting and analyzing • Elimination of decorative fountains: We are taking many Our People water data for 66 percent of our total real estate portfolio of our fountains or water features offline or converting Because our headquarters are located in California, by area. See Table 16. them to landscaped beds with California native and where water rights and usage are a significant issue, Society drought-resistant plants. Cisco has always been conscious of water use in our We are minimizing our water impacts through innovative Environment operations. Since FY07, Cisco has been collecting water • Installed water-efficient fixtures: Throughout the San approaches to both reductions and reuse. Although our data for our major campus locations. Using the World Jose campus, low-flow toilets, flow restrictors on efforts to date have recognized the importance of a Cisco Environmental Business Council for Sustainable Development water tool, faucets, and waterless urinals have been installed. locally relevant approach to water management, we are Sustainability we believe that three of these sites are located in waternow acting to institutionalize water management systems. Materials scarce areas, and two sites are in water-stressed areas. We mitigate our impacts in water-scarce areas by Energy and GHG Emissions Wherever appropriate, Cisco reduces water consumption incorporating resource constraints into our local office Key objectives of Cisco’s water management program building and data center development plans. Cisco > Water Use and uses reclaimed water for landscaping and similar are to: seeks to site our operations in areas where we can applications. We have been able to make many changes Biodiversity and Land Use to our landscaping practices, while also creating most successfully serve our customers while minimizing Non-GHG Emissions • Identify and respond to site-level water conservation negative environmental impacts. attractive and inviting landscapes for our customers, Effluents (Liquid) opportunities for our operations employees, and our surrounding communities. Over the Waste • Work with partners such as local governments, water last three years, we have accomplished the following Because the production of electrical power is one of utilities, and owners of our leased buildings to pursue water conservations projects: the largest uses of fresh water worldwide, the largest Looking Ahead and replicate best practices in our operations and opportunity for Cisco to reduce our impact on water beyond • Use of recycled water: Our headquarters in San Jose, resources is by making our operations (and those of our California, uses only recycled water for landscape suppliers) and products (our customer operations) more GRI Index Cisco’s primary water impacts come from office building irrigation and fountains, representing approximately energy efficient. potable water and sanitation, landscaping, and cooling 30 percent of our 700,000 cubic meters of water KPIs/Report Card towers. Over the past year, we have continued measuring consumption. Appendix Table 16: Water Use KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Total water use, m3 1,725,618 1,570,831 1,690,348 1,753,269 1,790,061 Includes irrigation (where used) and potable water Real estate portfolio covered by water reporting 59% 58% 65% 67% 66% 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F32 < Previous View Introduction Biodiversity and Land Use At Cisco, land use for facilities and office-based • Developing and implementing a wetland mitigation operations represents our primary impact on biodiversity. plan that created 0.77 acres of wetlands in the habitat GRI EN11: Location and size of land owned, leased, Cisco mitigates our impact by reducing the demand for preserve area and establishing a five-year monitoring Governance & Ethics managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of physical office space. Cisco employee telework programs program and maintenance program. high biodiversity value outside protected areas. and support solutions, such as Cisco Connected Value Chain • Implementing a rare plant species mitigation plan to Workplace, Cisco Virtual Office, and OfficeExtend protect Congdon’s Tarplant. This plan required seed GRI EN12: Description of significant impacts of activities, Our People are instrumental to our strategy. The flexibility of collection and replanting within the habitat preserve products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas Cisco Connected Workplace and Cisco collaboration area and ongoing maintenance over a five-year period. Society and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected technologies reduces the demands for office space areas. • Implementing a burrowing owl mitigation plan that by more efficiently using existing space and enabling Environment employees to work remotely while remaining productive. required preconstruction surveys for burrowing owls GRI EN13: Habitats protected or restored. and the installation of 12 artificial burrows in the As mentioned previously, a space using Connected Cisco Environmental habitat preserve area, habitat maintenance measures Sustainability GRI EN14: Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Workplace could accommodate approximately 30 percent more employees compared to a traditional to encourage owls to relocate to and remain in Materials managing impacts on biodiversity. office layout, substantially reducing office space and the preserve area, monitoring during construction Energy and GHG Emissions land use requirements and its associated impacts on the activities, and a permanent perimeter fence around the GRI EN15: Number of IUCN Red List species and national Water Use environment. See Table 17. preserve area. conservation list species with habitats in areas affected > Biodiversity and Land Use by operations, by level of extinction risk. • Locating grazing cattle on this habitat preserve area as Cisco actively evaluates the biodiversity and land-use a method of weed abatement and soil compaction to Non-GHG Emissions GRI EN25: Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity impacts of potential facility sites through environmental help facilitate wetlands establishment. Effluents (Liquid) value of water bodies and related habitats significantly impact assessments required for permitting. For example, Waste affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of in Alviso, California, Cisco has a 20.4 acre-parcel of Looking Ahead water and runoff. land that is a protected habitat for the burrowing owl and a rare plant species (Congdon’s Tarplant). Protection activities that Cisco has implemented on this parcel GRI Index include the following: KPIs/Report Card Table 17: Biodiversity and Land Use Appendix KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Real estate portfolio with biodiversity assessment not not not 65% 63% Includes International Union for Conservation of Nature reported reported reported (IUCN) Red List and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations. Owned property. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F33 < Previous View Introduction Non-GHG Emissions Table 18 summarizes other airborne emissions: VOCs, not use any mechanical equipment, such as gasolineNOx, SOx and particulate matter. NOx and SOx powered lawn mowers, after 11 a.m. on designated GRI EN19: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances emissions originate from combustion of fossil fuels in Spare the Air days, when air quality is poor in the Bay Governance & Ethics by weight vehicle engines, boilers, or emergency generators that Area. In addition, we have instituted Summer Saturday Value Chain are occasionally tested onsite. These emissions are Shift Work, which reduces equipment emissions due to GRI EN20: NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions calculated based on fuel consumption collected in the improvements in maintenance staff productivity. Over by type and weight. Our People past three fiscal years. As Cisco is working on reducing the course of 32 weeks, we saved 44 hours per week of overall GHG emissions, we expect a proportional grounds crew time as a result of increases in efficiency. Because most of Cisco’s production is outsourced to Society reduction of NOx and SOx emissions across our supply chain partners, our global operations primarily operations. In accordance with the 1987 Montreal Protocol on Environment consist of standard office activities and research labs. Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer, we have been This limits our non-GHG emissions to volatile organic The actual quantities of VOC-based chemicals are working with our supply chain partners to phase out Cisco Environmental compounds (VOCs) from occasional use of cleaning minimal, and therefore monitoring is not required. ozone-depleting substances (ODS) in their manufacturing Sustainability products, nitrous oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) processes. Materials from onsite fuel combustion, and the subsequent At locations across Northern California, Cisco complies Energy and GHG Emissions development of ozone from the photochemical reaction with California Air Resources Board requests and does of NOx. Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use > Non-GHG Emissions Table 18: Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Waste KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Looking Ahead Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible Because most of Cisco’s production is outsourced to supply chain partners, Cisco’s global operations primarily consist of standard office activities and research labs, GRI Index which may require the occasional use of cleaning products containing VOCs. Quantities of VOC-based chemicals are minimal and are not required to be KPIs/Report Card monitored. Appendix NOx, metric tonne 177 167 164 241 339 SOx, metric tonne 0.67 0.71 0.73 0.84 1.05 Particulate matter negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F34 < Previous View Introduction Effluents (Liquid) count on these experts and leaders as a resource in Cisco has been working with our research and our own operational efforts. Cisco participates in the development teams, manufacturing partners, industry GRI EN10: Percentage and total volume of water recycled California Environmental Dialogue Longview Committee, standards technical committees, and academia to Governance & Ethics and reused. a forum for frank and honest discussion about California’s validate proposed alternatives for BFRs and PVC in our Value Chain long-term strategic environmental, economic, and products. In the environment section of our 2009 and GRI EN21: Total water discharge by quality and resource management issues. Table 19 shows Cisco’s 2010 CSR Reports, Cisco set a 2011 target to confirm/ destination. Our People KPI for liquid effluents. validate alternatives for plastics containing BFR and PVC that are used in our products. Over the last 2 years GRI EN23: Total number and volume of significant spills. Society we have performed material assessments, surveyed Waste suppliers, and identified the areas within our business We seek to site our operations in areas where we can Environment where we could have the greatest influence and success successfully service our customers while minimizing Controlled Substances our negative environmental impacts. Operations siting As a global supplier of electronic equipment to transitioning to BFRand PVC-free materials. This Cisco Environmental Sustainability is an especially important consideration with our data consumers and industry, Cisco is responsible for the issue is most relevant to Cisco as it relates to printed centers. We currently cool most of our data centers by management of materials within our products. Global circuit boards, Cisco designed plastic parts, and cables. Materials air movement. However, as equipment becomes more environmental regulations and Cisco’s interest in reducing Findings from these efforts for each area are described in Energy and GHG Emissions compact and consumes more power per unit area, we the impact of the materials used within our products the following sections. Water Use need to identify more efficient cooling mechanisms, and and supply chain have helped drive the development Biodiversity and Land Use BFRs in printed circuit boards (PCBs): Cisco has one of the options we are considering is water-based of products that use more environmentally friendly performed its own reliability and signal integrity testing of Non-GHG Emissions cooling. materials. Cisco has established substance requirements new laminate alternatives via new material qualification > Effluents (Liquid) for products in our controlled substances specification. We also work closely with the owners of our leased processes and has qualified new halogenated flame The purpose of this specification is to communicate > Waste retardant-free, PCB-laminate materials for use in 35 new spaces to incorporate environmentally sound practices Cisco’s substance use and reporting requirements Looking Ahead into lease agreements. Our green lease terms incorporate products in the high-end switching and routing spaces. to suppliers and manufacturers. The specification LEED criteria, allowing us to negotiate requirements such Cisco will continue to research new laminate materials outlines the restricted substances, exemptions to these as water use measures into new leases as well as those as they become available and will continue to apply restrictions, substances to be reported and phased out, GRI Index up for renewal. Given the nature of office buildings, these them to new products where performance requirements and substances to be watched for potential inclusion on changes often benefit all tenants and frequently provide can be met. the restricted substances list. These include controlled KPIs/Report Card cost savings to the landlord. substances associated with applicable global regulations Cisco supports the International Electronics such as RoHS and REACH. Brominated flame retardants Appendix Cisco seeks out partners, such as local governments Manufacturers Initiative (iNEMI) industry efforts focused (BFRs) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in electronics are and utilities, that can provide support and best-practice on BFR reduction. Cisco is an active member of the examples of substances that Cisco monitors for reduction sharing to help reduce water use (and effluents). We HFR1-Free PCB Materials Project, chartered to study and substitution. Table 19: Effluents Spills and Discharge KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Spills and discharges none none none none none In FY2011, there were no reportable spills or discharges to the environment from Cisco facilities or operations worldwide. 1. HFR stands for halogenated flame retardant; bromine is a halogen. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F35 < Previous View whether alternative materials meet performance standard, non-halogen, and bio-based cable jacketing. and developed a product conversion roadmap. In the Introduction requirements concerning delamination, via and plated The preliminary findings of this work are under review interests of protecting product quality, we are working through-hole reliability, pad cratering, and solder joint and are scheduled to be released to iNEMI member with global industry associations to develop highly reliable Governance & Ethics reliability. We are also actively participating in the HFR organizations in late 2011. Cisco will continue its efforts lead-free solder. Value Chain Free Signal Integrity initiatives to similarly evaluate to identify, test, and implement approved BFR and PVC material options. Cisco co-chairs the HFR Free Signal alternatives in new products. Product Take-Back, Reuse, and Recycling Our People Integrity Project, which focuses on critical electrical GRI EN27: Percentage of products sold and their parameters of the alternative laminates. Cisco is also an active member of the High Density packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Society Packaging Users Group (HDPUG) BFR/PVC Free Cables BFRs and PVC in Cisco Designed Plastic Parts: In FY11 and Wires Project, which is comparing the electrical, Our trade-in and take-back programs are designed Environment Cisco completed a survey of resin suppliers, the point in mechanical, performance, and manufacturability to bring back to Cisco any item that Cisco or our our supply chain where we have the greatest design and requirements of alternative materials with existing acquired companies has put on the market. Cisco Cisco Environmental recycles essentially 100 percent of the electronics sent manufacturing control. We gathered information on the options; designing and manufacturing test samples; Sustainability presence of BFRs and PVC within Cisco specified custom and conducting performance evaluations. to our e-scrap recyclers. All commodity fractions go to Materials downstream recyclers to be made into new products. injection molded parts provided to or manufactured Energy and GHG Emissions for Cisco. The survey showed that over 60 percent of Separate from the above efforts, lead-based solder Table 20 contains Cisco’s reduce, reuse, and recycle KPIs. Water Use resin compounds (by count) used in Cisco designed has been a key component of circuit boards and other components are currently BFRs and PVC free. Cisco electronic parts. Although lead solder is currently exempt During FY11, Cisco’s Reverse Logistics Group Biodiversity and Land Use designed components that contain BFRs or PVC are from the RoHS Directive for networking infrastructure refurbished, resold, or reused over 2000 metric tonne Non-GHG Emissions of products returned to Cisco; which equates to a 17.3 generally small in mass (less than 25 grams) and used in equipment, product conversion and testing efforts have Effluents (Liquid) products with relatively low sales volumes. allowed Cisco to make significant progress toward percent reuse rate. > Waste removing lead assembly solder from Cisco products. PVC in Cables: Cisco is driving reductions in cable PVC For the transition, we have developed a lead-free solder Information regarding all Cisco e-scrap recycling and Looking Ahead content through the iNEMI PVC Alternatives Project, specification for components, interconnects, and printed our recycling programs is provided in the following which is focused on conducting cradle-to-grave life cycle circuit board reliability. We have also implemented description and supplemented by our reverse logistics assessments of PVC and non-PVC jacketing in cables lead-free data management systems, assessed supplier recycling web portal.1 GRI Index to better understand the environmental trade-offs of capabilities, tested the reliability of alternative substances, KPIs/Report Card Table 20: Product Trade-in and Return Appendix KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Product return, metric tonne * 10,030 10,730 8,580 11,595 *Before FY2008, Cisco reported weight of material sent to Cisco’s recyclers. Using process improvements started in FY2008; we are now reporting weight of material received from end users, which is the metric of primary concern to stakeholders. Material to landfill** * 0.46% 0.44% 0.33% 0.89% *See comment directly above. **Landfilled material consists only of nonrecyclable materials such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap. 1. Cisco Connection Online registration required. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F36 < Previous View Cisco has nine different reverse logistics recycling Introduction programs to support our independent producer Figure 8: Reverse Logistics Material Sources and Flow of Materials for Reuse and Recycling responsibility (IPR) efforts. These fall into three Governance & Ethics categories. SOURCES OF REVERSE Value Chain Cisco End Cisco End Contract Contract Repair Data Center Non-Geniune eBin & Lab Recycle IT Table 21: Cisco Take-back, Reuse, and Recycling Programs Customer Trade-In Customer Manufacturers Manufacturers Scrap Program Server Recycling Brand protection Our People Program Take-Back & Scrap/Reuse & RFDs—Global (Internal) Program Events Program (Internal) Program (Internal, LOGISTICS MATERIALS (TMP/EPUP) Recycle Program Program Scrap Program (Internal) Not Public) Society Category Material Stream Environment Customer programs •C  isco Technical Migration Cisco RL Value Program (TMP) RL RECEIVING Cisco Reverse Reverse Logistics Recovery Non Cisco Environmental Value Recovery Logistics Value proprietary Parts Sustainability •E  xceptional Pick-Up Recovery Reuse CENTER Receiving Center Components Program Program (EPUP) Resale Materials • Take-back and Recycle Energy and GHG Emissions Water Use Programs for companies • Scrap/Reuse Program REFURBISH, Cisco Capital Cisco Capital Cisco Service Cisco Service Remarketing Remarketing Supply Supply Reuse to REUSE, RESALE Biodiversity and Land Use producing or repairing Refurbishment Resale to Refurbishment • Global Scrap Program Vendor Customer Vendor Customer or RFD Cisco products Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Internal programs for • eBin/Lab Scrap RECYCLERS > Waste Cisco •C  isco Data Center Server REVERSE LOGISTICS RECYCLERS Looking Ahead Recycling • Non-Genuine Materials • E-scrap events GRI Index KPIs/Report Card A flow diagram of these reverse logistics material streams single largest flow of materials back to Cisco’s reverse Customer Programs: Our two customer trade-in Appendix is shown in Figure 8. Note that the Cisco Technical logistics programs. And the trade-in programs provide programs are the Cisco Technical Migration and the Migration Program and Exceptional Pick-Up Programs are the newest and best quality used equipment with the Exceptional Pick-Up Program. All trade-in materials are combined in one box in the upper left of this figure. highest potential for refurbishment and reuse. routed to a receiving center where each item is analyzed for possible reuse. If there is demand for the specific Each program or process is formally documented and Engaging with our reuse/recycling programs is easy and product being received, it is refurbished before being is part of the contracting process with each of our straightforward. Customers go to the web portal, select sent for reuse to Cisco Capital Remarketing, Cisco contracted recyclers. the program that applies to them, and submit a pick-up Service Supply, or to an internal Cisco lab. request form. Cisco then contacts the customer and Cisco has trade-in programs for customers who arranges the pick-up and logistics to return the materials Reuse is always the first priority. Cisco has reused are purchasing new equipment and have qualifying to the appropriate location. The trade-in items are routed over US$200 million of Cisco equipment, calculated at equipment to upgrade. Eligible customers receive an to a returns receiving center for analysis of each item to standard cost, in each of our last three fiscal years. If an additional discount for returning working used equipment evaluate its reuse or refurbishment potential, and take item does not qualify to be reused, it goes to one of our to Cisco for possible reuse. These programs are the back and recycle material is routed directly to a recycler. authorized recyclers. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F37 < Previous View The Take-back and Recycle program is focused on Cisco Recycle equipment is typically old with no reuse value, The number and location of Cisco authorized recyclers Introduction branded items that do not qualify for either of our two or is damaged. These materials go to the closest Cisco continue to expand based on the growth in our business trade-in programs. This program also accepts competitor approved recycling site. Currently, there are 27 recycling and the requirements of local regulations. Governance & Ethics equipment that has been displaced in the customer’s locations around the world, as shown in the map. Value Chain network by newly purchased Cisco items. Take-back and Our People Cisco Reverse Logistics Global Supply Base Locations Society Mouse over any of the four regional labels below for an enlarged view. Environment North America Latin America Europe Asia/Pacific Cisco Environmental Cisco Reverse Logistics Global Footprint Sustainability Materials Energy and GHG Emissions Sweden Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Netherlands Russia United Kingdom Non-GHG Emissions Belgium Germany Effluents (Liquid) France Switzerland California > Waste Nevada Canada Italy California Japan Looking Ahead Arizona South Carolina California Florida Hong Kong Taiwan, Republic of China Mexico Hong Kong GRI Index India Thailand KPIs/Report Card Costa Rica Venezuela Colombia Malaysia Appendix Singapore Peru Brazil Chile Cisco Contracted Recycler Location Current Warehouse/Disassembly Location Recycler Subcontracted Partners Locations SCFO Receiving and Reuse Operations 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F38 < Previous View Programs for Companies Producing or Repairing Cisco The Non-Genuine Materials program handles items Cisco holds quarterly business reviews with each of the Introduction Products: The Cisco manufacturing Scrap/Reuse that we occasionally receive in service returns which contracted recyclers to review the past quarter’s results. programs takes all excess, obsolete, or damaged are non-genuine Cisco products. Non-genuine items We also review all action items that were to be worked Governance & Ethics materials from our contract manufacturers, MPAs, OEMs, also come to Cisco through law enforcement actions during the quarter and the focus areas for the next Value Chain ODMs, and proprietary component suppliers. First, each that seize fake Cisco equipment. When non-genuine quarter. Cisco also does random spot site audits of the load is reviewed by the Cisco Value Recovery group for equipment is found, we use a special witnessed protocol recycling facilities. Our People possible reuse or resale. If Value Recovery does not whereby the collected materials are properly destroyed. want the materials, they go to Cisco approved e-scrap E-Scrap Recycling Process Society recyclers. We hold e-scrap events are held each year for our Each load of e-scrap is weighed in on calibrated scales employees. Cisco employees and contractors can upon arrival. Next, each unit is demanufactured, and Environment Cisco’s contracted repair manufacturers and distribution bring in their e-scrap from home and have Cisco pay a high-level sort into “commodity fractions” separates depots use the Global Scrap program for their excess, to have the materials recycled properly. Any Cisco the steel, aluminum, cardboard, plastic, wire/cable, and Cisco Environmental obsolete, or damaged materials. Again, the Cisco Value office location can hold an event as long as it has the printed circuit boards. Certain fractions may then be Sustainability Recovery team reviews all items and retains any for which employee volunteers to organize it and do the related shredded. Most Cisco printed circuit boards contain a Materials rechargeable battery that is removed prior to shredding. they have customers, and then sends the remainder to collection and processing. In April 2011, we held our Energy and GHG Emissions our approved recyclers. 16th e-scrap event, with 78 Cisco offices around the After the shredding, an additional hand sorting is done Water Use world participating and over 142 metric tonne of used to pull off any loose pieces of the commodity fractions. Internal Programs for Cisco: The largest of Cisco’s electronics collected. In the years since Cisco started All fractions are sent to downstream or second-level Biodiversity and Land Use internal programs is the eBin/Lab Scrap program. The holding e-scrap events, our employees and contractors recyclers to be made into new products again. Shredded Non-GHG Emissions eBin program began at our San Jose campus, where have helped Cisco recycle over 1617 metric tonne of printed circuit boards go to a secondary smelter where Effluents (Liquid) 185 labs produce a large amount of e-scrap. eBins are as many as 17 metals are harvested from the boards. used electronics. > Waste green plastic rolling bins, where materials are collected These harvested metals re-enter the metals markets to Looking Ahead for recycling. Smaller labs may have only one eBin but E-Scrap Recyclers make new products. Any batteries or packaging materials large labs may have more than a dozen. Each bin has Cisco currently has four contracted e-scrap recyclers. sent to recycling facilities are also sent to downstream an owner, and when the bin is full the owner visits our Each recycler has several company-owned facilities. recyclers. recycling web portal and fills out a pick-up request. The Each recycler also has several subcontracted recyclers GRI Index in certain regions. Cisco contracts require the recycler Product Packaging End of Life recycler responds to arrange the date and time of pick up and delivers empty eBins. to enforce our strict recycling processes upon The environmental impact, including transportation KPIs/Report Card subcontractors doing Cisco work. Cisco must approve of and emissions, from a packaging take-back program Appendix Cisco Data Center Server Recycling serves data centers each prospective recycling company and each recycling outweighs the benefits of using the local recycling in 12 countries. When a data center no longer needs location prior to sending any Cisco equipment for stream. This is primarily because packaging material a server, it is offered to other Cisco data centers for processing. logistics are significant, and thus packaging creation is possible reuse. When one of these servers reaches the local to the point of shipment. Therefore, Cisco takes end of its useful life, it is recycled, with all parts being Each contracted recycler provides us with monthly the approach to design our packaging to be easily shredded. Because these servers have sensitive data reports delineating all cases opened and processed, lot separable and as recyclable as possible so it can residing in their memory, they are no longer reused. by lot. When each lot is processed, the report includes most easily be absorbed into local packaging material a mass balance showing the weight as received and the recycling programs. weights of each fractional commodity separate from the lot. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F39 < Previous View Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) Introduction GRI EN22: Total weight of waste by type and disposal Figure 9: Recycling Rates for Solid Waste from Major North American Operations (Trash) method. Governance & Ethics 100% GRI EN23: Total number and volume of significant spills. Value Chain 90% GRI EN24: Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Our People treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the 80% San Jose Society Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Boxborough Environment 70% Richardson Cisco’s Waste Reduction and Recycling Program is a Cisco Environmental key component of Cisco ISO 14001 certification and RTP 60% Sustainability our global environmental policy. We routinely collect Materials and recycle waste streams including batteries, CDs and Energy and GHG Emissions diskettes, beverage containers, trash, wood and pallets, 50% Water Use cardboard, mixed paper, confidential waste, packaging materials, toner cartridges, compost, polyurethane 40% Biodiversity and Land Use foam, landscape waste, mobile phones, food waste, and Non-GHG Emissions construction waste. Electronic waste collection programs 30% Effluents (Liquid) are described in the previous section. > Waste Table 22 shows our solid waste KPIs. Note that 20% Looking Ahead operational waste recycling performance depends on both Cisco performance and the availability of supporting 10% services by local waste hauling and disposal vendors. GRI Index We encourage all Cisco facilities to take steps to reduce 0% KPIs/Report Card their operational waste. Initiatives at our San Jose 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 headquarters, for example, diverted 79 percent of all Appendix waste streams in FY11. Table 22: Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Total operational waste generated, metric tonne 7156 7409 6246 4845 4471 Real estate portfolio covered by waste reporting 53% 53% 48% 46% 45% Includes data for all Cisco campus locations in the U.S. and Canada. Total operational waste recycled, metric tonne 4633 5023 4250 3443 3228 Operational waste recycled 65% 68% 68% 71% 71% 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F40 < Previous View Food waste: In addition to lessening the impacts Introduction Figure 10: Breakdown of Solid Waste Streams (Trash) at San Jose, California of our office environments, we strive to reduce Governance & Ethics Headquarters Campus the environmental impacts of our cafeterias. Cisco partners with Bon Appétit Management Company, a Value Chain 1% Foam <1% Special Projects leader in sustainable food service, to provide Cisco 1% Cans & Bottles <1% Media employees in North America with healthy, sustainable, Our People and socially responsible food options. Our sustainable 5% Surplus Donation food purchasing initiatives date back to 1999 with the Society establishment of Bon Appétit’s Farm to Fork program, an 5% Mixed Recycling initiative to purchase food locally. This program promotes Environment local farming and supports sustainable farming and 31% Compost harvesting techniques. Cisco Environmental 6% Mixed Paper Sustainability Composting: Cisco campuses in San Jose, California, Materials and other North American locations host programs for Energy and GHG Emissions composting and recycling food wastes where municipal 7% Confidential Paper Water Use facilities are available to process these materials. During Biodiversity and Land Use FY11, the food waste separation program at Cisco’s San Jose campus diverted more than 1416 tonne of Non-GHG Emissions food waste that otherwise would have been sent to Effluents (Liquid) local landfills. The waste was then turned into compost > Waste 8% Wood and made available by the municipality for purchase Looking Ahead by gardeners. In addition, Cisco’s facilities in San Jose and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, recycle waste vegetable oil. This vegetable oil is converted into GRI Index biodiesel fuel used to power traditional diesel vehicles. 11% Cardboard KPIs/Report Card Bottled water: In FY08, Cisco’s North American offices 24% Landscape Waste disposed of 13.7 million plastic water bottles. In FY09, Appendix we ran a pilot water filtration program in Boxborough, Massachusetts, and several San Jose campus buildings that reduced our plastic water bottle consumption level A breakdown of our waste stream for our San Jose site is Electronic waste: Building on our customer-focused to 11.6 million units. After fully implementing the water provided in Figure 10 as an illustration of our key sources product recovery efforts, Cisco has implemented an filtration program as well as a new beverage vending of operational waste, the complexity of proper waste e-scrap program to collect and recycle electronics program throughout North America, the total plastic stream segregation, and the need for local recycling resulting from Cisco’s operations. We place green bins beverage units consumed at Cisco’s facilities was services. in our labs for the collection and recycling of materials substantially reduced. Through FY11, both of these damaged in research and development. Cisco also hosts programs are still in place throughout Cisco facilities, In addition to specific initiatives at individual facilities, e-scrap events every year for our employees to bring in and as a result, each year we prevent millions of plastic Cisco has implemented programs at multiple sites that end-of-life electronics from home for proper recycling. bottles from entering landfills globally. address the following kinds of waste streams: Cisco will take back any electronic goods, regardless of whether it is a Cisco branded product. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F41 < Previous View Introduction Looking Ahead Objectives for FY12 (continued) Cisco’s long-term objective for our CSR programs Governance & Ethics is to build sustainability into each business function. Scale environmental sustainability reporting by our business partners. We will continue to promote CDP reporting among our Sustainability is not an add-on. Like quality, sustainability supply base, and will develop a strategy to promote standardized GRI reporting by this supply base to address environmental Value Chain impacts beyond energy and GHG emissions. We believe that the most credible analysts and advocacy groups are those that rely can’t be “inspected in” after the fact, so meeting our exclusively on publicly available information, and we want to continue this best practice for our operations and extend the model Our People objective is critical for sustainability to scale throughout to our “extended operations” (supply chain). We don’t believe it is productive or scalable for thousands of the largest companies the business. Operating responsibility is being driven worldwide to send custom surveys to each of their thousands of business partners and suppliers. Society back to the affected business functions, with our EcoBoard focused on long-term strategy, sharing best Starting in FY12, we will include partner CDP reporting status in our preferred vendor scorecards. We believe that the act of Environment practices, and promoting executive-level collaboration. reporting is a powerful driver of increased attention to energy efficiency and GHG emissions. Cisco expects to work with our manufacturing partners to effect GHG emissions reductions, since reduction of supplier energy use may need changes to Cisco Environmental In this year’s Environment section, we have introduced manufacturing processes that require Cisco involvement and approval. Sustainability a reporting framework for consistent coverage of all GRI Also related to our supply chain, we will launch in FY12 a Supplier Appreciation Award to recognize suppliers with outstanding Materials topics. This framework defines the responsibilities and environmental sustainability performance. Energy and GHG Emissions challenges for each business function. We recognize Water Use that our performance and depth of reporting will need to In FY12, we will move our GHG emissions and air travel data and calculations to a new, enterprisewide sustainability information continue to improve to meet the rising expectations of system (SIS). We will also apply the SIS to improve data collection and analysis related to all GRI environment performance Biodiversity and Land Use our stakeholders. We will report our progress for each of indicators. Non-GHG Emissions these activities in our 2012 CSR Report. Effluents (Liquid) We will continue to invest in the development of the Scope 3/Product ICT Sector Supplement to the GHG Protocol standards, Waste the supplement scheduled for initial release in 2012. We believe that practitioner-level standards, informed by companies with real-world carbon accounting experience, are essential for advocacy, OEMs, customers, and policymakers to realize the promise > Looking Ahead of ICT to improve energy efficiency and reduce GHG emissions. In FY12, Cisco will release a metric for the emissions impact of reduced employee commuting enabled by the use of our collaborative technologies. To date, we have relied on limited employee surveys to estimate this impact, but we want to report GRI Index the impact based substantially on primary data, as we do for our air travel and operations GHG emissions. Cisco is exercising care in the development of this methodology to respect our policies protecting employee privacy. KPIs/Report Card We will be rolling out EnergyWise-enabled power distribution units in major engineering labs worldwide. This lab-retrofit effort Appendix started more slowly than originally planned as we waited for our development partners, such as Joulex, CyberSwitching, and FieldServer, to introduce EnergyWise compliant products into the marketplace. We believe that there will be substantial leverage in scaling energy monitoring and control, because EnergyWise is now included in Cisco routers and switches as part of their software. Based on interest from employees, we are planning to expand in FY12 and FY13 the electric vehicle charging stations currently at our San Jose, California headquarters campus to other locations, such as Research Triangle Park, North Carolina (U.S.) and Bedfont Lakes, Feltham (U.K.). (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback F42 < Previous View Introduction Objectives for FY12 (continued) Governance & Ethics We have been challenged to improve meaningful measurement of product reuse and end-of-life recycling. Cisco sells products to many of the largest companies in the world. Some of these companies may prefer to manage their own recycling efforts, Value Chain and may in fact use the same recyclers as Cisco. Inserting a return leg through Cisco to the recycler can decrease customer efficiency and increase overall emissions and costs. We are planning to engage key customers directly on this issue to improve Our People Cisco’s accountability on product reuse and the eventual final disposition of our products. Also engaging our key customers, we want to leverage the GHG Protocol ICT Sector Supplement to aggregate GHG emissions Society savings and demonstrate the desired standardized reporting of the benefit of ICT to reduce GHG emissions. Just as we aggregate performance of our suppliers, users of Cisco’s remote collaboration technologies can similarly aggregate the benefit Environment of ICT. Cisco Environmental Sustainability We will be converting more of our buildings to the Cisco Connected Workplace setup, reducing the need to expand our real estate footprint as business growth continues. Along with (1) rationalizing lab space, (2) consolidation of our data centers and the Materials outfitting of our new data centers with the latest Cisco and Cisco partner equipment, and (3) the planned upgrade of our Cisco Energy and GHG Emissions Virtual Office equipment to the ECT 891, significant opportunity exists to reduce energy use and GHG emissions. Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Our human resources function will engage with managers and employees to identify and document environmental sustainability goals in our online performance management system. Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) We have started to scope our next GHG emissions reduction goal. Our EPA Climate Leaders goal year is calendar year 2012, so Waste we are planning to announce our next goal in our CDP 2012 submittal at the end of May 2012. > Looking Ahead GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Appendix 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G1 < Previous View Introduction Governance & Ethics Value Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Appendix GRI Index 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G2 < Previous View Introduction Global Reporting Initiative Index The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines are a set of internationally recognized indicators covering a company’s social, economic and Governance & Ethics environmental impacts. Value Chain This table covers the GRI G3.1 indicators found in our 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report, 2011 Annual Report, and company website. It includes all G3.1 core indicators including those that we do not report against. We have only included additional indicators if we report against them. Our People Based on an internal review, Cisco determines this to be a B level report against the GRI G3.1 guidelines. Society Environment GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location GRI Index Strategy and Analysis KPIs/Report Card 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization CEO Letter and its strategy Appendix 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Governance & Ethics Profile 2.1 Name of reporting organization Cisco Systems, Inc 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Products & Services 2.3 Operational structure of the organization including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures Corporate Overview 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Worldwide Contacts 2.5 Number of countries where organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are Worldwide Contacts specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Restated Articles of Incorporation of Cisco Systems, Inc 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Worldwide Contacts, 2011 Annual Report, Corporate Overview 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization including: Corporate Overview, 2011 Annual Report • Number of employees • Net sales • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity • Quantity of products or services provided 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership, including: Corporate Development, Cisco 2011 earnings, • Location of, or changes in operations, including facility operations, closings, and expansions 2011 Annual Report • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CSR Awards and Recognition, Diversity Awards Archive (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G3 < Previous View Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Governance & Ethics Report Parameters Value Chain 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Introduction/About This Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CSR Report 2010 Our People 3.3 Reporting cycle Cisco FY11 Society 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr_report@cisco.com Environment Report Scope and Boundary GRI Index 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Governance & Ethics/CSR Management • Determining materiality KPIs/Report Card • Prioritizing topics within the report • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Appendix 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) Introduction/About This Report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Only as noted in report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can Cisco reports on all operations significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Introduction to Acquisitions 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations KPIs/Report Card applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such KPIs/Report Card, Society/Education/Networking restatement Academy, Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report KPIs/Report Card GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard disclosures in the report This table 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report We continue to explore the viability of external accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the assurance relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for Corporate Governance specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and if so, his or her function within Corporate Governance the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G4 < Previous View Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Governance & Ethics 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that Corporate Governance are independent and/or non-executive members Value Chain 4.4 Mechanisms for stakeholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body Governance & Ethics/CSR Management, Our People/Working Together, Share Your Concerns Our People 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including Compensation and Management Development Society departure arrangements) and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) Committee Charter Environment 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided Corporate Governance 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the Corporate Governance GRI Index organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics KPIs/Report Card 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Governance & Ethics/Ethics, environmental, and social performance, and the status of their implementation Code of Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct Appendix 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, Governance & Ethics, Corporate Governance, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Code of Business Conduct internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, Corporate Governance environmental, and social performance Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Governance & Ethics/Governance, Environment/The Enabling Effect 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization Governance & Ethics/CSR Management subscribes or endorses 4.13 Members in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Environment/Advocacy and Standards Development, • Has positions in governance bodies Society, Governance & Ethics/CSR Management, • Participates in projects or committees Governance & Ethics/Privacy, • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Value Chain/Working with Industry Groups • Views membership as strategic 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Governance & Ethics/CSR Management 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Governance & Ethics/CSR Management 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Governance & Ethics/CSR Management 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded Governance & Ethics/CSR Management, to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Introduction/About This Report (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G5 < Previous View Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Governance & Ethics Performance: Economic Value Chain Disclosure on Management approach Governance & Ethics, Society/Our Strategy, Annual Report 2011/Letter to Shareholders Our People Economic Performance Indicators Society Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations KPIs/Report Card, 2011 Annual Report Environment and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments GRI Index EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change Environment/The Enabling Effect KPIs/Report Card EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 2011 Annual Report EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Cisco does not receive financial government support Appendix Aspect: Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation We provide competitive levels of compensation above local minimum wage requirements EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation Not material: nearly 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant Not material: nearly 100% of our manufacturing is operation outsourced Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through Society/Education, Society/Healthcare, commercial, in-kind, or pro-bono engagement Society/Economic Development, Society/Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief, KPIs/Report Card EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Society/Education, Society/Healthcare, Society/Economic Development, Society/Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief, KPIs/Report Card (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G6 < Previous View Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Governance & Ethics Performance: Environmental Value Chain Disclosure on Management approach Environment/Principles Environmental Performance indicators Our People Aspect: Materials Society EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment/Materials Environment EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Environment/Materials/Recycled Content GRI Index Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations KPIs/Report Card Scope 1 and 2 Appendix EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Scope 3 requirements as a result of these initiatives Product Use Phase (Energy Efficiency) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environment/Water Use EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Environment/Water Use EN10 Percentage and total water volume of water recycled and reused Environment/Effluents (Liquid) Aspect: Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use EN15 Number of IUCN Red List Species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use level of extinction risk (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G7 < Previous View Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Governance & Ethics Aspect: Emissions, Effluents and Waste Value Chain EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2 Our People EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 3 Society EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Environment Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Environment/Non–GHG Emissions GRI Index EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Environment/Non–GHG Emissions KPIs/Report Card EN21 Total water discharged by quality and destination Environment/Effluents (Liquid) Appendix EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environment/ Waste/Solid Waste from Operations (trash) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Environment/Effluents (Liquid) EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Environment/ Waste/Solid Waste from Operations (trash) Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Scope 3 Product Use Phase (Energy Efficiency) EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Environment/Waste/Product Take-back, Reuse and Recycle Aspect: Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental Environment/Cisco Environmental Sustainability/ laws and regulations Regulatory Fines Aspect: Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations operations, and transporting members of the workforce Scope 3/Scope 3 Business Air Travel EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G8 < Previous View Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Governance & Ethics Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work Value Chain Disclosure on management approach Our People/Working Together, Our People/A Safe and Healthy Work Environment, Our People/An Open and Diverse Culture, Our People Our People/Employee Opportunities, Our People/Rewarding Our People Society Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Environment Aspect: Employment GRI Index LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region Our People, Our People/Changes to Our Workforce, KPIs/Report Card KPIs/Report Card LA2 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. Total number and rate of employee turnover by Our People, Our People/Changes to Our Workforce, Appendix age group, gender, and region KPIs/Report Card LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations Our People/Rewarding Our People Aspect: Labor/management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Zero LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements We meet all applicable laws, regulations and standards where we do business. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region Our People/A Safe and Healthy Work Environment, KPIs/Report Card LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, Our People/A Safe and Healthy Work Environment, or community members regarding serious diseases Our People/Cisco Employee Benefits Aspect: Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Our People/Employee Opportunities, KPIs/Report Card LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist Our People/Employee Opportunities them in managing their careers LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Our People/Employee Opportunities Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority Our People/An Open and Diverse Culture, group membership, and other indicators of diversity KPIs/Report Card LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G9 < Previous View Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Governance & Ethics Performance: Human Rights Value Chain Disclosure on management approach Governance & Ethics/Ethics, Governance & Ethics/Human Rights, Value Chain Our People Human Rrights Indicators Society Aspect: Investment and Procurement Activities HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have Society/Our Strategy Environment undergone human rights screening GRI Index HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken Governance & Ethics/Ethics, Value Chain KPIs/Report Card HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Governance & Ethics/Ethics operations, including the percentage of employees that are trained Appendix Aspect: Nondiscrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant Supplier Code of Conduct, Value Chain/Partnering with risk, and actions taken to support these rights Suppliers to Improve Performance and Build Capability Aspect: Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having a significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the Supplier Code of Conduct, Value Chain/Partnering with elimination of forced or compulsory labor Suppliers to Improve Performance and Build Capability Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to Supplier Code of Conduct, Value Chain/Partnering with the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Suppliers to Improve Performance and Build Capability Aspect: Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Not material: nearly 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced Aspect: Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G10 < Previous View Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Governance & Ethics Performance: Society Value Chain Disclosure on management approach Society Society Performance Indicators Our People Aspect: Community Society SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on Governance & Ethics/CSR Management, communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Society/Our Strategy, Society/Employee Engagement Environment Aspect: Corruption GRI Index SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Governance & Ethics/Ethics/Code of Business Conduct KPIs/Report Card SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Governance & Ethics/Ethics/Code of Business Conduct Appendix SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Governance & Ethics/Ethics/Code of Business Conduct Aspect: Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Global Policy and Government Affairs (GPGA) Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices, and their outcomes Annual Report, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Legal Proceedings Aspect: Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and Annual Report, Notes to Consolidated Financial regulations Statements, Legal Proceedings SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Zero SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on Not material: Cisco does not have operations with local communities significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback G11 < Previous View Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (continued) Location Governance & Ethics Performance: Product Responsibility Value Chain Disclosure on management approach Governance & Ethics/Human Rights, Environment Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Our People Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Society PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and Environment/Waste percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Environment Aspect: Product and Service Labeling GRI Index PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and service KPIs/Report Card subject to such information requirements PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Annual Customer Satisfaction Survey Appendix Aspect: Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including Marketing communications are regulated by national advertising, promotion, and sponsorship and international law, and are also subject to voluntary codes. Cisco’s marketing communications are also governed by our Code of Business Conduct and by additional guidelines and best practices. Aspect: Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Zero, Governance & Ethics/Privacy Aspect: Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Annual Report, Notes to Consolidated Financial products and services Statements, Legal Proceedings 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H1 < Previous View Introduction Governance & Ethics Value Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Our People KPIs Society KPIs Environment KPIs Report Card Appendix KPIs/Report Card 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H2 < Previous View Introduction Our People Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Governance & Ethics Our People KPIs Value Chain KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Our People Employee Satisfaction 86% 87% 90% 84% 79% Percentage of employees who consider Cisco a great place to work (average) Society Voluntary employee attrition 4.5% 5.0% 3.2% 4.7% 8.6%1 Total voluntary attrition as percentage of ending Environment headcount Health and safety (U.S. and Canada operations only) 93 137 145 116 120 Number of nonfatal injuries and illnesses GRI Index Women 23% 23.5% 23.4% 22.9% 22% Women as percentage of total global employees KPIs/Report Card 12.7% 15.5% 15.5% 15.4% 15.5% Women in VP positions or above as percentage of global > Our People KPIs VP and above employees Society KPIs Ethnic minorities (U.S. only) 43.7% 44.7% 45.6% 44.2% 45% Ethnic minorities as percentage of total U.S. employees Environment KPIs 15.6% 22.2% 20.8% 21.9% 24% Ethnic minorities in VP positions or above as percentage Report Card of U.S. VP and above employees 1. Includes employees in U.S. and Canada who took a voluntary early retirement. Without early retirement participants, voluntary attrition was 6.0%. Appendix 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H3 < Previous View Introduction Society Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Governance & Ethics Society KPIs Value Chain KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Our People Social Investment 116.81 92 128.6 138.7 82.5 Total corporate-wide and foundation cash and in-kind 2952 contributions ($ million) Society Employee Volunteerism 130,000 88,870 78,000 148,355 166,445 Number of hours volunteered by employees Environment Cisco Networking Academy 625,000 700,000 800,000 900,000 1,000,000 Number of active students in Cisco Networking Academy courses GRI Index Leadership Fellows 17 20 13 2 2 Cisco leaders who share their expertise with nonprofit KPIs/Report Card organizations Our People KPIs Social and economic investment 160+ 165+ 165+ 165+ 165+ Number of countries or regions where Cisco currently invests or manages programs > Society KPIs Environment KPIs Strategic partners 34 41 58 70 67 Significant collaborations with corporate partners, nonprofits and NGOs Report Card 1. This number was mistakenly reported in FY07 as 166.8. 2. Including Cisco Networking Academy. Appendix 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H4 < Previous View Introduction Environment Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) A summary of Cisco’s environmental key performance indicators (KPIs) is provided in the following table. Assumptions and detailed calculation methodologies for each KPI are Governance & Ethics discussed in the Environment section. Value Chain Environment KPIs (continued) Our People KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Society Environmental Management System Environment Number of Cisco sites with ISO 14001 certification 23 23 25 26 28 Calendar year certifications assigned to fiscal year GRI Index (e.g., CY2011 assigned to FY2011) KPIs/Report Card Employees at sites covered by ISO 14001 certification 74% 73% 70% 71% 69% Head count-based metric calculated per 2010. Future reporting will be by real estate footprint (below). Our People KPIs Real estate portfolio with ISO 14001 certification 100% 96% 92% 92% 91% Real estate footprint viewed as better measure of Society KPIs potential environmental impact. Candidate sites filtered > Environment KPIs by minimum size and engineering lab function. Report Card Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Appendix Total gross GHG emissions: Scope 1, 51,399 51,661 53,453 53,363 60,382 Gross is used consistent with Carbon Disclosure Project metric tonne CO2e (CDP) terminology. Gross GHG emissions do not include reductions from renewable energy purchases. Total gross GHG emissions: Scope 2, 461,456 539,867 590,755 597,257 610,832 metric tonne CO2e Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 2, 395,720 296,417 235,520 339,630 367,513 Contractual is used consistent with CDP terminology. metric tonne CO2e Contractual GHG emissions include reductions from renewable energy purchases. Scope 1 and 2 emissions (gross) intensity, 14.7 15.0 17.8 16.2 15.5 metric tonne CO2e per million US$ revenue Scope 2 emissions from primary data 96.4% 97.1% 96.9% 98.6% 98.0% Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 1 and 2, metric 447,120 348,079 288,973 392,993 427,895 tonne CO2e Progress against reduction goal. na -22% -35% -12% -4% Cisco’s corporate GHG reduction goal was set as part Goal: reduce all Scope 1, 2, [and business-air-travel of U.S. EPA Climate Leaders program, which required a Scope 3] GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent calendar year baseline. The Climate Leaders program absolute by CY2012 (CY2007 baseline) has since been discontinued. To avoid reporting both calendar and fiscal year data, Cisco is publicly reporting emissions using fiscal year data. (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H5 < Previous View Introduction Environment KPIs (continued) Governance & Ethics KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Value Chain Electricity Emissions Factors (EF) Our People International Energy Agency (IEA) world average EF, 508.4 504.5 500.0 500.0 500.0 Calendar year per IEA. Latest 2009 EF from IEA value g CO2e per kWh used for 2009-2011. Society Cisco, global average electricity EF (gross) 437.1 448.8 456.9 460.9 443.2 Environment g CO2e per kWh Cisco, global average electricity EF (contractual) g CO2e 375.4 246.4 182.2 262.1 266.6 GRI Index per kWh KPIs/Report Card Cisco, major data center average electricity EF (gross) 397.5 401.3 418.8 435.4 435.0 g CO2e per kWh Our People KPIs Scope 3 GHG Emissions Society KPIs Total air travel GHG emissions: Scope 3 205,796 197,867 118,602 106,783 127,232 Primary air travel data adjusted to represent 100% of > Environment KPIs metric tonne CO2e Cisco business-air-travel. Report Card Scope 3 air travel emissions from primary data 98.0% 98.5% 97.9% 96.1% 98.2% Progress against reduction goal. base year +4% -42% -48% -38% Cisco’s corporate GHG reduction goal was set as part Appendix Goal: reduce all [Scope 1, 2, and] business-air-travel of U.S. EPA Climate Leaders program, which required a Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent calendar-year baseline. The Climate Leaders has since absolute by CY2012 (CY2007 baseline) been discontinued. To avoid reporting both calendar and fiscal year data, Cisco is publicly reporting emissions using fiscal year data. Suppliers Reporting to CDP • Contract manufacturing, by planned spend na 63% 82% 100% 100% Tier 1 partner. Goal: 100% (met) • AVL component, by planned spend na 54% 59% 69% 69%* *Pending CDP Reporter Services 2011 data analysis; Tier 2 partner. Goal: 80% • Logistics, by supplier count na na na 50% 50%* *Pending CDP Reporter Services 2011 data analysis; Tier 2 partner. Goal: 90% (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H6 < Previous View Introduction Environment KPIs (continued) Governance & Ethics KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Value Chain Energy Our People Totals Society Energy usage, GWh 1,282 1,438 1,533 1,524 1,629 Indirect energy usage, GWh 1,054 1,203 1,293 1,296 1,378 Indirect energy usage is electricity consumption. Direct Environment energy consumption is the sum of Cisco’s natural gas and diesel usage for heating and back-up power GRI Index generation and regular gasoline and diesel fuel used in Cisco’s fleet. KPIs/Report Card Direct energy usage, GWh 228 235 240 228 250 Our People KPIs Electricity usage, GWh 1,054 1,203 1,293 1,296 1,378 Society KPIs Natural gas usage, GWh 150 158 147 118 121 > Environment KPIs Report Card Renewables Electricity from renewable sources, GWh 110 342 469 351 358 Electricity from renewable sources 10% 28% 36% 27% 26% Appendix GHG emissions reductions from renewable energy, 65,736 243,450 355,235 257,627 243,319 metric tonne CO2e Water Use Total water use, m3 1,725,618 1,570,831 1,690,348 1,753,269 1,790,061 Includes irrigation (where used) and potable water Real estate portfolio covered by water reporting 59% 58% 65% 67% 66% Biodiversity and Land Use Real estate portfolio with biodiversity assessment not not not 65% 63% Includes International Union for Conservation of Nature reported reported reported (IUCN) Red List and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations. Owned property. (continues on next page) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H7 < Previous View Introduction Environment KPIs (continued) Governance & Ethics KPI FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Comments Value Chain Non-GHG Emissions Our People Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible Because most of Cisco’s production is outsourced to supply chain partners, Cisco’s global operations primarily Society consist of standard office activities and research labs, which may require the occasional use of cleaning Environment products containing VOCs. Quantities of VOC-based chemicals are minimal and are not required to be GRI Index monitored. NOx, metric tonne 177 167 164 241 339 KPIs/Report Card SOx, metric tonne 0.67 0.71 0.73 0.84 1.05 Our People KPIs Particulate matter negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible Society KPIs > Environment KPIs Effluents (Liquid) Report Card Spills and discharges none none none none none In FY2011, there were no reportable spills or discharges to the environment from Cisco facilities or operations worldwide. Appendix Product Trade-in and Return Product return, metric tonne * 10,030 10,730 8,580 11,595 *Before FY2008, Cisco reported weight of material sent to Cisco’s recyclers. Using process improvements started in FY2008; we are now reporting weight of material received from end users, which is the metric of primary concern to stakeholders. Material to landfill** * 0.46% 0.44% 0.33% 0.89% *See comment directly above. **Landfilled material consists only of nonrecyclable materials such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap. Operational Waste Total operational waste generated, metric tonne 7,156 7,409 6,246 4,845 4,471 Real estate portfolio covered by waste reporting 53% 53% 48% 46% 45% Includes data for all Cisco campus locations in the U.S. and Canada. Total operational waste recycled, metric tonne 4,633 5,023 4,250 3,443 3,228 Operational waste recycled 65% 68% 68% 71% 71% 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H8 < Previous View Introduction Report Card People Governance & Ethics Value Chain Workforce by Job Function in FY11 New Hires by Gender (Non-U.S.) Our People Workforce Percentage FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Society Engineering 28% Total Number of Hires 4982 4518 2536 4970 6373 Environment Sales 35% Number of Female Hires 1029 1018 484 912 1093 GRI Index Other Business Functions 37% Percent of Female Hires 21% 23% 19% 18% 17% KPIs/Report Card Our People KPIs Cisco Employees by World Market Regions New Hires by Gender and Ethnicity (U.S. Only) Society KPIs Environment KPIs FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 > Report Card Asia Pacific 7,528 9,276 10,169 11,938 14,369 Total Number of Hires 5821 5441 4208 3837 3358 Emerging Markets 2,406 2,921 7,860 8,550 3,280 Number of Female Hires 1712 1643 1034 835 753 Appendix Percent of Female Hires 29% 30% 25% 22% 19% Europe 6,907 7,604 8,082 8,814 9,314 Japan 1,158 1,253 1,278 1,290 1,367 Number of 3108 2839 2191 1591 1525 Non-Caucasian Hires United States and Canada 33,494 35,832 38,156 39,173 38,494 Percentage of 53% 52% 52% 42% 47% Non-Caucasian Hires Total Number of Female 3858 3533 1249 2035 1888 Caucasian Hires, and Male and Female Non-Caucasian Hires Total Percent of Female 66% 65% 57% 53% 56% Caucasian Hires, and Male and Female Non-Caucasian Hires 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H9 < Previous View Cisco Employee Benefits • Onsite Cafeterias (Multiple locations) Cisco provides culturally relevant leave-of-absence and Introduction time-off programs for employees globally. Examples of • Adoption Assistance • Onsite Child Care Centers (two centers in San Jose, CA, one in Bangalore, India, and backup childcare these programs in the United States include: Governance & Ethics • Autism Benefit (Global) program for Research Triangle Park, NC) • Baby Gift Program (Global) • Adoption Leave: Paid Value Chain • Onsite Fitness Center (Multiple locations) • Children’s Scholarship Fund for the children of • Bereavement Time Off: Paid Our People deceased employees (Global) • Onsite Health Centers (San Jose, CA, Bangalore, India, • Educational Leave: Unpaid HealthPresence in Research Triangle Park) Society • Cisco Equipment Discount Program (U.S.) • Jury Duty Time Off: Paid • Onsite Pharmacy, Vision Center (San Jose, CA) • Death Benefits for Family (Global) • Pregnancy Disability Leave/Maternity Leave: Paid Environment • Relocation Assistance (Global) • Education Benefits: Employee Tuition Assistance • Military Leave: Differential Paid (Global) • Tax-Advantaged Long-Term Savings with company GRI Index contribution (ex. Retirement: 401(k)) • Paid Time Off (vacation): Paid • Family Crisis Assistance (Global) KPIs/Report Card • Off/On Ramp Program (Up to two years off work, • Paternity Leave: Unpaid • Elder Care Program (Global) unpaid but first year with medical benefits) • Personal Leave: Unpaid Our People KPIs • Employee Assistance Program (Global) • Employee Stock Purchase Plan Society KPIs • Employee Bonus Program (Global) Environment KPIs • Employee Discount Program (U.S., Canada, and U.K.) > Report Card Employee Learning and Development in FY11 • Expert Medical Opinion (Outside U.S. only, launched in U.S. in FY12) Type Amount Appendix • Financial Education (U.S.) Total spent on employee training and development $US113 million • Flexible Work Practices (Global) • Health and Wellness Programs (Multiple countries) Percent of employees participating in at least one course 82% • Health Insurance: Medical, disability and life benefits; Total hours spent in learning and development courses 2.4 million dental and vision where prevalent (Global) • Insurance: Healthcare Domestic Partner eligibility (Global) 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H10 < Previous View Society Introduction Governance & Ethics Number of Countries1 with Active Networking Academy Sites, by Year Active Students by Education Level in FY11 Value Chain Year (as of July 31) Number of Sites Education Level Percentage Our People 1997 7 Upper secondary/high schools1 13% Society 1998 27 Community colleges (two and three year) 35% Environment 1999 71 Four-year colleges/universities 2 46% GRI Index 2000 128 Others3 6% 2001 142 1. Includes grades 6 through 12. KPIs/Report Card 2 Includes postgraduate. 2002 149 3 Includes community and nonacademic sites; also includes postgraduate outside four-year institutions. Our People KPIs 2003 155 Society KPIs Environment KPIs 2004 163 Cisco Financial Contributions Over Five Years (in Millions) > Report Card 2005 164 2006 164 Type FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Appendix 2007 164 Foundation total US$8.8 US$10.7 US$10.1 US$10.5 US$12.3 2008 166 In-kind total (corporatewide US$49.0 US$37.9 US$83.7 US$96.7 $252.2 product and people) 2009 168 Cash total (Foundation cash US$67.7 US$54.1 US$44.9 US$42.0 US$42.9 2010 165 and corporatewide cash) 2011 165 Corporatewide giving total US$116.8 US$92.0 US$128.6 US$138.7 US$82.51 US$2951,2 1. For administrative purposes, we have defined some geographical areas as countries that are not autonomous states or are not recognized as countries by international bodies such as the United Nations. Examples of Contributions as a 1.5% 0.97% 1.25% 1.47% 1.05%1 these include American Samoa, Hong Kong, and Puerto Rico. percentage of earnings 3.77%1,2 before income tax (EBIT)3 1. Total Cisco Networking Academy contributions in FY11 were equivalent to US$212.6 million. This is based on a conservative estimate of the total value of our in-kind contributions covering all components of our support, including those not approved by the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy (CECP) Corporate Giving Standard criteria. Total Cisco Networking Academy contributions based on CECP approved criteria were equivalent to US$121.0 million. For additional details please see Society. 2. Includes Cisco Networking Academy. 3. Prior to FY10 these contribution percentages were based on the previous year’s EBIT as was the industry standard. When that standard shifted, in our FY10, we shifted to use the current year EBIT as per direction from the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H11 < Previous View Introduction Cisco Networking Academy Student Profile Governance & Ethics Countries Student Cumulative Students Cisco Certification Ready Instructors Academies Since Inception Completions Since Inception Value Chain Our People Total Total % Increase % Female Total % Female Total % Female Total % Female Total (Theaters and from (Theaters and (Theaters and (Theaters and (Theaters and Regions are Prior Year Regions are Regions are Regions are Regions are Society shown as a % shown as a % shown as a % shown as a % shown as a % of Global) of Global) of Global) of Global) of Global) Environment Global 165 1,000,000 10% 21% 3,750,000 19% 750,000 16% 20,000 17% 10,000 GRI Index Asia Pacific 27 26% 6% 29% 23% 26% 25% 22% 17% 19% 14% KPIs/Report Card APAC 22 19% 6% 29% 16% 28% 15% 24% 12% 19% 9% Our People KPIs Greater 5 7% 5% 28% 7% 23% 10% 20% 5% 20% 5% Society KPIs China Environment KPIs Emerging 115 40% 6% 23% 31% 23% 31% 19% 41% 19% 40% > Report Card Markets Africa 40 5% 7% 28% 3% 28% 5% 29% 4% 15% 4% Appendix Central and 19 7% 12% 15% 6% 14% 6% 9% 10% 16% 10% Eastern Europe Latin 26 18% 5% 22% 16% 23% 14% 20% 16% 17% 12% America and the Caribbean Middle East 19 7% 2% 34% 4% 31% 4% 21% 8% 25% 8% Russia and 11 2% 10% 19% 1% 18% 1% 12% 4% 26% 5% CIS European 22 19% 10% 10% 18% 10% 16% 8% 23% 12% 23% Market Japan 1 1% -13% 20% 1% 18% 1% 12% 1% 5% 1% United 4 14% 6% 14% 27% 14% 26% 11% 19% 20% 23% States and Canada 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback H12 < Previous View Value Chain findings from these audits have been resolved. We are We have now conducted initial audits, and in many cases Introduction In FY11, we completed a series of audits of supplier also continuing to analyze the findings of a number of repeat audits, of all our contract manufacturing suppliers’ facilities, the findings of which are shown in the chart other audits conducted in FY11, the results of which will facilities, and in FY11 we began to focus more of our Governance & Ethics below. As was the case last year, the majority of the be published in our FY12 report. audits on component suppliers, which supply parts to our Value Chain findings related to labor, health, and safety. All major contract manufacturers. Our People FY11 Supplier Audit: Summary of Findings Society Total Audit Elements 577 Environment Findings Identified as Major 457 Findings Identified as Minor GRI Index 356 361 267 KPIs/Report Card 143 Major nonconformance: A significant failure in Our People KPIs 108 the management system that renders established 11 7 25 48 9 7 16 41 4 18 36 29 6 28 Society KPIs processes or procedures ineffective. Environment KPIs GENERAL CODE LABOR ETHICS HEALTH ENVIRONMENT LABOR & ETHICS EHS Minor nonconformance: Typically, an isolated or > Report Card & LEGAL & SAFETY MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT random incident that does not necessarily indicate COMPLIANCE SYSTEM SYSTEM a systemic problem with the management system. Appendix 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback I1 < Previous View Introduction Governance & Ethics Value Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Appendix 1. A bout the Environment Section 2. Employee Engagement 3. Global Supplier Management Letter 4. C omparison of BAU & ICT Solution for Appendix Remote Collaboration 5. C omparison of BAU & ICT Solution for Teleworking 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback I2 < Previous View Introduction 1. About the Environment Section information in their assessments. As a result, for this 2011 • Water use CSR environment section, we are presenting more detail • Biodiversity and land use: We include land use in this We have changed the organization of the Environment in our reporting. Readers interested in a higher-level Governance & Ethics section to highlight its specific relevance to Cisco. section based on stakeholder feedback, to create a overview of Cisco’s environmental practices should refer structure that can be used year-to-year for our external to the CSR Report Executive Summary. • Non-GHG emissions Value Chain reporting. We believe this approach will (1) help each • Effluents (Liquid) Our People Cisco business function focus better on its respective As much as was practical, we included all environment• The waste topic has four parts, (1) controlled areas of responsibility and (2) help our stakeholders related information requested by our stakeholders in this substances, (2) product take-back, reuse and Society find their desired information more quickly. This change PDF, or explicit reference has been made in the PDF to recycling, often called end-of-life, (3) waste from is also consistent with the evolution of environmental information posted on a publicly accessible web page. product packaging, and (4) waste from operations Environment sustainability at Cisco. Our goal is to build CSR into There are cases where business requirements dictate (“trash”). every business function. We have concluded that this that information be accessible on a web page. For GRI Index goal is best served by standardizing processes across example, our legal compliance team posts RoHS, WEEE, There are a total of 30, GRI, environmental indicators the company, so that each business function can take and REACH information on standalone web pages on KPIs/Report Card under these main environmental topics. The are no GRI more ownership for their part of the entire CSR business Cisco.com. Similarly, our product take-back and recycling sector supplements applicable to Cisco’s business. process while still retaining the necessary coordination program has web pages that our customers use to Appendix Any indicator protocol in this PDF file can be found by among the affected groups. request product pickup. Rather than repeat information in a simple search (such as “EN2:”or “EN16:”). We have > 1. A  bout the Environment this PDF, we make reference to these public web pages also listed all environmental indicators in a GRI table in Section Cisco receives hundreds of environment-related inquiries and explain how the information on each one fits into the a separate PDF file. The body of this report is organized 2. Employee Engagement or surveys each year from a range of stakeholders, environmental topic being discussed. around the major GRI environmental topic areas listed including: 3. Global Supplier above, structured in the following format: Management Letter The Environment section generally follows the • Analysts (financial, industry, socially responsible organization of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). There 4. C  omparison of BAU • We explain the context of the issue in terms of global investment) is a section for each of the major GRI environment topics, & ICT Solution for sustainability, outlining the issue or concern in a global Remote Collaboration • Customers generally in the order presented in the GRI Indicator or regional/local context. We want to share a common Protocols. These include: understanding of the issue across the range of 5. C  omparison of BAU • Employees & ICT Solution for stakeholders with whom we meet and work throughout Teleworking • Environmental advocacy groups • Materials the year. • Governments and national labs • Energy/GHG: We have combined greenhouse gas • We explain Cisco’s role in the issue. We want to put • Industry groups (GHG) emissions with energy, because we believe context around the problem, including its relative these two topics are most efficiently discussed • Media importance and how it relates to our own operations, together. Because of its materiality to Cisco, this topic our supply chain, our products, and our customers. • Shareholders and investors is complex and includes sections on our Scope 1 and This context supports statements of materiality and • Universities (researchers and students) 2 emissions, product life-cycle Scope 3 emissions, relative environmental impact. and a description of Cisco solutions that help our Surveys from these stakeholders can exceed 100 customers improve energy efficiency and reduce their • We explain Cisco’s initiatives to address this questions. However, many analysts and advocacy groups GHG emissions. problem: within the company, at our suppliers, for our do not rely on surveys, and will only use publicly available customers, and with other partners. • We explain our progress in addressing the issue. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback I3 < Previous View We have found that stakeholders prefer to have all the Introduction information for an issue in one place. Therefore, where it makes sense, we discuss the following areas within the Governance & Ethics context of each environmental topic: Value Chain • Regulations and standards Our People • Stakeholder engagement and feedback • Risks and opportunities Society For example, Cisco is working with the ENERGY STAR Environment program on new guidelines for network equipment. We GRI Index discuss these engagements in the Energy/GHG section under product energy efficiency. This permits the KPIs/Report Card various groups within Cisco that work on Energy/GHG to assemble a more integrated story that we hope provides Appendix a clearer and more complete account of our activities in this area. > 1. A  bout the Environment Section Some environmental information is also discussed in the 2. Employee Engagement Value Chain chapter, and cross-references are provided 3. Global Supplier where appropriate. Although this results in some Management Letter duplication, we learned from stakeholder feedback that 4. C  omparison of BAU this dual approach serves the broadest audience. The & ICT Solution for integrated energy/GHG section will continue to report Remote Collaboration the total impact of Cisco’s operations, including suppliers 5. C  omparison of BAU (“extended” operations), in one place. For this multi& ICT Solution for faceted, complex topic, we believe this provides the most Teleworking transparent approach to reporting. The balance of the environment section includes discussions of: • Materiality • Governance, including policy, our environmental management system (EMS), how we’re organized, and how we engage our employees • General information on our implementation processes If you have further suggestions on improving the format and organization of this Environment section please write to csr_report@cisco.com. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback I4 < Previous View Introduction 2. Employee Engagement sustainability experts as they presented the company’s Connected Bees vision, strategy, plans, and priorities. In these sessions, Cisco employees in the United Kingdom, France and the Our employees look to Cisco to participate in efforts to employees had an opportunity to: Netherlands take care of bees and produce honey onsite Governance & Ethics protect the world’s ecosystems for future generations. at Cisco’s offices. Together, we are working to reduce our environmental • Have a discussion with Cisco’s EcoBoard, a crossValue Chain impacts by engaging in partnerships and delivering functional leadership team, and hear them share the As sentinels of the environment, bees play a critical solutions that help customers also reduce their company’s vision and strategy to create new market role in preserving our environment, our agriculture, and Our People environmental impact. These efforts help us meet the opportunities around green ultimately the food we eat. This project is a concrete Society expectations of our stakeholders and also make good action to preserve biodiversity by reintroducing wild, • Learn how to improve the customer experience business sense, often reducing operating costs and native bees into the urban environment. through a greener supply chain Environment business risks. • Participate in a discussion on the energy efficiency In 2010, after two years getting established, the Paris GRI Index It is of utmost importance to our environmental vision requirements for our next-generation products. office hive was harvested for 110 kg (242 lb) of honey, and strategy that we engage and inspire our employees • Get involved and become part of Cisco’s operational which won a gold medal at a regional honey contest. The KPIs/Report Card to become “green ambassadors” for the company. Our efforts to help the company achieve its environmental 2011 harvest was slightly less, 92 kg (202 lb); primarily strategy relies on embedding a “green” consciousness goals due to normal seasonal variation. Appendix into the company. We seek to inspire our employees 1. A bout the Environment to make their workplace more energyand resource“Think Green, Act Green” Section efficient and to engender pride in Cisco’s environmental The quarterly Cisco “Think Green, Act Green” > 2. Employee Engagement actions. We also look to our employees for their creative e-newsletter has been in existence since February contributions to meeting Cisco’s environmental goals. 2009. Produced by the Global Green Communications 3. Global Supplier Management Letter team at Cisco, “Think Green, Act Green” serves to keep Cisco encourages employees to reduce our collective employees informed about the company’s environmental 4. C omparison of BAU impact on the environment in a variety of ways. We offer & ICT Solution for strategy, including the steps that Cisco is taking to reduce Remote Collaboration annual electronic scrap (e-scrap) recycling worldwide, its carbon footprint. It consolidates information from e-newsletter communications, and commuter incentives internal sources across the company and includes news 5. C omparison of BAU including our latest addition to our San Jose, California items, announcements of achievements and awards, links & ICT Solution for Teleworking campus, electric car charging stations. to external press coverage, green tips, and information from employees in the form of featured green pledges, Virtual Earth Day videos, and wiki forum conversations. “Think Green, Act At Cisco, environmental sustainability is not just about Green” currently reaches 700 subscribers; the Global CSR, but also about operational excellence, product Green Communications team plans to increase this innovation, and creating new business solutions and number in FY12. market opportunities. The company’s green strategy engages with and learns from our customers and our Civic Councils employees about what they are doing at work and at Cisco employees volunteer throughout the year, home to protect the environment. committing thousands of service hours to philanthropic groups, NGOs, and partner organizations around the On April 21 and 22, 2011, hundreds of employees world. Some of these efforts are focused specifically on around the world joined the third annual Virtual Earth improving the environment and educating others on the Day and attended sessions, via Cisco TV, Cisco WebEx, importance of biodiversity to all life on our planet. Some Cisco Connected Bees or Cisco TelePresence with Cisco’s EcoBoard and our of these stories are described in the following sections. 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback I5 < Previous View The French team’s hive project is a cross-organization Environment Trust for Richmond Community Harvest Project Introduction effort involving sales, finance, legal, engineering, Sixty Cisco employees in the UK and Ireland volunteered In the United States, Cisco employees at Boxborough, marketing, and services and illustrates very well the One with the Environment Trust to improve and enhance Massachusetts, have been working with local farms Governance & Ethics Cisco approach. Their high-tech approach to beekeeping the natural spaces in and around the London borough since 2005 to increase sustainable agriculture while has been given the name Cisco Connected Bees. French of Richmond. The Environment Trust is an established meeting community food demands for emergencies and Value Chain bee scientist Gerard Arnold has joined the project landscape and buildings conservation charity focused on low-income children and the elderly. In FY11 employees Our People and has installed sensors so he can retrieve the hive’s Richmond, whose purpose is to preserve and conserve supported two farms through donating volunteer hours. weight twice a day. In spring of 2011, Cisco IT installed open green spaces, wildlife, and the best of the built Society a fully secure network (wired and wireless) allowing environment, and to raise awareness of the issues that Waltham Fields Community Farm supports local hunger the Connected Bees team to install a Cisco video affect their survival. relief and food access efforts by providing fresh produce Environment surveillance solution and some IP sensors. The result is to emergency food programs in the greater Boston area, that all Cisco employees can follow the evolution of the Cisco volunteering activities in FY11 have ranged from operating a special farmer’s market for low-income GRI Index beehives in urban conditions in real time. the annual rhododendron bash in Richmond Park to residents of Waltham called the Waltham Fields Outreach clearing the tributaries of the River Thames of rubbish Market, and engaging in farm-to-school distributions with KPIs/Report Card Bee fever is also spreading to other Cisco sites. As and old bicycles. The local community has benefited the Waltham Public Schools. Its goal is to provide at least part of building consolidation at Green Park, Workplace from new open spaces such as Strawberry Hill House, $40,000 of fresh, organically-grown vegetables through Appendix Resources provided seed funding for a bee sustainability which the teams have supported. Environment Trust is its food access programming each year. 1. A bout the Environment project. The 11-member Green Park team, mentored staffed by volunteers, and Cisco’s match funding policy Section by member Phil Dean (a team lead whose family keeps supports an outreach education project to educate local The Community Harvest Project grows tens of thousands > 2. Employee Engagement bees) as well as the Reading Beekeepers Association children on the delights of these green spaces and how of pounds of tomatoes, broccoli, cabbage, squash, and the Paris team, acquired its hives and bees. in the to preserve them. and other healthy foods for the Worcester County Food 3. Global Supplier spring of 2011 and harvested its first 20 jars of honey Bank, supporting over 80,000 children and elderly in Management Letter in September. The group plans to establish hives at the the county. 4. C omparison of BAU & ICT Solution for Bedfont Lakes site and encourage other businesses in Remote Collaboration Green Park (several are interested) to start their own 5. C omparison of BAU colonies—with the vision of a hive on every roof on every & ICT Solution for building in Green Park. Teleworking The Amsterdam site has amassed a team of 40, who will welcome their bees and hives in the spring of 2012. After tasting Green Park honey, engineers from RTP declared they will set up hives there as well. Harvested honey is distributed to Cisco employees. Through this program we hope to raise further awareness of biodiversity and the need to protect the environment. Community Harvest Project 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback I6 < Previous View Employee Electronic Recycling Cisco employees who commute to work by public Introduction In addition to Cisco’s take-back, reuse and recycling transit or formal vanpool can allocate a portion of their program for our business and our customers, Cisco salary on a pre-tax basis through Cisco’s Pre-Tax Governance & Ethics offers an electronics recycling program for employees. Commuter Incentives Program. Commuter Checks are The e-scrap program helps employees recycle all transit vouchers that can be used at participating transit Value Chain electronic products from home that are the end of their authorities toward the purchase of commuter passes. Our People useful life. The program prevents these items from Cisco regular employees in five different San Francisco being disposed of improperly to landfills. An annual Bay area work locations are eligible to participate in this Society collection event is held in April in conjunction with Earth program. Day. Employees bring their electronics to participating Environment Cisco sites around the world. This returned material is An EcoPass is an additional incentive available to these sent to the same recycling vendors that manage Cisco’s employees. The EcoPass is a transit pass sticker to GRI Index internal and customer recycling. In FY11, 78 Cisco sites be placed on the employee’s Cisco badge to receive worldwide participated and collected over 142 metric unlimited free rides on all San Jose, California Valley KPIs/Report Card Transit Authority bus and light rail lines. Cisco vendors, tonne of e-scrap. In the years since Cisco started e-scrap collection, our employees and contractors have contractors, and regular employees with a work address Appendix helped Cisco recycle over 1,617 metric tonne of used in many San Francisco Bay area cities are eligible. 1. A bout the Environment electronics. Section Cisco has begun installing electric vehicle charging > 2. Employee Engagement Commuter Incentives stations for our employees, discussed in the section Cisco supports the use of incentives to reduce carbon on Scope 3/employee commuting. In 2011, Cisco San Employee e-scrap waiting to be palletized and shipped 3. Global Supplier Management Letter emissions from employee transportation. Through our Jose installed its first electric vehicle charging stations to Cisco recyclers incentives for using public transportation, we reduce to support employees who have “gone green” when 4. C omparison of BAU & ICT Solution for traffic congestion, reduce commute-related pollutants, purchasing a new car. Remote Collaboration and reduce the stresses of drive-alone commuting. 5. C omparison of BAU & ICT Solution for Teleworking 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback I7 < Previous View Introduction 3. Global Supplier Management Letter Governance & Ethics Value Chain Our People cisco cdp Society questions@external.cisco.com. Regards, Environment Earlier (CDP) GRI Index uppliers making KPIs/Report Card Appendix (GHG) emissions. Cisco _____________________________________________________ Ci worldwide 1. A  bout the Environment business air REFERENCES Section C 1. . from questions. is 2. Employee Engagement > 3. Global Supplier goals. Management Letter 2. 4. C  omparison of BAU 1. . S&P500 & ICT Solution for 2. responses publicl given only Remote Collaboration . 3. 5. C  omparison of BAU 3. 4. RS) & ICT Solution for . Teleworking 4. ferred). 5. yo . already CDP’s plea respond@cdproject.net (www.cdproject.net). obtain 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback I8 < Previous View Introduction 4. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration (Avoiding Business Travel) Governance & Ethics Value Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Appendix 1. A  bout the Environment Section 2. Employee Engagement 3. Global Supplier Management Letter > 4. C  omparison of BAU & ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration 5. C  omparison of BAU & ICT Solution for Teleworking 2011 Cisco CSR Report 2011 Cisco CSR Report Website We Welcome Your Feedback I9 < Previous View Introduction 5. Comparison of BAU and ICT Solution for Teleworking (Avoiding Employee Commuting) Governance & Ethics Value Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index KPIs/Report Card Appendix 1. A  bout the Environment Section 2. Employee Engagement 3. Global Supplier Management Letter 4. C  omparison of BAU & ICT Solution for Remote Collaboration > 5. C  omparison of BAU & ICT Solution for Teleworking Americas Headquarters Asia Pacific Headquarters Europe Headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd. Cisco Systems International BV Amsterdam, San Jose, CA Singapore The Netherlands Cisco has more than 200 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco Website at www.cisco.com/go/offices. Cisco and the Cisco Logo are trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. A listing of Cisco’s trademarks can be found at www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (1005R)
