2012 Communication on Progress Participant: • Juken Technology Limited Published: • 2012/07/01 Time period: • 7/2011 – 7/2012 Format: • Stand alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level: • This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Juken Technology Ltd supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day to day operation of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Juken Technology Ltd will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholder and general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication of Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP Policy. Sincerely yours, Mr. Lai Huat Wong CEO Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. In full recognition on the importance of providing fair working conditions (Human Rights) Juken Technology Limited respects support human rights by proclaiming Respect for all individuals as our core values. • Unlawfully discriminate against anyone based on: race, sex, age, sexual orientation, political affiliation, union membership, marital status, nationality, ethnic background and/or religion. • We strives to comply with all local laws and regulations, instructions of competent authorities or appropriate local industry practices in relation to working conditions including hours, wages and benefits (including minimum wages) and overtime hours. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Juken Technology Limited has a wide range of corporate policies sets by our top management thru Human resources department. • We are committed to uphold the human rights of employees, free discrimination and unfair labor practices backed by our HR Policies and governed by the country Employment Act. (Example; MALAYSIA EMPLOYMENT ACT 1955) Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • So far since to date we never register any offences to the principles of Human Rights. We fully follows the rule of law in any and every country we are operating. • We have semi and/or annual ethical audits (conducted by our customer) ensuring that the requirements are continuously lived up to; this is 1 of the major requirements. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Fair and lawful labor practices Juken Technology Limited strives to comply with all local laws and regulations, instructions of competent authorities or appropriate local industry practices in relation to working conditions including working hours, wages and benefits (including minimum wages), overtime hours, rest day, annual leave and sick leave. Child and forced labor Juken Technology Limited does not tolerate or engage in illegal labor practices to use forced labor or involuntary prison labor. The labour laws are fully implemented and stated on our company System. Juken Technology Limited engaged a contract workers (local and Foreigner) which all the employment condition are clearly spell out on the contract agreement including pay rates , overtime arrangements, free accommodation hostel and medical benefits plus the yearly upgrading of their skills related to the work task. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Juken Technology Limited develop training needs analysis every beginning of the fiscal year, all Head of the Department plans their training for all their staff. Our aims is to uplift knowledge, becomes competent and to improve his/her skills in line with their job functions. The management provides a training budget for the entire department. To-date Juken Technology Limited never engaged and employs child labor as we fully follow the rule of law in every country we are operating. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. From the beginning the company started to operate there was no records of breaking any Labor laws and Code of Ethics in any/every country we are operating. Juken Technology Limited youngest employee in 2011 ~ 2012 was 20 years old and the eldest is 66 years old. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Juken Technology Limited is certified as ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001: 2004 by International certification body since 2001 (ISO 9001) and 2006 (ISO14001). We have our own Environmental policy and Environmental Health and Safety Policy as well. We have several Procedures and programs to protect our Environment and our people’s Safety. These procedures spells and stated clearly • To ensure environmental aspects and impacts of the premises are studied adequately so as to assist in identifying the significant impacts and corresponding aspects. • To provide systems for managing/controlling significant impacts and objectives and targets. • Establish and maintain procedures: To identify and control the potential high risk areas for accidents and emergencies in our plan. To respond to accident and emergencies Follow up actions after the emergencies To provide contingency measures that result in a prolonged LINE down situation due to Natural disaster, War, Labor shortage and equipment failures. And preventing the spread of contagious diseases just case. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Currently we have our ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH and SAFETY (EHS) TASK FORCE headed by our General Manager plus our EMS Programs for the whole year. Those project ares: Chemical and Waste Monitoring: Comply with Environmental Public Health act (General waste and toxic industrial waste regulations) in Compliance with Environmental Public Health act. Comply with Environmental Public Health act (Workplace Safety and Health General provisions regulation) To establish proper disposal of significant office materials such as paper and cartridges and to reduce paper usages. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Juken Technology Limited 2011 Management Review emphasizes the monitoring of those Environmental Health and Safety Programs and so far everything is under control. We have our designated area for general waste and toxic waste, our people are organize and educated on this programs thru constant monitoring, follow up and training. Our paper usages programs reveals 2% savings after we create companywide awareness on using recycles paper or print double-sided. The result of 2011 programs reveals our commitment to protect the Environment and the Safety of our people. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Juken Technology Limited values ANTI-CORRUPTION ACT. We have Ethical and honest business practices with the highest integrity and ethics in all aspects of our activities. We rejected all forms of bribery stated clearly on our internal procedure. For our Policy against insider trading any of our associates shall not involved in illegal insider trading. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Juken Technology Limited CFO is the foremost responsible person to handle this kind on responsibilities furthermore our CFO team ensures that the entire books and records are properly maintain. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Ever since there were no record and reported cases concerning attempt of bribery in JTL. Furthermore we have yearly financial audit reports conducted by external auditors which means any sign of bribery is identifiable thru audit either bribery or corruption. Our company target remains the same; Zero acceptance on bribery. Note: Responsibility for the content of participants' Communication on Progress and any other public communication related to the Global Compact principles and their implementation lies with participants themselves and not with the UN
