Forewords Quality, Ethic and the respect of the Environment are among the fundamental values of Sagemcom. In particular, we recognize the important role that an organisation like ours can have on sustainable development approach. One of the key challenges of sustainable development is that it demands new and innovative choices and ways of thinking. While developments in knowledge and technology are contributing to economic development, they also have the potential to help resolve the risks and threats to the sustainability of our social relations, environment, and economies. As a leader in the field of telecommunication equipments, we are engaged in the development of telecommunication equipments embedding solutions to decrease their environmental impact, while conserving their functionalities, in the respect of the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. To do so, we act on the entire lifecycle of our products and activities, from cradle to grave. Beyond respecting regulations, Production, R&D and marketing centres mitigate their environmental impact through an ISO 14001 Management System. Significant environmental aspects are strictly controlled & reduced, as much as possible. But managing our centres is not enough. As shown by life cycle analysis, the use phase is the main impact of our product. Thus, the Energy consumption must be mastered and reduced, by applying the principles of Eco design. The other phases are also taken into account during development of products. In parallel, we act for the respect of human rights and protection of our employees. The safety and the health of our workers are at the centre of our considerations as demonstrated by our health & safety policy applied in accordance with international standard OHSAS 18001. Sagemcom works in compliance with the ILO code of conduct, and ensures the commitment of its suppliers by their signing of the Sagemcom ethical charter and third party audits. All of theses actions, presented in this document, reflect the commitment of Sagemcom to Sustainable Development and result in significant savings, marketing differentiation and better confidence of our customers. Patrick SEVIAN President 2 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Introduction Summary INTRODUCTION Sagemcom at a glance 4 Corporate approach—the global compact 5 ETHIC 6 Principles 7 Behaviour outside the company 8 Behaviour inside the company 9 Ethical approach with the suppliers 10 Health and Safety 11 Handicaps 12 ENVIRONMENT 13 Principles 14 Environmental management System 15 Ecodesign 18 Chemicals management 24 Programs and labels 26 Recycling 28 ANNEXES 31 Sagemcom Policy 32 Environmental impacts 33 ISO 14001 Certificate 34 OHSAS 18001 Certificate 35 ISO 9001 Certificate 36 Sagemcom Ethical Charter 37 This document is the first Communication on Progress of SAGEMCOM, to highlight initiatives and developments in the field of sustainable development 3 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Introduction Sagemcom at a Glance 6000 employees around the world Annual turnover 2011: € 1,406 million 54 company branch offices around the world 8 R&D Centers (925 employees) 5 Strategic partnerships 3 mains production sites (3 351 employees) 4 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Introduction Corporate Approach The Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of globalization, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. As a signatory of the UN Global compact, Sagemcom SAS is committed to the respect and the promotion of its principles within its area of influence. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 1 rights Human Rights 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the 3 right to collective bargaining 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Labour 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labour Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 6 occupation 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environment 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 9 technologies Anti-Corruption 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Sagemcom SAS invites its Suppliers and subcontractors to adopt, support and apply, in their area of concern, all the fundamental values here above. Communications on progress will be posted regularly on the United Nations website. 5 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Introduction 6 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Ethic ETHIC The company’s goals are founded on values shared The rules outlined below are not intended to take by all personnel. It is corporate policy to ensure the place of, or to revise the laws and regulations in that the conduct of business complies with high force, but rather to provide points of reference and standards of honesty, integrity and professional guidance for the conduct of professional duties. excellence. These ethical guidelines set forth the principles and By upholding these values the company will remain standards common to the company as a whole, so worthy of the trust placed in it by its customers, that everyone in the company may refer to them unpersonnel, shareholders, suppliers and all of its der all circumstances. partners. 7 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Ethic Behavior outside the company Upholding the law In all the countries in which the company operUnder no circumstance will the company use ates, its personnel must uphold the laws in force. suppliers involved in child or forced labour. It may sometimes be difficult to understand the law in a legal and cultural environment which is Integrity very different from the context in which people have previously worked. In case of doubt, emCompany employees may under no circumstance ployees should immediately consult a superior or damage its reputation, the integrity of its assets the legal department. Personnel working in a and its information systems. subsidiary jointly owned by the company and a Paid work of any type that personnel may have foreign company must uphold the law of the outside their job must not cause conflicts of incountry in which the subsidiary is based, of the terest with their duties inside the company. countries in which it is operating and of the Similarly, considerable caution is required with country (or countries) in which its shareholders regard to the purchase of shares, directly or via are based. an intermediary, in companies doing business The company applies international conventions with the company. Such restrictions do not apply on fighting the corruption of public officials. to listed companies, unless confidential informaThe use of business consultants or agents offers tion is used which may be construed as insider an effective means to develop company’s busitrading. ness, thanks to the skills they contribute. The Under no circumstance may company employees fees stipulated in their contract must always coraccept gifts or benefits, unless of a symbolic narespond to the actual service rendered and payture, from suppliers. ment must comply with the relevant laws. Similarly, no one may propose or award such gifts All personnel must take particular care to uphold or benefits with a view to obtain a contract. laws on competition, the final destination of No one should display the slightest indulgence products after sale, labour and employment, with respect to active or passive corruption. safety, health and environmental protection. Sustainable Development Behaviour towards customers Today, more than ever, preserving the environEach employee must uphold the principles of ment is an essential concern for all company emfairness and integrity in their dealings with cusployees, starting with product design and running tomers. through the whole industrial process. No compromise on standards, for whatsoever reason, can be tolerated. Any situation that may Political and religious activity seem questionable to an employee must immediately be referred to a superior or the Quality manThe company does not fund any political party ager. whatsoever. Any political activities and religious practices in Relations with suppliers wich personnel may be involved must remain exclusively outside the workplace and working The company chooses suppliers on the basis of hours. objective criteria in the sole interest of the Company. The company demands high performance and excellence from its suppliers in order to fully meet the expectations of its customers. 8 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Ethic Behavior inside the company Protecting the confidential nature of certain ment and promotion are based exclusively on proinformation fessional qualities, without any form of discrimination. The company undertakes to respect the digEveryone, in the course of their duties, has access nity and private life of each of its employees. to confidential information, which, even if partial, represents one of the company’s key assets and Furthermore one of the company’s key values is to must not be divulged to the competition. create the necessary conditions for everyone to achieve fulfilment in their professional life. Similarly, employees may hold information concerning National Security. It is essential to bear in Hierarchical authority may not be used for any mind at all times the importance of protecting other purpose than ensuring the proper running of such information from third parties. the company. It must be exercised with restraint and discernment, and must not lead to any form of At the same time, everyone must make sure that abuse or harassment. the information required for the proper execution of work circulates normally inside or outside the Compliance ethical guidelines company and that it is always accurate. The company brings the contents of these ethical Respect for other people guidelines to the attention of each employee, requiring his or her compliance. In general, in the The safety and health of other people are prime event of doubt about the appropriate conduct, it is objectives of all employees. up to each employee to immediately consult a superior or the company’s Legal Department. As a matter of principle the company guarantees equal opportunity for all its employees. Recruit9 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Ethic Ethical Approach with our suppliers Our approach is based, amongst other input, on Action is taken within the company to promote the International Convention of the ILO, the unithis approach. Internal awareness sessions are versal declaration of human rights and the UN planned throughout the year, as well as training convention on Children's Rights. It is based on 4 sessions for “ethical” auditors. fundamental topics: In view of promoting and extending its ethical approach, Sagemcom requires its suppliers to • Respect for human rights make commitments, • Banish child work • Banish forced labour • by adhering to its ethical charter (in • Fighting discrimination annex 6) • Freedom to join trade unions, • by filling out the Sagemcom selfright to participate in collecassessment questionnaire tive agreements • by accepting to be audited on the cor• Acceptable working conditions rect application of the ethical ap• Ensure Health and safety of proach of Sagemcom employees • Respect working time As of today, 394 ethical charter have been signed • Ensure a decent remuneration among our supply chain. • Banish practical disciplines • Respect for the environment • Fighting corruption Audits Repartition of detected non compliance during suppliers audit Since 2007, 43 initial audits and 16 followup audits have been done. 45% In 2011, 7 audits have been practiced in sup40% pliers premises by a third party auditor. 35% • The audited suppliers are mainly stra30% tegic partners for high added value components and ODM partners, and 25% critical components suppliers. 20% 15% Results 10% Main issues during these audits were : 5% • Working hours 0% • Health and safety healt h and Wor king hours Juvenile Envir onment Payment and saf et y wor ker s r emuner at ion • juvenile workers* management management • Payment and remuneration • Environment * juvenile workers are workers above legal age that must be declared to the local administration, Action plans have been built with the suppliers to and must not work on physically demanding jobs. correct these problems, and follow-up audits have For example a juvenile worker in china is between been set up. 16 and 18 years old. 10 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Ethic Health and Safety While the environmental approach (ISO 14001) attempts to reduce environmental impact inside and outside the company, the Occupational health and safety in the work place approach aims to restrict risks for people inside the company. If these two approaches have separate objectives, they will improve the global management of the company. International standard OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Series) makes it possible to evaluate and certify the health and safety management system. We implement the occupational health & safety in the work place approach on various industrial sites on the basis of OHSAS 18001. Our production site in Tunisia is certified (see certificate in annex 4). To know more ... The fundamental concept behind OHSAS 18001 is based on continuous improvements of risk control in the field of health and safety in the work place and does not establish requirements in terms of performance levels. In view of the above, this standard is compatible with ISO14001 and ISO9001. This standard allows for: • the establishment of a health and safety management system to eliminate or at least reduce the risks faced by personnel and other individuals involved and likely to be exposed to the risks relating to the activities of the organization; • the continuous implementation, updating and improvement of the system; • guaranteed compliance with its policy; • the demonstration of compliance. Risk analysis is the focal point of the system. This particularly involves the: • systematic identification of the dangerous substances or preparations present in the establishment; • evaluation of the dangers inherent to the listed substances and preparations; • evaluation of the installations, particularly those in which the listed dangerous substances and preparations are used; systematic identification of dangers and the analysis of the phenomena relating to operating conditions. 11 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Ethic Handicaps Insertion of disabled workers is part of Sagemcom • Promote external employment for disvalues and contributes to its ethical commitment abled people. and its approach regarding sustainable development. Beyond the legal framework and the strict legal obligations, Sagemcom ensures a quality of workSagemcom, aware that the disabled workers' eming environment for disabled employees. ployment represents a major stake of the company The layout of workstations is therefore at the heart responsibilities, has developed the insertion of of a global thinking, integrating a social and hudisabled workers for several years around 3 major man dimension and requiring genuine involvesteps: ment of the company. • Increase hire and facilitate their integration, • Accompany the disabled employees all along their professional life among the company, 12 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Ethic 13 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Managing the environmental impact Managing our environmental impact is of the utmost Reduce the environmental impacts of our centers importance. All our activities are watched over by (marketing, R&D, production) environmental coordinators, in order to control and Design products with less impacts on resources (raw reduce our daily consumptions & wastes. materials, rare earth elements …), Energy Depletion (in manufacturing and use phase) and end of life Sagemcom approach is based on the life cycle of the (easier disassembly, recycling …) products through a certified Quality and environment management system. As required, the system is audited by a third party The ISO 14001 standard describe such management auditor each year. These audits ensure the efficiency system and allow us to : of the system and its continuous improvement. 14 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment ISO 14001 Certification The ISO 14001 standard prescribes the requireThese provisions are implemented in our centres by ments for an environmental management system environmental officers, under the responsibility of allowing organizations to formulate policies and the respective Site Directors, according to continuobjectives in view of regulatory requirements and ous improvement processes. information relating to significant environmental impact. Certified sites (certificate in annex 2): • Rueil-Malmaison (Headquarter) Sagemcom, in accordance with national laws and • Osny (France R&D center) regulations, especially those relating to classified • Vienna (Austria R&D center) installations, controls environmental aspects such • Ben Arous (Tunisian manufacturing cenas: ter) • soil, water & air pollution • Megrine (Tunisian R&D) • sound pollution • waste production • consumption of water, etc. • controlling dangerous substances CO2 impact reduction related to manufacturing CO2 impact of manufacturing process and The proximity of manufacturing centres from its custransport of a product comparison between tomers allows Sagemcom to realize significant gains various production sites on emission of CO2*. 5000 4500 Less CO2 emissions from the manufacturing process: 4000 • 1269 g in Tunisia for a single product 3500 impact CO2 (g) • 1987 g in Hungary (+56%) 3000 3839 • 3839 g in China (+200%) 2500 1987 Less CO2 emissions from the transport: 2000 1500 • 677 g from Tunisia for a single product 1269 1000 • 1304 g from Hungary (+93%) 500 1304 907 677 • 907 g from China (+34%) 0 Tunisie Hongrie Chine In total, saving of … transport process • 1345 g CO2 / product (807 tons for the range) compared to Hungary. • 2800 g CO2 / product (1680 tons for the range) compared to China. (*CO2 emissions based on IAEA database; Study based on a simple Set top box ; Range = 600 000 products) 15 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Focus Tunisian Manufacturing Plant Ben Arous Tunisia The Ben Arous location is the main plant of Sagemcom. Its activity is focused on Meters manufacturing and Broadband terminals, in the field of Gateways and TV Set Top boxes. Figures : The global water consumption has decreased by 12.2% in 2011 compared to 2010 in absolute value, while increasing production. Calculated per product, the average water consumption has decreased by 27.2% Target for 2012 : to reduce consumption by 10% The global azote consumption has increased by 21.1% in 2011 compared to 2010 in absolute value, while increasing production. Calculated per product, the average azote consumption is stable (+ 0.4%) Target for 2012 : to keep consumption stable. The global electricity consumption is stable in 2011 (+3%) compared to 2010 in absolute value, while increasing production. Calculated per product, the average electricity consumption is decreasing (14.7%) Target for 2012 : to reduce consumption by 10%. 16 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Focus French marketing and R&D sites Osny & Rueil Malmaison – France The Rueil-malmaison centre is the Sagemcom Group headquarter. It groups Sagemcom Broadband SAS, Sagemcom Energy & Telecom and Sagemcom SAS (holding). The Osny centre is dedicated to Sagemcom Documents and groups the marketing activity and the R&D for professional products. Figures : Water consumption per month (m3) 3000 total 2011 The global Water consumption is stable in 2011 com2500 total 2010 pared to 2010 in absolute value (-01 %) while increas2000 ing employees number. 1500 1000 Calculated per person per day, the average water con500 sumption has decreased by 9.2%. 0 Target for 2012 : to reduce consumption by 10% Gaz consumption per month (kWh) 800 000 700 000 total 2011 The global Gaz consumption has decreased by 18.6% 600 000 total 2010 in 2011 compared to 2010 in absolute value, while 500 000 increasing employees number. 400 000 300 000 200 000 Calculated per person per day, the average Gaz con100 000 sumption has decreased by 25.5% 0 Target for 2012 : to reduce consumption by 10% Electricity consumption per month (kWh) 900 000 total 2011 800 000 total 2010 700 000 The global electricity consumption is stable in 2011 600 000 compared to 2010 in absolute value(-02%), while in500 000 creasing the employees number. 400 000 300 000 200 000 Calculated per person per day, the average electricity 100 000 consumption has decreased by 10,2% 0 Target for 2012 : reduce consumption by 10% 17 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Ecodesign Principles In addition to controlling the site approach (control of rejections, etc.), the research and development site obtained ISO 14001: 2004 certification, products oriented, for its eco design approach. Eco design accounts for the environmental impact of a product “from cradle to grave”. An eco designed product must be of the same quality as a standard product. No functions or performance must be sacrificed. The aim of our research teams is to reduce environmental impact, by working on all aspects of the product life cycle, and particularly raw materials and the consumption of energy during the use phase as with other stages of life cycle, including disposal. Partnerships with our customers Reduced energy consumption Sagemcom wishes to move forward with its cusEnergy consumption is a key element on all of our tomers for all issues relating to sustainable develproduct lines. opment, to promote its ethical and environmental This aspect must be taken into account to reduce ideas, and to take a step beyond the simple context the environmental impact of electronic products to of the company. a significant degree. We work with our major order providers to create Accounting for energy consumption requires coman ever-greener marketing policy, mainly for eco pliance with strict consumption criteria during the design. These partnerships must lead to the general various operating modes, constant innovation distribution of information on the Ecological qual(programmable / intelligent stand-by modes, etc.) ity of our products. and the awareness of personnel. Sagemcom has ensured that its printing products Reduction of packaging consume less energy for many years. This is why In addition to its effect on the consumption of raw most of its products have ENERGY STAR® labels, vegetal substances, packaging has an effect on the when applicable. environmental impact of transport. This is why we permanently attempt to optimize the weight and Functionalities volume of our packaging. Innovation is a factor in improvements. This is why To give an example, changing the range of our our teams are constantly seeking out product functhermal transfer faxes enabled volume to be retions which encourage consumer eco-friendliness, or duced by 26% per product. This optimization, comreplacing these functions with product automatisms bined with improved logistic control, optimized (automatic duplexing, “Toner Save” function, etc.). transport, increasing pallet capacity from 64 to 120 products, i.e. requiring 47% less trucks for an equivalent quantity. 18 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Significant Environmental aspects In order to set priorities, we conduct Life cycle asdouble qualitative / quantitative approach, avoids sessment of our products. pollution transfers (e.g. an assembly solution which facilitates end-of-life could increase the impact of a Our method consists of the analysis of existing different stage in the product life cycle). products in qualitative (mode of assembly, etc.) and quantitative terms, by modelling the products using The main conclusion is that the most significant envisimplified life cycle analysis tools. Thanks to the ronmental aspect for our products is the energy conEIME software, we obtain statistical data on envisumption during the use phase. ronmental impact (creation of CO2, water pollution, etc.) via a multi-stage, multi-criteria process, and The following examples illustrate the environmental using a database created by the electronics industry. impacts of few of our products and the results obThis enables the assessment and comparison of the tained with the new generations. impact of the products on the environment. This 19 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Life Cycle Analysis We perform life Cycle analysis of our products in the whole life cycle of the product, from materials order to identify significant environmental aspect to end of life, with manufacturing, transport and to set priorities. These analyses take into account use phase. Gateways Gateways embed more and more functions as they globally the power consumption. are the central nod of the digital home. Thus, it is In three generations, we decreased the power conessential to limit the Environmental impact of these sumption by 35% with equivalent functions. products. The main environmental aspect of such products is the Energy Consumption. That is the reason why we worked on the use phase, adjusting power consumption to the user behaviour with dynamic low power functions with new software features. Then, we optimised the global power management by replacing electronic components with last generations & power rails enhancement to decrease Detail of environmental impact Categories in annex 1 20 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Set-Top Boxes Set Top Boxes offer the possibility to watch TV upon the environmental impact of three products providdifferent kind of Tuners (IP, Terrestrial, Satellite or ing the same feature, but with different power manCable). In addition, one can use Video on Demand agement : Service, recording function, and other multimedia • First generation : a product which remains in features. This increasing number of functions, beactive standby (non optimised) yond simply watching TV, leads to an increasing • Second generation : a product with Network power consumption. standby • Third generation : a product with an optimised The main environmental aspect of such products is network standby and an auto power down feathe Energy Consumption. That is the reason why ture, going to a deep standby mode worked on the use phase, adjusting power consumption to the user behaviour with dynamic low Having a full power management leads to high enpower functions with new software features. ergy savings. It is interesting to note that, in this case, the part of the manufacturing phase becomes Great savings can be obtained by implementing the main impact of the product it is then more imporsoftware features. A good example is the analysis of tant to work on materials. Comparative LCA : Power management implementation in STB 120% Manufacturing Distribution Use 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% AA 3 AT 3 ED 3 GW 3 HWP 3 OD 3 POC 3 RMD 3 WD 3 WE 3 WT 3 AA 2 AT 2 ED 2 GW 2 OD 2 POC 2 WD 2 WE 2 WT 2 AA 1 AT 1 ED 1 HWP 2 RMD 2 GW 1 OD 1 POC 1 WD 1 WE 1 WT 1 HWP 1 RMD 1 First generation: 80,97 Kg eqCO2 Second generation: 61,61 Kg eqCO2 Third generation: 44,82 Kg eqCO2 Example of consumptions for a SAT / TER / IP complex Set top box embedding HDD, HD processing, VOD. French Energy mix was used for this study. Using other mix will lead to significant growth of the use phase, especially the Carbon impact. 21 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Printers the example of the MF 5571dw The MF 5571dw multifunction device has been eco designed by the R&D teams. The aim was to decrease its environmental impact compared to the previous generation, while keeping its functions. Manufacturing Thanks to the miniaturisation, the choice of materials and assemblies, the manufacturing impact has been significantly decreased. • 34% in Ozone layer depletion • 22% in raw material depletion • Globally, an average decreasing of the environmental impact of 10% on network standby. Distribution Moreover, the PF5571dw is able to print in Duplex, The volume of packed product has been decreased by reducing the paper consumption by 50%. In addition, 20%, while decreasing the carbon footprint by 10%. it is able to print on 60g/m² recycled paper. The raw material depletion has been significantly Its consumable is not classified as dangerous by the decreased by reducing the cardboard weight and EU directives. thickening of EPS packaging. Globally, the average impact of the distribution phase has been decreased by 15%. Global Results Globally, the average environmental impact has been reduced by 23%, while increasing the functions of Use phase the product. The Energy consumption has been decreased by 30%. Its consumption in standby is below the threshold recommended by the European preparatory study 22 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Mechanical parts & raw materials Encouraging recycling: marking materials Selecting materials is also an important stage in In addition to financing end-of-life, measures are the optimization of the environmental impact of being taken to encourage recycling. Marking mateour products. The combination of various types of rials, particularly plastic parts, is part of these materials can encourage or prevent the recycling of measures. a product. This is why we ensure that we use comBy marking parts with different items of informapatible materials during recycling phases (e.g. PC tion, we allow recyclers to sort the plastic by type. and ABS plastics can be recycled together). This improves recycling by purifying the batch to be From an assembly point of view, every action is recycled. taken to optimize the dismantling and separation times for the various fractions (plastics/metals/ Thus, producers can encourage recycling by markelectronics/cabling, etc.). ing: We are also taking a proactive approach and conThe type of plastic (ABS, PC, etc.) sidering alternative materials which will reduce the The flame retardant (FR) exhaustion of the raw materials. The nature of this retardant We identified the environmental impact of three different types of plastic (ABS, PMMA and PP) to a plastic of reference (PC: Polycarbonate). The benefit is that ABS and PP have generally a lower impact to the PC for different impact categories studied ; thus it is interesting to generalize the use of ABS in our product. Alternative materials sity of the materials and the design of the plastic part. In addition to characterisation of environmental Result is positive for the recycled material, while it impacts of our plastic parts, we are working on is still necessary to qualify it from a technical use of alternative materials, based on : point of view. • High rate recycled plastics (postconsumption) Comparison of impacts between an ABS part • Biobased plastics (as a reference) and an alternative material part (same shape) These materials are evaluated from technical and environmental point of view. Various reference of materials have been identified and are currently studied to ensure that environmental savings are real, and that technical needs are met to keep the same level of quality. Example of evaluation here under is a comparison of impact between a 85% recycled material and a standard ABS one. It takes into account the den23 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Chemicals Management European regulations Several European Directives aim to prohibit or reParticularly, the REACh regulation requires manustrict the use of substances, which are dangerous facturers and importers to declare the quantities of for human health and the environment, in particuchemical substances manufactured in or imported lar the REACh regulation 1907/2006 (Restriction, to Europe. We have started with a complete invenEvaluation, Authorisation of Chemicals) and the tory of all substances used in our activities, in coorRoHS directive 2002/95/EC (Restriction of Hazarddination with the management of Material Safety ous Substances). We guarantee that our products Data sheets. All necessary pre-registrations have comply with these directives. been made by the supply chain to ensure continuity of supplies. Focus on SVHCs Concerning Substances of Very High Concern in our ing the chemical breakdown of the components. It product, a traceability system has been set up to will allow us to known in one declaration which are identify chemicals present in our products toward the substances included in the components. By doing the supply chain. Sagemcom asks its suppliers to this, suppliers will not have to update information give information on chemicals contained in the every six months. components. Two possibilities for the suppliers: • To connect on our dedicated web Once information is uploaded by the suppliers, datas portal, or are gathered in our environmental database. Thanks • To connect on other external portals to that, our REACh team can analyse the bill of materials of our products to deliver a clear status of prodThese declarations are made by uploading an ucts to customers asking for information about IPC1752 format. This questionnaire lists: chemicals. • the restricted substances of REACh Annex XVII known to be used in the electronic sector (and other regulated substances), • non regulated substance suspected to have an effect on human health and / or on the environment • Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC). The suppliers are asked to update this information every six months, due to evolutions of the SVHC list done by the ECHA. In order to enhance the update of data, we encourage our suppliers to give a full material disclosure; mean24 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Sagemcom Chemicals Declaration System Other portals Sagemcom web portal Sagemcom environmental database Sagemcom REACh team Product status Suppliers 25 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Environmental programs and Labels Eco-labels are intended to highlight the environpower consumption in standby on the market. This mental qualities of products. These labels allow is particularly important for telecom products, consumers to choose a product on an environmental which always remains connected; standby mode friendly basis. represents more than 90% of operating time! Thus, with the Magic5 PHILIPS ECO range, we save energy Because there are not always labels for our product and money. families, we chose to identify the environmental qualities of our own, when they are above average, Ecodesign of this range of fax is beyond energy conwith a clear display. sumption; his design has reduced its size and weight, thus preserving natural resources by using The «Simple Switch» PHILIPS fewer raw materials. program Thus, it was possible to significantly reduce packagA simple motion for the environment ing size, with all consequences on the supply chain, more products per pallet for transportation, so fewer trucks on the roads, and less CO2! Participation in the ENERGY STAR® program Sagemcom has ensured that its printing terminals consume less energy for many years. The ENERGY STAR® program aims to promote the development and the general use of office Products wearing the “Simple Switch” label allow hardware with low consumption. As a partner of reducing the costs, the energy consumption and the ENERGY STAR®, Sagemcom develops many CO2 emissions. products satisfying the requirements of the label. How? By improving our environmental actions in many ways (energy efficiency, packaging, hazardous You can find ENERGY STAR® compliant prodsubstances, weight, recycling, wasting and sustainucts on our Website http://www.sagemcom.com ability). or on www.eu-energystar.org The range of PHILIPS fax Magic5 ECO, in the differBy using products with this label, you can help ent versions as Basic, Primo, Primo Smart, Voice and to protect the environment, while making savVoice Smart received this label because of its enviings! ronemental qualities. Why the range Magic5 PHILIPS ECO is the « greenest » in phonefax market? Our range of Thermal Transfer fax has the lowest 26 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Set-Top Boxes : The Industry Voluntary Agreement Overall objective The industry Voluntary Agreement seeks to contribprogress by means of rapid and cost-effective imute to the achievement of the EU Action Plan on plementation, while allowing for flexible and apEnergy Efficiency and in particular of the Eco depropriate adaptation to technological options and sign Directive 2009/125/EC, by reducing the pomarket sensitivities. This Voluntary Agreement sets tential environmental impact of Complex Set-topout the means by which the Signatories, which are Boxes (CSTBs), which will ultimately be beneficial drawn from across the spectrum of the CSTB industo consumers and other end users. try, will commit to achieve such rapid and effective implementation while continuing to invest in and Its overall objective is to reduce the energy condevelop sustainable and appropriate “best of class” sumption of CSTBs in accordance with energy conCSTB products. sumption targets and time frame, with a view to maximise the environmental benefits from imSignatories engage in having more than 90% comproved design. pliant products put on the market each year. The Voluntary Agreement delivers an industrySagemcom signed the voluntary agreement as it wide commitment to reduce the potential environreflects our eco design policy ; achieved results are mental impact of CSTBs. It goes beyond a described below. “business as usual” scenario and provides for quick 2011 european sells VIA compliance 100% 96,4% Objective 90% 73,3% 75% 50% 26,7% 25% 3,6% 0% Tiers 1 Tiers 2 (from July 2013) Consumption Targets achieved Consumption Targets not achieved 27 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Recycling Sagemcom commits to the recycling of all of its accumulators (limits for lead, mercury and cadmium products. content). It makes collection and recycling mandatory to ensure that elimination is controlled and to Electrical & electronic equipment encourage less use of raw materials. European Directive 2002/96/CE (known as WEEE) Sagemcom contributes to the collection and recyregulates the management of Electric and Electronic cling of batteries, particularly via its membership of products at their end-of-life. Producers are responsieco organizations such as SCRELEC in France. ble for the recycling of their products. enhancing recycling : Dismantling sheets Sagemcom is one of the founders of the ecoTo ensure the correct recycling of its former prodorganization Ecologic, a company approved by the ucts, Sagemcom provides recyclers with a dismanFrench government for the management of WEEE. tling sheet at request. This sheet contains all the (www.ecologic-france.com) information required to properly dismantle the product & recycle products in an optimum manner. To give an example of the information on the sheet: • A summary of the material used (metals, plastics, electronic boards, etc.) • Location of the components to be separated (according to the WEEE directive) • Dismantling instructions Packaging • Potential risks for recycling operators (sharp Sagemcom packaging satisfies the requirements of metal edges, etc.) applicable regulations (European directive 94/62/ CE): • No heavy metal content • Optimized volume of raw materials used • Materials are identified to optimize recycling We finance the collection and recycling of our packages via eco-packaging systems. In addition to meet its obligations, Sagemcom permanently attempts to reduce packaging quantities. To give an example, changing the range of thermal transfer fax products reduced volume by 26%. Individual packaging is thus optimized as well as transport as an equivalent quantity of products can be carried by fewer trucks. Materials incomings being also an important question, we deploy recycled packagings in cardboard or certified, printed with vegetal inks. Batteries and accumulators Batteries and accumulators can represent a danger for the environment during elimination due to the dangerous substances they contain. The European directive 2006/66/EC prohibits the marketing of the least eco-friendly batteries and 28 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Consumables Sagemcom voluntarily set up a free-return sysOnce an empty cartridge has been returned, it is tem for corporate laser consumables. Eligible treated in a recycling center. consumables have the “Nature by SAGEMCOM” The T label placed on packaging enables you to logo. manage your empty cartridges simply by sending them by post. Thanks to the re-use of cartridges via The Sagemcom collection program was set up to this program, you contribute to reduce industrial protect and conserve the environment. Our envipollution. Sagemcom covers all postage, making ronmental program uses a T label which allows this procedure useful, fast and free. all users of Sagemcom cartridges to return them from anywhere in Europe. The T label is located To return your empty consumable, just slip the used on the packaging of your cartridge. This packagcartridge into the bag which contained your new ing is therefore designed to be returned to our cartridge. Put the empty cartridge into the box of the centers. new cartridge, then close the box and drop it off at your nearest post office. WEEE : Possibilities to reuse / repair / recycle the elements of a product FRAMES Cables (RJ45, RJ11) +++ Reusable: 70% +++ Reusable: 0% ++ Reparable: 0% ++ Reparable: 0% + Recycling: 99% + Recycling: 18% + Recovery: 1% + Recovery: 85% --Landfill: ~0% --Landfill: X% PCB PSU +++ Reusable: 90% +++ Reusable: 0% ++ Reparable: X% ++ Reparable: 0% + Recycling: 90 % + Recycling: 65% + Recovery: X% + Recovery: 10% --Landfill: X% --Landfill: 25% USER GUIDE FILTERS +++ Reusable: 0% +++ Reusable: 0% ++ Reparable: 0% ++ Reparable: 0% + Recycling: 100% + Recycling: 65% + Recovery: 0% + Recovery: 10% --Landfill: 0% --Landfill: 25% 29 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Our approach : environmental impact of a refurbished product In addition to recycling household products and professional via Ecologic, Sagemcom has implemented a ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS strategy of refurbishing products for its customers. RMD Raw Material Depletion ED Energy Depletion This strategy consists in recovering products and WD Water Depletion strengthens life time by refurbishing: GW Global Warming (eqCO2) • Functioning tests (software functioning, OD Ozone Depletion assembly …) AT Air Toxicity • Cosmetic repair (cleaning, changing shells POC Photochemical Ozone Creation if necessary) AA Air Acidification • New packaging with user’s guide, etc. WT Water Toxicity WE Water Eutrophication This approach allows the reuse of a maximum of HWP Hazardous wastes production products; depending on products types, up to 85% can put repaired and have a second life on the market. (the remaining products are non-repairable). The environmental impact is considerably reduced: New product Refurbished product 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% AA AT ED GW HWP OD POC RMD WD WE WT Environmental impact comparison between a newly manufactured product (in green) and a refurbished product (in blue) 30 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Environment 31 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Annexes Annex 1 Sagemcom Policy 32 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Introduction Annex 2 Environmental impacts Environmental impacts described in this document are calculated thanks to the EIME software. The impact categories are as follow : Short Name Name Unit -1 RMD Raw Material Depletion Y ED Energy Depletion MJ WD Water Depletion dm3 GW Global Warming g ~CO2 OD Ozone Depletion g ~CFC-11 AT Air Toxicity m3 POC Photochemical Ozone Creation g ~C2H4 AA Air Acidification g ~H+ WT Water Toxicity dm3 WE Water Eutrophication g ~PO4 HWP Hazardous Waste Production kg The use phase of the evaluations has been calculated with the French Energy mix, which is less CO2 emitting because of the importance of the nuclear electricity production in France. 33 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Annexes Annex 3 ISO 14001 Certificate 34 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Annexes Annex 4 OHSAS 18001 Certificate 35 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Annexes Annex 5 ISO 9001 corporate Certificate (including all locations) 36 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Annexes Annex 6 Supplier ethical charter 37 / 40 Sagemcom Communication on Progress 2011 Annexes SAGEMCOM SAS 250 route de l’empereur 92848 Rueil-Malmaison CEDEX—FRANCE www.sagemcom.com Tous droits réservés Sagemcom se réserve le droit à tout moment de modifier les caractéristiques techniques de ses produits ou services ou de cesser leur commercialisation Sagemcom s’efforce de garantir l’exactitude de toutes les informations figurant dans le présent document, mais ne peut pas être tenu responsable pour d’éventuelles erreurs ou omissions Document non contractuel Les marques citées sont déposées par leurs propriétaires respectifs Société Anonyme au capital de 158 291 895 Euros 440.294.510 RCS Nanterre Crédit photo : Digitalvision, Goodshot, ITSTOCKfree, JohnFoxxImages et PhotoDisc.
