[Type text] UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Letter from the CEO To our stakeholders, I am pleased to release Procurian’s first annual Communication on Progress report and reaffirm our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As the leading specialist in comprehensive procurement solutions, we are committed to corporate social responsibility both in the services we provide to clients and in how we manage our own business operations. We strive to improve the communities where we work and live and find new and smart ways to be socially and environmentally responsible. Our sustainability program and corporate responsibility strategy actively demonstrates what we help our clients achieve. To lead this initiative and integrate it into Procurian at the global level, we named the firm’s first ever Chief Sustainability Officer in June 2011. Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility starts at the top of our enterprise with clearly defined and regularly communicated policies requiring ethical and responsible operations globally, supported by robust governance methods coordinated by our Corporate Social Sustainability Leader. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders through our website at www.procurian.com. Our program goes beyond declaration; it’s how we do business. Sincerely yours, Carl Guarino Chief Executive Officer Page 1 of 4 [Type text] UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Procurian supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our goal is to influence our employees and all our business partners to respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment we have set up a code of conduct to make our position clear for our employees and partners. We are committed to ensuring that all of our employees are treated fairly and with respect. Our Code of Conduct updated January 1, 2012 reinforces our culture which is based upon the principles of mutual respect for the rights and dignity of our fellow employees and the highest ethical standards in our business and work related activities. We have implemented an internal process including distribution of these policies which requires all employees to read and sign the policies certifying their awareness of our anonymous email account to report human rights abuses or complaints. The Procurian “@anonymous” email box is monitored daily by our Head of Human Resources. We track the number of issues and complaints received into the system. No report of issues occurred this report period. LABOR Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Procurian supports the UNGC in the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Procurian has a longstanding policy of nondiscrimination in all aspects of its dealings with people. Procurian takes affirmative action to ensure that all of its employees enjoy opportunities and an atmosphere free from unlawful discrimination. Procurian considers the maintenance of our Equal Employment Opportunity policy updated January 1, 2012 to be of the utmost importance. Our Equal Employment Opportunity policy ensures that Procurian does not discriminate based on race, color, religion, creed, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, citizenship, veteran or military status, disability status of qualified individuals, sexual orientation, or any other factor protected by law in hiring and any other employment decision. All employees, therefore, are expected to behave in accordance with our goal of equal employment. To fulfill our mission to create diversity of thought and innovation, we actively recruit and promote a workforce of different backgrounds throughout all levels of the organization. Diversity of people helps Page 2 of 4 [Type text] UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS us to develop a strong culture of inclusion. Due to our effort in this reporting period our minority employee population has increased by 3%, representing 21% of our total US based employees. ENVIRONMENT Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Procurian is dedicated to creating a healthier community and minimizing our impact on the environment through implementing green strategies in our facilities and buildings. We promote environmental initiatives in our everyday business operations. We proactively raise employee awareness of environmental sustainable practices. Procurian is committed to promoting greater environmental responsibility through the re-use verses recycling of our IT Assets. Through redistribution via resale or by dismantling component parts and shredding into environmentally friendly materials we are helping to reduce our environmental impact. If recycling is required we will work with our vendors to breakdown the IT Assets to keep any landfill items to an absolute minimum. Our vendors are also assessed by their commitment to environmental compliance and participation in various industry programs such as Industry Council for Electronic Equipment Recycling (ICER) or the Solving the E-Waste Problem (StEP, an initiative of various UN organizations). As an example of our commitment to promote sustainability we recently implemented an initiative that maximizes the re-use of IT equipment. For the first time in 2011, we entered into an agreement with our vendor to re-use our IT Assets and minimize recycling of the assets. We were able to re-use approximately 90% of our PC Systems and the remaining items were recycled in an environmentally friendly manner. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Procurian supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption. We work strongly against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Code of Conduct updated January 1, 2012 includes our policies on anti-corruption. We have implemented an internal process including distribution of these policies which requires all employees to read and sign the policies certifying they understand the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and will not participate in bribing an official or corruption. We also have a system in place for whistle-blowing for any Code of Conduct violation. Page 3 of 4 [Type text] UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Our books and accounts are subjected to external quarterly reviews and an annual audit. In addition, we undergo a SAS 70 and Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) audit, and seek an ISO certification during 2012. These audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. A financial audit, for example, has in it procedures, a review of accounts and related payment information and documentation. There has been no such incident reported in the period. Page 4 of 4
