The Global Compact; Standard Chartered Bank’ Activities and Engagements 2011 Standard Chartered Bank Uganda is a registered member of the United Nations Global compact and continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in their day-to day activities. About Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited is part of the Standard Chartered Bank Group whose mission is to be; The World’s Best International Bank; Leading the Way in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. In Uganda, our mission is; “To be the best International Bank in Uganda, leading the way in the financial services sector.” This year 2012 marks a major milestone in the history of Standard Chartered Bank in Uganda. We opened our doors to our first customers on Monday 12 August 1912. We are very proud to be the oldest bank in Uganda and to have had 100 years of uninterrupted service over this period. The Bank currently has a network of 11 branches and 29 ATMs spread across the country. The Bank employs over 500 people. Standard Chartered’s core businesses in Uganda are in Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking (Origination & Client Coverage and Global Markets) products and services. Our success as a bank over the last 100 years has been due to our focus on our customers in delivering superior customer service, prudent management of the risks in our operations, empowering and motivating our staff and ensuring we are an exemplary corporate citizen. Standard Chartered Bank’s efforts were recognized when the Bank was given the Bronze Winner Award in the Federation of Uganda Employers “Employer of the Year Awards” 2011, held under the theme: Talent Management to Maximize Productivity. This was recognition of our effort in attracting and retaining the best talent in the market through the robust Human Resource processes and practices we have in place. . Standard Chartered Bank won the Euromoney Award for Best Bank in Uganda, 2010, the Emea Finance Best Bank in Uganda 2009 and 2010, and was recognized by Consumer Insights as the best bank in customer service in Uganda. The Bank also won the Federation of Uganda Employer’s Award for best in Training and Development for 2008. Corporate Social Responsibility The Bank as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility/sustainability agenda focused on the economically disadvantaged targeting Youth, Health, Education, micro-finance and environment, leading to reduction of poverty, enhancement of health and education in the communities in which we operate. HIV/AIDS Awareness programmes Standard Chartered Bank Uganda continued its HIV/AIDs programme which aims at sensitizing its staff and the community about the HIV/AIDS pandemic that has claimed many lives and is still claiming more in Uganda and the world over. The Bank has HIV Champions whose main responsibility is to create awareness about the HIV pandemic and fight against stigma. They oversee the strategic planning and programming of events that sensitize staff. Staff are encouraged to know their HIV/AIDs status and to use protection to prevent the spread of the diseases. Infected staff have access to free Anti-retroviral drugs for themselves and their immediate family through the health insurance scheme. The Bank continues to work with partners such as Joint Medical Research Center and AIESEC to create awareness about HIV/AIDs in the communities e.g. schools, markets as well as sharing our toolkits and knowledge to assist other organizations formulate their own company policies around HIV/AIDs. Health: 10 years of Sight restoration – “Seeing is Believing” program “Seeing is Believing” (SIB) project was launched in 2003 as part of the Bank’s 150th anniversary celebrations. The campaign was initiated by employees and they have been the driving force behind it ever since. The first objective was to raise funds to pay for 28,000 sight-restoring cataract operations; one for every member of staff employed at that time. The Bank achieved twice this initial target that year, raising enough money for 56,000 sight restorations. Since 2003, the ambition of SiB has grown significantly. o Sightsavers are our implementing partner though we work in partnership with the Ministry of Health and hospitals around the country to screen, treat, and operate patients with cataracts and other eye ailments as well as creating awareness. o In 2011 Standard Chartered Bank restored sight to 1,473 people against a target of 1,000 in partnership with Sightsavers at a cost of Ugx 133 million.. Since the inception of the seeing is Believing project, 10,896 people have regained their sight. This investment will be scaled up in 2012 to USD 5m to include; Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania over the next 5 years. Standard Chartered Bank Uganda’s achievements under “Seeing is Believing” over the years Seeing is Believing statistics to date Year No. people No. surgeries screened 2003 700 43 2004 900 55 2005 1,530 125 2006 2,155 125 2007 4,501 377 2008 14,315 1,402 2009 24,252 2,273 2010 29,497 5,023 2011 1,473 Total 77,850 10,896 Prevention of Malaria program – Nets for Life The name “Nets for Life” invokes the main objective of the program which is linked towards saving the lives of pregnant women, children under 5 years and people living with HIV through the distribution and use of specially treated bed nets. Standard Chartered Bank Uganda in partnership with Church of Uganda’s Planning, Development and Rehabilitation (PDR) and Coca cola have run the “Nets for Life” project since 2006. The Netsforlife Programme that brings together the 3 partners has so far reached over 330,000 beneficiaries directly and these have benefited from the distribution of Long Lasting Insecticide treated Nets. Over 800,000 have been reached indirectly through awareness programmes. Program Goals & Objectives • The broad goal of NetsforLife® is to contribute to the reduction in malaria related morbidity and mortality within project catchment area • The specific objectives are; – To increase malaria related knowledge and improve prevention practices among caregivers at household level. – To distribute 7,000,000 LLINs in communities in 17 African countries – Empower community members in handling issues related to malaria prevention and control As part of our operations in Uganda, in each diocese one district is selected and one sub-county is chosen from each district. The specific sub-counties are always selected with the involvement of the Diocesan and District officials of the respective Dioceses and Districts to address areas with the highest need. In preparation of the distribution of the nets, Standard Chartered together with PDR undertakes several activities which include; Community mobilization, Formation of malaria control committees, Selection and training of malaria control agents, Registration and verification of target groups/individuals, Training of community members, Identification of research assistants for the baseline survey and their subsequent training. And the actual distribution of the nets to the beneficiaries who are children under 5 years of age, pregnant women and chronically sick people (people living with HIV/AIDS). These people are identified with the help of Malaria agents and the Diocesan staff. In 2011, Standard Chartered Bank and partners focused on monitoring previously distributed nets with education. We also partnered with the Ministry of Health in the World Malaria Day celebrations and joined a mass campaign called United Against Malaria which brought together several corporate organizations in which we ran an sms campaign and the proceeds were used to procure 800 insecticide treated mosquito nets which were distributed to Teso region pediatric and maternal wards to aid the fight against malaria in the area. One Basket One Net Project: Charity Basket Ball Tournament In 2011, the partnership also held “The One Basket One Net” Charity Basketball Tournament The main Objective of the tournament was to create awareness on malaria and step up the fight against malaria in our urban community. Secondly, we wanted to promote Social Responsibility through a charity event to support the most vulnerable people like; children under 5 years, pregnant mothers and People Living with HIV/AIDS. The theme was “Achieving Progress and Impact”. Environment In 2011, Standard Chartered Bank continued with the tree planting initiative that was embarked on in 2010. The Bank made a three year commitment of Ugx 400 million to plant indigenous tree species across all regions in Uganda. By 2011 the Bank had planted a total of 80,000 trees. The rationale for the bank undertaking this tree project was as a result of the staggering statistics. The recent published State of Biodiversity report mentions that we are loosing biodiversity at a rate of 1% annually. In 2010 Standard Chartered Bank Uganda therefore entered into partnership with Ecotrust (Environmental Conservation Trust of Uganda) in a drive to plant indigenous tree species at a cost of UGS 461m over a period of time. The target of the project is to plant trees in all the four different regions and so far we have planted 60,000 trees in Mbale district and 13,000 trees at the Bishop Stuart University and the neighboring Kabulangire Hill in Western Uganda. Having covered the Eastern and Western regions of Uganda in 2010, the next areas to be covered this year will be in Northern Gulu and Central Uganda. The ultimate objective of the project is to help contribute to the country’s sustainable development through preservation and conservation of the environment. Standard Chartered Bank therefore focuses on the restoration of indigenous forests. Standard Chartered Bank is promoting native tree species contribution to the provision of wood but also to the continued existence of our native species and the biodiversity they embrace. The selected sites we plant trees are on bare hills, river banks and watersheds and they provide multiple environmental benefits from tree planting. Below are some of the smaller initiatives we have undertaken in the recent past to preserve our environment:1. We planted over 100 trees in the compound of the school for internally displaced children which we built in Gulu, Northern Uganda, last year. 2. We planted over 50 trees in Salaama School for the Blind where we renovated a building block. 3. We screened Al Gore’ An Inconvenient Truth to 200 customers. 4. Over 150 staff have viewed “An Inconvenient Truth”. 5. We encourage staff to use fibre bags / baskets instead of polythene bags. 6. 30 members of staff toured Mabira forest, the biggest forest in Uganda, which the government wanted to give away to investors to grow sugar canes. This plan seems to have been abandoned. 7. We collect plastic water bottles and pass them on to a factory that recycles them. 8. We donated UGS 4m (USD 2,500) to facilitate the activities of the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA). 9. We discourage staff from printing unless it is absolutely necessary. 10. We encourage staff to recycle paper. 11. We have introduced double page printing and it is rapidly spreading across the Bank. 12. Paul Rippey, a student of Al Gore, made a presentation to staff about global warming. This had been modified to bring the message closer home with examples from Africa, East Africa and Uganda in particular. 13. We made arrangements for Paul Rippey to make the same presentation to members of parliament. 14. We donated a copy of “An Inconvenient Truth” to his Excellency the President of Uganda, Yoweri Museveni. 15. Some of our departments have sensors on their lights i.e. lights only come on when there is someone within a certain radius. 16. We have installed double sided printers to replace single sided printers to reduce the amount of paper we use. Protecting Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and – The Bank ardently respects and promotes the right to equal protection by practicing fairness, for instance all staff must go through a disciplinary hearing where they are given a fair hearing prior to dismissal. The Bank employees also have the right to appeal the decision of the hearing committee if they believe it is too harsh or unfair. All staff exercise the freedom to speech using the various forums like departmental meetings, one-on-one meetings with managers and we promote this right through Speak up Policy and open door policy. Employees exercise their right to vote in a general election as evidenced by the Bank’s closure of its business to allow staff to exercise this voting right. We also respect the employee’s right to privacy, right to marry, right to property and support them to achieve them. Upholding Labor Standards Standard Chartered Bank also abides by the labor laws of Uganda and our polices are in line with International Labor Organization standards. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The Bank allows freedom of association and collective bargaining In keeping with the spirit of the Constitution of Uganda wherein Right of Association is a Fundamental Right. Standard Chartered Bank respects the right for association of its employees at all times and further facilitates it by organizing staff events which enable staff to associate and discuss issues that affect them which are escalated and resolved through various forums. Staff have representatives who sit and discuss their issues in a forum called Staff welfare committee which is one of the avenues where representatives collect feedback from staff as regards anything that affects them and is addressed in the right forum. HR has representation on this committee to ensure follow through on staff issues / concerns. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; The Bank employs staff after mutually agreeing and signing off on the terms and conditions of work, job description and code of conduct thus eliminating forced labour. All appointment letters have a clause of staff consent where the staff signs if they have understood and agree to the terms and conditions of the job. The staff also individually set their objectives guidelines provided by the manager and they are discussed and agreed upon. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; All employees of the Bank must be above 18 years of age and have a qualification from tertiary institute prior to getting a job. We have very strict policies against about employing underage people and we also abide with the local laws which clearly condemn this act with penalties. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. At Standard Chartered, there is a written policy on non-discrimination and equal opportunity for Employment encased under our “Diversity and Inclusion” policy. “As part of its Recruitment Process, Standard Chartered Bank ensures equal opportunity for all eligible applicants for employment without any discrimination against; gender, race, religion, caste, sexual orientation, color, ancestry or marital status. In line with this policy, Standard Chartered Bank employs disabled persons and a blind person. Opportunity for employment is solely based on eligibility and merit of the applicant. Career growth opportunities are based entirely on individual merit.” An Ethos of Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion As per the Standard Chartered Bank’s Code of Conduct, the Bank adheres to a strict policy against any corrupt practices and all forms of bribery are prohibited. Staff are called upon to remain committed to do the right thing, conduct themselves in an honest, open and professional manner and to live our brand promise; Here for Good. The policy on gifts and donations, as explicitly mentioned in the terms & conditions clearly points out that “ Standard Chartered Bank employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable benefits that are intended to, or perceived to obtain business or uncompetitive favors for the conduct of its business. The Bank is currently implementing the ant bribery policy and also rolled out the anti bribery elearning to all staff and it is mandatory for all new joiners. The e-learning teaches staff how to mitigate bribery. This document was created with Win2PDF available at http://www.daneprairie.com. The unregistered version of Win2PDF is for evaluation or non-commercial use only.
