Emphasizing the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources, to Contribute to Society through Our Business Activities CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Our Philosophy for CSR We aim to contribute to sustainable society through its business with our Mission Statement “Create social value while fulfilling stakeholders’ expectations”. Our desire is to make contributions toward building a better society with a recognition, at all times, of what society demands over the short and long terms. As globalization of our businesses advances and the our stakeholders grow more diverse, we have prepared this CSR Report to communicate to all stakeholders around the world our lasting philosophy and efforts. Evaluations CSR in General Environment ü Earned SAM “Gold Class,” “Sector Leader,” “Sector Mover” CSR rating ü Ranked 43rd in Nikkei Environmental Management Ranking ü Earned selection to Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) ü Earned selection to FTSE4Good Global Indexes CS and Quality ü Earned selection to the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment ü Ranked 20th in Nikkei Quality Management Ranking Index ü Ranked 104th in Nikkei NICES ranking system Human Resources ü Ranked 73rd in Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking ü Ranked 21st in Nikkei Ranking of Best Companies to Work For ü CSR Report 2011 awarded the award for excellence in the Environmental Communication Awards sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental Forum Company Profile (As of March 31, 2012) Established: March 3, 1947 Domestic Subsidiaries: 115 Net Sales: 965 billion yen Capital: 100.002 billion yen Overseas Subsidiaries: 91 Operating Income: 54.6 billion yen Employees: 20,855 Affiliated Companies: 19 Net Income: 28.1 billion yen About cover photo A waterfall on the upper reaches of the Father Rhine, a river flowing through central Europe from its source in the Swiss Alps. Sekisui Chemical Group’s affiliate companies Sekisui Europe B.V. in Europe include 10 operating companies, sales Sekisui Alveo A.G. Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H. companies, and other affiliates in the countries Sekisui Chemical G.m.b.H. of the Rhine watershed. Sekisui Virotech G.m.b.H. Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Limited Eslon B.V. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. American Diagnostica G.m.b.H. 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 About Our Report CONTENTS ü The pages of this Report are structured in line with Sekisui Chemical Group’s concept of its Corporate Social Responsi3 Top Message bility (CSR) in terms of Three Prominences — in the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources — along 5 Our Company with Three Attitudes of Sincerity: in Compliance, Risk Management, and Disclosure & Communication. 7 CSR Management ü This Report employs separate chapters reporting in greater detail on matters such as the relationship between business Three Prominences activities and CSR and the specific initiatives of each of the three division companies, whose business characteristics differ from each other. 11 Environment ü We have decided on the information that should be covered Our Philosophy / Environm Environment-Contributing Products / in this Report through consideration of its importance both Climate Change / Resource Efficiency / Air, Water & Soil / to society and to Sekisui Chemical Group, based on inputs Biodiversityy including surveys conducted within and outside the Group and independent review. 19 CS & Quality ü A separate Data Book has been established to ensure that the report is both comprehensive and easy to read. Customer Satisfaction / Quality Our Philosophy / Custom ü Continuing efforts for which there was not enough room in the Report are covered on the Sekisui Chemical Group website. ü Information about Sekisui Chemical Group’s business is 25 Human Resources disclosed publicly through this report and the Annual Report, which reports financial information concerning the Group. Our Philosophy / Global Talents / Career Development and Evaluation / ü To ensure the reliability of this report, its environmental and Decent Work and Diversity / Safety social reporting have been subjected to independent practitioner’s review. Guidelines Complied with or Referred to 35 Business and CSR: Efforts of Division Companies ü This report complies with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ver.3.1 (G3.1), at the B+ application level as defined in those guidelines. A GRI Guidelines comparison table is available on the Sekisui 37 Housing Company Chemical Group website. ü In preparing this report, we also have referred to the Ministry Urban Infrastructure & of the Environment’s Environmental Reporting Guidelines 43 Environmental Products Company (2012 Edition). Scope of This Report High Performance Plastics Entities Encompassed by this Report: The basic function of 49 Company this report is to comment on the activities of Sekisui Chemical Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key roles in those activities. Timeframe Encompassed by this Report: April 2011 March 2012 (including examples of activities through May 2012) 55 Bases of CSR Scope of Independent Practitioner’s Review 55 Compliance C li The environmental and social information in this report has been subjected to the independent practitioner’s review for the 57 Risk Management appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy of the results of calculation. The “Verified” logo is used to indicate that 58 Disclosure & Communication each item of such subject information has been reviewed. Disclaimer 59 Nature Conservation & Social Contribution Readers are requested to note the following: The information in this report includes not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates but also future forecasts based on current plans and projections and management plans and management policies as of the time of publication. Changes in various factors could cause the results of business activities in the future and other circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the 63 Independent Practitioner’s Review Report figures in the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted through rounding off and other means, in some cases total figures may not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data for past fiscal years has been revised in connection with expansions in scope, revision of 64 History calculation methods, and changes to environmental load coefficients. 64 Editors’ notes Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 2 Growing Our Businesses and Contributing Top Message to Society, to be a Company Sustainable for the next 100 years Demonstrating Our Presence Under the Tough Business Conditions The preceding year saw continued tough business conditions as nationwide power shortages resulting from the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake forced a reconsideration of how to ensure business continuity and developments overseas included the flooding in Thailand and the debt crisis in Europe. Fortunately, Sekisui Chemical Group was not greatly impacted by the effects of the earthquake and flooding, so that it could cooperate fully toward recovery and restoration of the affected areas in aspects such as infrastructure and housing, for example through urgent production and supply of PVC pipes and responding swiftly to the need for temporary housing. It also strived to ensure stable supplies of intermediate materials as well as parts and other materials. Through responding to needs for infrastructure renovations to achieve earthquake readiness and developing town strong against earthquakes such as highly earthquake-resistant and durable housing, water supply, sewerage, and other structures, our domestic housing and water-infrastructure businesses demonstrated their presence. Despite some difficulties in realizing growth overseas, for the second year in a row we were able to realize our highest level of profit since the year 2000, when we introduced the division-company system. While a full-fledged recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake still is yet to come, in the future as well the Group will dedicate its combined abilities, not just in Japan but on a global basis, toward building safe and secure residences and communities as well as a sustainable society. Reviewing Fiscal 2011 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR management efforts are based on the principles of the Three Prominences in the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources and the Three Attitudes of Sincerity of Compliance, Risk Management, and Disclosure & Communication. As was the case in the preceding year, the greatest result in fiscal 2011 was the expansion and growth of Environment-Contributing Products. We define Environment-Contributing Products as those that can contribute to reducing society’s environmen3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 tal load instead of just incorporating the perspectives of I would like us to be a company that can continue contriconsideration for the environment. Our target for fiscal 2013 buting to society by reforming itself in response to environis to increase sales of Environment-Contributing Products to mental changes and growing in its prominent businesses. a share of 40% of net sales, and already in fiscal 2011 we have The midterm management plan identifies seven areas grown this share to the 37% level. We believe that the including the housing stock, pipe rehabilitation, water concept of demonstrating prominence in the environment infrastructure, automotive, and electronic materials fields as and achieving growth has begun steadily generating results. areas for future growth and expansion, and segments such At the same time, the year also showed that some issues still as the environment, energy, and building stock are need to be addressed, as for example major quality issues expected to experience future growth. I believe that solving unfortunately continued to arise and occupational accidents the issues faced in people’s lives and society – environmenincreased overseas. We intend to improve our efforts to tal problems and the need to improve the quality of social address such issues through continued thorough implemeninfrastructure and ways of life (by making them more tation of activities to eliminate them completely. comfortable, more convenient, and healthier) while at the same time achieving business growth in these areas will Groupwide CSR Efforts necessarily constitute contribution to society through our In fiscal 2011, five years after the start of the current CSR businesses, and as such business growth truly can be said management system in January 2007, we established a to be on the same axle as CSR. Safety Subcommittee under the CSR Committee, aiming to By reforming our business model through being strengthen the system further in the area of safety, on a sensitive to changes in the external environment and global basis. We now address CSR through deployment of energizing the internal organization, so that we in Sekisui the business policy of having each division company and Chemical Group will execute SHINKA (“evolution”) department establish and address its own CSR topics and ourselves, we can achieve both sustainable business priorities, all based on discussion and consideration in the growth and evolution of CSR. CSR Committee and individual subcommittees. For this reason, we will continue encouraging each Overseas, we continue to hold area-specific company Sekisui Chemical Group employee to take an active role. presidents’ conferences and staff meetings for purposes We will aim to make Sekisui Chemical Group a sustainable including sharing of thinking and values within the Group organization that can continue demonstrating its presence and cooperating to address topics common to individual even 100 years in the future, by continuing to evolve the areas overseas. These meetings are generating steady results. Group’s CSR management within its business activities In the future as well, we will continue working to deploy through achieving an environment in which individual and achieve permeation of CSR management throughout employees can grow through their work, seeing themSekisui Chemical Group as a whole, reflecting matters such as selves as leaders and constantly taking on challenges, the business characteristics of each division company and while at the same time growing our businesses with a the characteristics of each area overseas. focus on the environment and contributing to society by In addition, we will continue supporting the United expanding and creating Environment-Contributing Nations Global Compact as a platform for deploying CSR Products as well as supplying truly satisfying products and management on a global basis. services that reflect customer feedback. To be a Company Sustainable for the Next 100 years, Based on Business Growth and CSR It is expected that the external business environment will continue to undergo massive changes in the future as well. President Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 4 Our Company The Division Company System and Business Areas Se ekisu Sekisui sui Ch C e iccal Chemical em a C Co., o.,, Ltd. o. Lttd. d President Company President Company President Company President Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Housing Piping Materials Information Technology t4UFFM'SBNF.PEVMBS)PVTJOH t8BUFSBOETFXFSQJQFT HBTQJQFT t-$%BOEEJTQMBZNBUFSJBMT Sekisui Heim Series and cable conduits t0QUJDBMBOETFNJDPOEVDUPSNBUFSJBMT t5JNCFSGSBNFE.PEVMBS)PVTJOH t1JQFMJOFSFOFXBM Automotive Two-U Series Construction t*OUFSMBZFSöMNGPSMBNJOBUFEHMBTT Renovation t#VJMEJOHNBUFSJBMTBOEFRVJQNFOU t.PMEFEBVUPNPUJWFDPNQPOFOUT t)PNFNBJOUFOBODF FYUFOTJPOBOE (rain gutters, decking materials, t&YQBOEFEQPMZQSPQZMFOFJOUFSJPS remodeling insulation materials) materials t.PEVMBSCBUIT Real Estate Medical tBrokerage services of quality homes Functional Materials t%JBHOPTUJDSFBHFOUTtMedical devices t QBSUNFOUSFOUBMNBOBHFNFOU t*OUFSJPSTIFFUTGPSBJSDSBGUDBCJOT Functional Materials t*OUFSJPSBOEFYUFSJPSTIFFUTGPS t1BDLJOHUBQF motor-vehicle t1BDLJOHBOEBHSJDVMUVSBMöMNT t4ZOUIFUJDXPPE t.PMEFEQSPEVDUTGPSJOEVTUSJBMVTF Sekisui Chemical Group Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Note: Figures current as of March 31, 2012 (consolidated basis) Americas (North, Central, South) Companies 19 Europe Employees 1,483 Companies 26 Japan Employees 1,512 Companies 81 Employees 15,747 Key Housing Company Asia/Oceania Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company (including China) High Performance Plastics Company Companies 31 Headquarters Employees 2,113 Net Sales by Region Employees by Region Percentage of net sales from overseas Other 1.1% Asia/Oceania 10.1% 19.6% Asia 6.8% Europe 7.3% Europe 5.9% 9.5% Americas (North, Central, South) Japan Japan U.S. 5.8% 80.4% 7.1% 75.5% 2004 2011 Total 20,855 (FY) 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Company Creed and Company Principle The “3S Principle” Mission Statement Sekisui Chemical Group does business in line with the “3S i$SFBUFTPDJBMWBMVFXIJMFGVMöMMJOHTUBLFIPMEFSTFYQFDUBUJPOTw Principle” describing its fundamental principles of service to Sekisui Chemical Group will provide new value to society society; originality, ingenuity, and the pioneer spirit; and through a variety of aspects of our business activities, seeing as quality improvements. our key stakeholders our “Customers,” “Shareholders,” “Employees,” “Business Partners,” and “Local Communities and the Environment.” Service tSatisfy customer needs to the fullest extent 8FFOIBODFUIFXFMMCFJOHPGUIF tProvide the best possible services to customers world community through our global business network tDeepen relationships with Customers business partners and Speed tStrive for the sustained associated companies 8FTVSHFFWFSGPSXBSEJOUPOFXGJFMET growth of corporate value tPromote coexistence and of development with the power and tEnsure the clear and timely co-prosperity through fair disclosure of information transactions vitality of a mighty waterfall Superiority Shareholders Business Partners 8FPCUBJOUIFUSVTUPGPVSDVTUPNFSTUISPVHI superior operational performance and the highest quality standard Local 5IF$PNQBOZ#BEHF Communities and Our company badge comprises the three S’s of the company’s original Employees the Environment name, adopted at the time of its foundation, “SEKISUI SANGYO” enclosed in a hexagonal shape resembling a tortoise shell (the chemical symbol for benzene), symbolizing the Chinese character meaning “water.” tEstablish a culture that encourages tContribute to society and the employees to set their own goals environment with our products and take on new challenges tBuild harmony with local tAssure the validity of communities as a good performance-based evaluation corporate citizen Our CSR CSR: The Foundation of Management Sekisui Chemical Group considers CSR to refer to contributing to sustainable society through its businesses: in essence, making the Environment Make ecology and economic Mission Statement reality. We believe that promoting CSR activities compatible management increases the quality of corporate management. Based on this understanding, it is our philosophy that sustained Three Prominences Human an Resources CS & Qua Quality business growth and business innovation require the continuation of Encourage employees to Gain and maintain the full set their own goals trust of our customers serious efforts at CSR management without regard for conditions of positively the business environment and continuation of reform and SHINKA (“evolution”). Three Prominences and Three Attitudes of Sincerity Sekisui Chemical Group has identified as key themes of CSR management Three Prominences — in the Environment, CS & Quality, Disclosure & Risk Management Communication Take thorough steps to and Human Resources — and the Three Attitudes of Sincerity — in Reflect stakeholders’ prevent trouble occurring and opinions in corporate activities reduce the generation of Compliance, Risk Management, and Disclosure & Communication. The after-the-event risks Three Prominences in particular have been chosen because efforts in the Compliance areas of the Environment and CS & Quality are the natural responsibilities Enhance each employee’s awareness of a manufacturer and it is human resources who advance such efforts. Efforts under the midterm management plan also have a focus on Three Attitudes of Sincerity CSR, and we believe that issues to address in the future are those of achieving further permeation of CSR within the organization and deployment of CSR management on a global basis. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 6 CSR Management Corporate Governance To maximize corporate value, Sekisui Chemical Group has built Corporate Governance System its management structure based on a system of three division Corporate Auditors (including External Corporate Auditors) companies. Believing that increasing the transparency and fairness of management and pursuing swift decision-making Board of Directors External Directors are important to continually increasing corporate value amid a changing business environment, it implements a variety of Operating Officers efforts related to corporate governance. President and CEO Strengthening the Business Execution Function Together with assigning operating officers specializing in President President President business execution to each division company, an Executive Committee has been established to serve as the top decisionOperating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer making body in each division company. As such, a broad range Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer of authority has been transferred from the Board of Directors to the Executive Committee. The Board of Directors strives to achieve continual improvements in corporate value as an Urban High Infrastructure & Housing Performance organization responsible for decision on basic policies of Company Environmental Plastics Headquarters Products Company Sekisui Chemical Group’s management as well as high-level Company decision-making and supervision of business execution. Note: See the Corporate Governance Report for details. Compliance Surpassing the Requirements of Japanese Law ü Appointment of external directors ü Operating officer system (term: one year) ü Early issue of notices of general meetings of shareholders ü Exercise of voting rights electronically in general meetings of shareholders ü Formulation of rules on corporate information disclosure R&D, Intellectual Property, Procurement We strive to increase the value of our products and services Procurement through addressing from a CSR perspective the various aspects Sekisui Chemical Group procures materials based on the of activities such as R&D, which is a foundation for revenues and fundamental concepts of openness, fairness and equity, legal growth, intellectual property, which is one of the outcomes of compliance, mutual trust, and consideration for the environment. R&D, and procurement of the raw materials, parts, and other In addition to quality and delivery times, suppliers are requested materials needed in manufacturing development. to give consideration to the environment, comply with laws, regulations, and societal norms, and ensure health and safety in R&D their own companies. Each division company, Headquarters, and each key affiliate has an R&D section that handles a broad range of R&D such as basic Sekisui Chemical Group’s Procurement Policy research through product development and production http://www.sekisuichemical.com/suggestion/index.html technologies, working to increase the speed of technological development in growth areas and create outstanding Lumber Procurement technologies. For structural lumber materials, which account for the bulk of lumber used in homes, we use certified lumber (for example, Intellectual Property lumber certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, or FSC). Such Under the basic policy of securing business competitive strength certified lumber is procured lawfully from properly managed through obtaining strong patents, we are striving to improve forests. quality and raise awareness in development through efforts including introduction of a system of “P Badges” awarded to employees who have obtained a certain number of patents and providing training on intellectual property. 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 CSR Management The CSR Committee, with Participation by companywide topics as they relate to matters such as issues Top Management and Employee Representatives involved in the themes of which each subcommittee is in As venues for deliberation on CSR management, we have set charge and the state of activities in each division company. up the CSR Committee and five subcommittees: the Under this system, operating officers must take part in the Environmental Subcommittee, the CS & Quality Subcommittee, subcommittees concerned with their areas of responsibility. the Human Resources Subcommittee, the Compliance The CSR Committee and each subcommittee meet at least Subcommittee, and the Safety Subcommittee. (The Safety once every half-year, to establish midterm CSR plans and key Subcommittee was established during 2011.) (See the “Data indicators in each field as well as deliberating on the state of Book,” p. 20, for more information on the CSR management progress on each of these. system.) Chaired by the President, the CSR Committee’s memberPromoting CSR in Unity with Management Planning ship also includes the president of each division company and CSR is put into practice within daily business activities by three representatives of employees — one key group of breaking it down to its appropriate places in the management stakeholders — to help improve deliberation and policies. Each plans of each division company and Headquarters based on Subcommittee promotes groupwide efforts for Sekisui deliberation in the CSR Committee and in each subcommittee. Chemical Group while ascertaining and deliberating on Main Areas of Progress in the CSR Midterm Plan Three Prominences Theme Main Activities FY2011 Results Verified FY2013 Targets t Increase Environment-Contributing t 37% of net sales (target: 35%) t Over 40% of net sales Products Environment t Maintain reductions of 20% or more t 21% reduction from FY1990 from FY1990 level (domestic) t Reduce greenhouse gas emissions level (domestic) (target: 21% reduction) t Reduce by 5% or more from FY2008 level (overseas) t Reduced by ¥3 billion t Reduce by ¥5.0 billion t External failure costs (from FY2004 level) (from FY2004 level) CS & Quality t Major quality issues t 2 cases (target: 0 cases) t 0 cases t Increased “Global Talents” t Global talents employees to 271 people t 300 people t Expanded international recruiting Human Resources t 13 cases of using the Intra-group Job t Career development & evaluation t 20 cases/year Posting System for post-hiring transfers t 27% of new graduate recruits t Decent work & diversity t 30% were women (target: 30%) Three Attitudes of Sincerity Theme Main Activities FY2011 Results FY2013 Targets t Education and instruction catered to t Continue raising awareness t Continue raising awareness staff level and specific groups Compliance t Cultivate key individuals for t Develop overseas compliance t Overseas compliance system overseas compliance constructed t Implemented risk-management t Continue risk management activities in subject sections Risk Management t Deploy risk-management activities activities t Reconstructed crisis-management t Continue overseas development system t Earned Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) “Gold Class” CSR rating t Enhance external recognition and perception of the Company t Earned selection for FTSE4Good Global Disclosure & t Increase communication efforts in Indexes Communication t Continue open dialogue with each region employees t Earned selection to the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 8 CSR Management CSR Efforts in Japan and Overseas Reflecting its global business development, since 2007 Sekisui In addition, the Presidents’ Meeting in the Americas Chemical Group has held annual Global Presidents’ Meetings addressed the common theme of human resources policies, in Japan for presidents of affiliated companies overseas to deciding to introduce joint hiring and an intra-group job discuss CSR. posting system for post-hiring transfers. At the same time, staff Since fiscal 2010, in light of the fact that topics of concern from HR sections also met to study, through introducing the vary by area, we have held area-specific Presidents’ Meetings CSR efforts of each company, whether there were any crossing the boundaries between division companies in opportunities for cooperation. addition to the Presidents’ Meetings in Japan. These meetings At the same time, since fiscal 2010 CSR Staff Meetings have take place in the individual territories of Europe, the Americas, been held in order to further spread CSR efforts across and Asia/Oceania, China, and South Korea. throughout the organizations of business facilities and These Presidents’ Meetings aim to fulfill our social affiliated companies in Japan. In fiscal 2011, with the cooperaresponsibilities in each area and evolve Group management, tion of the TOTO LTD., participants toured a TOTO LTD. plant by having presidents of companies taking part in different lines and exchanged opinions with personnel from TOTO’s of business work together, identify topics of concern in each department promoting CSR. area, and discuss solutions. Plans call for holding this meeting periodically in the future For example, in Europe, the Presidents’ Meeting discussed on as well. what kind of topics were involved in responding to the need to take some steps to enhance Sekisui Chemical Group’s reputation in that territory. To resolve the issues that became clear through VOICE this process, a pamphlet was prepared with staff in public relation section, marketing section or similar sections playing a central The brochure “SEKISUI in Europe” displays for the he role, to introduce Sekisui Chemical Group’s thinking on CSR and first time the wide range of technologies, the CSR initiatives of each company in Europe. services and products including CSR Activities by presenting all companies of SEKISUI Chemical Goupe in Europe. Used as information tool for all employees as well as for external stakeholders, our target is to establish a closer link and intensified communication on all levels. Together with the European group it is my target to further enhance SEKISUI brand reputation in Europe and to Lena Zemke demonstrate its strong philosophy in Group Marketing Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H. every day’s activity. Global Presidents’ The “SEKISUI Meeting for In Europe” presidents of brouchre overseas affiliates Respect for International Norms Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and standards regarding CSR. It announced its support for the United Nations Global Compact1 in March 2009, and since then it has been advancing CSR efforts on a global basis. We also refer to ISO 26000, an international social-responsibility guideline issued in November 2010, in enhancing internal efforts and in the editing of this CSR Report. 1 United Nations Global Compact A voluntary program in which top management of firms around the world pledge to comply with 10 principles on subjects such as human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption efforts within the scopes of influence of their firms and participate in building a global framework for realizing sustainable growth. 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Recovering from the Great East Japan Earthquake Sekisui Chemical Group’s business is to provide housing and the infrastructure essential to support living. Utilizing the characteristics of these businesses, it is carrying out a variety of activities to support recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. Support for the Restoration of Water and Supporting Customers’ Homes and Supplying Sewer Infrastructure in Affected Areas Temporary Housing to Affected Areas In March 2011, immediately after the earthquake, the Urban The Tohoku and Kanto regions of Japan damaged by the Great Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company established East Japan Earthquake include approximately 180,000 Sekisui an earthquake recovery project with its own full-time staff. This Heim residences. Even when it could not yet check actual sites project started by making the rounds of local governments and due to severance of the road network, the Housing Company local disaster task forces in the affected areas to make a study of estimated the impact of the earthquake and tsunami based on what kinds of materials and construction were needed, to carry information it had on customers’ homes and readied a system out surveying and diagnostics of sewer and other pipes, and to for responding to related damage. At the same time, it support damage surveys, among other activities. established emergency customer centers not just at Sekisui In April, construction began to install water pipes at Heim sales facilities in the Tohoku region but in Tokyo as well. temporary housing for evacuees in the city of Kamaishi, Iwate These centers received nearly 50,000 inquiries in total, including Prefecture. Utilizing lightweight, highly flexible, easy-to-install reports on damage and requests for emergency repairs. polyethylene water pipes, this project was able to lay 1.6 In areas where the damage was said to be severe, it kilometers of pipe in seven days in effect. Other construction prepared an emergency inspection and diagnostics manual with projects conducted in the same city included extension of water a focus on the degree of damage from the earthquake and pipes to temporary housing and installation of temporary piping tsunami and on the near-term livability of residences, and then it to restore services previously provided by cast-iron piping that conducted surveys in the affected areas. In addition to housing was washed away in the tsunami. repairs, it also systematically addressed damage to fixtures, In addition, the city of Kesennuma in Miyagi Prefecture was equipment, and interiors. experiencing continued water-supply cutoffs after water pipes To realize swift responses to customer needs for repairs in that had been installed on bridges were washed away in the light of the geographically widespread nature of the damage tsunami. Sekisui Chemical worked to restore the services and the large number of damaged homes, it strengthened its provided by these pipes by taking advantage of the strengths of repair structure in the Tohoku region through means including polyethylene pipes, which are lightweight and easy to transport bringing together repair personnel from Sekisui Heim and and also can be joined quickly. Fami S (renovation section) facilities across Japan. Furthermore, Successively, the Group carried out a number of fast-paced it also cooperated in construction of temporary housing in construction projects including laying of water-supply pipes to response to a request made by the Japanese government to the temporary housing and evacuation shelters, restoration of water Japan Federation of Housing Organization (Judanren), supplying pipes in residential districts, restoration of damaged sewer pipes, temporary homes to areas including Iwate, Miyagi, and and supply of electricity through underground cable pipes, all Fukushima prefectures. Even after the completion of construcutilizing the strengths of plastic pipes: their outstanding tion, it provides continual support such as additional construcflexibility, light weight, and ease of installation. Further work tion to make the housing warmer during cold weather and conducted included emergency repairs to retaining walls which construction of meeting places and had almost collapsed, using highly durable retaining wall panels. lounges inside complexes of In addition, Sekisui Chemical, which marks the 60th temporary housing. anniversary in 2012 of the introduction of Eslon HI PVC pipes, will donate part of the proceeds from sales of these and related products to local governments in affected areas. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 10 Environment Pioneering a New Future with Balance between Ecology and the Economy We aim to be an environmental leader, pursuing both ecological and economic goals Contributing to Contributing to the environment Global the environment Toward and society Products environment and society being through business through nature activities and conservation a leader in products Local activities Business environmental communities processes Activities by management Reducing environmental concerted efforts load in all business of all employees processes Environmentally Creative Organization Our Philosophy Based on its environmental philosophy of aiming to be a Global Environmental Top Runner that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by enabling the continuous growth and co-existence of ecology1 and the economy2, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to be a company whose growth is built around the axle of the environment, by developing products and providing services that will facilitate environmental contributions by society in addition to lessening the environmental load of its business activities. In addition, we will contribute to the prevention of global warming, the preservation of biological diversity and the construction of a sound material-cycle society in all countries and regions where we operate, in order to leave this beautiful earth for our children in the future. We also will aggressively work on social contribution activities such as nature conservation activities in each region. The Environmental Management Policy and System See ”Data Book” p. 20, 21 1 Ecology Caring for and contributing to the global environment, and living in symbiosis with the local environment 2 Economy Ensuring economic benefits for both customers and businesses Efficient Utilization of Resources Environmental Management Preventing ngg Three Th o eas area of focuus Vision for 2030 Global Warming g In fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group established the “Sekisui Biodiversity Eco-Frontier 2030” as a vision to make clear the courses of action and achievement levels of environmental management and serve as a guidepost to sustainable growth. This vision depicts the type of society that Achieving Sekisui Chemical Group aims to achieve as a society on the environmental negative frontier. This refers to a society in which environmental awareness and Two carbon3 environment-friendly lifestyles become broadly and firmly established among targets people and both businesses and governments recognize the environment to be one of their most important values. To realize this vision, we have identified three areas of focus and two targets. Preservation 3 Negative Carbon of Exceeding greenhouse-gas emissions attributable to business activities such as raw materials and biodiversity production with offsetting reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions during product use 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Environmental Management System In an effort to carry out environmental management effectively, we have developed our environmental Environmental Midterm Plan management system (EMS) in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard and are working to expand application Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting the Midterm Environmental of this system throughout the entire Sekisui Chemical Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (FY 2009 – 2013), Group. As of March 2012, 62 business sites in Japan and based on back-casting1 from the Sekisui Eco-Frontier 2030 goals. 25 sites overseas had obtained certifications such as ISO This plan establishes four key themes. In fiscal 2011, sales of 14001. The number of employees at these business Environment-Contributing Products surpassed targets. While sites represents 68% of all Sekisui Chemical Group reducing greenhouse-gas emissions went as planned, the targets employees. for reducing volumes of wastes generated were not achieved. 1 Back-casting We have developed a structure for A method of considering steps that should be taken at present by envisioning a goal collecting data on environmental load at for the future and working backward to the present state. overseas sites and are implementing efforts to minimize environmental load at each of these sites. In addition, all 44 main sites have established targets of acquiring ISO Ratio of Sales of EnvironmentGreenhouse-gas emissions Overseas 14001 certification and achieving the goal Contributing Products (Japan) Sites of zero waste emissions. In fiscal 2011 22% UP 21% down Verified Verified Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America’s two plants and Changzhou Zhongji Precision Molding Plastic Co., Ltd. attained ISO 14001 certification and activities also are 433 underway toward achieving the goal of 37% 342 Thousand tons-CO2 zero waste emissions. 15% We ask suppliers to obtain certifications such as ISO 14001 and Eco Action 212 and support them in these efforts. Supply 2007 2011 (FY) 1990 2011 (FY) 2 Eco Action 21 Chain Certification of environmental management systems, established by Volumes of waste generated the Ministry of the Environment of Japan (Japan) Sekisui Eco Value Index 17% down 2.6 times Verified Verified 2.6 Times 43.6 36.1Thousand tons 1.0 The 2007 Global Children’s Eco Summit 2007 2011 (FY) 2007 2011 (FY) Turning out the lights during lunchtime at all sites In response to a proposal from children made at the Global Children’s Eco Summit3 held in Japan in 2007, Sekisui Chemical Group has turned out the lights during lunchtime at An office all of its business sites both in Japan and worldwide. Through efforts such as this one with the lights that involves conducting the same activity worldwide, we will contribute to raising turned off employees’ environmental awareness and to lessening the load on the environment. 3 Global Children’s Eco Summit An international forum in which children of employees from around the world gather together to discuss the environment and make proposals to Sekisui Chemical Group management Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 12 Environment-Contributing Products Environment Contributing to Minimizing the Environmental Load of Our Stakeholders and Society Through our Products and Businesses Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR is to contribute to sustainable society through business. To contribute to minimizing the environmental load of society, it is essential that businesses create and promote widespread use of products that will make active contributions to the environment. In fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group established Environment-Contributing Product Standards calling for an even higher level of contribution to the environment than before, and since then it has managed such products through a certification system. (See “Data Book,” p. 8) Environment-Contributing Products conceptual diagram High Environmental contribution level Environment-Contributing Products Products and businesses that Products or demonstrably help systems having at least reduce the a certain degree of effect environmental load of Environment-friendly on reducing environmental our customers and products load compared to similar society conventional products and systems Low Sekisui Chemical Group’s Our customers and society business activities Scope of environmental load reduction Expansion of Environment-Contributing Products Net Sales of EnvironmentVerified Contributing Products and One of the targets of Sekisui Chemical Group’s Midterm Environmental Plan is that of growing their ratio to total net sales (vs. FY 2010) the ratio of sales of Environment-Contributing Products to total consolidated net sales to 40% 400 (billion yen) (%) 40 or higher in fiscal 2013. (See “Data Book,” p. 8) In fiscal 2011, strong sales of houses with solar energy generation systems and an increase 350 37% 35 in the lineup of Environment-Contributing Products led to growth in net sales of them to 359.2 359.2 billion yen. This is a ratio of 37% of total net sales, more than achieving the target of 35% for the 300 33% billion yen 30 fiscal year. When converting their results to carbon-dioxide emissions reductions, these 302.6 Environment-Contributing Products have resulted in a reduction in carbon-dioxide emissions billion yen more than offsetting the amount of carbon dioxide emissions generated in Sekisui Chemical 0 0 Group production activities in Japan (according to Sekisui Chemical estimates). 2010 2011 (FY) We also have prepared a pamphlet providing an easy-to-understand introduction to Sekisui Chemical Group’s Environment-Contributing Products and their results. EnvironmentContributing Products pamphlet 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Three Prominences Environment External Advisory Board To increase the reliability and transparency of the EnvironmentFlow of Certification of Contributing Product certification system, in fiscal 2010 Sekisui Chemical Environment-Contributing Product Group established the External Advisory Board, a third party organization, Development from which it receives advice and recommendations on the certification CS & Quality system as a whole. During fiscal 2011, the External Advisory Board met in September Application: Application for certification by Business Units 2011 and February 2012, providing opinions on individual EnvironmentContributing Products. Advisors also provided a variety of opinions and recommendations concerning this system as well as Sekisui Chemical Screening: Screening by internal certification Group’s environmental management. Attendees from Sekisui Chemical screening committee included responsible Directors down to the environmental personnel of Human each division company and Headquarters. We are utilizing the opinions received in our environmental management. Resources Third Party Evaluation External Advisory Board Business and CSR Responsibilities of the External Advisory Board 1. Matters related to the effectiveness of operation of the Environment-Contributing Products Housing system 2. Matters related to the objectivity, fairness, and Company appropriateness of the EnvironmentThe External Advisory Board Contributing Product certification standards 3. Other matters related to operation of the Environment-Contributing Products system and Urban Infrastructure & the system for certification of EnvironmentContributing Products in general Environmental Products Company System for Environmental Consideration in Products Greening of High Performance Development Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing the Three Greening Steps intended to (Product Assessment incorporate consideration for the environment in three stages of its value chain: System for development, procurement, and manufacturing. For this purpose, we are Environmental Impact) implementing systems including Product Assessments for Environmental Plastics Company Impact, Green Procurement, and Prior Assessment of Capital Expenditure. (See “Data Book,” p. 8) Three Forms related to green procurement and other materials are available Greeningg Greening of Steps on the Sekisui Chemical website. Procurement Bases of CSR http://www.sekisui.co.jp/company/suggestion/ (Green Procurement ment System) Greening G Green of Manufacturing (Prior Assessment System of Capital Expenditure) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 14 Climate Change Environment Efforts to Achieve Carbon Negative Throughout the Product Life Cycle Achieving carbon negative (see p. 11) requires both development and promotion of Environment-Contributing Products and controlling greenhouse-gas emissions from business. Sekisui Chemical Group continues related efforts throughout the entire product life cycle. Reducing Greenhouse-Gas Emissions Throughout the Product Life Cycle Conceptual Diagram of Carbon Negative Business activities Product use ProcureR&D Production Shipping Use ment Carbon emissions Product Development of Promotion of Environment-Contributing Environment-Contributing Raw materials R&D Production Shipping Products Products Offsetting reduction in greenhouse-gas Carbon reduction emissions during product use exceeds Reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions effect greenhouse-gas emissions attributable to business activities. GHG Emissions Greenhouse gas (Emissions from the Production Stage) Verified Activities at the Production Stage (in Japan and Worldwide) 600 (1,000 tons-CO2) We have established the target for fiscal 2013 of reducing greenhouse-gas 400 433 452 emissions generated at the production stage in Japan by at least 20% 389 419 365 compared to the fiscal 1990 level. In fiscal 2011 we realized a reduction of 330 350 341 342 21% compared to the fiscal 1990 level, thanks in part to the results of 200 156 160 measures to promote investing in the environment1. Since Sekisui Chemical Japan Group’s production sites overseas are subject to considerable changes in 0 Overseas areas such as product lineups as the overseas business grows, the Group 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) has established guidelines calling for achieving in fiscal 2013 reduction of at Notes: least 5% from fiscal 2008 in energy consumption per unit of output. Each Overseas data cover carbon-dioxide emissions only. Overseas figures have increased since fiscal 2009 in connection with site is setting targets based on its own circumstances. an increase in the number of overseas sites due to acquisitions, etc. Since fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical Group has been implementing the Fiscal 2009 figures have been revised beginning with CSR Report “Energy 50% Process” intended to cut energy costs by one-half through 2010 in connection with a change in rules for collection of data on overseas sites. production innovations. The number of facilities implementing the process is undergoing steady expansion, reaching the level of 16 facilities as of the end of fiscal 2011. 1 Measures to promote investing in the environment Measures under which Headquarters helps division companies cover the costs of investment for the purpose of controlling greenhouse-gas emissions in accordance with the resulting reductions. In fiscal 2009 investment in making energy use visible so its actual conditions could be ascertained was added to the subject of these measures, which originally were adopted in fiscal 2007. Efforts in Stages Other Than Production Verified Total greenhouse-gas emissions in fiscal 2011 Typical efforts Resulting reductions R&D 13,000 tons-CO2 Continued thorough energy management 32% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 Shipping 43,000 tons-CO2 Reduced emissions through use of joint shipping and modal shifts 17% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 Energy-conservation activities including regularly turning off lights Offices 16,000 tons-CO2 15% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 and using restraint in air-conditioner settings 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Resource Efficiency Environment Pursuing to Reduce, Reuse, Three and Recycle Throughout Prominences the Product Life Cycle Environment Sekisui Chemical Group pursues reduction, reuse, and recycle throughout the product life cycle. In addition to Zero Waste Emissions Activities intended to reuse as resources all the waste it generates from its business activities, it also is striving to preserve water resources. CS & Quality Production Development Reduce Construction Recycle 3R Reuse Disposal Human Use Resources Business and Waste Emissions CSR Reducing Wastes Generated To utilize resources efficiently, Sekisui Chemical Group is focusing in particular on Total Waste Generated (Production Facilities in Japan) Housing Verified restraining waste generation and reusing wastes. In fiscal 2011, production sites in 60 (1,000 tons) Company Japan achieved a 17% reduction in total waste generated vs. fiscal 2007 through efforts to improve the stability and efficiency of production, such as zero-defect 43.6 40 39.3 39.5 activities. They also reduced waste per unit of output by 8.5 percent. 36.0 36.1 While new housing construction sites originally have generated low volumes of 20 waste, our goal for fiscal 2013 is to reduce this amount further by 45% vs. the fiscal 2000 level for steel frame modular housing and 62% vs. the fiscal 2000 level for 0 Urban Infrastructure & timber-framed modular housing. In fiscal 2011, efforts such as measuring wastes on a 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Environmental (FY) per-unit basis, reducing excess material use through activities including adoption of a system of authorization of waste transportation covering broader areas, and activities to reduce scrap and packaging materials succeeded in reducing total waste Products Company generated per home by 32% vs. fiscal 2000 for steel frame modular housing and 49% High Performance over the same period for timber-framed modular housing. Zero Waste Emissions Plastics Company Since 1998, Sekisui Chemical Group has promoted Zero Waste Emissions Activities toward restraining waste generation and reusing wastes. We have achieved zero waste emissions at main production facilities and housing construction and remodeling sites. We are carrying out activities toward our goal under the Midterm Environmental Plan (see “Data Book,” p. 3) of achieving zero waste emissions at all subject facilities by fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2011, the percentages of facilities that had achieved this goal were 95% in Japan and 17% overseas. Bases of CSR Conservation of Water Resources Water Intake at Production Sites Verified Sekisui Chemical Group is striving to reduce water use through 30 (Million tons) means including cyclic use of cooling water. Water intake for 20 the entire Group in fiscal 2011 fell by 3.4% in comparison with 17.0 16.9 16.5 16.5 16.4 the fiscal 2007 level. 10 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 16 Air, Water, & Soil Environment Minimizing Environmental Impact through Proper Control of Chemical Substances While chemical substances make people’s lives more convenient, they also could have harmful effects on the environment or on human beings. Therefore, we believe that consideration of product safety, occupational safety and health, and environmental impact through proper management of chemical substances is an important responsibility of a manufacturer. Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing efforts such as the Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact1 and the Green Procurement System2 as well as setting our own targets for reducing discharge and transfer of chemicals. We also review periodically chemical substances that are candidates for control or regulation of use, in accordance with the establishment and amendment of relevant laws and regulations. System for Control of Chemical Substances throughout the Product Life Cycle Development Procurement Production Transportation Sale/Use Product Assessment System for Prior Assessment System of Environmental Impact Capital Expenditure t$IFDLPOQSPIJCJUFETVCTUBODFT t$IFDLPOTBGFUZBOEFOWJSPONFOU t$IFDLPOTVCTUBODFTQSFTDSJCFE Green Procurement System t$IFDLPOFOFSHZ Information Disclosure t*TTVFPGZFMMPXDBSET Information Disclosure CZMBX t&WBMVBUJPOTIFFUGPSQSPDVSFE t*TTVFPG.4%4 Formulation and implementation QSPEVDUT Implementation of various preservation activities t-FHBMEFTDSJQUJPO of the Chemicals Management Formulation and implementation Regulations of the Chemicals Management Regulations 1 Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact A system for assessment of the environmental impact of a product development all the way from raw material procurement through manufacture, use, disposal, transport, and all other stages (see “Data Book,” p. 8). 2 Green Procurement System A system of giving priority to choosing raw materials, parts, etc. with lower levels of environmental impact when procuring them. Soil Surveying VOC & HCFCs In fiscal 2011, we conducted surveys Since fiscal 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has been working to reduce compliant with relevant laws at four sites. discharge of pollutants into the environment. Since fiscal 2006, we have Results of these surveys showed values aimed for the target of at least 60% exceeding standards for soil pollution on reduction in discharge of VOCs into VOC Emissions Verified parts of the sites of the Sekisui Chemical the atmosphere in fiscal 2013 Shiga-Ritto and Tokyo plants, the Sekisui compared to fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2,936UPOT Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant, and 2011 we achieved a 52% reduction the Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant (see “Data Book,” p. 12). compared to fiscal 2000. 1,397UPOT In fiscal 2008 we ended all use Plans call for addressing the areas with of HCFCs. (See “Data Book,” p. 13) excess values in accordance with the law. 2000 2011 (FY) PCBs Air and Water Stored transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are Sekisui Chemical Group complies with the regulatory being disposed of steadily, beginning with sites for which values under laws and ordinances for the various types acceptance at PCB treatment facilities is available. of equipment it uses in connection with exhaust gases Machines and equipment in storage that contain PCBs and drain water. We also strive to control discharge of are managed strictly and thoroughly, through means pollutants through appropriate maintenance and including locked storage and periodic inspection. management including periodic inspections. 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Biodiversity Environment Striving to Preserve Biodiversity Three through Both Business Activities Prominences and Social Contributions Environment In April 2008, Sekisui Chemical Group incorporated items on biodiversity to its Environmental Management Policy. Since then it has strived to preserve biodiversity through both environmentally conscious business and deploying nature conservation activities around the world. Approach to Biodiversity Preservation CS & Quality Environmentally conscious business Guidelines for Environmental Preservation Management Policy of Biodiversity (revised April 2008) (established Nature conservation activities March 2011) around the world Human Declaration of Biodiversity and Action Policy Resources by Keidanren Business and Kurohama Marsh CSR Biodiversity Assessment A place expected to be capable of providing Sekisui Chemical Group identifies biodiversity as a priority area in its Housing habitat to a diverse range Long-Term Environmental Management Vision (see p. 11), and in March 2011 of creatures through proper management we established guidelines for related efforts. In accordance with these Company guidelines, in fiscal 2011 we began at three business sites in Japan assessment of activities such as production processes and land use from the perspective of their impacts on ecosystems. The results confirmed that the Urban Infrastructure & loads these sites placed on ecosystems generally were low at the present time. They also showed that through revision of methods such as those for Environmental management of flood retarding basins on business sites and periodic management of flora such as trees and reeds in the vicinity, it would be Products Company possible to create an environment rich with biodiversity and to provide habitat for a diverse range of creatures. In the future as well we will continue assessment at individual sites and link these to practical High Performance Plastics Company Flood retarding basins on business sites Nature Conservation Activities at All Sites Places expected to be capable of providing habitat Sekisui Chemical Group believes that continual nature conservation to a diverse range of creatures through proper activities conducted at business sites are important as one means of management of water preserving biodiversity. Based on the goal in the Midterm volumes and flora Bases of CSR Environmental Plan (see “Data Book,” p. 3) of conducting nature conservation activities at all business sites in Japan by fiscal 2013, we have deployed forest development activities in seven blocks in Japan. To promote these activities, in December 2011 we concluded a basic agreement with the National Land Afforestation Promotion Organization affirming comprehensive cooperation on development of “Sekisui Chemical Forests.” In addition, five overseas facilities in the four areas of Europe, the Americas, China, and Asia will advance biodiversity preservation efforts as well. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 18 Customers & Society CS & Quality Quality always specified by customers Use of Use of Customer’s Customer’s Feedback Feedback Pursuing quality always specified by Creating customers, through maximizing the Attractive Qualities quality of human resources, products, and systems Enhancing Basic Qualities Research and Product planning Product design Collecting development information ProductionResolving complaints Maximizing the quality of method design and claims human resources, products, Construction, sales, and systems Mass production service Storage, shipping Production Procurement, outsourcing Since 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has employed CS management focused on customer Our Philosophy satisfaction (CS). In 2004 we began CS & Quality Management focusing on products and services quality innovations in all of our businesses. The aim is to progress and grow together with customers, by constantly delivering value so that they will choose our products and services repeatedly. Based on the motto “We consider customer’s feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing,” we are improving the “Basic Qualities” and “Attractive Qualities” provided to customers through improving the “Quality of Products and Services,” the “Quality of People,” and the “Quality of Systems,” utilizing a variety of feedback and other information received from customers. Sekisui Chemical Group is working together to pursue quality that will always be e specified by customers. The CS & Quality Management Policy and System,, see “Data Book,” p. 20, 21 CS & Quality Midterm Plan Sekisui Chemical Group has identified two key performance External failure costs Verified indicators for CS & Quality Management. One of these is external 100 (Indicator)100 failure costs1 and the other is the number of major quality issues2. 80 The Midterm Plan (fiscal 2009 – 2013) sets as goals for fiscal 2013 60 57 59 eliminating major quality issues and cutting external failure costs 43 40 by 5 billion yen vs. fiscal 2004. 20 In fiscal 2011, two major quality issues arose and we 0 decreased external failure costs by 3 billion yen from fiscal 2004. 2004 2009 2010 2011 (FY) We aim to further cut external failure costs through enhancing group-wide quality-assurance systems and deploying activities to Major quality issues Verified reduce quality-related risks. We also will employ design review 3 (Incidents) thoroughly and make improvements as needed to prevent major quality issues so they will not occur in the future. 2 2 2 1 External failure costs 1 1 Costs arising from responding to product-related complaints and claims. 2 Major quality issues Problems related to product and service quality that could cause significant 0 damage to customers, society, or Sekisui Chemical Group if not thoroughly resolved on an urgent basis. 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Group KAIZEN Activities Around the World Group KAIZEN activities1 are an initiative in which employees in each workplace form small groups to make improvements in production and operational efficiency and product quality improvements. These activities are underway at business sites in Japan and around the world, centered on production companies. They address QC stories2 and themes for which policies have been developed, and once each year presentations are held in each area to share information on results in each workplace and improve each other. These activities are becoming firmly established globally, and in fiscal 2011 KAIZEN activities presentations were held in each of the following areas: Japan, the Americas, China, and Europe. The Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation, in which teams chosen from each area announce results to each other, was held in Japan. 1 Group KAIZEN activities Activities that began in 1966 as Quality Control (QC) groups and later evolved into small group activities before taking the form they have today. 2 QC story Improvement procedures advanced step by step to ascertain problems accurately and resolve them with certainty. Japan Americas Almost all employees, including temporary and part-time Business sites with long histories of carrying out KAIZEN workers, take part in these activities at 60 business sites, both activities have reached the stage of further improving their manufacturing and non-manufacturing. Autonomous activities KAIZEN levels. Sites newly added to Sekisui Chemical Group such as study meetings on QC methods and QC leader training are proactively conducting these are expanding in the workplace. A system activities too. Presentation is in place under which multiple Meetings began in the Americas presentation meetings are held in fiscal 1992, and in fiscal 2011 at each business site and sites 10 business sites presented the that have conducted particuresult of 11 themes. Since fiscal larly outstanding activities 2010 Manufacturing Assemblies advance through the division have been held as well, sharing company presentations to the information on the fundamenSekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN tals of manufacturing, such as Activities Presentation. safety and information systems. China Europe Activities are underway on themes centered on quality and Activities are advancing on themes centered on safety and productivity. Japan’s style of KAIZEN activities is being quality. Theme guidance meetings also are held, and theme adopted actively, and postings in the activities are being deployed in workplace make the content of accordance with QC stories. The activities visible. Employees first Presentation Meetings also learn from outstandwas held in fiscal 2011, ing case studies, for which was participated by example through touring six business sites on nine the plants of superior local themes. Manufacturing firms. Presentation Assemblies have been held Meetings began in fiscal as well, sharing information 2009 and was participated on strengths and issues in in fiscal 2011 by six manufacturing through business sites. touring each other’s plants. Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting The 46th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting was held in Kyoto in January 2012. This event welcomed participants from 20 groups (16 from Japan and four from overseas) chosen from individual areas. Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. won the gold prize for its theme on quality KAIZEN activities for high-performance thermal insulation materials (see p. 47), while among overseas sites, Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. from China Wuxi took the bronze prize for its theme on packaging-material cost savings. Okayama SSS-Diamond Sekisui Industry Plastics Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 20 Customer Satisfaction (CS) CS & Quality Advancing development of systems, human resources, and a culture enabling creation of attractive qualities In order to generate a succession of products with attractive qualities providing value for customers, Sekisui Chemical Group is working on building systems for proper assessment of outcomes and sharing such outcomes broadly inside the organization to increase motivation and developing human resources and a culture having high levels of sensitivity to the customer’s point of view. Supporting measures to increase Providing outstanding products filled sensitivity to attractive qualities with attractive qualities Training to improve Sharing information on Outstanding Outstanding product planning abilities successful case studies human resources products Customers “Creation School” “The Story of Attractive Qualities” Directing external feedback to HR and manufacturing development Thinking more deeply Valuing customer based on case studies feedback Screening of attractive qualities from other companies Telephone service by outside experts CS & Quality seminars training Attractive Qualities Screening System Directing external feedback to building systems Attractive Qualities Screening System In fiscal 2008 Sekisui Chemical Group created the VOICE Attractive Qualities Screening System, intended to have outsiders assess the attractive qualities of the Participating in this committee gave me a Group’s products1. Under this system, the strong feel for Sekisui Chemical Group’s Attractive Qualities Screening Committee, consistadvantages in R&D and product development ing of four outside experts (chosen from the fields technologies. It provides a very wide variety of products, ranging from films, adhesives, and of product planning, consumers, environmental pharmaceuticals through housing, and many of its nonprofit organizations, and quality control) and products incorporate unique, revolutionary two Directors of Sekisui Chemical, meets every technologies. I admire the outstanding technological three years to assess Sekisui Chemical Group abilities it has built up in a wide range of fields over Prof. Noriaki Kanda products and choose those outstanding in terms many years. I believe that these themselves are Department of Business Administration, of attractive qualities. truly valuable assets that form the underpinnings Faculty of Economics, In fiscal 2011, the second time the committee of Sekisui Chemical Group. Seijo University Chairperson, I think in the future it will be able to produce Attractive Qualities met, it assessed a total of 10 entries from each Screening Committee even better products by deepening its study of division company and Headquarters on the five customers’ potential needs. criteria of value to customers, value to society, individual ability, contributions to business performance, and appeal, choosing one grand prize winner and two gold prize winners. 1 Products The Attractive Qualities Screening System Winner, Grand Prize, defines products to refer in general to Second Attractive Qualities Screening System products, services, and related systems. KAITEKI AIRY year-round air-conditioning/ventilation system Gold Prize (Division Company Prize) Winners NORUDIA N HbA1c diabetes diagnostic reagent CALMMOON high-performance, nonflammable, easy-to-install noise-proofing material Attractive Qualities Screening Committee 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HR Development for Attractive Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group has developed four HR development Three systems intended to improve sensitivity to creating attractive qualities. Prominences T Training to improve product planning abilities p Environment From Fr its start in fiscal 2008 through the end “Creation “Creation School” of fiscal 2011, this training, intended to School” improve product planning abilities, has im w welcomed a total of 42 trainees. Thinking T more deeply based on CS & Quality CS case studies from other companies ca Be Begun in fiscal 2001, these seminars, intended & to raise awareness of CS & Quality, invite Quality pe people from a variety of fields outside the seminars co company to give a lecture. A total of 26 seminars had been held from the start of the se pr program through the end of fiscal 2011. CS & Quality seminar SSharing information on successful case studies Human “The Story of The Th goals of this intranet content on products include increasing the motivation of product Attractive planning and development personnel. It provides introductions to the key points on development pl Resources Qualities” of prize-winning products in the Attractive Qualities Screening System and the value they provide to customers ustomers and society, centered on co conversations with the developers. Valuing customer feedback V Business and W are conducting telephone service training, intended We FY 2011 number of trainees Telephone to improve the service level of contact points for service training in inquiries, continuously since fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2011 this training, aimed at teaching skills for listening and th sp speaking from the customer’s point of view, was conducted a total of 17 times at nine business sites, co 159 CSR with a total of 159 employees taking part. w Housing Company Foster a CS Culture Program “STAR 55” Urban Infrastructure & Sekisui Chemical Group developed the program called STAR 55, intended to foster a customer-oriented corporate culture, in fiscal 2002, and since then it has strived to Environmental raise awareness among all employees while also enhancing this program. In fiscal Telephone service 2011, 190 new managers in Sekisui Chemical Group underwent the training program training Products Company for leaders. The permeation of awareness of CS & Quality was confirmed through an attitude survey of trainees. High Performance Plastics Company Customer Feedback for Attractive Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group has established Customer Information & Consulting Services in the CSR Department within Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. and contact points for inquiries in each division company and in each sales company. In this way, we respond swiftly to inquiries, wishes, and guidance from customers. Information Bases of CSR from customers is collected in the in-house database, Hayamimi Network, for sharing among related parties and is utilized in improving manufacturing and services. (For a flowchart on “Utilizing Customer Feedback in Management,” see “Data Book,” p. 15) To accelerate these efforts, Customer Information & Consulting Services analyzes the information in the Hayamimi Network and proposes a variety of improvements to each division company in areas including products and the descriptions in catalogs and on websites. In fiscal 2011 it made 422 proposals, which resulted in improvements such as the preparation in the Housing Company of a guide for preventing basic customer-service errors that could result in complaints. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 22 Quality CS & Quality Pursuing the “three zeros” of Complaints, Accidents and Wastes Recognizing that it is the fields of manufacturing development that supports quality, since fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group has focused its efforts on innovation in production. Based on its belief that quality defects lead to costs, or losses and waste arising from handling complaints and increased wastes, we are trying to reduce costs by targeting the “three zeros” of complaints, accidents, and wastes. Results of “three zeros” activities Verified Basic Qualities Claim Number of occupational Loss costs handling costs injuries Decreased by Decreasing loss costs, or losses and 7 % reduction 35 reduction % 2 billion yen waste arising from quality defects (vs. FY 2008) (vs. FY 2008) (vs. FY 2008) Zero Zero Zero complaints accidents wastes Field Manufacturing Development Quality Management Sekisui Chemical Group has developed quality-control systems covering every process from production through product use by customers. Each section has developed a quality-assurance system, and in each process we promote controls on a daily basis following the PDCA1 management cycle. In developing products and making improvements to quality, we conduct screening from a variety of perspectives, such as those of quality assurance and safety. In fiscal 2011, we developed screening standards and check sheets. Our business sites also made progress on becoming certified under the ISO 9001 standard, as the total number of Sekisui Chemical Group business sites and departments certified under this standard rose to 95. The number of employees at these ISO 9001-certified business sites and departments represents 59% of all Sekisui Chemical Group employees. In fiscal 2012, we will focus on development of quality-assurance systems suited to the globalization of business. 1 PDCA P = Plan (planning), D = Do (implementation, operation), C = Check (checkup, corrective action), A = Action (improvement, review) A seminar on day-to-day management Seminars on Day-to-day Management In production sections, we hold seminars on everyday management for manager-class personnel in charge of production and quality control, to raise awareness among managers in each production workplace and encourage thorough controls on everyday management. In fiscal 2011 we held a seminar lectured by an outside auditor for Sekisui Chemical. A total of 46 persons took part in this seminar. We also received advice and proposals on thinking regarding the PDCA cycle, how to use the implementation procedures for QC stories and cause-and-effect diagrams2 in everyday business activities, and the ideal forms that Sekisui Chemical Group management and quality control should take in light of audit results at each division company and plant. 2 Cause-and-effect diagrams Diagrams showing the conceivable causes of an effect, giving consideration to the hierarchical structure of causes 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 MONOZUKURI Workplace Leader Since fiscal 2008 we have held “MONOZUKURI Workplace Leader Development/Training Courses” on Three the subject of the current state of everyday management at production sites. These are events in which manufacturing-site leader level personnel visit production sites and then, following a site tour, discuss the themes of 5S1 and visualization. Through observing other business sites and products, and speaking with participants who work in other sites, attendees can gain insights and knowledge on Prominences practical operations. In fiscal 2011, four sessions were held, with 63 personnel from 26 sites taking part. Environment 1 The “5S” process A slogan used in maintenance and improvement of the workplace environment. The five “S’s” are organization (seiri), orderliness (seiton), cleaning (seiso), cleanliness (seiketsu), and discipline (shitsuke). Site observation during training CS & Quality A production line Activity of the Manufacturing Development Innovation Center Aiming to decrease loss costs by raising the standard of manufacturing in the workplace, the Manufacturing Development Innovation Center, a cross-functional Human organization charged with promotion of enhancement of manufacturing development Resources throughout Sekisui Chemical Group as a whole, has set the target of contributing 20 billion yen to profits in fiscal 2013 (vs. fiscal 2010) and the three priority themes of zero defects and doubled productivity, halving energy use, and renewing manufacturing development overseas. Business and CSR Priority Building the Zero-Defect Line: Theme Zero Defects and Doubled Productivity Sekisui Chemical Group is striving to reduce product Priority Energy Saving Activity: Theme Halving Energy Use defects and increase productivity through its own Housing methods combining quality engineering with Since fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group has carried Company automated controls, based on quality maintenance. out activities to make improvements based on identiFor example, in fiscal 2011 Ritto Sekisui Industry fying losses from the two perspectives of the functions Co., Ltd. began the new initiative of organizing its equipment has and the timing of energy inputs. information on past construction-related defects in The goal is to further decrease energy consumption in its rehabilitation pipe production lines and assessing production. Five business sites began these activities Urban Infrastructure & quality risks. Based on the results of this initiative, it during fiscal 2011, bringing the total to 16 sites. A advanced (i) revision of standards, (ii) equipment future goal is to deploy the activities to all business Environmental improvements, (iii) optimization of manufacturing sites in Japan. conditions, and (iv) automated controls. This has In addition, in responding to the need to conserve Products Company enabled it to cut the volume of defective products electricity during the summer of 2011 a study meeting High Performance disposed of as waste by 19 tons vs. last year. was held focusing on cutting electricity used in lighting, as an effort that could be implemented Priority Advancing awareness and group-wide with immediate Plastics Company Theme production innovations in overseas effects. Activities carried out included turning off some Sekisui Chemical Group began activities to renew manufacturing lights while leaving on development overseas in fiscal 2009, with the goal of strengthenonly enough for the ing the manufacturing-development foundation and production amount of lighting capacity at production sites overseas. Through these efforts, it has Bases of CSR needed and advanced production innovations at such sites. introducing In fiscal 2011, it conducted these LEDs and solar activities with a focus on improveA plant manager meeting in Europe concentrators. ment abilities and safety abilities. As an example, in the area of improvement abilities it held local plant manager meetings Solar concentrators installed in a plant and, in Europe, KAIZEN Activities Presentation. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 24 Human Raise corporate value by Resources stimulating diverse human resources Prominence in Business and CSR Prominent Self-realization Human Resources Encouraging Individual Productivity at Prominence and Self-Realization, Business leaders High-quality, specialized manufacturing sites Development, designing, human resources production, construction, and Contributing to Society Global human resources sales, technical services, after-sales service through Business Professional human resources, each with his or her own unique skills Corporate Opportunities culture fostering to take on Growth and individual learning challenges on Commitment and growth one’s own Workplaces where diverse human resources can thrive Rewarding workplaces Employees are “precious assets bestowed on us by society” Our As the globalization of its businesses accelerates, the employees who work at Sekisui Philosophy Chemical Group are growing more diverse as well. We are advancing efforts to increase opportunities for more people to thrive on the global stage and to promote creation of various working styles and safe and secure work environments, respecting the diversity, personalities, and individuality of our employees in each region. We will put even more effort into human-resources development in order to realize a strong Sekisui Chemical Group that can continue growing and demonstrating its presence even 100 years in the future, by addressing head-on the environmental changes that will occur in the future, such as various changes to the business environments in Japan and worldwide along with further intensification of competition in global al markets. For the Human Resources and Human Rights Policy and System, see the “Data Book,” p. 20, 22 Our Concept of Human Resources Development #BTFEPOPVSDPODFQUPGFOBCMJOHIVNBOSFTPVSDFTUPQFSGPSNBOEHSPX 4FLJTVJ$IFNJDBM (SPVQTUSJWFTUPEFWFMPQIVNBOSFTPVSDFTXIPDBOUIJOLBOEBDUJOEFQFOEFOUMZ*O addition, based on the idea that “employees are precious assets bestowed on us by TPDJFUZ w4FLJTVJ$IFNJDBM(SPVQTUSJWFTUPDSFBUFFOWJSPONFOUTXIFSFFNQMPZFFTDBOEP their jobs with a sense of safety and security and that help them aim for self-fulfillment by HSPXJOHBTQSPGFTTJPOBMTXIJMFEFWFMPQJOHUIFJSPXOTLJMMT TUSFOHUIT  'VSUIFSNPSF CBTFEPOPVSCFMJFGUIBUTVQQPSUGPSFNQMPZFFTXIPIBWFDBOEPTQJSJU will lead to the growth of the organization and our businesses, we provide our employees XJUIPQQPSUVOJUJFTUPUBLFPODIBMMFOHFTPOUIFJSPXO 25 $PSQPSBUF4PDJBM3FTQPOTJCJMJUZ3FQPSU Human Resources Development Midterm Plan 5PHFUIFSXJUIUIFTVTUBJOBCMFHSPXUIPGJUTCVTJOFTT 4FLJTVJ$IFNJDBM(SPVQBMTPBJNTUPBDIJFWF conditions in which each member of its diverse human resources can thrive on the global stage, XIFUIFSXPSLJOHJO+BQBOPSPWFSTFBT5PXBSESFBMJ[BUJPOPGUIFTFDPOEJUJPOT XFBSFGPSNVMBUJOHB QMBOJOöTDBMUPEFWFMPQPQQPSUVOJUJFTBOETZTUFNTGPSJOEJWJEVBMHSPXUI In fiscal 2011, together with making progress on developing an environment where human SFTPVSDFTDBOUISJWFPOUIFHMPCBMTUBHF DIJFøZJOUIF64 XFBMTPSFGPSNFEPVS)3TZTUFNJOMJHIU PGUIFOFFEUPNPWFUPXBSETVTUBJOBCMFHSPXUIJOCPUICVTJOFTTBOEIVNBOSFTPVSDFT In the future as well, we will make progress toward realizing the conditions we are aiming for, CZEFQMPZJOHHMPCBMMZUIFDVSSFOUFòPSUTUPEFWFMPQTVDIBOFOWJSPONFOU Results of Main Efforts in Fiscal 2011 Key theme Main measures in fiscal 2011 Efforts Group-wide human-resources t HR management system reforms development t (MPCBM5SBJOFF1SPHSBN Training of domestic employees t (MPCBMFNQMPZFFQSPHSBN for globalization 271 “Global Talents” employees t 3FDSVJUFEQFPQMFBUUIF#PTUPO$BSFFS'PSVN Global talents (one of America’s largest recruiting events for International recruiting international students) t &YQBOEFEJOUFSOBUJPOBMIJSJOHCZ t EWBODFE)3NFBTVSFTUBSHFUJOHUIF64JO particular (held training programs for specific Training of local managers employee ranks, internal job posting) t )FMEUSBJOJOHGPSDBOEJEBUFTGPSUIFOFYUHFOFSB tion of managers of Group companies in China Internal job posting t 13 transfers out of 13 job postings Career development & evaluation t Deployed to Group companies Career training t Trained career advisors t Held seminars Work-life balance (total of 20 times/three-year period, with 1,400 attendees in total) t Expanded hiring Women’s empowerment, t Held training for Group companies supporting raising the next (for employees and their supervisors) Diversity t Expanded programs in support of raising the generation children next-generation children t Implemented care for disaster victims (300 people) Mental-healthcare t Held training for business sites (five times) t Implemented care for business sites $PSQPSBUF4PDJBM3FTQPOTJCJMJUZ3FQPSU 26 Global Talents Human Resources Aiming to improve the HR power of the Group In preparation for the changing times ahead, to ensure that each and every employee sees his or her work from a global perspective at all times and has a sense of mission and responsibility for the company’s future, and to pass along and shinka (evolve) our traditional strengths, it is important to draw and make the most of the self-growth potential of each individual. Based on this concept, each company in Sekisui Chemical Group, including those outside Japan, is working to improve the strength of its human resources toward realizing an enterprise characterized by sustained growth. Human Resources Development The business conditions in which Sekisui Chemical Clarifying the Human Resources Required Group operates continue to undergo changes in Two Separate Courses including the maturing of the Japanese market, The new HR system consists of two courses: the Business Career Course growing demand in emerging countries, advancing focusing on generating human resources who can shoulder core manufacturing abilities in foreign countries, and business responsibilities and the Expert Course focusing on generating rapidly aging population and decreasing birth rates in professionals in practical fields. Japan. In response, in fiscal 2011 we developed a The Business Career Course will facilitate significant growth on the system intended to create a strong Sekisui Chemical part of participating employees through familiarizing themselves with Group that can continue demonstrating its presence high perspective business execution skills from an early stage. The even 100 years in the future. This new HR system will Expert Career Course will enable employees to generate results, skills, start in July 2012, first targeting full-time employees of and influence in specific fields by familiarizing themselves with Sekisui Chemical. advanced practical abilities through deepening their knowledge and skills over the long term. Employees also can choose to switch courses as their careers develop. Global Talents Since 2000, Sekisui Chemical Group has been expanding its Globalization of business businesses overseas, by opening production facilities mainly in China and chiefly through mergers and acquisitions. The current midterm management plan includes the Overseas business development Overseas advancement target of roughly doubling the percentage of sales through mergers and of production facilities acquisitions and other means overseas from the fiscal 2011 figure, to 30%. In fiscal 2011, the number of overseas employees in the group as a whole totaled approximately 5,100 – about 24% of all Securing global human resources to support employees. and grow businesses overseas Therefore, Sekisui Chemical Group needs to secure and train “Global Talents” employees1 to ensure the group’s Training managementsustained growth. Based on this concept, we are advancGlobal training of Globalization of hiring level human resources Japanese employees ing the following HR strategies for “Global Talents” at overseas sites employees: (i) Training of domestic employees for globalization Number of employees overseas (ii) International recruiting (iii) Training of local managers 1 “Global Talents” employees: Approx. 24 overseas % Employees capable of thriving on a global stage with not only language and communication skills and specialization but also the ability to support and grow business overseas. FY 2011 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Three Prominences HR Activities and Future Developments Environment Training of Domestic Employees for Globalization A total of 1,558 Group employees in Japan have signed up for the Global Number of Japanese Employees Employee System intended to train “Global Talents” employees. These employas “Global Talent” employees ees underwent training on different cultures and specialized training as needed for overseas assignment. 271employees CS & Quality Sekisui Chemical Group also has established the Global Trainee Program, which enables participants to build up real-world experience overseas. This 149employees program provides employees with experience in doing business overseas by sending applicants with sufficient levels of experience from specific positions 2009 2011 (FY) such as sales, accounting, and development to positions at overseas affiliates. Through these activities, we aim to increase the number of Japanese employees immediately ready to serve in overseas to 300 by fiscal 2013 (from a number of 271 in fiscal 2011). Human Resources VOICE Using the Global Trainee Program, I was assigned to Kydex, LLC. in the U.S., where I worked on validation, using actual large production Business and equipment, of fire-resistant plastic sheets developed in Japan. While this was a tough environment in which I needed to overcome not just CSR technical but also cultural and communication hurdles, I was able to acquire the skills needed to work overseas, such as a spirit of enterprise and bargaining ability. I think a benefit of the trainee program is the way it improves both language and practical abilities. Just learning a language overseas simply Kenichi Hatanaka Housing provides the student with a tool to use, but putting the tool of language to Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories Company full use in practice to build relations of trust with staff overseas gave me Technology & Development considerable self-confidence. Division Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance International Recruiting The effort of Sekisui Chemical Group in addition to global training of Japanese employees is aggressive hiring of human resources with experience living overseas, such as foreign exchange students and non-Japanese candidates. In particular, we continue to hire large numbers of international students Plastics Company from Japan at the Boston Career Forum1, the largest Japanese-English bilingual job fair in the United States, where we have taken part since fiscal 2008. In hiring of new university graduates in Japan as well, we are providing introductions to the globalization of our businesses and clearly identifying “Global Talents” employees as one of the ideal types of human resources we seek to hire. Bases of CSR As a result, the percentage of new graduates joining the company in fiscal 2012 with experience living overseas was 27%, and we plan to advance activities to hire foreign exchange students and non-Japanese candidates as we aim to increase this percentage to 40% in fiscal 2013. 1 Boston Career Forum A Japanese-English bilingual job fair begun in 1987. More than 5,000 people take part in this event each year. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 28 Training of Local Managers In fiscal 2011, Sekisui Chemical Group conducted training of local managers in China and the United States. In China, we held management innovation training intended to further raise the levels of managers’ knowledge and skills. Twelve managers took part in this training. In this training, managers analyze the gaps between self-recognition and multifaceted evaluations and learn insights for future reforms. In addition, in the U.S. we established a new HR function at Sekisui America Corporation, the area headquarters company, and held training on management by objectives (MBO) for local managers, to share information on the policy management of Sekisui Chemical Group Management (62 persons underwent this training) and training on cross-cultural communication intended innovation training to enable smooth organizational management through understanding the histories and in China backgrounds of different cultures (41 persons underwent this training). Furthermore, in addition to introducing job posting system that shares information on HR needs among Group companies so that employees can apply for jobs they would like to try as part of its career development efforts, it also has begun training sessions for employees stationed in the U.S. to enable them to practice proper management based on a correct understanding of U.S. law. In the future, we will focus our efforts on leadership education for managers and initiatives toward strengthening local hiring. VOICE Over the past year, the 14 North American Sekisui companies have worked together closely to discuss and develop common HR programs, which have generated considerable results. The common programs include inter-company job posting, leadership training, a recruiting website, relocation guidelines, a global ID badge system, and CSR activities. The leadership training included both MBO and intercultural communication training, and it has received very good feedback from managers who appreciated its benefit. The inter-company job postings have already been implemented and have been very well received by employees. Joel V. Anderson As we look forward, we are excited about continuing common Human Resources Department programs and starting operations of new programs within North America. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals These programs help to create synergies and opportunities that are America, LLC difficult to establish within the individual businesses. Supporting Employees Stationed Overseas In deciding on the timing of assigning employees overseas and bringing them back, it is very important that the company properly understand the taxation systems of individual countries. At the same time, we also consider it to be very important when deploying business globally, that employees stationed overseas properly submit tax returns and carry out various procedures related to their assignment and return. For these reasons, in fiscal 2011 Sekisui Chemical Group surveyed the taxation systems of the 14 countries where it has assigned personnel and prepared a handbook for understanding taxation systems for personnel on overseas assignment, distributing it to the employees and their supervisors. 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Career Development & Evaluation Human Resources Fostering a Culture in which Three Employees Learn and Grow on Their Prominences Own through Support for Career Plans Environment Sekisui Chemical Group carries out training for specific employee ranks, providing a variety of options corresponding to employees’ positions and skills, based on the following four pillars: acquisition of skills and knowledge, which helps improve communication, technical skills, business literacy, and other aptitudes; support for career development, which supports employees taking a positive approach to developing their own careers; efforts to address midterm priority themes, such as development of frontier-oriented human resources, business CS & Quality leaders, global human resources, and specialist human resources; and CSR training to ensure thorough adherence to CSR management policies. Developing training programs for individual job levels Building goal-oriented training systems Third year with Managerial Core Acquisition of skills New employees and knowledge the company positions management Support for career Human CSR training development Resources Midterm priority themes t Frontier-oriented t Business leaders t Global human t Specialist human human resources resources resources Business and Activities and Future Developments CSR Sekisui Chemical Group holds Sekisui Innovation VOICE School led by Sekisui Chemical operating officers as Housing the headmaster to train leaders who will be responThe theme of the Innovation School I attended Company sible for the Group’s future. In fiscal 2011, 67 young was “Next MONOZUKURI SHINKA.” In this class, employees took part diligently in this training, led by we made clear what makes up Sekisui eight headmasters. Chemical’s prominence and what should be the subject of shinka (evolution). I think that In addition, in order for each individual employee Urban Infrastructure & the way we were able to give form to our to think about his or her own mediumto long-term ideas on these subjects, reflecting the career plan, the Age-wise Career Plan Training is Environmental thoughts of those in the school, was a very provided according to the career stages of each valuable experience. In the future as well, I employee (up to three years after joining the company Products Company would like to advance my own practice of and the ages of 30, 40, 50, and 55 years). In fiscal 2011 “MONOZUKURI SHINKA.” this training was expanded to cover employees of Masahiro Nishii Building Materials Production High Performance Group companies as well, providing support for independent career planning by employees. Department, Tokyo Plant Furthermore, 103 career advisors at 54 business sites play an important role in human-resources Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company development in Sekisui Chemical Group. To support and promote their activities, we also provide support Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Plastics Company for career advisors themselves, through means such as training by outside experts and establishing opportunities for interaction with key persons providing career support at other companies. Beginning in fiscal 2012, we will expand these activities to Group companies. Bases of CSR Example of Employee Education Program Since fiscal 2010 Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. has supported employee education using a training program held at the Suzhou city library. Its goal is to improve employee retention. The program employs a system under which employees can take part voluntarily, and its curriculum covers a broad range of areas, from basic knowledge such as business etiquette through specialized fields. It makes it possible for employees to undergo training freely, during working hours, on any subject that they think would facilitate their own growth. In fiscal 2011 a total of 80 employees took part in this training. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 30 Decent Work and Diversity Human Resources Advancing a variety of initiatives to build workplaces where employees can thrive with vitality As diversification of values advances rapidly in connection with economic and social globalization, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing a variety of efforts aimed at building workplaces where diverse human resources can work with peace of mind. This is intended to respond to changes in the business environment and to achieve the further growth of the group itself. In addition, we have established “respect for diversity” as the clear motto of our “Human Resources and Human Rights Policy,” aiming to build workplaces where everybody can thrive with vitality while doing rewarding work, regardless of factors such as gender, nationality, age, or type of employment. We continue building an understanding and raising awareness of these values among employees, through training, various seminars, and other activities. Work-Life Balance Individual self-realization Sustained business growth Sekisui Chemical Group believes that a work-life fe balance is realized through self-improvement Growth Rewarding work outside working hours in addition to fulfilling Motivation in life work, and that by utilizing the new experiences, s, knowledge and values employees have gained d Work life outside the workplaces, company can further Creating new value t Prominence in work Creating new value t True feelings of growth grow and develop. Based on this concept, we Improving skills and t Teamwork Improving skills and motivation motivation actively promote the realization of a sound Efficiency Efficiency Modulation Modulation work-life balance. In fiscal 2011, for the understanding and Diverse Energy for values Social life Personal life tomorrow raising awareness of Sekisui Chemical Group’s t Community activities t Self-development concept of work-life balance, seminars at t Voluntary activities t Home life, health Growth t PTA activities, etc. t Leisure time, etc. Growth individual business sites were held in addition to Diverse regular training and seminars. experiences Individual (self) Realizing a sound work-life balance Women’s Empowerment Sekisui Chemical Group is working on empowerment of women throughout the group, so that highly motivated women can continue to work with vitality. This is intended to cultivate a more flexible corporate culture in response to diversifying market needs as well as the decreasing population of the workforce as a result of low birth rates and the aging population. The main activity in fiscal 2011 was career-planning training for young employees, provided to younger employees in their first through fourth years with the company, regardless of gender. A management seminar on working with younger subordinates was held as well, for these employees’ superiors. In this way, we strived proactively to support the development of younger employees, including men. At the same time, we also held management seminars on women subordinates, in which supervisors of women employees learned about HR development and guidance including balancing women’s work and life events, and career design seminars for women housing-sales personnel. 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Supporting Raising the Next-Generation Children To ensure that the careers of highly motivated women employees will not be cut short by life Three events and to enhance systems in support of raising children and create a culture in which such systems are easy to use, so that men too can use them actively, Sekisui Chemical Group Prominences has carried out efforts including opening up a special-purpose intranet site, making superiors Environment aware of the system, and producing a guidebook. In fiscal 2011, lunch meetings VOICE were held at three sites for young This meeting was very helpful in the way I was able to women employees who want to learn from my seniors, who are working mothers, about continue fulfilling careers after the concept behind the systems in support of raising CS & Quality childbirth and women employees children, expertise about using these systems currently caring for children. These effectively, actual examples of balancing a career and meetings succeeded in providing raising children, and tips and hints for balancing tips on balancing a career and them well. In addition, participants interacted broadly raising children and in lessening with each other as well, and even now I find these feelings of uncertainty. contacts helpful in sharing information and forming networks. Megumi Nishi Kinki Public Sector Sales Office Human Public Sector Value Chain Sales Department Resources Nishinihon Sales Headquarters Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Healthcare of Employees Business and Under the subject heading “Creating Safe and Secure Work Environments,” Sekisui Chemical Group’s Basic Policy on Human Resources (see “Data Book,” p. 22) states, “We promote CSR employees’ health enhancement and mental health care.” In addition, in fiscal 2011 we established a policy on mental and physical health management, enhanced follow-up activities after health checkups at each business site, and provided mental-health education. In addition, in fiscal 2010 we established the Sekisui Support Center, whose main activities Housing include providing Group employees with consultation and support on career and mentalCompany health matters. This includes providing individual counseling on subjects including responses to the Great East Japan Earthquake, conducting e-learning, holding group training, and holding seminars for senior executives. The center also has a consulting contract with a clinic of psychosomatic medicine and promotes development of healthy, comfortable workplaces in Urban Infrastructure & cooperation with the Japan Industrial Counselors Association. Policy on mental and physical health management Environmental ó Employees shall consciously take steps to protect their own health, and the company shall support such health enhancement efforts Products Company ó Health enhancement efforts shall be made in the areas of both mental healthcare and physical healthcare High Performance (follow-up on health checkups) ó These efforts shall be incorporated into the occupational health and safety management system (OHSMS) and advanced by business sites themselves. Plastics Company Human Rights Bases of CSR Sekisui Chemical Group’s “Human Resources and Human Rights Policy” prohibits harassment. One example of efforts taken under this prohibition is the harassment training session conducted at Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. in February 2012 for all employees, including all temporary employees, with a focus on everyday business activities. This session was based on the Compliance Manual and the Guidelines on Preventing Harassment. In this session, instead of employing lectures alone, efforts were made to enrich the content through means including exchange of opinions among participants, based on check lists, and providing opportunities for women to exchange opinions freely. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 32 Safety Human Resources Aiming to build a global culture of zero workplace accidents Constructing a work environment in which employees can work with safety and security is one of the most important subjects for management. Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing total safety (i.e., zero occupational injuries, zero equipment-related accidents, zero commuting-related accidents, and zero extended sick leave) activities based on five themes1. 1 Five themes Intrinsic safety of equipment, management using OHSMS, safety education of employees, risk prevention through KY activities and other initiatives, and auditing of health, safety, and accident prevention. Five Pillars of Occupational Health, Safety, and Accident-prevention Activities For the Safety Policies and Management System,, see “Data Book,” p. 20, 22 Management t OHSMS Midterm Plan (FY 2009 – 2013) Midterm goal: Completing development of a corporate culture based on zero workplace accidents Equipment Education and training t Intrinsic safety of equipment t Education/training/ development efforts t Sites in Japan: Completing development of a structure Risk prevention for zero workplace accidents by the end of fiscal 2012 t Risk assessment t Overseas sites: Completing development of a structure t Risk detection (KY) efforts t Prevention of risky acts for zero workplace accidents by the end of fiscal 2013 (HH) activities t 5S activities Auditing t Health, safety and accident-prevention auditing Safety Midterm Plan Japan Safety Audits In fiscal 2011, the number of occupational At sites in Japan, second-party certification of OHSMS2 is being conducted, accidents at sites in Japan fell by 10% from the with 41 sites having been certified as of the end of March 2012. Also, results previous year, thanks to the contributions of of the periodic self-auditing that began in fiscal 2010 showed that the efforts to strengthen safety management at number of sites that had not reached the base level (70 points) had halved some production sites. In addition, a Safety from 17 sites in fiscal 2010 to eight in fiscal 2011. Furthermore, results of Subcommittee was set up under the CSR safety audits of 33 sites in Japan showed that in general the state of safety Committee to ensure safety activities are management was a good one. conducted thoroughly throughout the Sekisui The safety investigations that began in fiscal 2010 at overseas sites had Chemical Group and promote such activities. been conducted at 30 sites through fiscal 2011. Efforts to raise employees’ safety awareness will 2 OHSMS (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) continue toward the goal of building a structure Activities to manage occupational health and safety and reduce risks through implementing risk for zero work-related accidents in fiscal 2012. assessment for the workplace as a whole and running through the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) management cycle, based on occupational health and safety policies. 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Activities of Production Sites in Japan Safety Conference Developing Human Resources with Strong Safety Skills Three In July 2011, the Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Conference was Site Leaders Training has been underway since fiscal 2010 to train held at the Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories. A total of leaders capable of identifying and improving risks. This training is Prominences 188 employees and members of management took part in provided for personnel in leadership positions on the front lines of activities including the annual safety awards and introductions to worksites, and helps them recognize the importance of their roles, examples of safety activities through confirmation of laws, regulations, and other requirements, Environment by sites with superior safety understanding the causes of workplace accidents, and exercises in performance, resolving as a patrols and improvements. In fiscal 2011, 269 persons underwent group to building a culture this training at 13 sites. of zero workplace accidents. Plans call for Achieving Intrinsic Safety of Equipment holding Safety Conferences To make the Equipment Safety Design Standard that went into CS & Quality in four areas overseas Participants effect in fiscal 2005 more effective, in fiscal 2011 we developed an (Europe, the Americas, Asia/Pacific, and China) from sites that operation manual to aid in understanding the intents and won safety beginning in fiscal 2012. awards objectives of the standards. In addition, Basic Safety Standard Check Sheets were adopted for efficient checking of compliance Accident-prevention Risk Assessments with the standards. Risk assessments to lessen the risk of fire or explosion, which could cause significant damage, have been underway since the second half of fiscal 2009. At production sites, institutes, and laboratories in Human Japan, these assessments had identified 820 risks by August 2011, and plans call for completion of improvements to these risks by Resources fiscal 2013. Activities of Construction Sites in Japan Business and Safety Efforts in Accordance with Business Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Won the Japan Industrial CSR Characteristics Safety and Health Association Chairman’s Award Construction supervisors, who take leadership at Sekisui Heim Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. won the Japan Industrial Safety and erection sites, need communication skills to advance construction Health Association Chairman’s Award at the 70th National Industrial while coordinating with numerous partner companies as well as a Safety and Health Convention held in October 2011. It won this Housing high sensitivity to risk. For this reason, since fiscal 2010 the Housing award for its “outstanding results serving as a model for other Company has implemented Site Leaders Training for Construction firms, through in-house deployment of activities toward zero Company Sections, with 114 persons from eight sites taking part during fiscal injuries in which all employees took part and endeavored to build 2011. safe, comfortable workplaces with vitality, under the strong resolve In addition, the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products of top management.” Urban Infrastructure & Company, which is involved in a wide range of businesses from large scale construction projects such as culvert rehabilitation and Environmental construction of water-processing facilities to small scale construction of modular bath installation, is advancing efforts to create safe Products Company working environments through sharing information on good and bad examples from construction site safety investigation and related improvements. High Performance Activities of Production Sites Overseas Plastics Company Global Safety Enhancement Program Safety Education DVD As of March 2011, the number of overseas production sites of We have prepared and distributed to every site, a DVD for use in Sekisui Chemical Group totaled 52, more than the number of safety education, communicating in 13 languages practical production sites, institutes, and laboratories in Japan (49 sites), information on examples of workplace accidents and measures to and their number is expected to grow in the future as well. prevent their reoccurrence. These are being used to further raise Bases of CSR Securing safety at these sites is an important topic in manageawareness on safety efforts, by showing them not just to ment, and safety investigation conducted at 17 sites showed that employees of overseas sites but to non-Japanese employees at there were some overlooking of sources of risks that could lead to sites in Japan as well. accidents and delays in making improvements. Improvement activities will advance in the future to prevent serious accidents before they occur. A safety In addition, to raise the level of safety management, safety instruction scene in the training is being held in China and training is underway for top DVD for use in safety management and personnel with responsibility for safety at education business sites. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 34 Business Efforts of Division Companies and CSR Based on the midterm management plan, each division company strives to realize the Three Prominences Group Vision In 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated its group vision, identifying the ideal form the group would aim to achieve over the medium to long term. To realize this group vision, it develops management strategies Environment Environment-Contributing centered on midterm management plans. Products Through prominence in technology and quality, Sekisui Chemical Group will contribute to improving the lives of the people of the world and the earth’s environment, by continuing to open up new frontiers in residential and social infrastructure creation and chemical solutions. Reducing environmental load Midterm Management Plan GS21-SHINKA! In fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated the midterm management plan GS21-SHINKA! covering the period through the 2013 fiscal year. Under this plan, with the goal of being a prominent, highly profitable leading company, we will implement our Frontier SHINKA efforts through global deployment and deployment across the value chain and developing new CS & Quality Customer Satisfaction (CS) growth segments, along with innovations in production (Manufacturing SHINKA) and human resources (HR SHINKA). Our business strategies call for establishing what we call the Frontier 7 – seven high-growth fields including the IT, automotive, and medical fields and the pipe rehabilitation and residential environment businesses – and focusing our efforts on these as leading businesses of the future. A prominent, Quality Realization of the highly profitable Group Vision leading company NextHuman generation businesses Resources Human Resources Development Frontier 7 Urban Infrastructure Residential and Social & High Chemical Solutions Infrastructure Creation Environmental Performance Housing Company Products Company Plastics Company Safety Core businesses Frontier HR Manufacturing SHINKA SHINKA SHINKA 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Housing Company Urban Infrastructure High Performance & Environmental Plastics Company 37 Products Company 43 49 ü Zero Energy Cost House, Smart ü Pipeline renewal method ü High-performance solar-control Heim (p. 38, 40) ü Ground thermal energy system and noise-control interlayer ü Installing solar power genera(p. 46) films tion systems on existing Sekisui ü Wastewater thermal energy ü Advancell EM thermally Heim homes system (p. 46) expandable microsphere (p. 52) ü Eco paper core kraft tape (p. 52) ü Recycled plastic products ü Reducing wastes at new ü Reducing wastes at production ü Reducing energy consumption construction sites sites through efficiency of producü Use of recovered cement as ü Reducing energy consumption tion equipment (p. 52) vibration control weight (p. 40) through efficiency of production ü Environment-friendly equipü Reducing energy consumption equipment (p. 46) ment renovations (p. 53) through efficiency of production equipment ü Dialogue with Customers (p. 41) ü Water environmental improveü High-performance UV-blocking ü Customer Centers (p. 41) ments (p. 44) interlayer films ü Resident surveys ü Expanding pipeline renewal ü NORUDIA N HbA1 diabetes system globally (p. 45) diagnostic reagent (p. 21) ü Sekisui Heim with advanced air-conditioning/ventilation ü Full automated pipeline renewal ü Hot-melt adhesive for hygienic system (p. 41) system (p. 47) products ü Organizing records of homes ü Improving quality assurance in ü Group KAIZEN activities (p. 53) ü Quality-assurance system the value chain ü Promotion of QC qualification ü Reducing running defects at test production site (p. 47) ü Sales personnel training ü HR training for the value chain ü HR training (p. 54) (p. 42) business (p. 48) ü Expanding hiring of women employees ü Safety awareness-raising ü Conducting Safety Training ü Safety training activities at production plants (p. 48) ü Safety of chemical substances (p. 42) ü Safety investigations and safe (p. 54) ü Safety education at construcwork environments at construction sites tion sites Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 36 Housing Company Providing environment-friendly homes that can be lived in safely and comfortably for more than 60 years. Safety To Realize Customers’ Ideal Homes With high performance and reliable quality produced at plants, Sekisui Heim Economic responds to the changing times and diverse needs that vary in areas such as family Comfort performance structure, locale, and living environment – for those seeking budget-conscious Main issues homes that keep down utilities and repair costs, homes in which they can live in concerning comfort year long with little change in temperature, homes that will protect their homes families and property from threats such as typhoons, earthquakes, fire, and crime, homes that will help resolve the uncertainties and burdens of raising children, Disasterhomes in which they can live in peace of mind even in old age, and homes that Environmental prevention performance features give consideration to the future of the environment – by providing homes in which anybody can continue to live with peace of mind for years to come. Quality assurance in Ef Efficient Utilization Energy conservation Important theme of Resources p. 40 Important theme production and Important theme during home use p. 40 construction Main materials Sekisui Chemical Group Lumber Steel frame Plasterboard Glass wool Transporting Newly built homes modular units Production plants Construction site Other materials, equipment, devices, etc. Kitchens, Modular bath units Fami S Solar panels, Construction (Remodeling business) Plumbing, Wiring, etc. business partners Preventing accidents Sales-personnel p. 42 education and training p. 42 Important Important theme in production and theme construction 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Three Prominences Su Supplying Heim with Environment comfort, safety and security co through plant production th an and empirical testing A Sekisui Heim production line CS & Quality The basic need that people seek to fill in a home, as the foundation of everyday living, is that of enabling each member of the family to live each day in comfort and peace of mind. Through a strong structure called “Box-Rahmen Structure,”1 realized through modular construction, and use of exterior wall materials and roofing materials with outstanding fireproofing and waterproofing performance, Sekisui Heim’s homes demonstrate their strengths in the Human event of emergencies such as earthquakes, typhoons, and fires. In Resources addition, by combining together efficient air-conditioning and ventilation systems based on high levels of thermal insulation and airtightness, they realize comfortable spaces with little differences in temperature throughout the house. Business and It is Sekisui Heim’s unique home-building methods that support Aseismic empirical testing such outstanding fundamental home performance. In the development stage, Sekisui Heim verifies performance through tests including various testing of materials and full-scale testing. In the erection stage, it ensures CSR quality meets planned levels through producing the majority of the building at plants. 1 “Box-Rahmen Structure” Housing A modular structure in which steel pillars and beams are joined together in a box shape, so that even a single unit can demonstrate strength like that of a shelter against massive earthquakes. Company Urban Infrastructure & Proposing Balance Environmental Between Ecology and Products Company Economy High Performance As prevention of global warming becomes a topic of concern around the world, there is a need for environmental considerations, including reducing CO2 emissions in homes Plastics Company as well. A look at the entire life cycle of a home from procurement of materials through construction, living in the home, demolition, and disposal or recycling, shows that CO2 emissions during living in the home account for a share of 60 – 80%2 of total emissions, and as such there is a strong need Bases of CSR to reduce these emissions. Together with its customers, Sekisui Heim has strived to Number of Homes Sold with Solar Power Generation Systems (Cumulative) reduce use of electricity in the home, for example by being 120,000 (Homes) 119,500 prompt at working on installing solar power generation systems that put natural energy to use. The Zero-Utility-Cost 80,000 House, which greatly reduces CO2 emissions from energy used for living, and keeps down annual utility costs, can be 40,000 described as a home that achieves balance between ecology and economy. 0 2 Source 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) Sekisui Chemical estimate Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 38 Housing Company From Ecology to Sustainability LargeIn today’s Japan, where reviewing the supply of and demand for capacity solar electricity is an issue of concern along with the need to counter power global warming, controlling the volume of electricity used in PC living activities is growing in importance. However, it is not easy to continue energy-conservation activities to the level that they Smart Heim Navi lower the quality of life. What homebuilders need to do is to (HEMS with consulting services) provide sustainable1 homes that balance comfort with energy Home Power appliances storage conservation. system To respond to such demands of society, Sekisui Heim has Smart Heim conceptual diagram further advanced the Zero-Utility-Cost House concept to increase customer awareness of the environment and economics through standard installation of the Smart Heim Navi, which uses advanced information technology to make home energy use visible. The buildup of energy-conservation activities in individual customers’ homes (in fiscal 2011 the ratio of zero utilities costs was 80%) will make considerable contributions to conservation of electricity throughout society as a whole. Furthermore, in 2012 we began proposing Shin Smart Heim houses that combine Smart Heim with large-capacity solar power generation and storage cells, to generate and store a full supply of electricity. These will contribute to realizing a sustainable society through leveling use of electricity over the year and throughout society as a whole. 1 Sustainable Able to continue perpetually while maintaining current conditions, without destroying the environment SumStock broker-sold homes2 Supporting Customers Six other groups 12.0% Homes need to be able to maintain their functions and performance Company C unchanging over time so that their residents can continue to live in 56 homes them in comfort and peace of mind for a long time and leave them to 6.3% the next generation as assets to society. Company B Sekisui Heim Sekisui Heim supports residents in living in their homes for 60 111 homes 12.4% 42.8% years from when they first move in, through detailed periodic inspections and diagnostics conducted six months, one year, two 384 homes Company A 238 homes 3 years, and five years after moving in and then every five years thereaf26.5% ter. In addition, through keeping records of home use including maintenance as needed based on the resident database system 2 Graph figures are for the period August 2008 – February 2012. distinctive of industrialized houses and of renovation to meet changes 3 Of the 897 homes sold by the 10 groups that are SumStock members, 384 were sold by the Sekisui Heim real estate group. in family structure and lifestyle, it can increase the asset value of homes (As of February 2012, according to Sekisui Chemical research) as residential stock. Sixty-year Long-term Support System Periodic inspection Periodic diagnostics 6 1 2 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 months yr. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. Date of hand over Six-month First-year Second-year Fifth-year Tenth-year Fifteenth-year Twentieth-year Sixtieth-year Periodic diagnostics conducted periodic inspection periodic inspection periodic inspection periodic diagnostics periodic diagnostics periodic diagnostics periodic diagnostics periodic diagnostics every five years thereafter 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Housing Company Examples of Activities Three Prominences Environment EnvironSmart Heim Navi ment In 2011, the Housing Company began sale of VOICE Smart Heim homes installed with Smart Heim Navi, which represents further progress on The most important characteristics of Smart Heim balancing ecology and economy. It sold homes are visualization and consulting services. CS & Quality approximately 10,000 of these homes through After starting development from a clean slate in April 2012. Smart Heim Navi measures the state 2007, we faced difficulties day after day as things of energy use in the home in detail and makes did not go as planned. With the cooperation and it visible, as well as using data on energy use advice of many people both inside and outside the company, we finally were able to complete the accumulated through supplying homes with project in April 2011. While the road was a long one, solar-power generation to provide advice on I believe that these homes combine together the the optimal ways of using equipment and on expertise we have built up through now in homes Human methods of reducing utilities costs. This makes installed with solar power generation systems and the Masato Oota it possible to eliminate wasteful use of resourcefulness of Sekisui Chemical Group. Technology Department Resources electricity without sacrificing comfort. Housing Company We will continue to evolve the Smart Heim homes in Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Through this series of activities, we realize the future as well, to provide homes that balance energy savings of approximately 10% and environmental concerns with comfort. 15-20% reductions in utilities costs (according to empirical testing by Sekisui Chemical). Business and CSR Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & A Smart Heim Navi screen Environmental EnvironUse of Recovered as Vibration Control Weight Products Company ment The Gunma site of Sekisui Board Co., Ltd., which produces exterior panels High Performance made of cement and wood chips, is promoting recycling of remnants generated in the manufacturing process, as one part of its efforts toward zero waste emissions. After breaking down and sorting the remnants on site, wood Plastics Company chips are reused as raw materials, while recycling of cement was outsourced Recovered cement to an off-site recycling processor. Anchors After studying reuse of this cement with Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd., the decision was made to use it as raw materials for vibration control anchors, used to control floor vibration. Traditionally, these anchors have been Bases of CSR produced by cutting and gluing plasterboard, but the two companies were able to realize the high specific gravity needed for the anchors through combining the recovered cement with other materials and pressing them. This results in not just reducing wastes transported off company premises, but also leads to cost benefits in areas such as raw material costs. We will strive to put resources to effective use through efforts such as these in the future as well. Vibration control materials Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 40 Housing Examples of Activities Company Sekisui Heim with Advanced Air-Conditioning and Ventilation Systems CS & Quality Sekisui Heim’s KAITEKI AIRY air-conditioning and ventilation Comparison of Annual Utilities Costs and CO2 Emissions (Tokyo) (Based on Sekisui Chemical Research) systems for use year-long supply high-quality air to the 200 100 0 0 2.0 4.0 entire home year-long and realize a stable air environment, (Thousand yen) (Tons) through combining heating, cooling, and dehumidification Heater floor heating units in the space beneath the floor with ventilation Approx. 157 thousand yen (Class 1 ventilation) Approx. 3.2 tons systems. KAITEKI AIRY has won the grand prize in the Attractive Heat-pump floor heating (Class 1 ventilation) Qualities Screening System, a system in which outsiders Approx. 86 thousand yen Approx. 1.7 tons assess the attractive qualities of the Group’s products (see KAITEKI AIRY p. 21). In the selection and judging process, it was (Class 1 ventilation) evaluated to be “highly unique on points such as its focus Approx. 71 Approx. 1.4 tons thousand yen on not just comfortable temperature and humidity but the quality of air as well, and the way it avoids impacting room VOICE layout or building structure by making use of the considerable space under the floor that is a characteristic of We worked on this system with the high modular construction.” goal of realizing both energy conservation and comfort all year long, not just during winter, by putting to use the benefits of Sekisui Heim. For this reason, it was a very difficult development process, involving tasks such as testing new functions and efforts to achieve thorough cost savings. Still, after introducing Kaiteki Airy, the Toru Suzuki system was used in many more homes than Sales Department, Housing Division, we had targeted starting in its first fiscal year, Housing Company that the difficulty was worth it. In the future we Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. would like to make it an even more comfortable product through reflecting customer and sales feedback in even greater detail. Dialogue with Customers CS & Quality Since fiscal 2005, top management of the Housing Company and housing sales companies have been holding CAT1 Meetings in which they receive feedback from customers directly. In fiscal 2011, these meetings gathered feedback from a total of 4,306 customers (2,600 households). Information learned in dialogue with customers is used for purposes such as improvements to equipment and machinery, improvements to the tools used in explaining products, and enhancement of periodic inspections. 1 CAT The term comes from the first letters of the words “Customer And Top management.” Expanding the Number of Customer Centers CS & Quality The Housing Company has established an Owner Support Division as a specialized organization to enhance the customer support system. The Owner Support Division set up Customer Centers across Japan to enable customers living in Sekisui Heim to continue living with further comfort and peace of mind, and to provide them with a place where they can consult freely on any subject. It completed the process of setting up these centers in fiscal 2011. 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Three Prominences Environment Sales Personnel Training g Human Resources In the housing sales business, the quality of the human resources of sales personnel who interact directly with customers is very important. Not only do they need the abilities to communicate and to propose solutions, but they are also required to have a broad range of specialized knowledge in areas such as products, laws, taxes, and funding. Also essential are efforts to absorb the latest information at all times, since laws, taxes, and other related CS & Quality matters are amended constantly. In the Housing Company, as numbers of younger sales personnel increase along with business growth, improving this quality of human resources is becoming a pressing need. For this reason, since fiscal 2009 we have continued to conduct each year a unique education program called Eco Heim Testing. This testing teaches general knowledge needed in sales, such as basic knowledge of housing sales and knowledge of our products, in the format of a Eco Heim Test Post Survey test of 100 or more questions. In principle, all Human Do you think the information you learned sales personnel take part. These efforts support Resources in this Eco Heim Testing is useful? activities to receive orders by maintaining the 0 20 40 60 80 100 (%) level of knowledge of sales personnel. 5.0 2011 95.0 2010 85.0 14.5 Yes No Business and CSR Human Safety Awareness-raising Activities at Production Plantss Resources Housing At production plants, which shoulder the bulk of housing construction, workers need to be able to handle each of a large number of diverse Main Efforts Company ü Making clear the operation methods of risky acts identified from parts and materials based on accurate knowledge. In addition, since day to day versatile work is required as well, the scope of activities at a production ü Preparing procedures and key points for similar tasks for which rules are in place but are not clearly defined site is broad ranging, and ensuring safety is an important issue. ü Setting up places for storage of surplus materials; improvements in Urban Infrastructure & Based on this recognition, Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. has conditions such as materials protruding from their designated spaces and those stored directly on the floor strived to increase sensitivity to safety and to develop a culture in which ü Raising awareness through KY (risk-detection) using “one-point Environmental people place importance on safety, through activities including Morale sheets” ü Implementing KY using “one-point sheets” in morning KY Improvement Training and Site Leaders Training. ü Holding weekly practical training sessions on pointing and calling In fiscal 2011, the company enlivened voluntary improvement activities, on a per-team basis Products Company activities through reforms to safety awareness, with manufacturing site leaders playing a central role. These High Performance efforts established 12 specific points over the year on VOICE subjects such as whether lessons from similar accidents at Plastics Company Sekisui or other firms are deployed horizontally and whether Instructions and guidance to protect the hand positions are made clear when working with tools subordinates from accidents are such as riveters, tackers, and nailers. Improvements were essential in the workplace. Site Leaders advanced with the participation of all employees in all Training, which ensures safety awareness to take firm root in actual workplaces. Thanks to such activities, the company achieved site leaders, has been intended to a level of zero injuries in fiscal 2011. Bases of CSR improve the abilities to communicate, act, and move quickly in the actual workplace as topics for subordinates and to create a culture in which rules are followed. Hiroyuki Sekine Future training will promote development of Production Department Tokyo Sekisui Heim human resources who can speak freely about Industry Co., Ltd. anything, by designating a person in charge of safety out of ordinary team members. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 42 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company “Lifeline Innovation for Our Future” Contributing to building safe, comfortable infrastructure and water environments as an environment solutions company Meeting Infrastructure Needs that Vary by Region, on a Global Scale Measures Securing against safety and The demands placed on infrastructure are of infinite variety, as for example developing ageing of longer product infrastructure lifespan countries require securing stable water resources, developed countries need to address ageing of infrastructure, and earthquake-prone regions require development of infr in fras truc astr uctu turere res ista resis nt tto tant o di sast disa ster er. Th The Urba e Urban Infr n In truc astr fras uctu ture Envir re & Env iron onme ment ntalal Pro Produ duct ctss Lifeline Company uses the wealth of technologies and expertise it has accumulated centered on Innovation pipe systems to meet, on a global basis, infrastructure needs that are growing in both diversity and complexity. It contributes to development of safe, secure social environments through supplying a broad range of products, including plastic Eslon pipes Securing Building disastercharacterized by light weight, high durability, and ease of construction, pipe rehabilitawater resistant tion systems with low levels of impact on the environment and society, and residential resources infrastructure building materials that help create comfortable spaces for living. Pursuing P energy Important theme cconservation p. 46 Main materials Sekisui Sales company PVC, PP, PE Chemical (Agent) Group To social infrastructure Other raw materials Diagnostics/ Production design support Construction Maintenance Occupational O safety Proposing P safe, Thorough T quality Important Important during d production p. 48 Important low-cost maintenance lo theme management m theme theme and a construction methods m 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Three Deploying Value-Chain Businesses Prominences that Meet the Needs of Society Environment In addition to the collective strength to handle a diverse range of parts and materials, deploying business in connection with the water environment and infrastructure requires the expertise to control quality and costs in total, including not just the quality and costs of parts and materials themselves but also those of diagnostics services and construction. The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company meets society’s needs from a variety of aspects from increasing the reliability of infrastructure through cutting costs using overall optimization, consideration for CS & Quality the environment in areas such as reducing wastes, and consideration for the surrounding environment in terms of factors such as traffic congestion, noise, and vibration. It does so by using the strengths of its value chain from research and diagnostics through construction methods, system design, production of parts and materials, construction, and facility maintenance. Buildings Buildings Solar System for Radiation AirIce Thermal Storage Agricultural Use Conditioning System System Thermal Air Conditioning Plumbing Air Conditioning Drainage Pipes Human Insulation Heat Radiation Ceiling Sekisui Ice Storage Materials SUPER ESLOMETAX FC AC DRAIN PIPE/FITTING Panels Tanks Phenovaboard Production Resources equipment Rain Gutter for Large Scale Buildings Heat Exchange Coating Super Stretched Sheet Reinforces Industrial Piping Gutter (Chosin) Materials Protection Coat Cistern Water Supply Drainage Piping PVC Plant Pipes Pipes FRP Panel Tanks Fire-shield VP Pipe Valve Series ESLOHYPER AW Systems Stainless Steel Panel Tanks ThermaStore Tanks Static Dissipative Plate DC Plate Buildings Business and Production Duct Pipes equipment Gas Exhaust & Deodorizing Dust CSR Plant Engineering & Construction Civil Water engineering Housing treatment Storm Water Storage/Filtration Sludge Dehydrator System Company RAINSTATION Screw Press Type Dehydrator Drainage Effluent Treatment Piping System (Underground) Vacuum Sewer System Water Supply Service Pipes GRP Rotating Biological Contactor AQUACUBE Water SIVAC System ESLOHYPER AW Drainage Piping SKBiO treatment (Underground) Plastic-Ribbed Pipe Electricity & Urban Infrastructure & Effluent Treatment Pipe Rehabilitation Telecommunications Pipes Facilities SPR Method Electricity & FFU Lid Telecommunication Cable Protection Pipes Environmental Research/Diagnostics Design Construction Maintenance Products Company We carry out research and diagnostics We propose the optimal designs for Based on our thorough environmenWe also develop flawless maintenance on plant piping and underground new construction, expansion, and tal and safety measures, our highly systems after beginning full operation. pipes, and when renovation is renovation of factory facilities such as experienced experts manage quality In addition to periodic inspections High Performance needed we propose solutions in plant equipment, utility equipment, and processes. They also provide required under laws and regulations, accordance with the degree of wear sewage and sludge treatment support for on-site adjustments and we conduct thorough maintenance and building properties. facilities, and water supply and test runs after completion of and inspections employing a diverse drainage facilities. construction. range of technologies. In these ways, Plastics Company we continue to provide responsible, long-term support for safe operation. Contributing to Improvements in the Water Environment on a Global Scale Bases of CSR Together with global economic development, shortages have arisen in water needed for living and for agricultural use around the world. To resolve such maldistribution of water, need is growing for water environment-related infrastructure around the world, including long-distance transportation of water from water sources to areas where it is needed and desalination of seawater. The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company works proactively to meet infrastructure needs around the world, not just developing infrastructure in Japan. It contributes to improving the world’s water environment by putting to use the technologies and expertise it has built up in Japan in areas such as supply of high-quality plastic pipes with outstanding durability and corrosion resistance. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 44 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company of Social Infrastructure through Evolution of Eslon Pipes Eslon Pipes, plastic pipes boasting superior performance in areas such as quality, cost, suitability to mass production, and safety, maintain top-class performance in the Japanese market in terms of deliveries for water and sewer systems, remaining active on the front lines more than half a century after production began. Eslon Pipes are used in a wide range of applications, including those of water and sewer systems, agricultural water pipes, and industrial water pipes. They have evolved to be able to withstand use in a variety of environments, including long-term use both indoors and outdoors as well as construction amid sweltering heat or in the middle of winter. For example, through improving their resistance to impact and heat and expanding their lineup to include products such as large-diameter, high-strength reinforced plastic pipes combined with metals, fiberglass, and other materials, the company has responded to a wide range of piping material needs, thus contributing to development of social infrastructure. Water pipe Hot water pipe Sewer and agricultural Development of performance performance water pipe performance automated improvements improvements improvements SPR method 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Development of Development of Development of SPR (pipeline Hyper PE and Omega Liner method renewal) method development of Development of sleeve pipe header rainwater retention system system Expanding pipeline renewal system globally In developed countries including Japan, many sewer pipes are seeing the ends of their durable lives, and the increase in pipe rehabilitation construction to replace them has become an issue of concern in society. Traditional pipe rehabilitation construction requires excavating on roads and the ground surface to dig up the buried sewer pipes, leading to problems such as traffic congestion and generation of large volumes of wastes. The SPR non-excavating method, developed by the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company, contributes to the rehabilitation construction of sewer pipes. From its introduction in 1986 through the end of fiscal 2011, it has contributed in a reduction of a cumulative total of 3.8 million tons in wastes in comparison with excavation methods. In recent years, in order to deploy this method in countries around the world, it has promoted management of different pipe diameters and cross-sectional forms as well as expansion of construction zones. Furthermore, we also are advancing pipe rehabilitation method from a variety of perspectives, including development of new methods and developing applications in the water supply and agricultural-water fields. Aiming to Building a Society with a Safe and Reliable Water Supply In the future, through means such as public and private sector cooperation in infrastructure development, we will contribute to delivering infrastructure that is best suited to the needs of each region and each project and is strong against earthquakes, floods, droughts, and other disasters and to safe, reliable water supply, through efforts including supply of highly earthquake-resistant flexible polyethylene water and sewer pipes and supplying technologies and systems related to water supply, such as those for water storage and purification. By meeting needs in social infrastructure development with ü Water and sewer pipes made of rigid polyvinyl chloride a wide range of lineup, we boast a top-class share in Japan ü Non-excavation sewer pipe rehabilitation method 45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Examples of Activities Products Company Three Reducing Environmental Load through EnvironProminences ment Putting Unutilized Energy to Use Environment Ground thermal energy system This system helps reduce heating load through intake of VOICE exterior air through building ventilation, by passing air through plastic heat-exchanging pipes buried 1–3 meters We developed this system as part of our efforts to exploit markets for renewable deep of shallow underground where temperatures are energy. This product developed from our stable year-round. For example, during summer in CS & Quality experience doing construction work and Hokkaido, it can be covered mostly with cold energy from other activities in greenhouses during underground instead of air-conditioning, consuming only midsummer and during seasons where PVC enough energy to run the fans. pipes would freeze. Many customers have Masakazu Abiko (left) also commented that they have been able to Shohei Sugano (right) Example of Use During Summer in Hokkaido lower the costs of the heating they use to Sales Department Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Outtake temperature: 21°C prevent freezing in winter. In the future, we Co., Ltd. plan to advance development in accordance Human Heat exchange in underground pipes Fan with regional characteristics and needs, for Exterior air temperature: 32°C Resources example through using exhaust to melt snow or using this technology together with natural energy. Plastic heat-exchanging pipes Underground temperature: 18°C Length: 30-150 meters Conceptual Diagram of an Air-Conditioning System Using Wastewater Heat Business and CSR Indoor Indoor Indoor Indoor Wastewater thermal energy system Water-sourced heat unit unit unit unit Pump unit The wastewater flowing through sewer pipes maintains temperatures more stable than those of exterior air, at roughly 15–20°C year-round. It is understood that use of this as a source of heat for melting snow, air-conditioning, water Housing heating, and other applications can conserve energy and effect higher levels of energy efficiency than traditional methods. Installation of a wastewater heat recovery system Company at the same time as pipeline renewal construction For example, when used in air-conditioning, it can realize reductions of approximately 30% or more in CO2 emissions compared to traditional methods that use exterior air as a heat source (according to Sekisui Chemical estimates). By Rehabilitated pipe and wastewater heat recovery system Urban Infrastructure & installing heat exchangers (heat recovery pipes) at the same time as pipe rehabilitation by utilizing the SPR technology used to renovate and rehabilitate Comparison of CO2 emissions1 Environmental aged sewer pipes, it is possible to efficiently recover and use the heat of 80 (Tons) untreated wastewater flowing through the pipes. This will be the system used for 60 the first time in Japan. 38% down Products Company 40 The numerous sewer pipes installed during Japan’s postwar period of rapid economic growth are meeting the age at which they require rehabilitation. 20 High Performance Combination with the pipe rehabilitation method, which sees expanded use as a 0 measure for addressing this state of affairs, will contribute to conserving energy, Traditional method Use of wastewater heat (individual air-conditioning) Plastics Company reducing CO2 emissions, and cutting costs at the same time it reduces wastes 1 Assumptions and resolves the blocking of roads. Number of housing complex: 48 (total floor area: 1,400 m2) Heater use in the city of Sendai 0.429 kg-CO2/kWh Bases of CSR Reducing Energy Consumption Through Environment Efficiency of Production Equipment Sekisui Chemical Group’s production sites are advancing ECO-JIT activities2 seeking to balance economy and ecology through conserving energy. As the first model plant in these activities, Sekisui Chemical’s Tokyo Plant is striving to reduce energy use on the model production line by 50% by fiscal 2013. 2 ECO-JIT activities An initiative intended to cut energy costs through identifying energy loss within production processes and carrying out production improvements (reforms). Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 46 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Examples of Activities Products Company Reducing Running Defects at Production Site e CS & Quality Sekisui Chemical Group periodically holds Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation, in which participants from throughout the Group meet to present on outstanding achievements, with the goal of promoting improvements in CS & quality. In the 46th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation (see p. 20), held in January 2012, Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. won the gold prize. Aimed at improving the manufacturing process for Phenovaboard high-performance insulating material, its activities clearly identified the main cause of the defect as peeling defect and achieved in eliminating this cause completely. Some of the reasons it won the award included its approach of looking Phenovaboard high-performance insulating material honestly at the actual products and actual phenomena and its devotion to eliminating defects. VOICE Since Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. had won the silver prize in the KAIZEN Activities Presentation for two years in a row – in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010 – we felt considerable pressure going in to this year’s presentations. It made us very happy to be able to have our own achievements recognized and win this gold prize. I was so moved and nervous at the awards ceremony that I do not even remember what I said. Since these efforts involved process improvement in production equipment, they were very difficult because we could not see the subject with our own eyes. As all technical staff, including manufacturing team members, worked Mitsuhiro Kasue together as one discussing a variety of ideas with each other, we were able Functional Buildingto put a stop to the root cause and eliminate defects completely. Winning Materials Manufacture this prize has encouraged us to carry out further KAIZEN (improvement) Department Okayama Sekisui activities in the future. Industry Co., Ltd. Full Automated Pipeline Renewal System m CS & Quality The SPR non-excavating pipeline renewal method is regarded highly for the way it does not require any excavation of roads or ground surfaces. For example, it won the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Award in the first Monozukuri Nippon Grand Award. The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company has realized automation of this method in order to increase its Attractive Qualities even more. In March 2012, this automated method was chosen for the first time by the Hokuriku Regional Agricultural Administration Office of the Ministry of Agriculture, Full automated SPR method Forestry and Fisheries in an experimental construction to counter siphon water leaks. Construction was conducted on agricultural canals in Yomegane in the city of Nanto, Toyama Prefecture. The automated SPR method combines into a single system a newly developed highly stable pipe winding machine, profile transportation equipment, and pumps for transporting backfill materials. Since it makes it possible to automate completely work inside the pipes through remote control and operation using operation monitors aboveground, it greatly improves safety during construction. In the field of pipeline renewal, where further market growth is expected as existing infrastructure ages, we will continue providing reliable quality and safe, secure construction environments through delivering these new technologies. 47 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Three Prominences Environment HR Training for the Value Chain Businesss Human Resources The value-chain business, which provides total support from research and diagnostics through design of construction methods and systems, production of parts and materials, construction, and facility maintenance, requires broad-ranging knowledge surpassing the boundaries of job positions and business domains. CS & Quality For example, sales personnel need to have deep knowledge of products and Construction section training related laws, regulations, and other matters in each of several fields including single-family residences, housing complexes, and the public sector. Since technical personnel serve as managers and supervisors on infrastructure construction and research, in addition to knowledge and experience, they also need official qualifications such as those of plumbing supervisors, civil engineering supervisors, and architecture and architectural supervisors. To advance the value-chain business, which in this way requires diverse knowledge and qualificaHuman tions, the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company helps its employees improve their skills through sales-engineer training and support for earning official national qualifications. In Resources addition, the company has begun a system of certifying employees who satisfy its requirements in the areas of safety, quality, and compliance. This system started in construction sections, and future plans call for expanding it to production and sales sections. Through efforts such as these, it will train, with even higher levels, sales and construction management engineers. Business and CSR Conducting Safety Training g Human Resources Housing In safety activities, the thinking, roles, and actions of top site management and Company of safety managers with regard to safety are important factors affecting the degree to which safety awareness spreads to each individual employee. The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company established Safety Urban Infrastructure & Training in fiscal 2006 as opportunities for site top management to check and experience safety with their own eyes and ears. Since then, it has intensified its Environmental safety efforts. As its businesses expand overseas, in fiscal 2011 it held a Safety Training for presidents and safety managers of overseas affiliates, with activities Products Company including getting a feel for risks at Sekisui Chemical’s Tokyo Plant and Shiga-Ritto Plant. In this way, it is deploying its safety activities at local affiliates as well. A safety drill on pointing and calling High Performance Plastics Company VOICE The safety training at Sekisui Chemical’s Tokyo Plant was very meaningful. We learned that while of course equipment safety inspections and activities to Bases of CSR eliminate risks are important, it is even more effective for managers themselves to take the lead in demonstrating a “Safety First” approach to employees. Sensing a need to change our activities right away in order to reduce the sources of risk, I have decided to start all meetings with the subject of safety. In order to make a plant safe, it is essential that all personnel, from the top down, continue to think about “Safety Jack Murdoch First” at all times. President Allen Extruders, LLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 48 High Performance Plastics Company “Chemistry “Chehem mistry forr your yyou our win” win n” Contributing Contntribu utiting ng to Rea Realizing alizizin Ri Society ng a Rich Socie et y With Wi ith Advanced Advance ed Technologies, Techno Te ologies, Centered Center Ce red o on the IT IT, Automotive, A Automo T, Au motive, Me Medical, and an Building nd Buildin ng M Materials atererials Fields Field ld lds AT Field t Safety, Pursuing the Limitless Possibilities of Plastics comfortability t Environmental performance Unlike other materials like metals, wood, and ceramics, plastics are capable of meeting a wide range of needs through transforming the material properties and processing it into various forms, such as sheets, foam, and fine particles. The High Performance Plastics Comp panyy utililiizes iits own uniqu iq e pr p eciisiion mold g and ldiing d fifine pa p rtiiclle tech hnolog l gies to Chemistry supply high-performance materials and intermediate materials globally, targeting a wide for your range of business areas including the automotive (AT), electronics materials (IT), and IT Field win medical (MD) fields. It will continue contributing to the realization of a more convenient, t Functional MD Field improvements rich society through further expanding the business fields in which it operates together t Realizing compact, t Simplicity, lightweight speediness with advancing technological innovations and new-product development that meet products with the needs of society. Reducing R CO2 Supplying S products that Stable S supply of Important theme emissions e during p. 52 Important theme products p Important theme c contribute to lessening p. 52 production p environmental e loads Parts and materials Main Materials Sekisui producers End product PVC, PP, PE Chemical Processors Group Producers of end products Other Raw Production Materials plant T Thorough quality Proper P management of Important theme ch chemical substances p. 54 Important theme m management, p. 54 passing along skills p 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Parts and materials used in the automotive field Roof consoles Door interior materials Interior ceiling materials Three Low-odor, ultra-low VOC tapes Protective tapes for interior parts Door trim Rear doors Automotive (AT) Field Prominences Instrument panel hoods Package trays Contributing to comfort Environment and the environment as well as safety Console boxes Quarter trim In recent years automotive markets have seen increasing CS & Quality needs for comfort, environmental performance, and other Glove boxes needs in addition to the most important issue of safety. The High Performance Plastics Company responds to such needs Windshields using its film, foam, tape, molding, and other technologies. Interlayer film for Weather-stripping laminated glass compounds For example, its interlayer films used in windshield Rear trim provide a variety of functions such as keeping down use of air-conditioning through solar control and making the vehicle Radiator grilles Human interior more comfortable through sound insulation, in addition to increasing safety in the event of impact. What’s more, interlayer films for use in head-up displays, which Resources display vehicle speed and other information on the Rocker panels windshield, greatly increase safety by preventing driver’s line Door-lock sealing of sight from moving. Installation of solar control and sound materials Installation tapes insulation interlayer films on 10 million vehicles would enable Business and Installation tapes for annual reductions of about 1.2 million tons in CO2 emissions exterior parts (according to Sekisui Chemical estimates). In addition, an Noiseand waterproofing CSR Bumpers materials original survey of business partner customer satisfaction (CS) Over fenders in the interlayer film business shows that our products are highly regarded, for example earning the overall top position for nine years in a row. We globally supply a variety of other parts and materials as well. These include vehicle interior materials that combine design Housing elements, such as the feel of materials, with strength and heat resistance along with energy-conservation effects from their light Company weight and safety and comfort thanks to their cushioning effects. They also include exterior materials that contribute to energy conservation through lighter weights by realizing thinner materials while maintaining the quality feel of standard materials. Electronics Materials (IT) Field Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Supplying a Broad Range of Products Company High-Performance Parts and Materials In the electronics materials (IT) field, which is seeing performance Touch Panel Structure High Performance improvements together with decreases in product sizes and weights, Cover panel functionality of materials are even more important. To respond to Plastics Company such needs, the High Performance Plastics Company supplies a wide Double-faced tape variety of high-performance materials, employing technologies such as those for precision molding, fine particles, and tapes. ITO film We have secured a high market share in the field of LCD display panels through supplying products including spacers that keep uniform the space between the two glass panels that make up a Bases of CSR LCD module display panel, sealing materials that prevent leaks of liquid crystal material and keep it pure, and conductive fine particles that transmit Electrode Cell-gap spacer signals between narrow electrodes. We also contribute to high performance and miniaturization ガラス基板 Color filter through supplying other parts and materials essential to IT devices, Liquid crystal including thin films which make up the touch panel, and tapes used to attach LCD panels to the main units of IT devices while also providing light-shielding and reflective performance. Furthermore, Photosensitive resin for LCD end seal Seal spacer we also supply photosensitive materials, tapes, films, and other Glass substrate Perimeter sealant materials essential to the semiconductor manufacturing process. LCD Panel Structure Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 50 High Performance Plastics Company Medical (MD) Field Contributing to Blood test reagents the Health of People the World Over from a Preventive Medicine Perspective In recent years, together with improvements in the quality of life conditions, lifestyle-related illnesses and metabolic syndrome, etc. have become new issues of concern in society in developed countries. Early detection and treatment is important for lifestyle-related illnesses, and as interest in preventive medicine has increased, the roles of diagnostic reagents and testing methods have grown. Against this background, the High Performance Plastics Company is developing businesses focused on preventive medicine, with the goal of contributing to the realization of healthy, enriched lives for human beings. For example, in the area of diagnostic reagents used in cholesterol testing, it has realized the speediness and simplicity of testing which previously had required complex preprocessing, making it possible to conduct measurement directly in the medical facility. In the area of Cholesterol diagnostic reagents diabetes testing as well, we are making considerable contributions to prevention and treatment of lifestyle-related illnesses through means including supplying simplified reagents and equipment, which enable simple, quick measurement. In addition, we also contribute to building healthy societies around the world through efforts that include supplying influenza diagnostic reagents and sets of serum separating media and blood clotting accelerants of strong plastic vacuum blood collection tubes. Vacuum blood collection tubes High Performance Materials Field Supplying Advanced Resin Processing Technologies for a Wide Range of Uses Resin processing technologies that improve the functions of plastics is the technology that marks the origin of Sekisui Chemical Group. Advancing these technologies in accordance with the changing times, the High Performance Plastics Company meets the diverse needs of customers by supplying products suited to a broad range of uses, including adhesives, packaging tape, packaging films, Packaging tape agricultural films, and plastic containers. Producing Products that Have the World’s Top Major leading products in which the High Market Shares in Various Fields Performance Plastics Company has the world’s top market share: The High Performance Plastics Company has the top market share in the world ü Interlayer film for automotive laminated glass in a large number of high value-added products, such as high-performance ü Spacers for LCD use interlayer films and cross linked polyolefin foam for interior use in the AT field ü Conductive fine particles for LCD use and LCD spacers and conductive fine particles in the IT field. Based on this ü Polyvinyl butyral resin performance, the company will continue responding to needs in state-of-the-art ü Cross linked polyolefin foam fields, which continue to advance and diversify. ü Cholesterol diagnostic reagents 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 High Performance Examples of Activities Plastics Company Three Prominences Developing products that contribute to reducing g Environment Environment CO2 emissions and wastes Advancell EM thermal expandable microsphere Advancell EM is a thermal expandable microsphere whose volume expands by foaming 50-100 times when heated. Including this material when molding automotive components greatly reduces weight and CS & Quality contributes to improving fuel consumption and reducing CO2 emissions. In addition, since closed-cell foam has a uniform cell structure, it makes it possible to produce lightweight parts and materials that look good on Before After the outside. expansion expansion Kraft tape adopting Eco Paper Core Thickness of paper core The Eco Paper Core helps conserve paper resources and reduce customHuman ers’ waste generation by decreasing the thickness of the paper core of a Resources roll of kraft tape by one-half. This also reduces the volume of waste, since it can be crushed easily by hand for disposal. It contributes to reducing space requirements for storage of wastes and cutting CO2 emissions from transporting them as well. Business and Standard Eco Paper VOICE CSR core Core With this product, we tried to reduce the amount of paper core disposed of as waste as an attempt to help customers contribute to the environment Housing Eco Paper Core through their use of kraft tape. As their name is easy to crush implies, paper cores are made of paper. For this Company reason, this project involved the difficult challenge of how paper changes like a living creature as it warps or breaks down depending on the surrounding Chikara Matsuki environment, particularly moisture and humidity. Urban Infrastructure & Packaging Tape Production However, we were able to resolve this difficulty by Department, Standard Eco Paper Musashi Plant, core Core sharing practical ideas with each other and Environmental High Performance Plastics improving production lines. Company, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Products Company Energy Conservation Activities through Visualizing Energyy EnvironHigh Performance ment The High Performance Plastics Company, which accounts for about CO2 emissions from energy consumption sources at the Musashi Plant Plastics Company one-half of Sekisui Chemical Group’s volume of greenhouse-gas 40 (Thousand tons-CO2) emissions, is making progress on reducing energy use by using visualization systems that make energy use visible at each production facility. Sekisui Chemical’s Musashi Plant has advanced improvements to its 31 30 29 29 operation methods and equipment aimed at conserving energy by 28 identifying waste and irregularity in energy use since introducing a 25 Bases of CSR visualization system in 2010. In addition, under the restrictions on 20 electricity use implemented during the summer of 2011 it was able to meet reduction targets set even higher than regulatory values by allocating use of electricity to each production department in advance 10 and monitoring actual usage. Thanks to these achievements, the plant was able to reduce CO2 emissions from energy-consumption sources in fiscal 2011 by approxi0 mately 20% vs. fiscal 2007. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 52 High Performance Examples of Activities Plastics Company Group KAIZEN Activities CS & Quality Sekisui Chemical Group sites in Japan and around the world are deploying Group KAIZEN Activities (see p. 20), which advance improvements in production and operation efficiency as well as product and quality improvements, centered on production sites. Once each year regional presentation meetings are held in which workplaces share their results with each other, to improve these activities further. As part of these activities, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. deploys activities at six sites in Japan and around the world and holds its own KAIZEN presentation meetings. In November 2011, 61 staff members in 10 teams, chosen from the four sites A KAIZEN presentation meeting at Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. in Japan, took part in a presentation meeting. This presentation meeting, the first held since the period for KAIZEN activities had shifted to six months, featured presentations on themes reflecting the unique characVOICE teristics of individual sites, such as amino-acid efficiency KAIZEN activities at Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. now demand greater improvements and diagnostic speed as their focus has shifted from one theme per year to one theme per term. reagents. As part of these efforts, we carry out activities on themes leading In the future we will share to improvements in profitability. and improve our efforts Our team has presented in Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN through continuing activities presentation meetings twice. While we were unable to secure one such as these. of the top prizes, this was a very good experience because we Masashi Fujiwara learned from the presentations and activities of other teams. In the Production Section I, Iwate Plant future we will raise the level of our activities through improving our Pharmaceuticals and Fine Chemicals Division speed and KAIZEN ability even more. Pharma & Research Business Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Environment-friendly Equipment Renovations Environment Sekisui Chemical’s Shiga-Minakuchi Plant incorporated consideration for the environment from a variety of perspectives in the renovation of the equipment in its main building, which includes offices, meeting rooms, a showroom, and other facilities, in October 2011. First of all, as efforts toward proactive use of natural energy, the plant installed solar power generation equipment and implemented efforts such as use of geothermal heat for preheating in air-conditioning equipment and use of rainwater with water storage tanks it built itself. The exterior of the new main building at the In addition, to encourage energy conservation, it Shiga-Minakuchi Plant implemented a variety of efforts including use of laminated glass with sound insulation/solar control interlayer films to control solar radiation, green rooftop landscaping, natural ventilation through eco shafts, installing energy-saving, long-life lights, controlling lighting using motion and light sensors, and energy monitoring. Through these efforts, the plant has realized a building incorporating consideration for the environment with high Energy-conservation and new-energy technologies used in the building levels of efficiency. 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Three Prominences Environment HR Training g Human Resources To respond to the globalization of its business activities, the High Performance Plastics Company is striving to develop global human resources through activities, including the Global Employee System (see p. 28), intended to train “Global Talents” employees actively, and the Global Trainee Program (see p. 28), which enables participants to build up real-world CS & Quality experience overseas, and other various international training activities. At the same time, important issues faced by production sites are those of achieving technological innovation toward producing products with higher levels of value added and Production section training of passing along site skills. For this reason, in fiscal 2011 we revised the VOICE training system at production plants in Japan, evolving the system from the Human This training program, instead of just using previous one of training focused on one-directional lectures, incorporated many learning operating methods through Resources practical examples and experiences of the on-the-job training (OJT1) to training on instructors and was easy to understand. It was a subjects such as working in collaboration good opportunity to look at my own work. with colleagues and developing Through residential training and exchanging problem-solving abilities throughout the Business and opinions with participants from other sites, instead of just learning to understand Sekisui’s way of doing organization as a whole. Through these Masajiro Nakai training, improvements in the productivCSR things from lectures and textbooks alone, I was able Industrial Tape to familiarize myself with the content of the training Production Group ity at manufacturing sites are promoted and to deepen my understanding of it. In addition to Taga Office by familiarizing young manager-class Sekisui Taga Chemical having an understanding of the concepts, I want to Industry Co., Ltd. personnel with Sekisui-style manufacturpractice them in my own workplace and use them in ing development. Housing training younger employees. 1 OJT Company An abbreviation of On the Job Training Safety of Chemical Substancess Human Resources Urban Infrastructure & Environmental The High Performance Plastics Company’s Risk Assessment Flowchart production facilities handle a diverse range of Products Company chemical substances. If these were to leak Identifying Leak risk list leak risks from their storage facilities or production equipment, they could have significant High Performance impacts on safety and the environment. Each facility takes the necessary steps to prevent Leak risk assessment table such situations, and to minimize the impact in Installation of gutters to prevent leakage Plastics Company the event of a leak. of chemical substances Designating December 2010 as leak risk-management enhancement month, Sekisui Chemical’s Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Risk level Promoting decision employed activities to identify related risks. It assessed risks in five levels, by the severity corrective of response in the event of a chemical leak, the likelihood of a leak occurring, and the measures Bases of CSR combination of severity and likelihood. Already it has identified more than 300 risks, and through fiscal 2011 it had implemented corrective measures for more than 50 Leak risk registry factors behind risks of level 2 or higher. Through these and other measures, it is striving to reduce the risk of leakage of chemical substances. Tolerable Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 54 Compliance Bases of CSR Aiming to be a company trusted by society globally Policy While compliance generally tends to be interpreted to refer to following laws and regulations, Sekisui Chemical Group requires that all Group employees address compliance earnestly as a personal issue and take action, based on our understanding that the concept of compliance refers to acting in sincerity in accordance with the ethical viewpoints demanded of members of a company and professionals, as active members of society. Activities As part of our efforts in fiscal 2011, we continued compliance education for Number and Percentage of employees. Employees Undergoing e-Learning Verified In addition to periodic compliance training for new employees, new 40,000 (Employees) (%) 100 managers, and other personnel, we also focused on educational activities targeting Group member companies. At the same time, we enhanced training 80.4 78.8 78.4 80.7 78.7 30,000 75 on individual areas including the Antimonopoly Law, the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors, the Product Liability Law, and harassment. 20,000 18,157 18,556 50 15,949 16,918 16,870 Moreover the e-learning program conducted each year continued, looking at selected topics centered on information management and insider-trading 10,000 25 regulations. Furthermore, we prepared new paper-based training materials to encourage employees in manufacturing sections, where personal computers 0 0 are not used frequently, to undergo training. 2010 2011 (FY) Session 2 Session 3 Session 4 Session 1 Session 2 Revision of Compliance Cards In fiscal 2011, we revised our Compliance Cards and redistributed them to all employees. Through this effort we aim to increase awareness of compliance by providing opportunities for employees to think about their own behavior. Compliance Card Compliance Systems at Group Companies Overseas Together with its global business VOICE expansion, Sekisui Chemical Group has enhanced its compliance system through When the Labor Contract Law was enacted in China in 2008, a network was formed among human-resources and legal a network of specialists in Japan and personnel in Sekisui Chemical’s China Office and nine around the world, for example by Chinese subsidiaries. assigning an in-house attorney in China in Through this network, we provide support for fiscal 2007 and one in North America in business activities and problem-solving in the China market fiscal 2011. by handling 100 or more requests for practical consultation In the future, we will strengthen per year from each company while also sharing information on compliance in regions including Europe the constantly changing laws and regulations in China. Lirong Wang and Asia as well, grounded in the Development of this system has made it possible to ascertain China Office properties of each region such as its laws, local conditions and needs more accurately. In the future as well, Business Planning Department regulations, and cultural climate, in order we will make progress on strengthening compliance while sharing Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. to implement Sekisui Chemical Group’s the Sekisui Chemical Group’s thinking on compliance management. concept of compliance on a global scale. 55 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Compliance Systems in North America Three At Sekisui America Corporation, the area VOICE Prominences headquarters company for North America, an in-house attorney was hired in fiscal Since Fiscal 2011, as In-House Legal Counsel I have Environment provided support to ensure that we can respond to the 2011 to further strengthen the compliance legal issues faced by the 13 Group companies in North system at each Group company. This America in appropriate, timely, and effective ways. We makes the compliance system one that also employ outside attorneys to help reduce legal risks. I can receive prior consultations from each supervise and manage these outside law firms to help reduce company and work out thoughtful, timely legal expenses. Grant Elliot Smith CS & Quality measures in accordance with the actual Since we have a variety of businesses in North America that HR, Legal & Admin conditions of each company. occasionally require specialized attorneys, such as production Department Sekisui America Corporation Currently, we are striving to prevent of synthetic resins and the medical and civil-engineering the occurrence of the risks companies face businesses, I feel that this job is a challenging one. through efforts including various types of In the future, together with continuing activities already legal consultation, while also handling underway, we will work to build an internal compliance reporting more than 40 contracts per month. system as well. Human Resources The S.C.A.N. Whistle-blowing Program Business and CSR In 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group developed S.C.A.N. (Sekisui Compliance FY 2011 Whistle-blowing Assist Network), an intra-company whistle-blowing system, available for Reports and Consultations Verified use by all Sekisui Chemical Group employees (including employees of Number of Items subsidiaries of subsidiaries and temporary staffs from placement agencies). items Housing In fiscal 2011, we enhanced this system further, based on the themes Power harassments 9 of understandability and peace of mind, both making it possible for Company Working conditions 1 employees to submit reports anonymously and revising the whistle-blowing site on the intranet. The new design is easier to Other 2 understand, featuring information on what takes place after submitting a Total 12 Urban Infrastructure & report as well as questions and answers. In the future as well, we will respond in good faith to each individual Environmental report, recognizing it to be an important topic for the company to address. Products Company Legal Violations, etc. In February 2009 the Fair Trade Commission found Sekisui Chemical to have colluded with other firms in High Performance determination of sale prices of polyvinyl chloride pipes and fittings over the period 2004–2006 and Plastics Company ordered it to take measures to eliminate such collusion and to pay surcharges (hereinafter referred to as the “order”). Since Sekisui Chemical’s determination of facts of this case differs from that on which the order was based, in April 2009 the company asked the Fair Trade Commission to cancel the order. Appeal procedures are still underway. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical will continue its efforts to raise awareness of compliance, Bases of CSR always keeping in mind the fact that compliance is an important foundation of CSR management. Since fiscal 2008 no new cases of violations of laws or regulations or similar incidents having significant impact on society have been discovered. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 56 Risk Management Bases of CSR Aiming to manage risk and crisis and to increase sensitivity to risks Policy Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing development of a risk management system to unify risk management, which strives to prevent risks from occurring, and crisis management, which involves responding to major risks that have occurred. Risk Management Program In contemporary corporate activities, which are growing in complexity, it is impossible to ascertain accurately all risks that could be realized in the future. For this reason, Sekisui Chemical Group continues to run through the plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle of risk management, considering increasing all employees’ sensitivity to risks to be essential to addressing such risks. Although in fiscal 2010 only divisions under Company organizations ran through this cycle, in fiscal 2011 operating companies were added to bring the total number to 42 organizations. Among these, formulations of risk response plans were conducted overseas at model companies in Europe, the U.S., South Korea, and China. In the future we will establish PDCA cycles for these model companies and link them to deployment of similar activities in each region. Restructuring the Crisis VOICE Management System Upon carrying out improvements to the crisis manageIn fiscal 2011, Sekisui Chemical Group conducted a ment manual in the China territory, SEKISUI (SHANGHAI) comprehensive inspection of its crisis management INTERNATIONAL TRADING was placed in charge of system and worked to reconstruct the system, in order to preparing a template for individual offices’ utilize its experience with the Great East Japan Earthquake manuals. to prepare for future crises. First of all, we prepared a When encountering a crisis, the first responses of general framework through individuals and organizations determine the success or confirming buildingfailure of subsequent responses. For this reason, the Group management rules and relevant laws and regulations. Next, we thoroughly revised crisis management documents and identified possible crises and systematically improved tools such as procedure manuals, drafted countermeasures for to enable the necessary people to take the necessary them. Finally, we also incorpoactions at the necessary times. We also surveyed the rated the views of employees. current state of the disaster-prevention systems at Through this experience, we were approximately 800 sites in Japan and decided on courses able to develop a new appreciation for the Yuan Gao of action for future responses. responsibility to protect the company and Shanghai Branch In fiscal 2012, based on these experiences we will run its employees. In the future as well, we will Sekisui (Shanghai) International through the crisis management PDCA cycle and implework to enhance crisis management Trading Co., Ltd. ment continual improvements at all sites. In addition, we systems keeping in mind the saying from the will expand these domestic efforts to overseas sites as Han Feizi, “A little leak will sink a great ship.” well, preparing for restructuring of systems in fiscal 2013 and later. 57 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Disclosure & Communication Bases of CSR Advancing CSR Management through Three Dialogue with Stakeholders Prominences Environment Policy Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes the importance of adequate and proactive disclosure, and two-way communication based on such disclosure, for developing relationships built on trust with our stakeholders. To this end, in 2005 we established our Disclosure Principles. CS & Quality Sekisui Chemical Group is working to advance communication with all stakeholders and to reflect as appropriate in our business the evaluations and comments we receive. We are doing so through efforts including CAT Meetings where top management in housing sales companies meet customers to receive feedback directly (see p. 41), the External Advisory Board on Environment-Contributing Products (see p. 14), the Attractive Qualities Screening System, in which the Attractive Qualities Screening Committee evaluates and screens products and services (see p. 21), and opportunities for direct dialogue between management and employees. Human Resources Dialogues with Overseas Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Rating Agencies In Europe and North America, there is considerable interest in socially responsible investment (SRI), in Business and which companies addressing CSR issues are chosen proactively as targets of investment, and much research has been conducted by rating agencies. In light of the broad range of businesses it conducts, CSR each year the Sekisui Chemical Group visits SRI ratings agencies in Europe and elsewhere to ensure that they have adequate and accurate understandings of its lines of business and its CSR efforts. In fiscal 2011, we strived to ascertain the latest CSR-related information by meeting with U.S. Housing experts, on the subjects of human rights and the environment. Company Communication Between Management Urban Infrastructure & VOICE and Employees Environmental This dialogue was a valuable opportunity to Since fiscal 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group has provided opportunihear the President directly explain the ties for employees to communicate with top management Products Company midterm management plan, the proactively, based on its belief that it is essential to resolve concept of “collective strength,” andd problems faced by the company as well as work-related issues the necessity of deploying a value through direct communication between top management and High Performance chain across all businesses. The employees, who are important stakeholders. President’s easy-to-understand In fiscal 2011, continuing efforts begun in the preceding year, explanations, using practical Plastics Company the President of Sekisui Chemical visited six business sites across examples, were very Japan, including those of affiliate companies, persuasive. to discuss the current state of company In addition, the President’s enthusiasm to “change the management, ideas, and other matters Company” was obvious and was with approximately 400 participants. quite moving as he thoroughly In addition, the Urban Takuhei Oohashi Bases of CSR answered individual Tokyo Private Sector Sales office Infrastructure & Environmental questions from participants. Private Sector Value Chain Sales Products Company also provided In the future I would like Department Higashinihon Sales Headquarters opportunities for direct discussion of to take the initiative in helping Urban Infrastructure & Environbusiness strategies and ideas along with mental Products Company to power Company reforms, by Let’s Talk with Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. lively exchange of opinions between the the President acquiring such “collective President and employees. strength” myself. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 58 Nature Conservation and Social Contribution Nature Conservation Policy Sekisui Chemical Grant Program for Since their full-fledged start in fiscal 1997, Sekisui Chemical Research on Manufacturing Based on Group’s nature conservation activities began with the training Innovations Inspired by Nature of leaders to be responsible for promotion of such activities at Sekisui Chemical Group began the Sekisui Chemical Grant each business site in Japan. Program for Research on Manufacturing Based on Innovations In recent years the stage of such activities has broadened Inspired by Nature in fiscal 2002 to support the research as for example we have carried out activities at business sites activities of universities and research institutions utilizing not just in Japan but overseas as well and, in addition, have knowledge of fundamental science learned from nature. Over participated in nature conservation activities conducted by the 10-year period through fiscal 2011, this program collected outside organizations. Furthermore, we are carrying out a a cumulative total of 2,733 public placements, ultimately broad range of natural and environmental conservation efforts awarding grants to 138 research themes. Of these, the such as continual support for research utilizing our knowledge program awarded grants to 33 projects in the field of utilizing of the natural sciences. natural resources and learning from natural materials, 49 projects in the field of learning from the functions of living creatures, 34 projects in the field of learning from living organism (about the activities of living), and 22 projects in the field of learning from ecology, the growth and development of living creatures, etc. In the future as well, the program will A panel provide continual support to research discussion activities contributing to harmony between nature and human beings. Sekisui Nature Study Course Since fiscal 1997, Sekisui Chemical Group has carried out the VOICE Sekisui Nature Study Course as an opportunity to train leaders in nature conservation activities and to implement activities to Despite its name of “Children’s contribute to the local community. Through fiscal 2010, these Nature Study Course,” this had been held 51 times, with a total of more than 800 people activity gave participating taking part. adults even more opportunity to Beginning in fiscal 2011, the existing leader training portion get in touch with nature and of this program was spun off to form a separate Leader Training experience its blessings, as we program. The Sekisui Nature Study Course evolved into a observed together with children the different living creatures that program aimed at independent nature Masuo Komaki appear in the seasons of spring and conservation activities by business sites, Production Section, fall, made catsup from tomatoes we Izumo Plant with even deeper roots in the Sekisui Seikei Ltd. planted and harvested ourselves, community, and it was conducted at and ate lunch together using the the Izumo Plant of Sekisui Seikei Ltd. catsup we made, among other activities. and at Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. It will continue in the future as well at various business sites in Japan, aiming to raise awarePlanting tomato ness of the environment and create opportuseedlings at Sekisui nities for nature conservation activities in partnership Seikei Ltd. with local communities. 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Biodiversity Activities at Mt. Fuji In advancing its consideration for biodiversity, Sekisui Chemical Group is carrying out activities intended to raise employee awareness of biodiversity. Since 2010, we have carried out activities to eliminate the lanceleaf tickseed, identified as an invasive alien species at the base of Mt. Fuji, in partnership with the NPO, FUJISAN CLUB, which Three works to protect the natural environment of Mt. Fuji. It has been pointed out that propagation of the lanceleaf tickseed causes the problem of driving out diverse Prominences species native to the area. Thus eliminating the lanceleaf tickseed will help preserve the area’s native biodiversity. Conducted in June 2011, this activity welcomed approximately 30 participants including Environment employees of Sekisui Chemical’s headquarters in Tokyo, their family members, and retired employees. In about two hours, they eliminated enough lanceleaf tickseed to fill the beds of two light pickup trucks. This activity provides a rare opportunity to think about the issue of invasive alien species among other Sekisui Chemical Group’s nature conservation activities. CS & Quality Eliminating lanceleaf tickseed Planting Mangrove Trees in Thailand Sekisui Chemical Group carries out nature conservation activities at five facilities overseas. Thailand, one of the Human Group’s bases of operations in Asia, is home to business sites of the Housing Company and the High Performance Plastics Company. Employees of these sites take part in activities to plant mangrove trees. Resources While mangroves have been cut down to create culture ponds for edible shrimp, their value has been recognized anew for purposes such as maintenance of sustainable fishery resources, protecting the shoreline from tides and wind, and mitigating climate change. Over 100 people, comprising of employees and local elementary-school students, took part in the planting activities conducted in July 2011. One Business and employee commented, “Next time I want to bring more colleagues along.” In the CSR future as well, the Group will continue contributing to nature conservation in the community as well as raising employees’ awareness through such activities. Planting mangrove Housing trees Company Nature Conservation in Mexico Urban Infrastructure & Sekisui S-Lec Mexico carries out nature conservation Environmental VOICE activities such as tree planting to offset the carbondioxide emissions of the plant and its employees. In We are confident that environmental conservation activities are a top fiscal 2011, these activities planted a total of 540 priority for the future of the human race. Of these, reforestation Products Company saplings, or seven trees per employees, on one hectare activities can have a variety of effects, such as the High Performance of land. reduction of the CO2 that is responsible of The activities started with planting seeds in February problems like the greenhouse effect. This 2011, followed by watering during the dry season in also prevents the erosion of the soil, Plastics Company March and a tree-planting study meeting held jointly in contributing to maintaining rivers and undercurrents and, of course, helps May with an organization working to revive forests in also to preserve the ecosystem, such as Mexico. The main event of planting saplings took place the fauna that live in the forests. in July, with about 100 people, consisting of employees During fiscal 2011 I had the and their families, taking part. opportunity to participate in almost all Bases of CSR By raising each the events of tree-planting activities done employee’s awareness of the by Sekisui, from seed planting through environment and tree planting trees, and for me this was really Ruben de los Reyes planting, we plan to help rewarding in the sense that you can really feel Sales Department Sekisui S-Lec Mexico protect the beautiful planet you are doing something for the planet. I think S.A. de C.V. and Mexico’s natural all of us should include this kind of activities in environment in the future Tree-planting our agendas. activities at as well. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 60 Social Contribution Policy Sekisui Chemical Group advances social-contribution activities mainly in the fields of the environment, the next generation, and local communities. Environment In addition to positioning such activities as initiatives made as a corporate citizen living together with society, we also provide support for activities to enable Group employees to play active roles in society. Next Local Generation Communities Collaboration with Local Communities Since fiscal 2007, Sekisui Chemical Group has carried out social contribution activities utilizing the distinguishing features of its businesses. In the Housing Company, since fiscal 2009 housing sales companies across Japan have partnered with prefectural police departments to distribute leaflets on prevention of crimes such as fraudulent remittance requests. In addition, since fiscal 2007 the Housing Company has conducted the Houses and the Environment Learning Program in four areas, as a program putting employees’ knowledge of housing and the environment to use in the classroom. More than 5,000 junior high school students have taken part in these classes through now. In the High Performance Plastics Company, since fiscal 2008 the Chemical Classroom Project, an educational program that helps students experience the fun of chemistry, has been conducted for seventh through ninth graders in the area where the institute is located. Through now, a total of approximately 2,400 students have taken part in these classes. In addition, since fiscal 2008 events have been held, mainly for elementary-school students, to help children get a feel for the fun of science, under the name of Science Class for Children. In response to a request from a local junior high school, Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. in the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company has since fiscal 2009 provided science classes for seventh graders. On the day of the class, students also tour the Shikoku Sekisui plant to get an understanding for how the A science familiar material of plastic is used to make a variety of products. class conducted by Shikoku In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical Group will advance social-contribution Sekisui Co., Ltd. activities utilizing its businesses. VOICE When I was asked to serve as an instructor in the science class, I was very uncertain as to whether I was capable of it. I decided to take on the challenge of teaching the class thinking that it would be nice if I could, through this class, teach local junior high school students about the knowledge of manufacturing that I have built up in the manufacturing workplace until now and about how fun it is. In the class, I had the enjoyment of working with students who listened enthusiastically to what I had to say, while I too wanted to help them as much as I could, and I felt that we were learning together. When the students commented that the class was “fun” and that they “could understand plastics thanks to the instructor’s detailed explanations,” I was truly glad that I had accepted the role of teacher. Hitoshi Higaki I would like to cooperate as much as I can in future science classes as well. Production Department Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Social Contribution Activities that Make it Easy for Individual Employees to Participate Three Since fiscal 2009 Sekisui Chemical Group has implemented Table for Two, a program in which 20 yen is added to the cost of a meal in employee cafeterias, with this amount donated to support providing lunches to children in developing countries. In fiscal 2011, a Table for Two photo exhibition was held at five facilities to publicize the program to Prominences numerous employees. This program already has donated a total amount of more than 1.4 Environment million yen, assisting in providing lunches to a cumulative total of 70,000 children in developing countries. In addition, since fiscal 2009 Sekisui Chemical Group has conducted the Book Magic program, in which participants sell unneeded books and CDs and contribute the proceeds to an NPO to assist programs supporting education in developing countries. The number of business sites The Table hosting this program is increasing from year to year, and in fiscal 2011 numerous employees participated for Two photo CS & Quality exhibition in the program at the 12 sites where it took place. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical Group will continue to deploy activities such as these that make it easy for individual employees to take part. Human Participation in the Community Resources Taking advantage of the fact that it has sales companies and production sites across Japan, Sekisui Chemical Group actively participates in local communities. For example, despite the fact that they belong to different division companies, Sekisui Chemical’s Gunma Plant and Gunma Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. have joined together since fiscal Business and 2010 to hold the Sekisui Cup Girls’ Eight Soccer Tournament for eight-person teams of elementary-school girls aged 12 and younger, in light of the fact that both companies do CSR business in Gunma Prefecture. Six teams from the prefecture took part in the tournament held in July 2011, cheered on by more than 100 people including staff, parents, and siblings. Aside from this activity, Sekisui Chemical Group also continues other Housing activities to contribute to its communities, including cleanup activities in the vicinity of business sites, accepting plant tours and work-training Company program participants, and permitting use of plant athletic grounds for community events. Urban Infrastructure & Environmental The Sekisui Cup Girls’ Eight Soccer Tournament Products Company Donations For purposes including environmental conservation and support for raising the next generation, Sekisui Chemical High Performance Group provides economic support including donations to a variety of activities. Its donations in fiscal 2011 totaled Plastics Company approximately 228 million yen. A typical example of such support is the matching gifts the company provides in amounts equal to or surpassing donations collected from employees in response to disasters and other needs. In fiscal 2011, as aid for victims of the flooding in Thailand, Sekisui Chemical donated 10 million yen, and donated a matching gift of 1.2 million yen to the government of Thailand in recognition of approximately 1.1 Bases of CSR million yen donated from employees. In addition, since some employees of the Group member company Kydex, LLC. in North America were victims of the flooding that occurred near Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania, where Kydex, LLC. is located, Sekisui America Corporation donated a matching gift of $3,200 to the American Red Cross in recognition of donations from employees of Group companies in North America. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 62 Independent Practitioner’s Review Report TRANSLATION Independent Practitioner’s Review Report June 12, 2012 Mr. Naofumi Negishi, President, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Hiroshi Inanaga Chief Executive Officer Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. Scope and Purpose of Review We have reviewed the “CSR Report 2012 (including the separate “CSR Report 2012 Data”)” (the “Report”) prepared by Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. (the “Company”). The purpose of our review was to provide limited assurance as an independent practitioner, based on our review procedures, on whether: material sustainability information indicated with the verification logo for the period from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 included in the Report was accurately measured and calculated with reference to the “Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 version” (issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment) and “GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1)”, and in accordance with the calculation methods adopted by the Company; no material items listed in the “Appendix: Requirements for Logotype Registration of Sustainability Reporting” (issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information in February 2011) were omitted; the Company’s self-declaration on the GRI application level conforms to the application level criteria stipulated by the GRI. Responsibility of the Management and Responsibility of the Independent Practitioner The Report is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to provide our limited assurance with respect to the Report based on our review performed as an independent practitioner. Summary of Review To obtain an adequate and valid basis for providing limited assurance with respect to our conclusions, we performed our review in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (issued by the International Federation of Accountants in December 2003), and the Practical Guideline for Assurance Engagement of Sustainability Information (issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information in April 2012). The review procedures performed for the material sustainability information indicated with the verification logo for the period from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 stated in the Report consisted of: 1) agreeing such information in summary schedules with supporting documents on a sample basis; 2) making inquiries to responsible personnel and persons in charge; 3) reviewing relevant minutes, Company regulations, and ISO-related documents, etc.; 4) site visits; and 5) comparing such information with other available supporting materials, both internal and external. Conclusion In performing our review procedures described in the preceding paragraph, nothing has come to our attention that caused us to believe that the material sustainability information with the verification logo for the period from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 included in the Report was not accurately measured or calculated, with reference to the “Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 version” (issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment) and “GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1)”, and in accordance with the calculation methods adopted by the Company, in all material respects, or that any material items listed in the “Appendix: Requirements for Logotype Registration of Sustainability Reporting” (issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information in February 2011) were omitted, or that Company’s self-declaration on the GRI application level does not conform to the application level criteria stipulated by the GRI. Special Interests There are no interests between the Company and Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. or its engagement personnel, requiring disclosure based on the provisions of the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. Summary of Independent Practitioner’s Review Procedures Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Check of Formulation of Performance of Quality assurance Submittal of Review report final edition of review plan review procedures review report CSR Report t3FWJFXBU4FLJTVJ t$POöSNBUJPOPGSF Chemical Headview scope, subject quarters items, information t3FWJFXBUWJTJUFE t0CUBJOJOHNBOBHFcollection methods, etc. business sites (perfort3FQPSUJOHSFTVMUTPG t'PMMPXVQPOJUFNT tCheck of approprment confirmation t%FDision on review mance of procedures completed review, iateness of the review such as matters letter procedures, review including field obsermatters for comby professionals other pointed out in Step 3 tSubmittal of Indeschedule (Headvation, analytical ment, etc. than the review team pendent Practitioner’s quarters, business procedures, docuReview Report sites to be visited for mentary verification, review), etc. inspection of materials, and inquiries) Sites visited: Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Headquarters and Tokyo Headquarters, Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd., Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. 63 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 History of Sekisui Chemical Group 1947 Establishment of Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd. Started first injection 1998 Instituted Corporate Activity Guidelines. molding business in Japan. Initiated zero waste emission activities. 1948 Change of company name to Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. 1999 Midterm Management Vision: GS21 takes effect. 1950 Began selling cellophane tape. Instituted Corporate Philosophy. 1952 Started full-scale production of PVC pipe (Eslon Pipe). Concentrated business into three domains: Housing, Urban Infrastruc1953 Listed on Osaka Stock Exchange. ture & Environmental Products, and High Performance Plastics. 1956 Developed Japan’s first plastic rain gutter (Eslon Rain Gutters). Midterm Environmental Plan: STEP-21 takes effect. 1959 Established Sekisui Sponge Industries Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui Plastics Began publishing Environmental Reports. Co., Ltd.) with co-financing from Shin-Nippon Chisso Hiryo Co., Ltd., 2001 Launched the division company system, establishing the three diAsahi Kasei Corporation and others, to commercialize plastic foam. vision companies the Housing Company, the Urban Infrastructure 1960 Established Sekisui House Sangyo Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui House & Environmental Products Company, and the High Performance Co., Ltd.) and started the housing business. Plastics Company. 1962 Launched Movement for Cleaner Towns featuring our plastic Achieved zero waste emissions in all house production plants and garbage bins (Poly-pail), as a campaign to mark the company’s 15th all plants of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Anniversary. Cleaning revolution subsequently spread nationwide. 2003 Midterm Management Vision: GS21-Premium 600 takes effect. 1963 Started producing plastic bathtubs (first in Japan). Modular Established the Environmental Management Promotion Departtoilet tank commercialized, paving the way for production of ment (now CSR Department Environmental Management Group). modularstyle equipment. Midterm Environmental Plan: STEP-2005 takes effect. 1970 Exhibited modular house (Sekisui Heim) at the International Good Achieved zero waste emissions at all house construction sites. Living Show in Tokyo. 2004 Established the CS & Quality Management Department (now CSR 1971 Started producing and selling Japan’s first modular house, Heim M1. Department CS & Quality Group). 1972 Established original Environmental Management Department. Developed the CS & Quality Management Midterm Plan. Launched company-wide commitment to pollution control. Achieved zero waste emissions in all construction by house 1979 Awarded Deming Prize for quality management in recognition of renovation companies. results of aggressive TQC activities. 2005 Established the CSR Committee. 1981 Adopted twin-headquarters system (Osaka and Tokyo), and established Tokyo Headquarters at Toranomon, Tokyo. Began producing Published the Environmental and Social Report. and selling timber-framed modular house, Two-U Home. 2006 Midterm Management Vision: GS21-Go! Frontier takes effect. 1991 Established Basic Policies on environmental issues. Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan Part 1 takes effect. 1993 Introduced divisional system, shifting to the seven divisions Pipe & Related Products, Building Materials, Chemicals, Techno-products, 2007 60th anniversary of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. founding. Global Molded Products, Medical Products, and Housing. Children’s Eco Summit and Manufacturing Based on Learning from Nature—Junior Forum held. Conducted reviews of the CSR 1994 Began activities to earn ISO 9000-series quality-management Committee and Headquarters organization. system certification. Published the CSR Report. 1996 Paid-in capital surpassed 100 billion yen. 2008 CSR policies established and revised. Adopted new headquarters logo. 2009 Midterm Management Vision: GS21-SHINKA! takes effect. Announced Top Management Policy for Environment and Safety. Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan Began activities to earn ISO 14001 environmental-management SHINKA! takes effect. system certification. 2010 Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum 1997 50th Anniversary of company founding. held in Nagoya. Launched Sekisui Chemical Group nature protection activities. 2011 Safety Subcommittee established. Created Women’s Athletic Club. Editor’s Notes Since Sekisui Chemical Group began full-fledged CSR efforts in fiscal specifically on the initiatives of each division company. 2005, it has published the CSR Report (titled the Environmental and The introduction in the opening pages of the Report adopts a Social Report in fiscal 2005 – 2006) with chapters organized around content structure that makes Sekisui Chemical Group’s concepts and Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR concept, based on the Three Prominences CSR philosophy understandable to ordinary readers. The chapter on of the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources and its Three each of the Three Prominences reports on policies, objectives, measures, Attitudes of Sincerity in Compliance, Risk Management, and Disclosure & and results for Sekisui Chemical Group as a whole. Reports on relations Communication, to communicate this concept to parties both inside between business and society, priority CSR issues, and examples of and outside the Group and to promote its spread. efforts follow, for each of the three division companies. The second half In recent years, as readership of the Report has grown, demands for of the Report reports on the Three Attitudes of Sincerity and on nature disclosure of information have increased and the information in demand conservation and social contribution initiatives. The separate Data Book has grown more diverse. At the same time, in Sekisui Chemical Group provides detailed information on efforts along with performance data. the business characteristics and CSR efforts of each division company In addition to disclosing as much information as possible on our CSR differ, and the necessity of clearly defining the characteristics of each efforts through this Report and accepting opinions from both inside and division company in enhancing and promoting CSR efforts within the outside the Group, efforts such as undergoing an independent organization has become more important. practitioner’s review to ensure the accuracy and objectivity of the For these reasons, while maintaining the quality and quantity of information disclosed are intended to advance CSR management efforts information that have been so highly regarded by outside parties in past and improve the content of this Report. We would very much appreciate reports and making the thinking behind measures and their specific hearing the frank opinions of our readers (csr@sekisui.com). Such efforts easily understandable, this Report adds new pages on individual opinions will serve as valuable references for Sekisui Chemical Group’s division companies and employs a chapter structure that reports future CSR efforts and in the preparation of future reports as well. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 64 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL: http://www.sekisuichemical.com For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Email: csr@sekisui.com This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film CSR Report 2012 (including the separate data that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the volume) has been reviewed by an independent plate-making process. third party and as a result has been granted the sustainability report review and registration logo. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOC) This demonstrates that this report satisfies the and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in necessary criteria established by the Japanese the printing process. In addition, waterless printing, which generates no Association of Assurance Organizations for hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. Sustainability Information (J-SUS; http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo, (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding intended to assure the reliability of sustainability process. information. Published: June 27, 2012. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 29, 2011. Next edition planned for publication: June 2013 CSR Report 2012 Data Book Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) 1 Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data 2 Progress on the Midterm Environmental Plan 3 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Environmental Accounting 5 Sekisui Eco Value Index 7 Material Balance (in Japan) 7 Environment-Contributing Products 8 Product Assessments System for Environmental Impact 8 Biodiversity 8 Global Warming Prevention 9 Resource Recycling and Saving 10 Environmental Performance of Domestic Offices 11 Atmospheric, Water, and Soil Related Emissions 12 Environmental Incidents and Complaints, and Emergency Responses 12 Chemical Substances 13 Environmental Management 14 CS & Quality 15 Human Resources 16 Safety 17 Compliance 18 Nature Conservation and Social Contribution 19 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management System 20 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management Policies 21 Scope of Independent Practitioner’s Review Verified The environmental and social information in this report has been subjected to the independent practitioner’s review for the appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy of the results of calculation. The “Verified” logo is used to indicate that each item of such subject information has been reviewed. Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) Sales (by Each Division Company) Operating Income (by Each Division Company) ROE (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (%) 10,000 600 9 9,586 9,650 9,342 9,154 546 8.1 8,585 493 Housing 8,000 Company 6.9 430 400 6.4 4,199 359 4,244 4,186 4,493 141 310 6 3,982 335 243 6,000 Housing Company 194 61 Urban 171 15 Infrastructure & Urban Infrastructure & 200 29 Environmental 3.5 4,000 2,337 Products 1,955 2,000 Environmental 16 Company 2,252 1,946 Products 244 243 3 Company 192 205 High 157 Performance 2,000 High Plastics Performance 0 Company 2,804 2,626 2,476 2,816 2,968 −9 −24 −9 −2 Plastics −17 Others Company −2 0 244 218 179 195 190 Others −200 0 0.3 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Interest-bearing Debt and Interest-bearing Debt as a Percentage Overseas Sales and Sales Ratio Total Assets of Equity Capital (100 million yen) (%) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (%) 2,000 19.7 19.6 20 10,000 1,500 50 1,800 1,895 1,294 1,330 16.4 16.2 16.2 8,271 40.2 38.9 1,245 1,271 8,000 7,828 7,872 7,901 1,200 40 1,500 528 564 15 7,564 36.6 36.2 Interest-bearing 1,551 1,515 1,409 debt as a North percentage of 385 389 America 920 equity capital 6,000 900 30 376 1,000 506 570 10 450 Europe 25.7 476 415 4,000 600 20 Asia Interest-bearing 500 5 debt 667 2,000 300 10 590 550 675 655 Others 0 47 59 68 89 104 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Cash Flows Capital Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) 500 500 400 365 400 440 345 345 351 371 400 300 300 305 345 330 200 300 312 151 126 100 252 200 0 200 −100 100 −77 100 −123 −200 −300 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 R&D Costs Annual Dividend Per Share Number of Employees (100 million yen) (Yen) (persons) 300 20 21,000 20,855 19,742 19,761 19,770 18,907 257 254 256 240 246 15 15 15 8,520 8,478 8,637 8,820 8,557 Housing 200 13 14,000 Company 10 10 10 Urban Infrastructure & 4,634 4,447 4,570 Environmental 4,025 4,765 Products 100 7,000 Company 5 High Performance 5,265 5,408 5,620 5,655 6,443 Plastics Company 0 0 0 1,060 1,049 1,029 1,031 1,022 Headquarters 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 1 Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data Japan Housing Company High Performance Plastics Company 1 company and 2 companies and R&D institutes 1 business site R&D institutes 2 business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site 11 companies and Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. ADME & Tox. Research Institute Production plants 10 business sites 11 companies and Production plants 14 business sites Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. etc. Sales and construction Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant 28 companies and companies 97 business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Sekisui Heim Sales Companies Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Film Co., Ltd Construction and Service Companies Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. etc. 40 companies and 108 business sites in total 11 companies and 16 business sites in total Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Headquarters 1 company and 1 company and R&D institutes 1 business site R&D institutes 1 business site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Development Center Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories 8 companies and Production Plants and Headquarters 10 business sites 20 companies and Production plants 11 business sites Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Headquarters and Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. / Ryuseki Jyubi Co., Ltd. Tokyo Headquarters, etc. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant 8 companies and 11 business sites in total 20 companies and 12 business sites in total Total: 77 companies and 147 business sites The total number of companies and business sites do not match, since some companies have two or more business sites, and some business sites are shared by two or more companies. Overseas1 Urban Infrastructure & YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejeon Plant Environmental Products Company YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Cheongwon Plant Kydex, LLC. YoungBo HPP (Langfang) Co. Ltd. Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Brea Plant Eslon B.V. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Tennessee Plant Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Yongchang Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant 7 business sites in total Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Resin Plant Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Pasadena Plant Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Calvert City Plant Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Coldwater Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui Alveo B.V. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Xeno Tech, LLC. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. American Diagnostica Inc.2 Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. 24 business sites in total 1 Calculation period: January 1 December 31, 2011 2 Data was collected only for wastes and CO2 emissions. 2 Progress on the Midterm Environmental Plan Efforts and targets of the Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (FY 2009 – 2013) Efforts Targets for Fiscal 2013 Improving overall environmental management efficiency Achieving a Sekisui Eco Value Index at least three times the fiscal 2007 value Improving Increase selling of Environment-Contributing Products Environment-Contributing Products at least 40% of consolidated net sales EnvironmentContributing Number of products certified as Environment-Contributing Products: 30 Products Promoting development of Environment-Contributing Products (fiscal 2009 – 2013 5 years) Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 10% compared to fiscal 2007 Reduction in emissions of greenhouse Domestic production sites (at least 20% compared to fiscal 1990) Reducing Laboratories Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 20% compared to fiscal 2007 greenhouse-gas Domestic offices Reducing CO2 emissions by at least 10% compared to fiscal 2007 (GHG) emissions Reducing energy consumption per unit of output by at least 5% compared to Overseas production sites fiscal 2008 gases (GHG) Overseas offices Reducing energy use per capita by at least 10% compared to fiscal 2008 Further reducing the environmental impacts of business activities Reducing energy used per unit of output by at least 7% compared to fiscal Promoting Domestic production sites 2007, when converted into thermal units energy conservation Reducing energy consumption per unit of output by at least 5% compared to During shipment in Japan fiscal 2007 Reducing waste generated per unit of output by at least 40% compared to Domestic production sites fiscal 2007 Reducing waste generated per unit of output by at least 25% compared to Overseas production sites fiscal 2008 Efficient utilization of resources Domestic offices Reducing copier-paper use by at least 20% compared to fiscal 2007 Reducing wastes Overseas offices Reducing copier-paper use by at least 20% compared to fiscal 2008 Compared to fiscal 2000: Sekisui Heim: 45% reduction Reducing wastes at new construction sites Two-U Home: 62% reduction Reducing costs derived from waste materials Reducing loss costs by at least 5 billion yen compared to fiscal 2008 (accumulated amount from fiscal 2009 to 2013) Domestic production sites/laboratories Rate of achievement at sites reviewed: 100% Expanding Overseas production sites Rate of achievement at sites reviewed: 100% zero waste emissions Recycling of waste materials produced during Implementing zero-emissions (i.e., recycling at least 98% of wastes) efforts in dismantlement and expansion/renovation of at least 50% of demolition projects houses Reducing other Reducing water intake at domestic production sites by at least 10% compared Efficient water use to fiscal 2007 envi-ronmental Reducing atmospheric VOC emissions at domestic production sites and Reduction in VOC emissions (legal and voluntary controlled impacts substances) laboratories by at least 60% compared to fiscal 2000 (at least 25% compared to fiscal 2007) Efforts to conserve biodiversity Designing action plans for main production sites Support of nature conservation activities As Sekisui Chemical Group, providing aid to at least 10 nongovernmental Consideration for Activities to by NGOs organizations per year in support of nature conservation activities improve environment Promoting nature conservation activities in at least five locations overseas biodiversity (conservation of biodiversity) Nature conservation activities in collaboration with local communities Implementing nature conservation activities at all business sites At least 80% of employees (cumulative) participating over the three-year period 2011-2013 Attaining external EMS certification at Attaining external EMS certification at 100% of sites reviewed domestic production sites and laboratories Attaining external EMS certification at Attaining external EMS certification at consolidated construction companies domestic construction companies Enhancing Attaining external EMS certification at Attaining external EMS certification at 100% of sites reviewed environmental overseas production sites management Expanding EMS development in supply Attaining external EMS certification at 100% of suppliers of residential building Enhancing the environmental systems (EMS) chains materials supplying a fixed amount or more Expanding green procurement Achieving a green procurement rate of 98% or higher Soil and groundwater surveys Completion of surveys at nine subject sites management infrastructure Reaching a total of at least 1,000 certified Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) Learning at least a certain degree of Improvement of environmental knowledge Conducting environmental education for employees and management education and overseas as well enlightenment Developing leaders for nature conservation Holding the Sekisui Nature Study Course at main production sites (45 plants, activities five laboratories) Continuing issuance at production sites, laboratories, and sales companies Communication Publishing site reports that have acquired EMS certification with external organizations Communication with local communities to Continued implementation at eight domestic production sites improve environment 3 Results of efforts conducted under the Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! for fiscal 2011 Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results of Fiscal 2011 Verified EvaluPage ation 2.4 times (compared to fiscal 2007) 2.62 times (compared to fiscal 2007) 12, Data 7 Sales of Environment-Contributing Products: 359.2 billion yen Percentage of consolidated net sales: 35% 12, Data 8 Percentage of consolidated net sales: 37.2% 14 new products certified in fiscal 2011 Ten new products certified in fiscal 2011 (fiscal 2009–2011 cumulative total: 31) Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 12% compared to fiscal Reduced by 12.2% compared to fiscal 2007 2007 (reduced by 21% compared to fiscal 1990) (reduced by 21.1% compared to fiscal 1990) 15, Data 9 Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 12% compared to fiscal 2007 Reduced by 32.0% compared to fiscal 2007 15, Data 9 Reducing CO2 emissions by 15% compared to fiscal 2007 Reduced by 14.9% compared to fiscal 2007 15, Data 9 Reducing energy consumption per unit of output by 3% compared Increased by 11.8% compared to fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2008 Collection of data from subject sites Performance data collected from nine subject sites 4.2% reduction per unit of output compared to fiscal 2007 2.8% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 Data 9 3% reduction in energy consumption per unit of output compared 3.2% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2007 Data 9 12% reduction per unit of output compared to fiscal 2007 8.5% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 16, Data 10 15% reduction per unit of output compared to fiscal 2008 24.6% increase compared to fiscal 2008 Data 10 Copier-paper use: 12% reduction compared to fiscal 2007 1.3% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 Data 11 Collecting data from subject sites Collected performance data from nine subject sites Compared to fiscal 2000: Sekisui Heim: 38% reduction Compared to fiscal 2000: Sekisui Heim: 32% reduction 16, Data 10 Two-U Home: 57% reduction Two-U Home: 49% reduction Reduced by 470 million yen in fiscal 2011; cumulative total Loss costs: 830 million yen in fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2009–2011: cumulative 2.27 billion yen compared to fiscal 2008 reduction: 2.01 billion yen (compared to fiscal 2008) Note: Revised method of calculating loss costs Fiscal 2011: three new sites to be certified, certification rate by 95% Three new sites certified, achieved at 95% of sites Data 10 Achieved at 50% of sites reviewed Achieved at 17% of sites reviewed Demolition recycling rate: 94% Demolition recycling rate: 96% (99% recycling rate for designated construction materials) Reducing water intake by 6% compared to fiscal 2007 Reduced by 3.4% compared to fiscal 2007 16, Data 11 Reducing VOC atmospheric emissions by 55% compared to fiscal Reduced by 52.4% compared to fiscal 2000 17, Data 13 2000 (reducing by 15% compared to fiscal 2007) (reduced by 9.2% compared to fiscal 2007) Assesing two model sites and drafting action plans Assessment of model 3 sites completed, planning efforts continue 18 Providing aid to ten organizations Aid provided to five organizations Implementing activities at two sites (Suzhou, China and Thailand) Implemented at three sites (Suzhou, China, Thailand, and North America) Completing planning on northern China, completing surveys in Planning completed on northern China and Europe, and decision 18 North America and Europe made on implementation in 2012 Implementing nature conservation activities at 50 sites Nature conservation activities conducted at 47 business sites Attained at 96% of sites reviewed Attained at 98% of sites reviewed 12, Data 14 One site newly certified in fiscal 2011 Two sites newly certified in fiscal 2011 Reviewing subject companies for study of consolidation of Subject companies reviewed production and sales companies in the Housing Company Attained at 66% of sites reviewed; no sites newly certified EMS certification attainment rate: 72% EMS certification attained at 75% of sites reviewed Four sites newly certified in fiscal 2011 EMS development rate: 89.4% External EMS certification attained: 93% (External certification: 67.3%, independent EMS development: 22.1%) Green procurement rate: at least 95% Green procurement rate: 96.9% Data 11 Surveys completed at four sites Four sites surveyed 17, Data 12 Surveys completed at a cumulative total of nine sites 26 persons newly certified in fiscal 2011, for a cumulative total of 81 At least 200 persons persons Conducting CSR training (for new employees and new members of Conducting CSR training management) Conducting e-learning on environment Conducting Environmental e-learning Holding Sekisui Nature Study Course at three sites Held at three sites, cumulative total of 28 sites 59, Data 19 Issuing at 42 subject sites Issued at 42 subject sites Conducted at two or more sites Briefings for nearby residents or authorities held at four sites “Evaluation” Column Key: Outperformed target Performed close to target (achievement rate of about 90% to 110%) Failed to reach target 4 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Environmental Accounting Verified To promote efficient environmental management and fulfill corporate The costs of recovery from environmental damage and similar situations accountability responsibilities, Sekisui Chemical Group employs environmental decreased, while expenses rose from the previous fiscal year. accounting that makes it possible to ascertain the costs and effects of At the same time, the investment side showed increased investments in environmental conservation activities. Calculation is conducted by referring global warming prevention measures (energy conservation) in connection to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Japanese with responses to electric power issues. A look at economic effects shows that Ministry of the Environment, with the addition of Sekisui Chemical Group’s the amount of cost reductions from energy-conservation activities increased, own concepts such as external economic benefits (estimated effects). as did the amount of cost savings from waste reduction and other activities. The costs of R&D increased in fiscal 2011 in connection with an increase in In addition, external economic effects from homes installed with solar power the number of themes concerning the environment. systems and other efforts are also increasing steadily. Scope of environmental accounting (1) Summation period: April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2012 (2) Scope of summation: 40 target production sites (as listed on Data p. 2) + 4 Laboratories + each department of Headquarters + back offices of division companies + 15 housing sales companies (3) Principles of summation r%FQSFDJBUJPOBNPVOUTBSFUIFTBNFBTUIPTFGPSñOBODJBMBDDPVOUJOH r*OWFTUNFOUBNPVOUTBSFCBTFEPOCVEHFUBQQSPWBMTEVSJOHUIFTVNNBUJPOQFSJPE r&YQFOEJUVSFTBOEJOWFTUNFOUTUIBUDPOUBJOPUIFSUIBOFOWJSPONFOUBMDPOTFSWBUJPOBDUJWJUJFTBSFEJTUSJCVUFEQSPSBUBJOJODSFNFOUT (4) Note r5IFTDPQFPGTVNNBUJPOJOñTDBMDPOTJTUFEPGUBSHFUQSPEVDUJPOTJUFT -BCPSBUPSJFT FBDIEFQBSUNFOUPG)FBERVBSUFST CBDLPîDFTPGEJWJTJPO companies + 14 housing sales companies Due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake, data could not be collected from the following sites in fiscal 2010: Production sites: Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. and the Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Housing sales company: Sekisui Heim Tohoku Co., Ltd. Environmental Conservation Costs (Sekisui Chemical Group) (million yen) Items FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,675 182 1,800 118 1,689 142 1) Costs within business areas Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 252 704 333 387 469 674 Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 3,956 55 4,296 102 4,607 153 2) Upstream/downstream costs Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 493 0 376 0 276 0 Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for green 2,187 45 2,189 64 2,191 12 3) Administrative costs action organization, information disclosure, etc. 4) Research & Development costs Research and development on environmental conservation 2,561 14 1,506 16 3,301 15 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 70 8 77 0 70 0 6) Environmental damage costs Nature restoration, etc. 23 354 391 1 25 0 Total 11,217 1,363 10,967 688 12,628 996 Items FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Category Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Total amount of R&D costs1 and investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 24,010 24,119 24,695 18,559 25,611 17,200 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) 10.7 5.7 6.1 3.7 12.9 5.8 1 R&D cost is the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Benefits (Sekisui Chemical Group) Environmental Conservation Benefits Environmental performance criteria: per unit of output; Total SelfevaluDescription of effects Item Unit FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Effeact (11-10) See page Item Unit FY2010 FY2011 ation 3,345 3,522 3,370 -151 Data 9 (1) Energy usage Effects on inAmount of energy (1) Electricity TJ 1.84 1.76 vested resources usage1 per unit of output GJ/ton (2) Fuel TJ 2,312 2,434 2,288 -146 Data 9 (electricity + fuel)1 Thousand (3) CO2 emissions2 tons 315.6 331.6 315.9 -15.6 Data 9 Effects (4) Volume of environmental polwithin busiTons 659.3 810.8 617.8 -193.0 Data 13 lutants discharged3 ness areas Effects on environmental impact Thousand (2) Waste generated and wastes (5) Wastes generated4 tons 36.0 39.5 36.1 -3.3 Data 10 kg/ton 42.7 38.3 per unit of output Thousand (3) Outsourced disposal (6) Outsourced disposal5 tons 0.32 0.24 0.03 -0.21 kg/ton 0.26 0.03 per unit of output Upstream/ Effects related to CO2 reduction by photovoltaic power Thousand downstream tons 162 196 233 37 effects products/services generation, etc. (cumulative) Business sites attaining New acquisitions Numbers 3 2 6 Business sites attaining Total number Other benefits ISO 14001 and other ISO 14001 and other of business 81 87 certifications Renewals Numbers 14 16 12 certifications7 sites to environmenOthers6 Total number tal conservation Number of business sites achievNumbers 1 2 3 Number of business sites of business 141 144 ing zero emissions8 achieving zero emissions8 sites 1 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 2 Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data p. 9). 3 Applicable to Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. 4 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises. 5 Simple incineration + Landfill. 6 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites. 7 A cumulative total number of sites reviewed for factors such as consolidation and return of certifications for housing sales companies. 8 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Economical Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures (Sekisui Chemical Group) (million yen) Description of effects FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Remarks Revenue (1) Profit on sales of v.aluable resources 204 206 267 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste segregation and recycling (2) Savings from simplified packaging 32 44 12 Cost 725 274 451 savings (3) Cost savings through energy-saving activities (4) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 387 696 966 Including resource-saving activities Sub-total (actual effects) 1,347 1,220 1,696 (5) Contribution to environmental conservation activities9 6,228 7,603 8,420 Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added value at business sites10 (6) External Economic Effect 12,598 12,957 16,165 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation systems and “No-Dig” pipe rehabilitation method Sub-total (estimated effects) 18,827 20,560 24,585 Total 20,174 21,779 26,281 9 Excluding housing sales companies 10 (Added value from business sites) × {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} 5 Environmental Conservation Cost (by Each Division Company) (million yen) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Chemical Items Housing Company1 Environmental Products Plastics Company Group2 Company Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,019 0 49 33 557 46 1,689 142 1) Costs within business areas Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 116 188 90 59 136 360 469 674 Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 3,934 1 311 132 322 20 4,607 153 2) Upstream/downCost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods stream costs involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 238 0 5 0 6 0 276 0 3) Administrative costs Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for green action organization, information disclosure, etc. 670 0 253 2 273 6 2,191 12 4) Research & DeveResearch and development on environmental conservation 128 0 lopment costs 1,618 15 981 0 3,301 15 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 31 0 4 0 18 0 70 0 6) Environmental Nature restoration, etc. damage costs 0 0 0 0 25 0 25 0 Total 6,136 189 2,329 240 2,318 433 12,628 996 Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Chemical Housing Company1 Environmental Products Items Company Plastics Company Group2 Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Total amount of R&D costs3 and investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 4,109 4,467 5,347 2,220 11,920 9,209 25,611 17,200 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) 3.1 4.2 30.3 10.8 8.2 4.7 12.9 5.8 1 Including 38 business sites of housing sales companies 2 Total of three division companies and departments of Headquarters 3 R&D cost is the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Cost (by Environmental Conservation Measures) (million yen) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Chemical Items Housing Company1 Environmental Products Plastics Company Group2 Company Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments 1. Prevention of global warming Reduction of CO2 emissions, etc. 112 188 111 58 142 359 493 672 2. Ozone layer protection Reduction of Chlorofluorocarbon emissions, etc. 4 0 0 0 3 1 7 1 3. Conservation of air quality Prevention of air pollution by reducing polluting substances 284 0 33 0 282 4 638 12 4. Prevention of noise and vibration Prevention of noise and vibration pollution 6 0 3 0 7 2 18 50 5. Conservation of water environment, Preservation of water quality, prevention of soil environment, ground quality subsidence 205 0 22 32 259 28 511 68 6. Waste reduction and recycling Reduction and treatment of waste, recycling, etc. 4,207 1 334 132 325 20 4,909 153 7. Reduction of chemical substances Risk management of chemical substances, etc. 596 0 3 0 50 11 650 11 8. Conservation of natural environment Nature conservation, etc. 55 0 62 0 38 0 182 0 9. Others Others 668 0 1,761 18 1,211 7 5,221 29 Total 6,136 189 2,329 240 2,318 433 12,628 996 1 Including 38 business sites of housing sales companies 2 Total of three division companies and departments of Headquarters Environmental Conservation Benefits (by Each Division Company) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Environmental Conservation Benefits Housing Company Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Group See Description of effects Effect Effect Effect Effect page Items Unit FY2010 FY2011 (11-10) FY2010 FY2011 (11-10) FY2010 FY2011 (11-10) FY2010 FY2011 (11-10) Effects on (1) Electricity TJ 435 422 -13 1,332 1,312 -20 1,137 1,033 -105 3,522 3,370 -151 Data 9 invested Amount of energy usage4 Effects within resources (2) Fuel TJ 118 117 -1 112 116 3 1,968 1,807 -161 2,434 2,288 -146 Data 9 Thousand (3) CO2 emissions5 tons 32.0 31.2 -0.8 82.8 82.0 -0.8 167.2 153.1 -14.1 331.6 315.9 -15.6 Data 9 business areas Effects on (4) Volume of environmental Tons environmenpollutants discharged6 4.0 4.3 0.3 67.4 80.6 13.3 735.8 529.0 -206.8 810.8 617.8 -193.0 Data 13 tal impact (5) Wastes generated7 Thousand and wastes tons 11.3 8.3 -2.9 6.4 6.2 -0.2 19.5 19.5 0.0 39.5 36.1 -3.3 Data 10 (6) Outsourced disposal8 Thousand tons 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.12 0.02 -0.11 0.24 0.03 -0.21 Upstream/ Other benefits to Effects related CO2 reduction by photovoltaic Thousand to products power generation, etc. tons 196 233 37 196 233 37 /services downstream environmental ISO 14001 New Numacquisitions bers 0 0 2 1 0 4 2 6 Certification preservation Others9 Numeffects Renewals bers 6 1 4 5 1 3 16 12 Number of business sites Numachieving zero emissions10 bers 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 3 4 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 5 Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data, p. 9). 6 Applicable to Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law 7 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises 8 Simple incineration + landfill 9 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites 10 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Economic Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures (by Each Division Company) (million yen) Urban InfraHousing structure & High Performance Sekisui Chemical Description of effects Company1 Environmental Plastics Company Group2 Remarks Products Company Rev(1) Profit on sales of valuable resources Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of enue 37 11 196 267 waste segregation and recycling (2) Savings from simplified packaging 0 5 7 12 Cost (3) Cost savings through energy-saving savings activities 25 25 379 451 (4) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 19 149 773 966 Including resource-saving activities Subtotal (actual effects) 82 189 1,355 1,696 (5) Contribution to environmental conservation Contribution of environmental conservation activities to activities11 3,364 1,948 2,707 8,420 added value at business sites12 (6) External Economic Effect Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic gene11,364 4,801 16,165 ration systems and “No-Dig” pipe rehabilitation method Sub-total (estimated effects) 14,728 6,748 2,707 24,585 Total 14,810 6,937 4,063 26,281 11 Excluding housing sales companies 12 (Added value from business sites) x {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} 6 Sekisui Eco Value Index P12 Verified The Sekisui Eco Value Index is an independent index utilized by Sekisui Chemical Group for measuring the eﬃciency of our environmental management activities. 7:!# 8#6; ! (Target) Environmental Added Value 3.0 (converted to monetary amount) 3 (= sales revenue from Environment*. Sekisui Contributing Products + external economic beneﬁts) 2.2 Eco Value 2 Index Group’s overall 1.4 1.2 environmental impact 1 1.0 (converted to coefficient) 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 *()) 2013 $  8#$    &#  $    8# #   2 Sekisui Chemical Group calculates Environmental $  $# Waste Added Value by totaling the sales of our Environment-Contributing Products and the external reduction by economic beneﬁts provided to society through our products and businesses. External economic (100 million yen) the SPR beneﬁts are calculated by converting to monetary amounts the eﬀects of reducing environmen4,000 Method +/-, tal impacts when Sekisui Chemical Group products are used by customers or society. ,0 Photovoltaic 3,156 )), generation 3,000 37 $  Energy and resources consumed, waste generated 93  # ! 2,000 1,912 Reducing 1,552 1,728 52 $   37 46 Sales of Environmental Impact 74 3,026 +-1* Environment #  1,000 49 59  # ! Contributing 1,466 1,623 1,786 Products 0 ;   4 !3# # < ! 9# $  6 2007 2008 2009 2010 *()) 5 #'!$ $   $  =  5 #'!$ $     2The total sum of the Group’s environ$ $     ! mental impact is calculated by addition of converted values of raw materials and energy used as well as related landﬁll and incineration of waste and emissions into the atmosphere and water, 2007 2008 2009 2010 *()) which represent environmental impacts of diﬀering units and eﬀects on the environment, to the 0 Eco Point coeﬃcient using the JEPIX integration method. Energy 49 46 43 45 ,* Input Output Major raw materials Sekisui Chemical Products 50 Raw materials  !# !%! Group #  !  &$& & & Wastes 118 113 99 99 )(* & &     100 Emissions to atmosEmissions to Energy phere and water area atmosphere !  150 21 and water area   &$&! 26 *16 0.6 163 0.6 ( ! & !#! !  & 1 16 0.7 171 )/(  &# 176 Landﬁll and !  184 incineration    200 Integration of environmental impacts Eco Points (EIP) (100 million yen) Material Balance (in Japan) Verified Main Raw Materials To the atmosphere 5 Metals 81,000 tons 5 CO2 from energy 5 Wood, wooden consumption 316 thousand tons-CO2 building materials 41,000 tons 5 Cement for 5 NOx 217 tons exterior walls 116,000 tons 5 SOx 15 tons 5 Concrete for 5 Soot particles 2 tons foundations 249,000 tons 5 PRTR-designated 5 PVC 5 Polyethylene 141,000 tons 65,000 tons Sekisui substances 614 tons 5 Polypropylene 28,000 tons Input Chemical Output To water 5 Kraft paper 5 PRTR-designated 15,000 tons Group 5 Water discharged 15,218 thousand tons substances 118,000 tons 5 COD 63 tons 5 PRTR-designated Energy 5,659 TJ substances 2.0 tons 5 Purchased electricity 348,080 MWh 5 Heavy oil A 5,155 kL Wastes 5 City gas 44,419 thousand m3 5 Total generated waste 36 thousand tons Industrial water 16,413 thousand tons Note: Certain main raw materials are undisclosed for business strategy reasons. 7 Environment-Contributing Products P13 Environment-Contributing Products Sales Verified and Sales-Ratio Trends (Target) (100 million yen) 37.2% (%) 40.0% 4,000 33.1% 35 Sales Ratio 3,592 3,000 3,026 25 20.8% 17.4% Housing Company 15.3% 2,462 2,000 15 1,786 2,078 1,623 Urban Infrastructure & 1,466 Environmental Products Company 1,053 1,000 758 841 5 771 High Performance Plastics Company 663 731 677 719 Headquarters 0 45 50 56 7 221 9 349 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 Environment-Contributing Products conceptual diagram Criteria for Environment-Contributing Products High Environmental Contribution Low Definitions Environment-Contributing  Products and businesses that demonstrably help reduce the Products environmental load of our customers and society as a whole.  Products or systems having at least a certain degree of eﬀect on Products and reducing environmental load compared to similar conventional businesses that products and systems demonstrably help reduce Products or systems the environmental load having at least a certain degree of effect on Scope of Application of our customers and  Reduction of environmental load and resource depletion society as a whole. reducing environmental Environmentally load compared to similar related to the stages of customer use, disposal, and recycling compatible products conventional products (excluding the stages of production, home construction, and and systems transportation within Sekisui Chemical Group)  Reduction of impacts on the natural environment (e.g., reduction in greenhouse gases) and on the social environment Sekisui Chemical Group’s Our customers and society (e.g. waste reduction, resource conservation, and water business activities as a whole saving/recycling) Scope of environmental load reduction Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact P14 Targets: products and processes Scope: all stages of the product lifecycle Compliance Evaluation Chemical Substance Assessment  Laws and  Self regulation  Requirements of  Laws and  Prohibited  Restricted regulations industries etc. regulations substances substances Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact Environment-friendly design Raw material procurement Manufacture Transportation Construction and assembly Use Disposal  Invested resources  Environmental impact  Capital Investments  Environmental impact  Invested resources, energy  Invested resources, energy  Composition and structure  Raw materials, Means of transportation  Invested resources, energy Means of transportation  Secondary resources used  Secondary resources used  Recyclability composition, and structure Packaging materials Load-eﬃcient design  Secondary resources used  Environmental impact  Environmental impact  Environmental impact  Information disclosure  Green procurement  Information Disclosure Atmosphere, water, wastes, Atmosphere, water, wastes, Transportation, disposal, (Suppliers, raw materials)  Environmental impact  Environment-Contributing Atmosphere, water, wastes, chemical substances, etc. chemical substances, etc. soil/groundwater Products standards chemical substances, etc. contamination  LCCO2 evaluation Biodiversity P18 Initiatives Envisioned Under the Guidelines for Preservation of Biodiversity , Development of assessment methods, conducting assessment, lessening impacts 1. Assessment and reduction of the impact of , Promoting biodiversity-conscious purchasing business activities on biodiversity , Greening of business sites (promoting landscaping and biotope development) 2. Development and promotion of related technologies and products , Incorporating biodiversity assessment in the product development stage , Conducting nature-conservation activities at all business sites 3. Raising employees’ awareness , Expanding the Sekisui Nature Study Course and nature-conservation activities ,Support for nonprofit organization through the Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) and 4. Dialogue and cooperation with external stakeholders other organizations , Exhibiting at the Eco-Products Exhibition and other events 5. Transmittance of information , Providing information in the CSR Report, Site Reports, and websites , Providing education for the next generation (Children’s Nature Study Course, school visits) 8 Global Warming Prevention P15 Verified Greenhouse-gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing Greenhouse-gas Emissions from Laboratories (1,000 tons-CO2) (1,000 tons-CO2) 500 20 452 433 16.8 419 16.6 16.4 (Target) 400 389 0.5 15 1.5 15.2 365 350 2.9 14.0 341 342 330 1.0 13.0 300 0.5 Other greenhouse Overseas 10 gases 200 Japan 15.1 16.3 13.5 156 160 CO2 from 13.1 12.5 energy 5 consumption 100 sources 0 0 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013  ! Greenhouse-gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing     (1,000 tons-CO2) 500 Under the New Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA!, progress is being made in reducing emissions of all green-house 433 gases. The conversion coeﬃcients for CO2 emissions are the values speciﬁed 400 44 389 (as of March 2009) under the greenhouse-gas emissions calculation, reporting, 24 365 Greenhouse gases (Target) and disclosure system established by Japanese law, with uniform ﬁgures used 37 341 342 from non-energy346 37 24 330 9 26 consumption sources for each ﬁscal year. 300 36 15 32 108 31 31 Housing Company 95 Purchased electricity 0.555 tons CO2/MWh 88 83 Urban Infrastructure & 80 82 Environmental Products Heavy oil A 2.71 tons CO2/kL 200 Company City gas 2.08 tons CO2/thousand Nm3 High Performance Heating oil 2.49 tons CO2/kL Plastics Company Diesel oil 2.62 tons CO2/kL 203 178 167 167 153 100 157 Gasoline 2.32 tons CO2/kL LPG 3.00 tons CO2/ton Headquarters Purchased steam 0.179 tons CO2/ton 0 41 54 49 47 50 50 S ource: Calculation and Repor ting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (published in March 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 2009 by Japanese Ministr y of the Environm ent and Ministr y of Economy, Trade and Industr y) Energy Usage and Per Unit of Output (Index) Breakdown of GreenhouseDuring Manufacturing Basic unit Per unit of Breakdown of Energy Used Gas (GHG) Emissions performance output index Usage (TJ) (FY 2007: 100) 100 100.3 102.2 101.6 CO2 from 10,000 97.2 100 non-energy93 CO2 from other consumption energy consumption sources 2% (Basic unit target) 80 Heavy oil A Others 6% 6% 8,000 Other 3% gases 5% Heavy oil A 6,519 4% 6,000 627 6,087 5,956 60 5,657 5,659 613 553 540 539 Housing Company 1,661 Urban Infrastructure & 1,542 1,392 1,444 1,428 Environmental Products 40 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2011 4,000 City gas Company 31% 5,659 TJ 342,000 tons High Performance City gas -CO2 3,293 3,083 Plastics Company 26% 2,000 2,909 3,105 2,840 20 Electricity Electricity 59% 57% Headquarters 0 938 849 815 854 853 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 Transportation Volume and Energy Per Unit of Output (Index) CO2 Emissions in During Transportation Per unit Per unit of the Transportation Stage Amount of CO2 Emissions Transportation Volume of output output index (Overseas) (10,000 ton-km) 102.6 performance (FY 2007: 100) 100.2 96.8 50,000 95 100 Headquarters Housing Company 100 100.8 18% 16% Electricity Fuel usage usage 40,000 (Per unit of output target) 80 63% 37% 36,136 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2011 33,051 43,000 tons Approx. 30,000 8,027 30,144 60 8,032 28,103 27,926 -CO2 452,000 tons Housing Company 8,090 6,746 7,082 20,000 13,273 Urban Infrastructure & Urban Infrastructure & 40 Environmental Products 12,024 Environmental Products 10,731 10,507 11,499 Company Company 48% 6,761 High Performance 10,000 5,889 Plastics Company 20 High Performance Plastics Company 5,071 4,946 4,898 18% See Data, p. 2 for scope of summation 8,075 7,107 Headquarters 0 5,555 5,391 5,657 0 FAmount transported in ﬁscal 2011: 300 million tonkilometers CO2 emissions have been calculated using 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 FCalculation method: Either the improved tonthe emissions coeﬃcients of the kilometer method, fuel consumption method, or greenhouse-gas protocol for electric fuel cost method, depending on the product and power and the emissions coeﬃcients of transportation method the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! for fuel. 9 Resource Recycling and Saving P16 Verified Fiscal 2011 Annual Production-Site Waste Generation and Disposal Conditions Change over the previous year is in ( ) and proportion of the total generation is in [ ]. Reuse within the premises 7,122 tons On-site incineration (reduction) 0 tons (decreased by 10.2%) [0.0%] Total amount of Valuable materials sold 14,163 tons (decreased by 17.7%) [39.2%] materials recycling 30,170 tons Total amount of (decreased by generated wastes 8.8%) [83.5%] 36,120 tons Amount of Outsourcing of Materials recycling (decreased by 8.4%) discharged wastes recycling resources 16,008 tons [100%] 21,958 tons 21,928 tons (increased by 0.9%) Use of incin(decreased by 1.3%) (decreased by 0.4%) [44.3%] eration heat [60.8%] [60.7%] 5,920 tons Simple incineration (decreased by Outsourced disposal 30 tons 16 tons 3.7%) [16.4%] (decreased by 87.2%) [0.1%] (decreased by 65.7%) [0%] Landﬁll 14 tons (decreased by 92.5%) [0%] Zero Emissions Achievement Criteria and Accreditation System of Sekisui Chemical Group Status of Zero Emissions Achievement Achieved at 39 plants in Japan and three overseas plants, (1) Not engaging in any outside incineration without thermal utilization Production sites including those of aﬃliates. (Includes three plants in Japan (thermal recycling), or landﬁll outside or inside of facilities (recycling ratio: that achieved zero emissions in ﬁscal 2011) 100%) Laboratories Achieved at four domestic laboratories as of ﬁscal 2005 (2) If the waste quantity is small and it is a type of waste that has never been recycled before, recycling methods and relevant contractors must be New house Achieved at all locations as of September 2003 construction sites identiﬁed and a service agreement must be executed. We also have established uniform evaluation criteria known as the Zero House renovation sites Achieved at all locations as of ﬁscal 2004 Emissions Achievement Evaluation List. We have established a system Osaka and Tokyo designed to conduct internal checks and issue approvals for the status of Achieved as of ﬁscal 2005 Headquarters buildings observance of the evaluation criteria as well as legal compliance, rules and signage for waste segregation and storage, management of related facilities, Home demolition sites As of end of ﬁscal 2011, 99% recycling rate for Designated Construction Materials (scrap concrete and wood) and waste reduction planning and management. The list obliges us to conduct inspection of outside contractors and to clarify treatment routes in order to enhance the management system through these activities. Waste Generated by New House Construction Waste Generated by Production Sites and Per Unit of Output (per house) (Index) Per unit of outaput index (tons) Waste generated (1,000 tons) (ﬁscal 2007: 100) 5 60 120 100 102.1 50 94.7 96.7 100 4 4.02 91.5 43.6 Per unit of output index 40 39.3 39.5 36.1 80 3 1.95 11.2 36.0 10.4 11.3 8.3 60 New house 30 10.1 Housing Company 60 2.30 2.20 9.6 2.18 construction 2 1.99 8.6 6.4 6.2 Urban InfraPer unit 1.76 site 7.1 1.04 20 structure & of output 40 1.32 1.29 1.20 1.07 Environmental target 1 1.08 19.5 19.5 Products Company 10 20.8 18.4 20 16.6 0.65 0.59 0.75 0.66 High Performance 1.03 0.45 Exterior wall Plastics Company 0 0.33 0.29 0.25 0.26 0.23 plant 0 2.1 1.9 2.1 2.3 2.1 0 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Assembly 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 plant Headquarters Breakdown of Generated Waste Waste Treatment Methods (Overseas) Plasterboard 0.5% Burnt residue 0.5% Oil waste, acidic waste, Others 1.8% alkaline waste 6.9% Metal scrap 3.0% Incineration 7% Wood chips 4.5% Wastepaper 5.3% Landﬁll 22% Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2011 Approx. Sludge 13.2% 36,000 tons 20,000 Plastics waste tons 49.9% Recycling Glass and ceramics scrap 71% 14.3% See Data, p. 2 for scope of summation 10 Amount of Water Extracted for Use at Production Site Amount of Water Extracted for Use (Overseas) (1,000 tons) (1,000 tons) 20,000 4,000 3,577 16,985 16,923 249 287 16,541 16,517 16,413 (Target) 285 288 304 Housing Company 15,287 3,049 15,000 2,344 2,204 1,962 1,842 1,861 3,000 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company 10,000 2,000 12,310 11,924 11,632 11,984 11,369 1,472 High Performance 5,000 Plastics Company 1,000 Headquarters 2,507 2,663 2,403 2,879 0 2,082 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 2009 2010 2011 See Data, p. 2 for scope of summation Environmental Performance in Domestic Offices P14, P15 Verified    Fiscal 2011 Green Purchases Performance (1,000 tons CO2) Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to green purchasing of office supplies 20 for all its departments and branches. 19.0 17.9 (Target) 16.7 17.1 16.2    15 Amount purchased     10    #!     #!  !   5     0 2007 2008 2009 2010  2013 Green Purchase Guidelines Any of those listed under (1)-(4) below: (1) Those satisfying Eco Mark certification        standards (2) Those in compliance with the Law Concerning (10,000 sheets) 1) OA paper (photocopier paper), the Promotion of Procurement of Eco-Friendly 6,000 stationery, office supplies, office Goods and Services by the State and Other automation equipment Entities 5,341  (3) Those covered in the Green Purchasing 5,077 Network’s database 4,866 4,928 (Target) (4) Those covered in catalogs as environment4,273 friendly products Any of those listed under (1)-(5) below: (1) Those satisfying Eco Mark certification 3,000 standards 2) Paper and paper products other (2) Those in compliance with the Law Concerning than OA paper and toilet paper the Promotion of Procurement of Eco-Friendly (forms, inkjet-printer paper, Goods and Services by the State and Other color-printer paper, coated Entities paper, notebooks, vouchers, (3) Those covered in the Green Purchasing business cards, paper used for Network’s database publications such as pamphlets (4) Those covered in catalogs as environmentand catalogs, etc.) friendly products 0 (5) Non-pulp paper or paper consisting of 70% or 2007 2008 2009 2010  2013 more recycled paper, or paper with the highest recycled content for the relevant type The scope of data collection has been revised retroactively to fiscal 2007. 3) Toilet paper 100% recycled toilet paper 11 Atmospheric, Water, and Soil-Related Emissions Note: The Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant is not included in the data below due to the eﬀects of the Great East Japan Earthquake. NOx Emissions Volume Verified SOx Emissions Volume Verified Soot and Dust Emission Volume Verified (tons) (tons) (tons) 600 25 25 Housing Company 500 20 20 Urban Infrastructure & Housing Environmental Products Company 400 Company 15 15 Housing 15 High Performance Urban Company Plastics Company 300 13 Infrastructure & 11 5 10 Urban 10 10 198 189 223 217 Environmental 4 10 Infrastructure & 200 175 Products 3 2 2 1 12 9 6 43 44 Company Environmental 12 9 7 7 6 5 3 3 6 3 Products 5 3 4 1.2 100 High Performance 2 Company 4 174 156 176 173 168 Plastics Company 6 8 High Performance 1 2 2 2.5 0.7 5 5 2 5 2 1 0 0 Plastics Company 0 1 0 1 1 0.6 2 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 COD Discharge Volume Verified Business Site Soil Surveys Verified (tons) Business Site Surveyed Substance Site Survey Results (In Excess of Designated Standards) 80 68 Housing Lead, dichloromethane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane Soil: Yes (lead) 64 62 63 Company Shiga-Ritto Plant 61 1 and one degradation product thereof, dioxins Groundwater: No 60 1 1 1 7 1 7 7 6 7 Lead, cadmium, dichloromethane, Urban Soil: Yes (lead, dioxins) Infrastructure & Tokyo Plant trichloroethylene and two degradation Environmental Groundwater: No 40 products thereof, benzene, dioxins 45 Products 46 43 Company 45 44 Sekisui Aqua Soil: Yes (lead) 20 High Performance Systems Co., Ltd. Lead, dichloromethane Groundwater: No Plastics Company Shizuoka Plant 15 11 Headquarters Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Lead, hexavalent chromium, Soil: Yes (lead, dioxins) 0 10 9 10 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Ota Plant dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, dioxins Groundwater: No In ﬁscal 2011, we conducted surveys compliant with the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law at four business sites. Results of these surveys show levels in excess of soil-contamination standards in parts of the following sites: the Shiga-Ritto Plant, the Tokyo Plant, the Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant, and the Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant. Plans call for conducting countermeasures in accordance with the law at the site with values in excess of soil-pollution standards. Preventing Pollution            (*  ! '$*% () $#*)( %'$  '#. '!!( #  (*  ! '$*% ( ,$' # )$ ) ) )')( $ !! # %'%')$# $' ) %$((!). $ ! ( $ ,(),)' $ ) () # ( '*!)$'. '()')$#( # )$ '* (' $ %$!!*)#)( )'$*  %! #)#(.() $)$'$*%'+#)+#'(%$#(+ (*'($' %%'$%') #)###$#)'$!#%'$ #(%)$#$) , #. #)(  () !($  %! #)( #)') ,(),)' $#)'$!( '#$&*% #))*(( (* ( ### ,(),)' %'$((# %). # ''.# $*) (*'()$! #)%%#%'$! (         $ (($!'*!.,$$%(#)#)$'%!)+.$! Disposal and Storage of Machines and $!' )  (* $' $ ) *#  !#) #()!! **()   ( Equipment that Contain PCBs *#*!!$%')$# ('(*!)('$-(#'('$ ) %'+$*(/(!.' )$')'#($' '(#$##('())$#)# ('#(%$($ ()!.###,)()($',%)#) )') #)!)( (+!! #)$#)()(,) #(#&*% #)))$#)# (# ()$'(*+(' #()')!.#)$'$*!.)'$* #( #!*#!$ ()$'#%'$#(%)$# Environmental Incidents, Complaints, and Emergency Responses Environmental Incidents, Complaints, etc. Verified Emergency Response $1) *(-($% $ $*)*%) *%$)'+$)%-,( $%((*%&(,$**%+(($$)&(%$, (%$#$* %$*# $ *+*%( * )&% $*%+*%$1 $/$*(-(*(%#&  $*) * %$ $ * ,$* % $ #($/ * )* %$ ,(/ /(  % %+( ()* / #& #$* $(+(($&(,$* %$#)+() $()&%$)*% +) $))) *)(( )%+*#($/()&%$)$(&%(* $( )))+# $ **($, (%$#$* ( *%#&  $*) ,( */%/&%**  ))( ,$**%*$*+(%+) $))) * Environmental Related Complaints Emergency Response and Reporting Drills Description Countermeasures Simulated emergency situation Drills performed Noise %#&  $*%$($ $$% )$(* % )$(* %$()*( $*(%+ !$%+*2%-%% ) (%#%(%$*(*(.+)* %-( ** $%,(*%*.+)*%+* * *#%)&(  )(%)% ,$*)   $%((* #&(%,#$*) +*%( * )&% $*%+***%$* $( #& #$* $()&%$)*% $)*(+* %$)  (  %$%$*%. ) ,-)# )  ) )+)(*( $ $%$( ,$* -)$ 0$%$#   *( %+))+)*$3 (+ * %$)$(&%(*)+# **%$ (*'+!  Others * (+#)*$) #($/%##+$ * %$*( $ $ %#&  $*%+*&%))  #*%* ()('+ ( $+** $ $* 1$ &(! $)&%&( ,*%#+*% +* %#&($) , ))*(&(&($))( )  $ $ $*()* $& $*) * ()+*%*( ##&( %  / )&%$ $*%%*('+ &#$*( *#($ ) '+)**%+**()%$) *&(%&(*/ $ (%#$%-%$ 12 Chemical Substances P17 Verified Summation Results Based on the PRTR Law (Calculations have been made for substances with handling volume of one ton or more at the individual business sites surveyed.) (tons)                 !                           Acrylic acid and aqueous salt [4] 12.8 0 0 0 0 0 1.3 12 solutions thereof n-Butyl acrylate [7] 300.5 0.10 0 0 0 0 1.4 299 Acrylonitrile [9] 371.5 1.6 0 0 0 0 0.0090 369 Acetaldehyde [12] 348.5 0.25 0 0 0 0 0 348 Acetonitrile [13] 42.9 3.3 0.45 0 0 0.33 38 0.86 2-Azobisisobutyronitrile [16] 4.7 0 0 0 0 0 0 4.7 2-Aminoethanol [20] 9.0 1.9 0 0 0 0 0 7.2 Antimony and its compounds [31] 29.7 0 0 0 0 0 3.0 0 Isobutyraldehyde [35] 263.1 7.1 0 0 0 0 0 256 Ethylbenzene [53] 2.2 2.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 ε-Caprolactam [76] 56.8 0.017 0 0 0 0 0 57 Xylene [80] 23.2 4.0 0 0 0 0 1.4 18 Vinyl chloride [Special 94] 110,282.0 3.9 0.13 0 0 0 0 110,278 Cobalt and its compounds [132] 1.4 0 1.4 0 0 0 0 0 Vinyl acetate [134] 2.2 0.011 0 0 0 0 0.0010 2.2 Inorganic cyanide compounds [144] 122.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 122 (not including complex salts and cyanate) Cyclohexylamine [154] 7.5 0.43 0 0 0 0 0 7.1 Dichloromethane [186] 359.5 4.7 0 0 0 0 0.56 354 N,N-dimethylacetamide [213] 4.0 0 0 0 1.8 0 2.1 0 N,N-dimenthylformamide [232] 1.9 0.0001 0 0 0 0 0 1.9 Organic tin compounds [239] 80.4 0 0 0 0 0.077 0.46 0 Styrene [240] 1,768.9 40 0 0 0 0 1.9 818 Terephthalic acid [270] 71.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 71 Toluene [300] 1,516.8 401 0 0 0 0 74 793 Lead compounds [Special 305] 507.3 0.0004 0.0034 0 0.021 0 3.5 0 Phenol [349] 103.8 10 0 0 0 0 0 93 Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate [355] 131.3 0 0 0 0 0.12 1.4 0 n-Hexane [392] 171.8 122 0 0 0 0 4.3 46 Benzaldehyde [399] 15.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15 Formaldehyde [Special 411] 80.7 4.8 0 0 0 0 0 76 Manganese and its compounds [412] 9.9 0 0 0 0 0 9.9 0 Methacrylate [415] 146.7 0.83 0 0 0 0 0.0040 146 Methyl methacrylate [420] 86.5 0.81 0 0 0 0 0.012 86 Methylnaphthalene [438] 4.8 0 0 0 0 0 0 4.8 Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) [448] 949.4 4.3 0 0 0 0 0.43 0 = diisocyanate 117,890.2 614 2.0 0 1.8 0.53 143 114,285 Emission and Transfer Volumes by Substance (PRTR Law) Discharge of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) into the Atmosphere (tons) (tons) 800 26 811 3,000 2,936 5 55 730 34 5 677 63 467 34 7 20 659 154 Others 600 8 10 53 5 46 618 Dichloromethane 44 12 49 5 5 Xylene 40 2,000 4 122 Styrene 1,539 1,560 1,585 Housing Company 6 1,498 400 n-Hexane 46 27 119 4 1,397 Urban 153 149 108 4 Infrastructure & (Target) 596 2,401 123 Environmental 1,175 574 584 587 Products Toluene 1,000 Company 200 401 1,380 High Performance 1,336 1,457 1,382 1,267 Plastics Company Headquarters 0 0 14 4 4 4 4 4 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 Note: n-Hexane has been added to subject substances beginning with 2010 ﬁgures, due to amendment of the PRTR Law. 13 Environmental Management P12 ISO 14001 Certified Business Sites Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site2 Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant [Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant] Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyoto R & D Laboratories Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Shiga Plant] Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Roof Systems Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Manufacturing Division] Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant [Hokkaido Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd.] Ryuseki Jyubi Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant Gunma Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Ibaraki Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant [Ibaraki Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd.] Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant Tochigi Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Kydex, LLC. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. ADME & Tox. Research Institute1 General Affairs Department Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui Techno Shoji Higashi Nihon Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Shinetsu Co., Ltd. Eslon B.V. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. [Sekisui Fami S Shinetsu Co., Ltd.] Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE, Schieder Plant Sekisui Alveo B.V. [not including Yamanashi Sales Branch] Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE, Liege Plant Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Yamanashi Sales Branch Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. [Tokyo Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd. Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Pasadena Plant Yamanashi Sales Branch] Yongchang-Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Sekisui Heim Chubu Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Calvert City Plant Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui Heim Sanyo Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Headquarters Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Fami S Chushikoku Co., Ltd.] Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Development Center 2 Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejeon Plant Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Fami S Kyushu Co., Ltd.] YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Cheongwon Plant Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Tosu Plant Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Kanto Plant Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Chiba Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Kanto Plant [ ] : Organizations in parentheses are included in the Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo Plant scope of certification. Some sites not shown above Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo-Takino Plant may include related sections that have attained ISO 14001 certification. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant 1 Eco Action 21; others ISO 14001 Changzhou Zhongji Precision Molding Plastic Co., Ltd. 2 The Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site and Development Center share a single certification. Number of Issues of Concern in Numbers of Persons with Qualifications Verified Environmental Auditing for Fiscal 2011 Verified (for Production sites and Laboratories, as of End of March 2012) (Issues) (persons) Those who Number Correction Undergoing acquired qualifications Aggregate of cases completed correction during total fiscal 2011 Issues of concern 54 41 13 Number of participants Number of internal training course participants 63 685 in Environmental Headquarters Management Systems 31 256 Issues to work on 111 76 35 (EMS) internal auditor Number of external training course participants environmental auditing development/ (12 business sites) Proposals 11 8 3 training courses Total 94 941 Total 176 125 51 Number of participants Number of internal training course participants 15 415 in Occupational Health and Safety Management Auditing by certification body Nonconformity (major) 1 1 0 Systems (OHSMS) internal Number of external training course participants 10 188 auditor development/ Renewal Nonconformity (minor) 1 0 1 training courses Total 25 603 (12 business sites) Registered Qualifications Observations 71 43 28 examiner of Lead Auditor 0 1 the Center of Total 73 44 29 Environmental Auditor 0 1 Auditor Registration Provisional Auditor 0 9 Nonconformity (major) 0 0 0 (CEAR) Surveillance Nonconformity (minor) 10 5 5 Air Classes 1-4 4 51 Qualifications (34 business sites) Observations 140 68 72 Number of persons Pollution Water Classes 1-4 5 94 with major control Total 150 73 77 manager Noise/Vibration 0 42 qualifications Nonconformity (major) 2 0 2 Dioxins 0 1 Internal auditing of business sites Nonconformity (minor) 114 82 32 Certified Environmental Measurer 1 5 (44 business sites; Observations 353 248 105 Energy Managers 0 39 46 audits) Total 469 330 139 Olfactory Measurement Operators 0 1 Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) 26 81 Categories of instructions for Headquarters environmental auditing: Issues of concern: Matters recommended for swift improvement Issues to work on: Matters recommended for planned improvement Proposals: Matters to be considered for improvement, advice 14 CS & Quality P19 24 Business sites acquiring ISO 9000-series Certification Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Housing Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant (integrated certification) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Research & Development Department Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant CS Promotion & Quality Assurance Department Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Technology Department, Production and Construction Sekisui Roof Systems Co., Ltd. Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. (comprehensive certification) Technology Department, Purchasing Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Shiga Plant Sekisui Global Trading Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Osaka Office Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Mechanical Plant Division, Tokyo Office Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Civil Engineering & Water Treatment Division Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Ota Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Hoppou Jyubunka Institute Co., Ltd. Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Eslon B.V. Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. KMG Pipe Technologies G.m.b.H. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de CV. KMG LinerTec G.m.b.H. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Headquarters KMG Pipe Rehabilitation Emirates, LLC. Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. (comprehensive certification) Kydex, LLC. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Chiba Plant Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui-Alveo A.G. Kanto Plant Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. (six sites: G.m.b.H., A.G., S.a.r.L, SpA, S.A., [Benelux] BV) Hyogo Plant Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Hyogo-Takino Plant Yongchang-Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. (Xinjiang) Sekisui Alveo B.V. Izumo Plant Sekisui Refresh Co., Ltd. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Sekisui Engineering Co., Ltd. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Coldwater Plant Sekisui Insurance Service Co., Ltd. Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. YoungBo HPP (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. (Framingham, San Diego, Stamford) Sekisui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Limited Sekisui Virotech G.m.b.H. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. (Calvert City, Pasadena, Dallas HQ) Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Tarragona    !! #  !!   (100 million yen) 400    !! External loss costs : Costs of responding to product-related complaints and claims   Internal loss costs Environmental costs : Costs associated with disposal of defective products generated during manufacturing processes 275.8 Safety loss costs Production costs : Costs necessary for manufacturing, such as raw-material and labor costs (decreased through productivity improvements such as saving of energy and other resources in manufacturing 213.2 processes) 200 Safety loss costs : Costs arising from equipment-related or labor accidents etc. Production costs Environmental costs : Costs for disposal of wastes generated at business sites, and energy costs 124.2 Internal loss costs 0 External loss costs 2008 2009 2010  Flow of “Utilizing Customer Feedback in Management” Collection Hayamimi Reflecting Senior executives and Contact point Customer’s Fields of Manufacturing Development Network feedback related sections Analysis Utilization Product Development Production and Customer’s Opinions planning and design construction feedback Surveys and wishes Needs Categorization Customers Receiving Factor Interviews Complaints complaints Investigation Response analysis Reflecting Other Preventative Measures Resolving dissatisfactions 15 Human Resources Verified Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Group) (persons) Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) (persons) Number of employees 20,855 Number of employees 2,154 By region Male 1,914 Japan 15,747 Female 240 North America, Central and South America 1,483 Europe 1,512 Employees’ Years of Continuous Service (Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) (Years) Asia/Pacific (including China) 2,113 Average years of continuous service 18.4 Male 18.7 Female 16.3 Number of New Graduates Hired and Their Separation Rate in the First Three Years of Employment (Sekisui Chemical) Main Recruitment and Selective-type Training Programs Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Number of parTraining Details ticipants in fiscal Number of new graduates 2011 (persons) hired (persons) 59 30 58 Separation rate within the This program combines intensive courses led first 3 years (%) 6.8 3.3 3.4 by visiting university professors with practical The Saijuku Note: Separation rate within the first 3 years: Calculated as the total of separation rates for School themes so that participants can improve their 37 skills and knowledge to become globally the first, second, and third years for employees hired in the relevant fiscal year, in accororiented leaders. dance with the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s calculation methods Recruitmenttype Training Sending Under this program, employees take courses Results of Intra-group Job Posting Employees for training business professionals at business to Business schools outside of the company. The aim is to 12 Cumulative total Schools Outside work together with human resources outside (gross total) Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 since 2000 the Company the company and to polish up business skills. Recruitments 22 13 207 These intra-group seminars aim to improve (cases) employees’ business skills. Employees can Employees recruited SelectiveOpen Seminars select freely seminars on skills that meet their 144 (persons) 44 18 440 type Training needs, to acquire skills that can be applied (gross total) immediately to their daily work. Applicants 58 72 1,026 (persons) Employees transferred (persons) 19 13 225 Percentage of Women Among New-graduate Hires Career Plan Training by Age P30 (%) Total 30s 40s 50s Number of 40 Participants Continuing to Themes by Age SelfMarket value work even after 30 Groups establishment 27 retirement 25 Recognition Affirmation of Aiming to 20 21 of abilities and specialization, keep working interviews with values, and the at age 65 and Training Contents superiors on meaning of thinking about career-related work succession 10 matters Number of 0 Participants in 76 139 69 284 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal 2010 (persons) (Entering FY 2010) (Entering FY 2011) (Entering FY 2012) Total Number of Participants as of 1,685 1,514 802 4,001 Fiscal 2011 (persons) Usage of Main Systems Raising Next Generation (Sekisui Chemical) P32 Overview of 3-Year Development Program for Young Employees System Main content Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Programs available Summary 2009 2010 2011 Career planning and interviews with superiors on careerAnnual career During After returning Leave which previously extended related matters, both held at the end of each fiscal year (third only until the child was a year and 30 22 training year: interviews with HR career advisors) Childcare leave a half old now extends to the end 42 (including (including Learning from a choice of business English, administrative of the month of the child’s third 11 males) 8 males) Business skills birthday. technologies, accounting, logical thinking, communication, training etc. childcare leave to work Training for Checking up on the basics of development of subordinates Shortened Payment period that previously and on career interview methods extended until the child was three 21 superiors working years old now extends until the 18 17 (including hours 1 male) child starts fourth grade. Percentage of Challenged Persons Employed Three days of special paid leave (Sekisui Chemical) Other support per year granted until the child or grandchild starts high school (this (%) Family leave leave can be taken for reasons 130 96 98 2.40 2.4 such as childbirth-related events, 2.17 2.17 2.18 parents day, athletic meets, and 2.06 2.12 2.03 1.97 PTA meetings) 1.8 Legally stipulated rate Total number of persons using these systems 190 143 141 1.2 0.6 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 16 /7 97 3  9   <  (Persons) 300 ' 220 200 149 100 0 2009 2010 ! Safety P33 Verified &   1 4 0$ 0     (Million yen)                         Health and safety measures, rescue and protective equipment, measurement of work environment, 1) Costs within business-site areas health management, workers’ accident compensation insurance, etc. 799 1,680 2) Administrative costs Establishment and implementation of OHSMS, safety education, personnel costs, etc. 1,426 3) Other Safety awards etc. 3 Total 2,228 1,680 1 Data above include 46 production sites/4 laboratories + all departments of Headquarters + back offices of division companies.    4   + Investment and expense amounts (100 million yen) Rate (%) (million yen) 25 )( 10 400 #(&  Proportion of 371 22.5 health, safety 22.0 and accident326 20.7 20.8 # 20 19.8 prevention 8 investments 300 to the total 274 7.0 & ( investment 250 6.5 amount 15 5.7 6.0 6 Expense 200 11.9 amount 4.1 12.0 10 9.8 4 9.2 9.8 Investment amount 100 5 2 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ! 2007 2008 2009 2010 ! 2 Loss costs: Expenses, including man-hours, required to respond to occupational accidents, equipment accidents, commuting accidents, and long-term illness absences ,3 57     4 ,3 5  5 4 4 /7 9 :* 8 % ( 4 #  4 2   +  $  8 6    8 6  (Cases) (Cases) (Cases) 3 60 61 100 !$ 95 92 87 86 50 80 47 45 43 2 40 $ 60 30 40 1 1 20 10 20 0 0 0 0 ! 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 ! 2007 2008 2009 2010 ! 2007 2008 2009 2010 ! 3 Equipment-related accident: 4 Extended sick leave: 5 Number of Cases: Any accident that meets one or more of the following conditions This refers to a new absence of 30 calendar days or longer due Total number of cases with damages incurred and inflicted (1) – (3) (Sekisui Chemical Group standards): to illness or injury. Reoccurrences within six months of returning (including self-injury and property damage) (1) Personnel-related damage: business interruption with 30 lost to work are not included in the above count. Absences due to working days or more occupational injury are not considered extended sick leave. (2) Property damage: 10 million yen or more (3) Loss of opportunity: 20 million yen or more 17 % 3  4+    0 .     4+  !  0 .  1.5 0.3 1.09 1.12  !% 1.0 0.99 0.98 0.2 0.184 Average of domestic 0.77 manufacturing industry$ 0.56 0.48 0.10 0.10 0.09 ! !( 0.5 0.1 0.08 0.33 Average of domestic manufacturing !  industry$ Sekisui Chemical 0.021 0.016 0.020 Group# ! !!( Sekisui Chemical 0 0 Group# 2007 2008 2009 2010 ! 2007 2008 2009 2010 ! 1 Frequency rate = (deaths and injuries in occupational accidents/work-hours in the aggregate) × 1,000,000 2 Severity rate = (number of workdays lost/work-hours in the aggregate) × 1,000 3 Sekisui Chemical Group data: 46 production sites and four R&D laboratories 4 Source of information for Japanese manufacturing industry: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare “Survey on Industrial Accidents”  1 4* 1   & 2 4  1 4* 1   ,/ 1          0 .     *0  4      0 .  (Accidents) (Accidents) 30 30 23 21  20 20 20 19 13 16 9 16 14  11 13 # 8 15 10 9 10 8 ' ' 12 6 6 6 5 12 1 Work not 10 ) 3 3 1 shut down 8 8 5 7 5 & 5 4 % Work shut down 0 2 0 3 3 2007 2008 2009 2010 ! 2007 2008 2009 2010 ! Number of non-loss time accidents in the New Construction sector The number of accidents represents the total for the following four companies: Number of non-loss time accidents in the Fami S sector Sekisui Hometechno Co., Ltd., Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd., Sekisui Aqua Tec Co., Ltd., and Kyushu Number of loss time accidents in the New Construction sector Sekisui Kenzai Co., Ltd. Number of loss time accidents in the Fami S sector  1-   0$ 0  )  *0       0 .  (Accidents) 80 2008 66 2009 &# 60 2010 58 2011 45 40 $! 33 31 27 20 15 13 6 8 3 2 $ 0  Europe U.S./Mexico Asia/Australia China Compliance P55 Verified Major Training Programs Implemented in Fiscal 2011 Training Trainees Number of Trainees Training for new managers New Sekisui Chemical Group managers 197 Periodic training Training for new employees New Sekisui Chemical employees 53 Basic compliance training Group companies Approx. 670 Anti-monopoly Law training Sekisui Chemical Group sales depertments 31 Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. Sekisui Chemical Group managers, manufacturing 64 Area-specific training to Subcontractors training depertments Consumer/Product Liability Law training Group companies 46 Harassment-prevention training Group companies 44 Basic contract training Group companies 44 Rank-based training Compliance training for leaders in manufacturing sections Sekisui Chemical Group manufacturing depertments 43 Sekisui Chemical Group managerial sections, business Training on overseas bribery regulations 65 depertments Global training Basic training for “Global Talents” Personnel engaged in international business 14 Training prior to overseas assignment Personnel scheduled for overseas assignment 3 18 Nature Conservation and Social Contribution P59 62 Recipients of Fiscal 2011 Sekisui Chemical Grants for Research on Manufacturing Based on Innvations Inspired by Nature Researcher Affiliation/University, Title Supported Research Theme Professor Development of Morphology-Retaining Carbonization method and creation of NanoGraduate School of Engineering, Kyoto University Kazuo Akagi Structure Controlled helical graphite learning from flower charcoal Professor Advanced Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku University Production of friction-control surfaces through biomimetic design and self-organization Masatsugu Shimomura Professor Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The University of Building artificial precision supramolecules using Van der Waals force Shuichi Hiraoka Tokyo Professor Generation of high-performance biomass polymers with advanced chiral control Graduate School of Engineering, Hokkaido University Seiichi Taguchi learning from the microbial polyester synthesis mechanism Associate Professor Institute for Protein Research, Osaka University Molecular structures for promoting flowering, learning from plants Chojiro Kojima Professor Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chiba Signal-transmission mechanisms learning from plant components: seeking a natural Masami Ishibashi University substance to control wnt signaling Associate Professor Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, Osaka Efficient decomposition of plant biomass under cold-temperature conditions, learning Mitsuhiro Ueda Prefecture University from earthworms, and its applications Professor Producing a new light-reactive functional film by learning from the microscopic Faculty of Science and Technology, Ryukoku University Kingo Uchida stereostructure of biosurfaces Group Leader, Interconnection Design Group, Hybrid Naoe Hosoda Materials Unit, Environment and Energy Materials Division, Development of an underwater adhesive through insect mimetics National Institute for Materials Science Note: University affiliations shown are current as of the time grant was provided. Examples of Main Nature Conservation Activities Conducted in Fiscal 2011 Activity Site Program Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Sekisui Nature Study Joint activity site by Kansai-area sites Site nature-conservation activities with close connections to the community Course Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Joint activity by Kansai-area sites Kyoto Prefecture Sen Forest preservation activities Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Lake Shinji cleanup, Izumo Plant Children’s Nature Study Course Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kanto Sekisui Children’s Nature Study Course Tokyo Headquarters Biodiversity-preservation volunteer activities Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Nature Study Course Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Children’s Nature Study Course Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Development of Sekisui Forest Business site activities Gunma Plant Gunma Children’s Nature Study Course Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Group Children’s Nature Study Course Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui biotope autumn-leaf tour Tokyo Headquarters Tree-planting activities at Umi-no-Mori (Sea Forest) in Tokyo Tokyo Plant Tokyo Plant Children’s Nature Study Course Kyoto Site Katsuragawa nature tour Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Forest-preservation activities at Wakayama Prefecture Sekisui Chemical Forest Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Shikoku Sekisui Nature Study Course Charitable Contributions Verified Others 3% International exchange and cooperation 5% Environment 8% Local communities and social welfare 8% Contributions: Disaster relief 228 million yen 39% Academia, research, and education 37% 19 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management System CSR Committee/Subcommittee Structure Environmental Management System President Board of Directors CSR Committee Reporting/Discussion Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of environmental matters at each division company; General Managers of environmental Chairperson: President sections; Head of R&D Center CSR Committee Members: Division Company Presidents, Headquarters Directors, and Division companies Environmental Employee Representatives (three Environmental sections at each division company Subcommittee Employee Representatives: the chairperson of the Labor Union, a Production sites Environmental sections CS & Quality Representative of Female Subcommittee Employees, and a representative of Sales companies Environmental sections employees of aﬃliate companies) Environment Safe environment Human Resources Energy Environment brainstorming management Subcommittee officers’ meeting managers’ meeting sessions Safety officers’ meeting Subcommittee Headquarters Compliance Subcommittee Environmental Management Group, CSR Department CS & Quality Management System HR System President CSR Committee President CS & Quality Subcommittee Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of CS & Quality at each division CSR Committee company; General Managers of CS & Quality sections; Head of Productivity Innovation Center Division companies HR Subcommittee CS & Quality sections at each division company Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of HR at each Quality management sections division company; Production sites Head of R&D Center Sales companies Technology Department Customer Information & Consulting Services Division Company/Corporate After-sales Customer Information & service sections Consulting Services HR sections at each division company Each HR sections at production sites, labor-management Headquarters laboratories, sales facilities, committee CS Group, CSR Department affiliates, etc. Total Manufacturing Management Center, Quality Management Group Customer Information & Consulting Services Safety System Compliance Management System President President CSR Committee CSR Committee Development of countermeasures for individual Discussion of Sekisui Chemical Group’s basic policies on compliance issues, Safety Subcommittee compliance and formulation of measures to be consideration of measures to Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of R&D Center implemented in areas such as education and training prevent their reoccurrence, etc. Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of Safety at each division company; General Managers of Safety sections; Compliance Subcommittee Head of Productivity Innovation Center Subcommittee Chairperson: Compliance Head of CSR Department Reporting Advisory Board Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of compliance at each (to address Division companies division company; Headquarters Directors; problems that have General Manager, Corporate Audit actually occurred) Safety sections at each division company Department Promotion of policies and Production sites Sections in charge of safety measures discussed in the Subcommittee and other Reporting Instruction and communication Construction companies Sections in charge of safety matters Headquarters /Division companies Promotion and Compliance development Compliance of measures Headquarters Promotion Promotion Manager Committee (person responsible Total Manufacturing Management Center, Safety Group Reporting for promotion) 20 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management Policies Sekisui Chemical Group “Environmental Management Policy” Mission %$& #!& %!! '#!  %! & #%%! %#&%$%!%#+%! !$&$% $!%**  % ! % &!&$#!(% !)$% !!!* %! !* Basic Policy !  * %$& #!& ' $ #!$%%! %#&%%!% #' %! !!(# % #$#'%! !!! '#$%* %! $%#&%! !#* $$!%* !& %#$ #! $(#%*'! #%! $ !##%!'%$&%&#% !#!&##  %&%&# ! %#&%%!% '#!  %%#!&!&# #!&%$ $#'$(%! $#%! ' %!% '#!  % $%$!% #!&%* #!#$#%! #!&# % #!&%! $$&$ $ !$$($% ##*!&% '#!  %*! $!&$&$ $$%'%$ !&#(!# $ !,$  #!!%!&# #!%!% '#!  %%#!& !! #%! (%!&#&$%!#$ &$ $$ #% #$ -!#%$%!#&% '#!  % %!# !&$$$$! $ +#!&$$% %! #' % !&%! * #!!%  %-%'&$!%#$!&#$  #* !$#'%#%($#&%! $ %# %! #&$% -!#%$%! #!' '#!  %! $!&$ $$%#!&&%!  ' ! % & #!' %$*$%% !&#!( !%'$  %#%$   ! . %#!&!$!& %! $(%$!%* #$$'*(!#! $!! %#&%! %'%$$&$ %&#! $#'%! %'%$ #!  Sekisui Chemical Group “CS & Quality Management Policy” Mission %$& #!& ! $#A /? &%*B$!&# %#!  %!  % (! $$% %* !'%%! % %@&%*! #!&%$%#!&!&%!&#%'%$! % &!&$* #!''&$1 #!&%$ $#'$2%%%&$%!#) %%! $$%#'!#$%! *!&# &$%!#$!  ! ! $$ '!  #!((%%&$%!#!'#%! % Basic Policy %$& #!& ! $#A &$%!#0$9B$ #!&$#$!&#$!#  % $%#'%! !'%!&%A? &%*!> #!&%$B A? &%*!> ! B A? &%*!*$%$B$! %!%%!A! $#&$%!#0$$%  !!&# &%&# B9&#%#!# (! %#&%%!%#+%! !$ C& %$!%**! % &!&$* #!' !&#&$%!#$ %#!& %$(% ('& 1. Ensuring Basic Qualities !  $&# % #%*   $%* ! !&#  &%&# #!&%$ ( !# % $$ ! A> #!&% ? &%*B ( -%'* '# &$%!#0$  %!&#$'$(%$%#!  !#$%  * !% %%#!&  #' %  *&%&##&## %#!&!&%!&# %# '&  2. Creating Attractive Qualities %!$#%!%! '&$!!&#&$%!#$*%!#!&* &#$& A(%%&$%!#$'&B ! $% %*#% %%#%' #!&%$  $#'$%%$!&#+$&&$%!#'&$ 3. Upgrading Technological Capabilities 9!#%$! $&# 8 $? &%$ !##% 7%%#%'? &%$(#& # !&#% !! %$ .$ !##%! '$& # &%&# '!  % 4. Enhancing Communications '&!& %! (%!&#&$%!#$ %!& %* $ #-!#%$(  (%%$($! * (%% #' %($ #&%! $ !& %#* #!  $  $$! #$!' &$%!#!  %$!#$% #*$%* #$ !   #! %*  %%* 5. Providing Thorough Employee Education !   % %&%#&$%  #$$! !!&#&$%!#$( #!' !*$(%! % &!&$ /? &%*&%! $($!%'%  !&# !*$%!'$#+%! %#!&&$%!#$%$%!  21 Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Resources and Human Rights Policy” Mission 6$! !&#%%> !*$# #!&$$$%$$%!(! &$*$!%*?(%$& #!& #!%%%!'!     '#!  %(# !*$ (!# %&$$%*$!!-#'#!&$! !#%& %$%#!&((  '& !*$  %# A$ %$B #!( #$! * %%#! %! %%%$!&#$!#$ ! $%*%! #!%% '&& #%$(#$ %%'#$%* #$! %*  '&%*! #$!   #!!%'#!&$(!# $%*$$($#% $ $&#(!# '#!  %$ #$ ! $%!! %! $ !& %#* #!  Basic Policy on Human Resources Basic Policy on Human Rights 1. Creating opportunities to take on challenges 1. Respect for human rights and the prohibition of discrimination   !&#  !*$ %! A !$%'* $% %# !(  !$   8  (#!!&# !$%! $!!# !#%%+ (#$ % #$$'*%!%!  $B  '&& #%$  '#! '!'  *! &% 2. Culture where employees learn and grow on their own %%%%!$# %!   $%#' %!  # !&# &%! 3%#   #!#$   '!   2  '#$# %! %#!& $!#!!# # & &%&#(# !*$#  #!(! %#!(  #!  %! %*!#$!!#  #! #%*!#!%#$%%&$!# *$# 3. Enhancement of the performance-based remuneration system ##%! $$   $+ !&#  !*$0 #$!  !% %   $%#' %! 2 ! !%!%& #%$&$$$&$#$!#% %!'!  ! $% %*  #!' % # $$    %  ! !&# $$$$ % #! !&%&#$%$$ #%!  %%! &* !#$# $*$%##  #!#   #!$$$ ! &% 4. Acceptance of various working styles 2. Prohibition of harassment #$ %'#!&$'&$6'! (!# $(#'#* !*  '# !% $)& #$$ % !# !%# %! $ %% $%    (!# (%  %&$$6      !*$ '    #$! #%# %(  (!# 2 ! !%!%$)&#$$ %!# *! &%%%% 5. Creating safe and secure work environments $& #$%!!$$)&#$$ %  #!!% !*$0%   %  %%# 2 ! !%$&$% !(#!$& #!# !$%!  !#&$ * & !#! &%%%!&$)&* !* * #$! : %! ( #' % !%# !*$#!&$ $&!- $' &!#! &% 3. Prohibition of forced labor and child labor $ '# %!#!#!#!#  *!& %#*!##!  2  ! * (% % ($ !# %  & (!#     !%# #' %#&%! $ !& %#* #!  ! !%&$!# 2 ! !%##*!&% *!#!!#!#  *!!&#!# !#% %'%$ 4. Respect for basic labor rights  #$ % $ !# #%$  &  % #% ! (!##$ %! !# + %!#  !# (%%($ &$%!$! !& %#*!##!  ! !% # ! %$#%$ Sekisui Chemical Group “Safety Policy” Mission %$& #!& #! +%% !*$%*$$$ %%!' $&$% #!(%%!> &#? %# #$ %%$%$$$ $&#(!# '#!  %$ $%&%#&$%!%$&$%!#$ %!& %*$($%$ !*$ Basic Policy 6$! %!  %!&  %*%%>'#*! $ '&?(> #!#%+$%*!'# *% $?$$#& !!&#&$ $$%'%$ #!'!  % #!&%! ! $%#&%! %!$#' #!%%%! #!!% ! # $'$%*%'%$(%%!' +#!  &$%# %$%* %$!&%  %$!#! %#$' $%#'%!'! $ !!#%(!# (#'#*! $% #!!% %*  *$*($!&%!!!% !#!!&# !*$(!(*'& %!#!&*$$ %%#=&# %$! #  % $%*3$$%# #' %! %!!&# !*$%! $&#!   ##*!&%#$$$$$ %  #!!%#$#&%! $&#$ $*$%%(*%! %+#!&$%!#$%%! #!$%  $%*3$$%# #' %!  $%#'%!#$(# $$## % $%*3$$%# #' %! %#!& !*&%! 3%#    #!!%! % &!&$ #!'  %$*$%% '!& %#*!%'$3!$  #!%'*$!$ * $$#* !#%! $($ #'!%#&$%*' !$!& %! (% & $%#%! $  !!& %$ Sekisui Chemical Group “Social Contribution Policy” 5$!!!# !#%%+ (%$& #!&   %'%$%%!&$! %> '#!  %?%>:)% #%! ? >9! !& %$? ! %#&% !%! *%!&$ $$%'%$&%$!%!$!%* 5 !*$(!# !#%$& #!& # #!%'* '!' %$!%* %$!%%%* $#'$ #!  %&  #$!&#$ $!%*$(8 %! %#%'%$#$& !#%*!  *!%#!&  !##%! #%$* #$%-%$ $%$3#'$<#445 22 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Building) URL http://www.sekisui.co.jp For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Email: csr@sekisui.com This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOC) and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in the printing process. In addition, waterless printing, which generates no hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding process. Published: June 27, 2012. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 29, 2011. Next edition planned for publication: June 2013
