NOVEMBER 2012 COP February 28, 2012 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer. I am pleased to confirm that Quality Industries reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Jefferson Mayfield President/CEO Human Rights  During our interviewing process, orientation, and our company handbook we emphasize our company’s intention to support the law of the land with emphasis on human rights. Our policies prohibit discrimination in hiring practices and promotion and advancement of all individuals. Quality Industries is an equal opportunity employer.  We train all employees on their rights as prescribed by law and in our company handbook. If concerns are voiced or made known then we promptly investigate and make final disposition. We post in our break rooms the process of reporting concerns. We also post in the area where applicants apply for employment.  We have annual training and evaluations. We also document any concerns in our Human Resource records. Labor  Our company handbook and policies state the right for collective bargaining. Our handbooks cover policies concerning our employee rights and compensation and responsibilities. We assess labor related risks. We have a dedicated resource that monitors and mandates environmental and safety risks. We will continue to refine our employee handbook as needed and incorporate the Global Compact.  We have an open door policy to capture and grievances. We have had our yearly training on rights and policies. We measure areas of performance and generate corrective actions as needed. We continually monitor waste streams, incoming materials for any abnormalities. We also track safety issues and prevention. To prevent discrimination for pay we adhere to the law, our policies, and benchmark area industries. Our Human Resource department is responsible for the training and understanding for all employees company wide. They also receive training on regular basis on legal and moral aspects of the law. We have three members of SHRM.  We maintain and report to authorities our demographics by gender, ethnicity, age, etc. We review and hold accountable any violations to our law and policies. Investigations are made internally, with legal council as required. We update senior management on regular basis. Environment  We have a fulltime environmental specialist on staff. We also utilize independent third party analysis of data. We submit federal, state and local reporting accurately and on time. We continually measure our waste stream on incoming and outgoing materials. Our policies mandate evaluation of all hazardous material both current and new. We monitor any hazardous materials in our supplier’s materials. We mandate that our suppliers report any potential hazardous materials so that we may evaluate the viability of its use. We will continue to refine our policies and educate ourselves on new environmental mandates, issues and concerns.  We perform annual training on environmental concerns. We also train in the use of any newly introduced process or chemicals. We recycle wood products, metals, batteries, light bulbs, cardboard. We separate our waste stream by law. We changed our paint pretreatment to a substance that is more environmentally friendly. We have introduced energy saving light bulbs. Our paint chemicals now require less energy. We have gone to more environmentally friendly paint to reduce VOC’s. We produce product for the solar and biomass industries. We ask our suppliers to submit products that are environmentally friendly. Our environmental manager monitors, documents all findings and submits to authorities, senior management and employees.  We test, document and respond to all required environmental agencies. We work with our customers and suppliers on their waste streams. Anti-Corruption  We utilize a CPA auditing firm to prevent any corruption in business practices. They report findings to our Board of Directors and government agencies annually. We advise employees on internet corruption. We have a designated company ombudsman that advises our Board of Directors and Senior management.  We will implement policies related corruption in our revised company handbook. We will train employees in the aspects and requirements to protect all affected parties. Our ombudsman will continue to intermediate between all parties.  Any reported corruption will be dealt with in accordance with company policy and external authorities. We have external auditors to validate our financials.
