Communication on Progress Shop Direct Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report ir HOME m~k 1 HUMAN RIGHTS the united principle 1 businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally-proclaimed human rights; and nations principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. labour global principle 3 businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; principle 4 compact ten the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; principles principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) environment principle 7 businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; is the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative. The UNGC issues Ten Principles on Human Rights, Labour Standards, principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and the Environment and Corruption. Membership of the UNGC requires companies to issue a ‘Communication on Progress’ report annually. principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. This report is our SIXTH COP and it outlines Shop Direct Group’s activities in support of these Ten Principles ANTI-corruption principle 10 businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. HOME ir ir m~k m~k 3 2 CONTENTS INDICATORS AND GRADING CLICK ON A FEATURE BELOW TO GO STRAIGHT TO YOUR DESIRED CONTENT SYSTEM At the end of this report you will find a marking scheme. The purpose of this scheme is for us to rate how well we believe we are performing in each reporting area, ranging from legal compliance to best practice. 4 10 Where we have not marked ourselves as best practice or good, we intend to raise standards accordingly. In deciding on indicators for this COP once CEO Forward and support for Our Community again we have chosen our own system. Nevertheless, this was done after using as reference the Ethos Indicators and GRI methodology. the Global Compact Moreover, we will continue to monitor best practice in the CR and sustainability reporting industry and adapt our own indicators and reporting 11 accordingly. 5 The CR BOARD Presenting positive body image and design ethics 12 Assurance After this report is published it will be volunteered for 6 Responsible Lending peer-review by a randomly-selected group of corporate members LABOUR PRINCIPALS and observers of the UK Network of the UN Global Compact. 13 7 HOW DID WE DO? Any suggested changes will be made and the report will be re-submitted (if needed) to the UNGC following the Peer-Review Process. Human Resources 14 Prior to publishing, there was also assessment by a wide variety of stakeholders including Shop Direct Group colleagues, customers, suppliers and NGOs and in this regard, a variety of stakeholder comments appear at the end of the report. 8 Stakeholder Engagement * This Communication on Progress predominantly refers to activities and progress during 2011. However, some individual commentaries include activity begun during 2012 ENVIRONMENT/Energy Consumption/Recycling/ Transport/Health and Safety 9 Corruption, Governance & Transparency HOME ir ir m~k m~k 4 FOREWORD Highlights We support the United Nations Global Compact and are committed to ongoing engagement with the largest and fastest growing CR initiative in the world. We strive to abide by the Ten Principles in all our Our Customers: • All own brand goods ethically and environmentally manufactured business operations. • Over 440 audits and revisits carried out at factories • No goods sourced from countries where there are UN trade sanctions or embargoes • Creation of expert Financial Services team for vulnerable customers A year on since the last report we still see the challenges of the recession our drive for excellence in community giving. The foundation will support on the UK economy and as a result, our customers in particular are feeling children and families in the areas in which we operate. the impact. This will be the last forward I write as CEO of Shop Direct Group as I Our Colleagues: • Launch of a Management and Skills Training Calendar, giving access to over 30 courses Whilst this harsh environment has proved challenging for our business, our announced in January 2012 that I will be seeking new challenges • Implementation of a Leadership Development Programme ­over 1000 managers have now taken part commitment to remaining a good corporate citizen has never wavered. elsewhere. The advances that we have made in our Corporate Social • Continuation of Helping Hand matched giving programme We remain active members of the UN Global Compact and our key Responsibility work are amongst some of my proudest achievements and • Maintained BSI OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety accreditation priority areas, the Future Focus Ten, continue to influence the ethical way I truly believe that CSR is becoming enshrined into the business and will that we do business. continue to be so as the Group evolves and develops. Over the past year we have demonstrated real progress in a range of key Finally, I would like to state publically my thanks to colleagues across the Our Community: • Creation and launch of the Shop Direct Group Charitable Foundation areas. Particularly pleasing is the 33.9% decrease in our gas consumption, Group for their dedication in support of the UN Global Compact. • Successful partnership with Parklands High School as well as the impressive number of colleagues who have taken part in • Continuation of Christmas toy donation initiative our bespoke management development programmes. This year also Mark Newton-Jones • Launch of employee volunteering programme saw the launch of the SDG Foundation, a fundamental component of Our Planet: Group Chief Executive • Reduction in electricity consumption by 7.5% • Gas usage reduced by 33.9% • Since 2010 there’s been a reduction in waste to landfill of 41% • Significant reduction in business travel air travel CO2 emissions reduced by 947,417kg FUTURE FOCUS 10 Energy consumption Recycling Publication paper & direct mail Transport £ Ethical sourcing, labour, human rights & animal welfare £ £ £ Community £ £ £ Responsible lending £ £ £ Corruption, governance & transparency Health & safety HR, diversity & equal opportunities HOME ir ir m~k m~k The Influence of the Global Compact on our business Respect for the Global Compact principles binds together our activities in CR and sustainability and gives us a simple to use and simple to understand framework for action and measurement. Reporting on the Ten Principles ensures we report comprehensively across all our business impacts. The writing of a COP increases our competitiveness as it serves as a public and very visible record of progress and therefore focuses our actions and planning in multiple business critical areas. The production of a COP has also aided employee understanding of our business and by mapping our impacts has helped identify cost savings and opportunities to increase efficiencies. We also believe that the adoption and respect of the Ten Principles gives us a renewed licence to operate among the communities within which we work, as well as with our customers, colleagues, suppliers and wider stakeholders. HOME ir ir m~k m~k 5 the cr board Created in 2008 and chaired by JAMES EVANS, GROUP COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR, the CR Board sets and oversees the arena of corporate responsibility and sustainability. The CR Board is made up of NINE executive members and meets quarterly. Rob Hardman Michael Spenley James Evans Jacqui Humphries Tony Jowett John Pears Peter Johnson Daniel Rogers Head of New Business Head of Corporate Group Communications Group People Director Managing Director SDGS Credit Risk & Operations Head of Internal Audit Head of Group and International Responsibility Director Director Property & Facilities HOME ir ir m~k m~k Michael Spenley 6 Michael SPENLEY BLOG VIDEO If you would like more information about our audit programme, please click here to see a video of a visit to a factory in the Ukraine CLICK HERE The SDG monitoring programme found no cases of forced labour in 2011. Labour £ Monitoring: principles Overall in 2011 we maintained our actions in support of Principles 2, 4 & 5 In 2011 the Group CR Board and Governance Forum ratified the following KPI: We ensure that all factories manufacturing Shop Direct Group own-brand direct product are ethically and environmentally audited every two years. Human Rights Audits were conducted in Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Czech Republic, Eire, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, We conducted a global program of ethical and environmental factory audits to ensure there were no abuses of human rights in our factory base. Romania, Slovakia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Turkey, UK, Ukraine and Vietnam. We increased our compliance score for ownMoreover, we did not source from any country where there are UK Government, EU or UN mandated trade sanctions or embargoes. brand product sourced through our own offshore offices by 2% points to 98%. Forced Labour We take forced labour very seriously. The Shop Direct Ethical & Environmental Code of Conduct states the following: Number of SDG Ethical & Environmental audits conducted “We will not tolerate forced labour, bonded labour or labour which involves physical or mental abuse. This means that suppliers must not use or threaten workers with any physical punishment, verbal or sexual harassment or dominate or restrain workers by force, authority or threats. Workers must not be required to lodge “deposits” or their identity papers with their employer and they must be free to leave their employer after reasonable notice.” Audits and Revisits No cases of forced labour were found by SDG factory auditors in 2011. (Projected) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Child Labour SDG has a zero tolerance approach to child labour. The Shop Direct Ethical & Environmental Code of Conduct states the following: 100 300 400 500 440 450 “Exploitation of child labour is totally unacceptable under any circumstances. Suppliers must not employ any person under the minimum legal working age applicable to their country and under no circumstances must they employ anybody under the age of 14 years.” No cases of child labour were found by SDG factory auditors in 2011. HOME ir ir m~k m~k In 2011 the Compliance Direct team worked hard to ensure close to 100% compliance and continuous improvement for all suppliers of SDG own-brand product sourced via our offices in the UK, India, China, Bangladesh and Thailand. Compliance Direct HK Ltd Throughout 2011, Compliance Direct (an independent Shop Direct Group company) was responsible for all SDG ethical & environmental factory audits. Animal welfare SDG operates a strict no fur policy as well as firm guidelines on the use of skins based on industry best practice. Ethical product policies SDG has strict policies on own-brand Timber Sourcing, Diamond Sourcing and Design Ethics. Partnerships The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) We are active members of the Global Compact and the Global Compact UK Network. We committed approximately ten days to UNCG activities in 2011. Conclusion Despite challenges, over the course of the year the Compliance Direct team improved compliance by 2% points to 98% for direct own-brand factories. In 2012 we are committed to a full review of the programme that will benchmark activities against peer group companies in the UK and abroad. HOME ir ir m~k m~k Jacqui Humphries s h ip D e v e lo p m e n t Leader at Sh£op Direct 7 £ HUMAN RESOURCES principle 3 upholding the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Since 2007 the overall principle 6 engagement score has supporting the el imination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation increased from 51% to 74% The retail industry is fast moving and making Next year we will create a succession plan that and non-vocational, including European increased from 51% to 74% an improvement an improvement of 23%. sure each of our colleagues has a flexible and diverse range of skills is as important to the will identify and develop our colleagues with potential to take on bigger jobs. This will help Computer Driving Licence (ECDL) courses. SDG has continued to invest in on-going of 23%. This increase in employee engagement is across all areas of the business: This increase in employee future of our business as it is to the people who work for us. retain key people and enable the business to prepare for future success and growth. colleague health and well-being programmes aimed at promoting healthy eating and Contact Centres +30%, Financial Services +24%, Head Office +18% and Warehousing engagement is across all We have successfully implemented a We have also increased our commitment to exercise. Activities have included supporting charity sporting events such as the Race For & Returns +12% with the overall improvement for SDG of +23%. areas of the business Leadership Development programme this year the Modern Apprenticeships scheme and are Life, weight management programmes, walking that has established the style of leadership we engaged with a number of learning providers groups, discount gym memberships and stress The headcount (SDG colleagues only) across our expect and has developed the skills of all those for our advisors in Contact Centres, Warehousing awareness sessions. Warehouses, Contact Centres, Clearance Stores, who hold a senior management role in SDG. & Returns and Financial Services; we have Financial Services and Head Office is 7000 To date around 550 managers have over 1100 colleagues currently studying for a The results of the colleague engagement survey people. participated in the programme with an vocational qualification in these parts of our continue to improve. We have been completing additional 300 due to attend. We will also be business. We have also worked closely with the annual ‘Your Shout’ survey since 2007 with introducing the programme to our first line the Trade Unions to provide lifelong learning the latest survey undertaken in June 2011. managers over the next 12 months. opportunities in a variety of skills, both vocational Since 2007 the overall engagement score has HOME ir ir m~k m~k workforce per BUSINESS AREA Data as at 01 Jan 2012 SDG Colleagues only shop direct 1500 1200 34.2% 36.6% population 900 19.3% SEGMENTS “As our business transformation continues and we adapt to the 600 300 8.3% shift in how our customers wish to shop with us, we have put in 1.6% place a number of changes, some of which have had an impact on our employee headcount. We continue to work with our people 0 and our trade union partners to manage these changes.” t ds al ad s ac ci He rn nt oo an tu Co ew Fin fic e Re tl & Lit s es Of ng re ic si nt e rv ou Ce nc Se p ra eh ou ea ar Cl W Gr & workforce by age ETHNIC GROUPS WITHIN GENDER POPULATION SPLIT Data as at 01 Jan 2012 SDG Colleagues only SHOP DIRECT GROUP Data as at 01 Jan 2012 SDG Colleagues only Data as at 01 Jan 2012 SDG Colleagues only 1200 1000 WHITE 72.1% MALE 800 NOT DECLARED 15.2% 42% 600 FEMALE MIXED 0.3% 58% 400 CHINESE OR OTHER 0.8% BRITISH 1.4% 200 BLACK OR BLACK BRITISH 2.1% ASIAN OR ASIAN BRITISH 8.1% 0 DER 21 30 40 50+ UN 30 40 50 21 HOME ir ir m~k m~k Electricity Usage Dan Rogers Dan During 2011, we successfully achieved a 7.5% reduction in our electricity consumption through the introduction of new Rogers system controls and the tightening of existing settings, without impacting the operations of our business or the safety and comfort of our employees. Further reductions have been achieved as the business has reduced stock levels whilst actually increasing service levels in terms of availability. This has allowed us to reduce the amount of space we occupy for warehousing and subsequent utility costs. Annual Group Electricity Consumption kWh Our electric consumption has now 60 M fallen by an impressive 46.9% M 50 Our gas consumption has now fallen by an impressive M 40 from 2006 to 2011. 82% 30 M 8 from 2006 to 2011. M 20 M 10 kWh 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 20 20 20 20 20 20 ENVIRONMENT ELECTRICITY vs PREVIOUS YEAR YEAR 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 REDUCTION VS -9.8% -11.7% -13.7% -4.2% -7.5% PREVIOUS YEAR kWh 59,186,728 53,402,459 47,147,394 40,707, 437 39,017, 680 36,098, 470 We continue to focus on the key areas that impact the environment including: Energy and Water Consumption, Health, Wellbeing & Safety, Gas Usage Business Travel, Recycling ANNUAL Group In November 2011, we were delighted to have been re-accredited by the Carbon Trustfor a further two years. In this re-accreditation process we GAS Consumption kWh M have been measured, for the first time, on our ‘Phase 2’ emissions, covering all business travel for the first time. 35 Moving forward this means we need to carefully manage the amount of business travel we do as a group to ensure our C02 emissions from M 30 £ these activities do not increase despite increasing our overseas presence through the launch of Very.com across 49 countries. M In the last have removed the majority of our ‘GU10’ halogen Increasing our recycling at our sites by a 25 lighting, replacing with LED type bulbs. further 3%. Communication on We increased recycling by almost 2% and have 20 M Engaging our customers to reduce their plans to increase this significantly in 2012. Progress report we impact on the environment and to trade-up to M pointed to several the most energy efficient products. This area has not been achieved in 2011 but we Increase our wellness activities Introduced a half-price bicycle promotional 15 activities we would still have ambitions to focus on this in 2012. discount scheme for all staff to promote cycling 10 M to work and encouraged employees to be focus on in 2011, here’s Reporting on the energy efficiency of the more active. Introduced a new healthy eating how we did... white-goods we sell and the C02 emissions they produce. Figures showed that 71% of the campaign, more regular give-up-smoking sessions 5M and a free eye-test road show around our sites. white-goods sold by SDG in 2010 were either A We said we would work on further incoming or A+ rated and we have a target of improving voltage reductions and optimisation measures that to 85% over the next two years. 10 0 06 07 08 09 10 at our sites. Legislation has been announced that will enforce kWh 20 20 20 20 20 20 We have reduced our consumption of electricity changes in the energy efficiency of products significantly and have reduced the incoming we are permitted to sell, initially this applies to voltage at two further sites in 2011. refrigeration. GAS vs PREVIOUS YEAR YEAR 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Working towards our stated goal of changing Reducing water consumption (currently 75,232 100% of light fittings to the most energy and REDUCTION VS m3) by 5% by the end of 2011 _ -26% -4.7% -12.3% 5.1% -33.9 cost efficient type. Achieved – we will report our group water PREVIOUS YEAR We have continued to progress in this area and consumption in 2012. kWh 36,062,285 26,691,205 25,428,741 22,307,600 21,167,912 15,016,806 HOME ir ir m~k m~k Recycling Recycling percentages at Shop Direct Group have increased each year and Since 2010, we have reduced waste to landfill by 41%. although there is still work to do in particular areas of the business our overall numbers are as follows: In 2011 we sent just 91 tons of waste to landfill and we aim to reduce this further year on year by introducing more recycling stations, improving and simplifying the signage at these recycling facilities and by removing as many general mixed waste bins as possible across our estate. Recycled at points Total Recycled (SDG sites + Year SDG sites difference external recycling facility) 2007 53.7% 2008 59.6% +5.9% 2009 78.2% +18.6% 2010 80% +1.8% 96.8% 2012 83.0% 99% to 100% In 2011 we sent just 91 tons of waste to landfill and we aim to reduce this further year on year by introducing more recycling stations, improving and simplifying the signage at these recycling facilities and by removing as many general mixed waste bins as possible across our estate. Skyways House Focus for 2012 • We will continue to reduce our electricity and gas consumption focusing in particular on our consumption from internal and external • Get re-certified by the Carbon Trust for a further two years – Phase 2 lighting and the electricity we use overnight when most of our measures will need to be reported on in this re-certification, covering sites are not in operation. business travel for the first time. • We hope to reduce our waste-to-landfill to less than 1% for 2012. • Launch a new software tool that will help us power manage our PCs and laptops across the Group. • We plan to further reduce our requirements to print by using the latest technology including electronic means to sign off artwork and stricter • Re-focus our efforts on our Health & Safety culture, more depth and controls on printing facilities. breadth of Health & Safety training and a more intense focus on accident prevention and reduction. • We plan to roll out new dispatch notes to customers. These will be printed using wax-based printers and will use less paper. The wax • Investigate changing the types of company vehicles we select – with cartridges are smaller than traditional toners requiring less the aim of reducing company C02 emissions from company vehicles transportation and 90% less packaging. by 20% by the end of 2012. • We will start to report on our water consumption in our next report in • We plan to continue holding wellbeing events and will be working 2012 as we bring a sharper focus onto conservation of this important with our catering teams to identify calorie estimates on the food we resource. produce on site. HOME ir ir m~k m~k Wellness In 2011 we continued to hold events promoting exercise, promoting gym memberships, give-up-smoking events, as well as introducing the Zumba classes to our head Health and Safety office. We held a sustainably sourced produce theme week in In 2011 we were successfully re-accredited for a further THREE partnership with our catering provider, promoting a range of products that we use in ingredients on site for our staff years by the British Standards Institute OHSAS 18001 (Occupational restaurants and coffee shops. We showcased the products we use daily such as Fair-trade Chocolate, Rainforest Health and Safety Management System) accreditation in all our Alliance Coffee and Tea, Fish certified by the Marine Contact Centres, Financial Services and Head Office sites. Stewardship Council, Fair-trade Fresh Juices, Fair-trade Sugar and others. We are pleased to report a 39% decrease in our Reportable-type We have also encouraged local traders to come to our sites to sell their goods; recently we have invited Fruit accidents and a THREE year low in non-reportable accidents. and Vegetable farmers from the local area to sell their produce to our colleagues on site, promoting fresh, healthy eating at home. HOME ir ir m~k m~k Business Some facts and figures Travel We encourage colleagues based close to our sites to cycle to work supporting a healthy lifestyle and saving RAIL money on their commutes. YEAR CO2/kg Mileage We also continue to promote 2008 53,326 620,542 public transport as a way to get to work. 2009 76,636 837,321 2010 128,816 1,070,259 2011 65,443 719,566 Changes to SDG’s sourcing strategy in line with planned Brand expansions resulted in an increase year-on-year of 35%, however less car mileage occured. SDG Air Travel C02 emissions Year Co2/kg 2008 1,701,202 2009 952,400 2010 1,290,072 2011 342,655 Flight CO2 based on DEFRA calculations. Source: Capita/Commodore Business Travel SDG Business Mileage Tons of C02 Year Total emitted 2007 2,189,000 907 2008 2,081,000 862 2009 2,068,000 857 2010 1,473,000 610 2011 1,192,911 494 Assuming large car at 414.2 kg of C02 per 1000 miles Source www.Transportdirect.info Business travel within the UK and internationally has reduced significantly throughout 2011. In 2012 we will continue to encourage people to consider if they need to travel and will promote the use of virtual meeting technology such as web conferencing, telephone conferencing or video conferencing as an alternative. HOME ir ir m~k m~k Rob Hardman Paper Sourcing Half of the timber harvested world-wide is used to make paper. Therefore, it is vital that everyone involved in publishing makes a commitment to the responsible use of the world’s natural resources. As part of our commitment to sustainable forest management, we set environmental standards they will be recommended for further ourselves a target of 100% of our catalogues to be printed on Promoting compliance by our strategic partner RR Donnelly and our commercial Sustainable Forest Management (PEFC) certified paper. We continue teams jointly. to achieve this target and now proudly display the PEFC logo within the catalogues to illustrate our sustainable credentials. Volume of Catalogues Our catalogues account for 90% of the paper consumed by the Group 2009 14,246,000 copies and as our customers increasingly demand products that are sourced from environmentally-friendly origins, it is imperative that we continue to 2010 12,246,000 copies illustrate our PEFC certified status to our customers. 2011 11,960,000 copies In 2011 all of our paper and print suppliers were ISO14001 accredited, 2012 est 8,219,000 copies an assurance that the production sites are committed to achieving continuous improvement through environmental management systems. In 2012 and 2013 we will ensure that the paper used for transactional documents is sourced from certified sources. The majority of this type Looking ahead of communication is used for customer statements and regulatory communications. We will achieve this by working closely with RR Donnelly. Current forecasts for 2012 show that the number of catalogues sent to customers will decrease by 31% versus 2011. The trend will continue PEFC is the world’s largest international forest certification scheme, with a further reduction in catalogues of 34% over 2013. The number of endorsing national forest certification schemes in 25 countries within four pages in 2012 will decrease by 11%. continents. We will continue to reduce the amount of paper communications we FSC is an international, non-governmental organisation dedicated to the send as customers shop online and through mobile channels. We will responsible promotion and management of the world’s forests. continue to identify select customers, both prospective and current, who continue to shop through the catalogue as opposed to online channel. In 2012 our focus will remain on annual audits and if compliance issues are identified or if suppliers retract from previously achieved HOME ir ir m~k m~k Peter Johnson 9 £ Shop Direct Group has maintained its zero Key areas of focus have been: CORRUPTION tolerance approach to corruption and has further built on the strong foundations established in • Anti-bribery and corruption training has been previous years. successfully rolled out across our Far East Sourcing Division The key pillars of our anti-corruption approach: • The supplier engagement process has been • Consistent Group policies further reinforced to ensure that our supplier GOVERNANCE base is both ethically and financially sound • Regular risk assessment process • The Corporate Responsibility Board monitors a • Colleague training and awareness broad cross section of financial and operational management information to highlight any • Transparent supplier engagement unusual transactions or trends and transparency • Industry networking • The bribery & corruption risk assessment is used as a key input into the internal audit planning • Robust whistle-blowing and investigation process and specific fraud risks are considered procedures. In addition, we have developed our in every audit policies and procedures to further improve the level of awareness across Shop Direct We are now in the processes of permanently Group of bribery and corruption risks. embedding these activities into ‘business as usual.’ PRINCIPAL10 working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. HOME ir ir m~k m~k James Evans mm unity Investment Co at Shop Direct This year we created and launched the Shop Direct Group Foundation, a charitable foundation that 10 supports children and families in the North West. £ COMMUNITY We take great pride in our philanthropic heritage and commitment to continue to invest in the communities in which we live and work. Giving something back to the communities in which we operate has always been important to Shop Direct Group and the company continues to play a positive role in the local community through our sustainable community investment. The Foundation is administered by local charity, Community Foundation for Merseyside and not We remain committed to the wider retail community and work closely with the British Our Commitment only donates money but also works with the Retail Consortium and the Retail Trust, the only for 2012 groups to capacity build, ensuring their future charity offering a range of services to all people sustainability. working in and retired from retail. During 2012, we intend to launch a community volunteering programme that will allow our Fundraising is an important part of the culture One of our longest charity partnerships has colleagues to lend their strategic insight, skills within the Group with colleagues raising over been with Alder Hey Children’s Hospital, having and expertise to local charities. £260,000 for the good causes that matter donated around £3,000,000 to the charity to them in the last year alone. The money overall, including a significant donation to the A second Charity Ball will be held to raise funds that they raise is supplemented by Helping Neuroscience wing. for a number of charities including the Shop Hand, our matched funding programme. Our Direct Foundation. colleagues also choose to donate to their Today, our support, in part, takes the form of preferred good causes through payroll giving. raffle and auction prizes as well as the donation of sample stock for the hospital to raise funds. We are active members of a number of community and regional business groups Once again, we celebrated Christmas by including the Merseyside 100, Liverpool bringing a little cheer to those less fortunate Local Enterprise Partnership, Personal Finance than ourselves and donated the latest gaming Education Group and the Liverpool Chamber of equipment to Alder Hey and Great Ormond Commerce. Street Children’s Hospitals as well a large amount of toys to Kids Co, an organisation working with disadvantaged children. HOME ir ir m~k m~k Mark Newton-Jones with Yvonne Sharples Headteacher P a r k l a n d s Case Study Shop Direct Group is proud of the young people and their families. We have created a bespoke work experience programme designed for Parklands’ unique needs and close links we have forged within involves the pupils in the strategic management of projects and meetings during their time with the organisation as a way to raise the community closest to our aspirations in young people. Head Office in Speke, Liverpool, In addition, we are working with the leadership team at the school to especially with local school, enhance the educational and professional opportunities open to the students as well as raising career aspirations, especially in female pupils. Parklands High School. We have helped prepare the pupils for the world of work through mock interviews, CV writing, customer service training and coaching. Parklands High School is an 11-18 mixed comprehensive of 482 pupils. The school postcode is number one on the government’s statistics for As well as the significant time and resource of their staff the company the Index of Multiple Deprivation out of 32,482 LSOAs and attainment on has made a financial commitment to the school and has purchased entry is well below the national average. the uniforms for the new intake. In parallel, we sponsored a ‘design a new uniform competition,’ with the winner spending a week shadowing We are a committed and established partner and have recently become our design team. a member of the Parklands Trust and now sit on the Board of Governors. Our commitment comes from the top and the CEO is a mentor and The school has made rapid progress and is making great strides in its supporter of the Head Teacher, Yvonne Sharples. Marketing, PR and finance transformational journey. Attendance is up to 92.58% and the number of support has also been given to the management of the school and we pupils gaining 5 GCSEs A*C has risen from 29% in 2007 to 79% in 2011. have developed close relationships with many of the staff. We have worked together with the school to ensure that we tackle underachievement and deliver real improvement in the lives of our HOME ir ir m~k m~k Presenting a positive body image for consumers has now been embedded across 1PRESENTING 1 the Shop Direct Group POSITIVE BODY IMAGE Shop Direct Group is committed to presenting a positive, realistic body image. As a portfolio of brands that appeals to the mass market of the UK population, we understand that the way we present our products and brands is critical and specifically the influential role we play in presenting a positive body image to all ages, genders and ethnicities of the population. Across all of our clothing ranges, we have set We have refined our method of modelclear standards on both body image and casting, booking and photographic ethnic diversity and have collaborated with processes to ensure that there are clear the UK’s leading model agencies to ensure check points for quality control of the models that the models that we use portray a healthy used by SDG. body image and represent the wide age ranges, sizes and ethnic diversities of society Presenting a positive body image for consumers has now been embedded across To See a short film of our today. the business and SDG will continue to focus video and photographic This year has seen SDG build on its strong on its delivery within all areas of the business shoots performance. The Group has undertaken an from the product that it designs, to the exercise to define clear guidelines, establish images that it creates. consistent working processes and effectively PLAY communicate these requirements to all parties involved throughout the process all of which have resulted in over 99% of models used complying with the high standards that we have set ourselves. HOME ir ir m~k m~k John Pears We only accept around 32% of credit applications. We decline approximately 12 12% of all transactions £ Responsible lending and Credit Services Shop Direct Group Financial Services provides a range of simple and affordable credit and insurance products that enable our customers to manage their finances and protect their possessions. Fair and transparent We comply with OFT guidance and have joined the Finance & Leasing Association in 2011, • We decline approximately 12% of transaction requests for extending further retail credit. SDGFS has established a specialist team to deal with customers we perceive to be particularly throughout the entire credit life cycle. Account takeover and identity theft remain a challenge Key areas of focus for 2012 are to further refine our credit strategies appropriately to the environment, financial services adhering to their codes of practice along with vulnerable, to ensure that any issues they have are across the financial services industry and SDG has in addition to further strengthening our customer the Principles of Reciprocity for the use for credit The continued decline of disposable incomes dealt with quickly and sympathetically. The team taken and are continuing to take steps to prevent journey to protect against fraud. We pride ourselves on the responsible approach bureau data. Both internal account performance and increased levels of unemployment continue has already been recognised with a National such criminal activity. Amongst other tools, SDG we take to serving our customers and meeting data and external data is used in every credit to present challenges for our customers. SDGFS Credit Today Award. We will continue to develop has deployed anti-phishing services and continues their financial needs. decision, ensuring that decisions are made takes responsible lending very seriously and has the team and have engaged key stakeholders to work with the police to gain convictions of considering each customer’s current financial tightened many lending policies during the last 12 including various charities and NHS. criminals perpetrating fraud. All credit facilities are provided in line with the circumstances. months to ensure that lending decisions are made Consumer Credit Directive 2010 with full disclosure in the best interests of the customer. Our legal and compliance teams work together of the SECCI and subsequently Consumer Credit The vast majority of credit decisions are Combating fraud and to ensure compliance with Financial Services Association. Our communications are clear and automated, providing consistency and robustness Strategy and system developments continue to Authority, Consumer Credit Act and Data Protection transparent, with any notifications of changes to of decision making. progress in an effort to bring down bad debt and identity theft Regulations. Clear policies and procedures exist to the account provided through a clear Notice of arrears levels despite the challenging consumer ensure compliance with both the principles and • We only accept around 32% of credit environment. SDG use a cutting-edge toolkit of fraud prevention Variation. detailed rules. applications. systems to protect both customers and ourselves HOME ir ir m~k m~k HOW DID WE DO? UN GLOBAL COMPACT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 7 Hu ion/ / t 8 ma mpt or ty p e n nsuans Saf Re so y Co /Trand ur g ce ergclinlth s Enecy Hea R LEGAL PLIAN OM C HIEVING AC CE RESULTS ou g, ts rcinR l uman ig h BEST Corr uptio n, Go PRACTICE 9 a S v h ic Et our, H elfare Tranesrnance & 6 Lab imal W paren cy & An KEY: BEST PRACTICE Res po nsi OUR PRESENTINGble L COMMUNITY BO end DY ing IMAGE P OSITIVE 12 10 11 HOME ir ir m~k m~k 1STAKEHOLDER 4 FEEDBACK This year’s report has been read by a variety of our stakeholders including customers, colleagues and community organisations. The following are selected comments received: When SDG agreed to be our strategic business “It’s good to read about company “The Shop Direct Foundation has partner we couldn’t believe our luck. Our activities that are voluntary supported a range of projects over relationship has gone from strength to and positive. It makes me the last year to support children, strength and our young people’s curriculum is enriched almost daily by our partnership. We comfortable to know that I work young people and families in our for an employer with a strong local communities, including can evidence tangible impact on educational as well as motivational outcomes. The company’s moral compass. For example, funding a Saturday Club for some of the work explained in children with cerebral palsy and commitment to our school and our community extends far beyond any CSR policy. the Community, Sourcing and transforming a play area for young Body Image sections probably people from deprived backgrounds. isn’t required by legislation or We hope that employees and likely to significantly improve stakeholders will continue to company profitability. I’m happy contribute to the success of the Over the last year, the business to hear that doing the right foundation to make a real positive thing is viewed as an important has made great strides towards difference in the lives of those we part of doing business by my support.” responsible business which we see employer. Many colleagues will as improving our own competitive not be aware of the work that interests and the interests of society goes on behind the scenes.” as a whole. Key CSR activities include significantly reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill and setting up the SDG Foundation. Overall, SDG has a lot to be proud of! HOME ir m~k
