To our Stakeholders Tofuture Oy is pleased to continue its commitment of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Tofuture Oy offers consulting services and training in the field of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability. We also offer software solutions to collect, analyze and consolidate the information needed for sustainability management, and for communicating it to various stakeholders. Tofuture Oy is a Certified Training Partner for GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) in the Nordic countries. Being a pioneer in our industry, we are developing corporate social responsibility for our own operations as well through our consulting, training and software services for our customers being globally acting companies in services, logistics and retail and in various industries like energy sector, metal and engineering, chemical and forest industries. We constantly work to maximize the value that our solutions can offer our clients. Increasingly, the focus on sustainability management includes monitoring and managing the impacts caused in the supply chain of our clients. This also challenges us, Tofuture Oy, to develop and improve our competencies and services on various aspect related to supply chain management. The 10 principles Global Compact is based upon, are integrated in our company culture and policy. In addition, the principles are generating the base for our professional services. Tofuture Oy joined the UN Global Compact in 2010. For a small consulting and software company this means taking a good care of our employees and to protect their rights and well-being. In our operations we focus on energy efficiency in our offices, efficient processes and business travel. The greater impact to the global sustainability is created through our services. Therefore we focus both on our internal responsibility, and on external impact that we are able to generate, to support the ten principles. Espoo, Finland, March 8th 2012 Veli Kalle Tavakka CEO, Tofuture Oy Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 8th March 2012 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Human rights Principle 1: Support and respect the protection Human rights and occupational health and safety We will continue to develop our health and of internationally proclaimed human rights and policies are incorporated into Tofuture’s daily safety practices though policies and training, practices. We provide timely and accurate and developing the well-being of our Principle 2: Make sure that we are not payment of wages, provision of different types of employees. In addition, we encourage and complicit in human right abuses employment leave and medical benefits for all support our employees to develop their skills our employees. and competencies through participating on various trainings, seminars and working groups related on sustainability. We also consult and train our clients to develop, We will develop our training, consulting and measure and manage their human right issues. the software to meet the emerging and And to report on those to stakeholders. Our evolving needs of clients to better understand, software assist our clients to manage and measure and manage the impacts of their measure their practices related to human rights. operations in the fields of human rights. Furthermore, through our services, our clients We strictly resist any kind of human rights can have a better control to their supply chain abuses. to resist human right abuses. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 8th March 2012 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Labour standards Principle 3: the freedom of association and the We operate mainly in the Nordic countries and We will continue to obey the local legislation effective recognition of the right to collective obey the local legislation related to labour in all our operations, and resist any kind of bargaining standards. We respect our employees' freedom of discrimination or labour abuses. association and labor agreements, and strictly Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of resist any abuse of labour. We do not use any form of forced, compulsory forced and compulsory labour or child labour, and do not accept We provide equal opportunities for every discrimination in our operations. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child individual that joins our company. We accept labour and individual regardless of gender, age, religion or Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination nationality. in employment and occupation. We also consult and train our clients to develop, We will develop our training, consulting and measure and manage their practices related to the software to meet the emerging and labour standards. Our software is used by our evolving needs of clients to better understand, customers in sensitive business, including rawmeasure and manage the impacts of their material sourcing globally, food, energy and operations in the fields of labour standards. wood harvesting. The software enables various We will increasingly focus on the aspects companies to measure and manage impacts of related to supply chain management in a their operations and also follow-up their supplyresponsible manner. chain. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 8th March 2012 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Environment Principle 7: support precautionary approach to Tofuture encourages its employees to respect the We will continue working to mitigate our environmental challenges; environment, and to use natural resources in a negative impact on the environment through responsible and efficient manner. efficient use of energy and materials in our Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote operations. environmental responsibility; and More important input for responsibility is, however, our consulting, training and software Principle 9: encourage the development and services that encourage and assist our clients to diffusion of environmentally friendly take greater responsibility for the environment. We will develop our training, consulting and technologies. the software to meet the emerging and We consult and train our clients to measure, evolving needs of clients to better understand, manage and develop their sustainability measure and manage the impacts of their performance. Together with our clients, we have operations on the environment. This also a great indirect impact on the environment includes managing and monitoring though reducing the negative impacts and environmental impacts occurring in the supply increasing environmentally positive solutions. chain. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against Tofuture does not accept any kind of corruption We resist any kind of corruption in our corruption in all its forms, including extortion in its operations. operations. and bribery There has not been any case of corruption. We also encourage and support our customers to avoid corruption in their businesses. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 8th March 2012
