Microsoft Corporation UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress January 2012 Letter of Commitment from Microsoft’s Chief Executive Officer This year marks the five year anniversary of Microsoft’s commitment to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. While much has changed in the world and in our company since then, our commitment to the Compact’s ten principles remains firm. Microsoft’s mission is to help people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. Our commitment to the Global Compact – as well as our commitment to working responsibly – is a fundamental part of how we fulfill that mission. The Global Compact’s principles are embedded within our company’s business practices, policies, and operations and help us function as a stronger company every day. We continue to look to the UN Global Compact as we evolve our Citizenship approach and adapt to the new social and environmental realities created by ever-advancing technologies. The following document gives a brief summary of some of our progress against the Global Compact principles during fiscal year 2011 (FY2011). For further detail on this progress, see our 2011 Citizenship Report. Sincerely, Steven A. Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Microsoft Corporation 1 UN Global Microsoft’s Position FY2011 Progress Highlights Where to Learn Compact Principle More HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Our commitment to respect Maintained Human Rights Safeguards within Microsoft  2011 Businesses should the fundamental human We continued to practice strong corporate governance and enforce our Standards of Citizenship support and respect rights of our employees, Business Conduct and other human resource policies that ensure non-discrimination and Report: the protection of people working for our fair employment practices within our workforce. We are gratified that our commitment to how Integrity & internationally suppliers, and our we treat our employees was recognized by the Great Place to Work Institute, which listed Governance proclaimed human customers reflects Microsoft as #1 on their inaugural ranking of the World’s Best Multinational Workplaces.  2011 rights; and Microsoft’s company mission Citizenship Principle 2: make to help people and Increased Attention to Human Rights in our Supply Chain Report: sure that they are not businesses throughout the All Microsoft suppliers are required to follow our Vendor Code of Conduct. This year, we Responsible complicit in human world realize their full made the first major update to the code in three years, which included strengthening the Sourcing rights abuses. potential. code’s human rights provisions. In addition, in FY2011 we:  2011  Conducted human rights assessments of 80 significant suppliers. Overall, monitoring Citizenship found no instances of child labor or forced labor. It did find six non-conformances to our Report: Privacy non-discrimination policies. A corrective action plan was reviewed and approved in all six and Safety cases.  Citizenship  Worked with suppliers and industry peers to help prevent conflict minerals from entering Website: our supply chain. In December 2010, the Enough Project rated our efforts on conflict Human Rights minerals as “on track.” Supported Privacy and Freedom of Expression On and Offline Technology has the capacity to increase freedom of expression and access to information. To support technology as a tool for the advancement of human rights, in FY2011 we:  Worked closely with the Global Network Initiative (GNI), an organization dedicated to protecting and advancing Internet freedom and privacy, to help identify and share privacy and freedom of expression best practices throughout the ICT industry.  Adopted a company-wide Freedom of Expression policy, based on international human rights standards, including the GNI principles, to guide how we handle decisions on restricting or not restricting content.  Supported freedom of political expression. For example, in late 2010, there were allegations that authorities in Russia had used software piracy charges to confiscate computers and challenge nonprofits that had voiced opposition to the government. Regardless of whether these allegations were true, we wanted to make it clear we opposed any such use of our property rights. We therefore created a new unilateral software license to allow nonprofits in certain countries/regions to use Microsoft software freely and legally.  Worked with governments, law enforcement, nonprofits, and companies to conduct programs and institute policies to help better protect individuals’ right to privacy and safety online. LABOR STANDARDS 2 Principle 3: Our 90,000 employees drive Continued Diversity Efforts within Microsoft  2011 Businesses should our business, and we have a Within Microsoft, we continue to prioritize diversity and work toward creating a more diverse Citizenship uphold the freedom of responsibility to create a culture. This year, we: Report: Our association and the respectful and rewarding  Added new training courses on diversity and inclusion for all employees. More than People effective recognition of work environment for them. 42,000 Microsoft employees have already completed the training.  2011 the right to collective The health, well-being,  Continued to provide professional development support and training to Microsoft Citizenship bargaining; satisfaction, and diversity of employees of all backgrounds to help them grow their careers. Report: Principle 4: the our employees differentiate  Spent more than US$1 billion with woman-owned, minority-owned, or veteran-owned Responsible elimination of all forms Microsoft and help us suppliers. This puts us in the top 15 companies worldwide in supplier diversity spending. Sourcing of forced and succeed.  Citizenship compulsory labor; Strengthened Vendor Code of Conduct Website: Our Principle 5: the Our commitment to our As part of the Vendor Code of Conduct update, we strengthened the Code’s labor People effective abolition of people includes working with provisions. Changes included a limit of 60 hours of work per week, even if local law allows  Citizenship child labor; and our 60,000-plus contractors, more, and an explicit prohibition of discrimination against union members. Website: suppliers, and vendors to Responsible Principle 6: the Instituted New Supplier Grievance Process uphold the same high Sourcing elimination of In collaboration with the Fair Labor Association and Clear Voice Hotline, we initiated a new Citizenship standards to  Microsoft discrimination in grievance process. Workers in our supply chain now have 24-hour access to a hotline that which we hold ourselves. Diversity and respect of employment allows anonymous reporting of grievances and issues of concern. and occupation. Inclusion Website ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Microsoft is committed to Improved Microsoft’s Operations  Citizenship Businesses should software and technology We continue to increase the sustainability of our internal operations. For example, in Website: support a innovations that help people FY2011 we: Environmental precautionary and organizations around  Opened our most energy-efficient data center ever, which achieves a power use Sustainability approach to the world improve the effectiveness of 1.15-1.20 PUE.  2011 environmental environment. We see our  Reduced our computer energy use by 27 percent. Citizenship challenges; role as twofold:  Purchased enough wind energy in Europe to cover 100 percent of our Dublin data Report: Principle 8: undertake center’s power use. Environmental initiatives to promote 1. Minimize the Sustainability greater environmental environmental impact of Promoted Greater Industry Environmental Responsibility  Microsoft responsibility; and our business operations We work closely with industry, government, and NGOs to identify and promote ways to Environment Principle 9: and products; increase environmental responsibility. For example, in FY2011 we: Website encourage the 2. Create technology  Co-chaired a working group of the ICT4EE forum in the European Union to develop development and solutions that help methodologies, policy solutions, and energy reduction targets for the information and diffusion of individuals and businesses communications technology industry. around the world address  Collaborated with information and communications technology companies to launch the environmentally friendly technologies. their environmental Guadalajara ICT Declaration for Transformative Low-Carbon Solutions, which commits impact. our industry to working with governments to use information technology to reach emission targets.  Issued our most comprehensive guidance for optimizing the energy-efficiency of information technology to date called “The IT Energy Efficiency Imperative.” The guidelines provide information for individuals at every level of the IT environment, ranging from software developers and hardware manufacturers to Chief Information Officers. 3 Created and Promoted Environmentally Friendly Technologies One of the most important ways we can help solve environmental challenges is by creating and sharing environmentally friendly technologies. In FY2011, we:  Developed and distributed new cloud products. Through an FY2011 joint study, we learned that energy use and the carbon footprint of computing are reduced by 30 to 90 percent per user when companies move software to the cloud. To maximize these benefits, we continued to invest in new cloud solutions and in helping more organizations move to the cloud.  Worked in partnership with others to apply the power of information technology to environmental challenges. This included providing citizens and policymakers with access to real-time environmental information through our Eye on Earth network to partnering with companies like Ford and Nissan on electric vehicles and Johnson Controls on building energy management. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Our commitment to strong Trained Microsoft Employees in Anti-Corruption Guidelines  2011 Businesses should anti-corruption policies and In FY2011, more than 99 percent of Microsoft employees received training on our Citizenship work against practices is resolute. Standards of Business Conduct, which addresses corruption and bribery. Report: corruption in all its Microsoft does not tolerate Integrity & forms, including bribery or corruption of any Increased Attention to Anti-Corruption Efforts in our Supply Chain Governance extortion and bribery. kind within our own As part of the FY2011 update to our Vendor Code of Conduct, we strengthened the code’s  2011 company or within our approach to anti-corruption. In FY2011 we also conducted third-party risk assessments of Citizenship partner companies. our entire database of vendors to screen for corruption risk factors. We found that we had a Report: risk rate of about half the industry average. We also identified about 100 vendors out of our Compliance more than 60,000 suppliers that were not sufficiently implementing anti-corruption practices  Citizenship and either ended those relationships or took corrective action. Website: Worked with Partners to Promote Anti-Corruption Best Practices Integrity & We work with industry peers and global organizations to identify and promote anti-corruption Governance best practices. For example, in FY2011 we:  Microsoft  Participated in the World Economic Forum Partnership Against Corruption Initiative. Integrity Website  Partnered with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to develop a technology tool to help in the fight against corruption and organized crime. 4
