OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Executive Chairman’s Statement 4 OP-Pohjola Group in Brief 5 1 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group 7 1.1 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 8 1.2 Corporate Social Responsibility Management 10 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes 15 2.1 Local Presence and Society 16 2.2 Stakeholder Responsibility 19 2.3 Responsible Products and Services 21 2.4 Ethical Business 25 2.5 Environmental Responsibility 27 3 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data 29 3.1 GRI Content Index 30 3.2 GRI Performance Indicators 31 3.3 GRI Reporting Principles 39 As to economic responsibility, we refer to OP-Pohjola Group’s electronic Annual Report, the Report by the Executive Board and the Financial Statements 2011, which are available at ­ http://www.op-pohjola-annualreport.fi/2011/en/. At OP-Pohjola Group, corporate social responsibility is based on our strong cooperative values, in which the roles of customer and owner are united. Our mission is to promote sustainable prosperity, security and wellbeing. 3 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Executive Chairman’s Statement OP-Pohjola Group in Brief At OP-Pohjola Group, corporate social responsibility is based on our strong cooperative OP-Pohjola Group is The Group is made up of some 200 their corporate form, they are cooperatives values, in which the roles of customer and owner are united. Our mission is to promote Finland’s largest financial independent member cooperative where each owner-member has one, equal sustainable prosperity, security and wellbeing. banks and OP-Pohjola Group Central vote. Thanks to this, Group member banks services group. It provides Cooperative which they own, including cannot be purchased and decision-making At the end of 2011, we signed the Global Compact, thereby committing ourselves to its customers with the its subsidiaries and closely related powers remain with the owner-members. embedding its principles in our operations. The long-term strategic goal of OP-Pohjola’s best loyalty benefits companies. Group’s operations are based corporate social responsibility is to be an industry pioneer in Finland. Our CSR measures on the cooperative principle – cooperation The operation of Group member banks is encompass economic, social and environmental responsibility. and the most extensive and sharing the fruits of success with based on profitability. The member banks and diversified range of everyone. OP-Pohjola’s mission is to offer high-quality and competitive banking In 2011, our sector was challenged by the unstable economic climate in Europe. On several banking, investment and promote the sustainable prosperity, safety and insurance services to their customers. occasions during the year, OP-Pohjola Group initiated discussions on the situation in Europe and wellbeing of its owner-members, Rather than focusing on short-term profits, and possible solutions. As Finland’s leading financial services group, we feel the need to take insurance services. The customers and operating regions. Our Group member banks aim at continuous responsibility for the reliability of our country’s financial infrastructure. Open and transparent Group has three business long-term customer-centred approach also success together with its customers. discussion is part of that. segments: Banking, enables continuous renewal. We develop Operating profit is used for the benefit of our services and products to meet our owner-members: for the development of In our own operations, we have ensured appropriate capital adequacy and competent risk Non-life Insurance and customers’ needs. products, services and benefits. management. In 2011, we raised our long-term capital adequacy target (Core Tier 1) to 15 Life Insurance. per cent, whereas at the end of the previous year it was 14 per cent. We have continuously Group member banks OP-Pohjola Group Central increased our market share of corporate financing since the 2008 financial crisis, and our A Group member cooperative bank is owned Cooperative share of corporate and institutional loans stood at 29.7 per cent at the end of 2011. by its customers. It is an independent, local OP-Pohjola Central Cooperative is the deposit bank engaged in retail banking central institution of the amalgamation of In 2011, we built a firm foundation for our new Corporate Social Responsibility Programme, within its region. Its operations rest on a the cooperative banks. The cooperative’s made progress in reporting by applying the GRI Guidelines, and defined the importance customer-oriented approach. In terms of members are the amalgamation’s deposit of corporate responsibility to our business. Our operational target is to make corporate responsibility an integral part of our operations. We have decided that: • OP-Pohjola Group will step up its efforts to develop responsible products and services. Responsible financing, investing and non-life insurance practices will be continuously improved. OP-Pohjola Group’s structure Environmental and social responsibility will be taken into account across the value chain. • OP-Pohjola Group is a responsible employer that supports staff development and wellbeing. We have in-depth knowledge of CSR, and our expertise is valued by our stakeholders. 1.3 million owner-members, of which 90% households • As Finland’s leading financial services group, OP-Pohjola bears responsibility for the reliability of the country’s financial infrastructure. Being a Group owned by our customers, we focus on the promotion of financial literacy. • Our CSR communications are open and transparent. Active interaction with stakeholders is some 200 Group member banks a natural way for OP-Pohjola Group to develop a pioneering approach to CSR. Advancing the security of banking and insurance services will continue to play a key role in our corporate responsibility efforts. We also believe that new responsible product and OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative service innovations will be in demand. We need to secure expertise in economic, social and environmental responsibility throughout our organisation. Our new strategy, currently under OP Life OP Fund Pohjola Helsinki OP OP Mortgage OP-Services preparation, is also a good example of how we can influence the development of CSR in our Bank plc Assurance Bank Plc Bank Ltd Management Company Ltd Company Ltd Group, through intensive engagement. Reijo Karhinen, Executive Chairman 4 5 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 banks and other credit institutions. Pohjola Bank plc customers. Pohjola Bank Group’s non-life By virtue of Laki talletuspankkien Pohjola Bank plc is the most important insurance operations comprise not only yhteenliittymästä (Act on the Amalgamation subsidiary of OP-Pohjola Group Central Pohjola Insurance but also A-Insurance, of Deposit Banks), the central institution Cooperative. Pohjola is a listed financial Eurooppalainen Insurance Company, and has both the right to control its credit services group providing banking, nonSeesam company operating in the Baltic institutions and the obligation to supervise life insurance and asset management countries. their operations. services. For Finnish and global corporate customers, Pohjola Bank Group provides OP-Services Ltd OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative comprehensive finance, investment, cash OP-Services Ltd – a subsidiary wholly carries out control and supervision duties management and non-life insurance owned by OP-Pohjola Group Central from its position at the head of the financial services. For private customers, Pohjola Cooperative – develops and implements and insurance conglomerate formed by OPGroup provides non-life insurance and asset state-of-the-art solutions for the financial Pohjola Group. It also acts as the Group’s management services. sector. It also ensures the performance strategic owner institution. and quality of such solutions. OP-Services Acting as OP-Pohjola Group’s central bank, Ltd is in charge of the development, OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative’s Pohjola manages the Group’s liquidity and production and maintenance of the Group’s mission is to create the basis for OP-Pohjola international operations. Pohjola’s A-shares products and services. It provides Group Group’s unity and success. Its task is to are listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. There companies with business development supervise and steer the Group’s business are around 34,000 shareholders. and ICT services, and services for business in line with the jointly agreed strategy. process management. For example, the OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Pohjola Insurance Ltd is a subsidiary company ensures that online and Contact also analyses the operating environment of Pohjola Bank plc. It engages in nonCentre services perform well. It also sees and gathers information on changes in life insurance operations in Finland, to the smooth operation of banking and the industry. It is in charge of the Group’s offering comprehensive insurance cover investment services, and the production of corporate image, reputation and brands. for private, corporate and institutional various materials. Pohjola Bank plc’s structure POHJOLA BANK PLC Pohjola Pohjola Asset Pohjola Corporate Insurance Ltd Management Ltd Finance Ltd Eurooppalainen Pohjola Property Other subsidiaries Insurance Company Ltd Management Ltd Access Capital Partners 1 Seesam Group SA (Pohjola’s ownership 40%) A-Insurance Ltd Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group 6 Corporate Social Responsibility OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate social The focus areas of the CSR Programme receive even more emphasis in banking, OP-Pohjola’s materiality matrix responsibility is are a local presence and society, ethical investment and insurance services. business, responsible products and Development of responsibility will also responsibility for the services, stakeholder responsibility and open up opportunities for new competitive 5 economic, social and environmental responsibility. financial products. environmental impacts of 1 OP-Pohjola respects and complies with Corporate social responsibility is an business operations. The the principles of economic, social and inherent part of OP-Pohjola’s mission, 3 financial sector also plays environmental responsibility recognised which is to promote the sustainable 10 7 4 2 a key role in promoting the internationally in the sector. OP-Pohjola prosperity, safety and wellbeing of its 4 14 11 9 8 6 5 Group has signed the UN Global Compact, owner-members, customers and operating 18 stability of the whole of 16 13 Materiality, external stakeholders and OP Fund Management Company regions. Responsibility is also one of the 20 15 12 society. and Pohjola Asset Management have Group’s values, according to which OP23 22 19 17 committed to the UN Principles for Pohjola operates locally, regionally and 24 25 Responsible Investment. nationally as an ethically responsible 21 Economic responsibility encompasses both company. ensuring the economic sustainability of 1.1 Key Impacts, Risks and 3 an organisation’s operations and taking Opportunities Materiality Assessment 26 account of the economic impacts on the From the perspective of corporate social OP-Pohjola conducted a CSR materiality organisation’s stakeholders. responsibility, key global trends are assessment in 2011 to identify the population growth, climate change and responsibility expectations of stakeholders Social responsibility includes taking care the rise of responsibility awareness among and to analyse their impact on business of employee wellbeing and competence consumers. These have implications for all operations. In this assessment, 2 3 4 5 development, respecting human rights, business operations. stakeholders evaluated the materiality product liability and consumer protection of general CSR aspects to OP-Pohjola’s Materiality, internal stakeholders OP-Pohjola Group’s role in the Finnish society Stakeholder responsibility Responsible products and services Environmental responsibility issues, and fair business practices in the Weakening of growth prospects in the operations. This online survey was corporate network, as well as in relations global economy, uncertainty related to answered by representatives of private 1. Customer data confidentiality and privacy protection 12. Promotion of equality 22. Involvement in the promotion of environmental with society and local communities. management of the European debt crisis, and corporate customers, administration, 2. Employee skill development 13. Consideration of corporate social responsibility issues 3. OP-Pohjola Group’s capital adequacy in selecting partners and suppliers 23. Environmental protection and securing biodiversity and changes in industry regulations are personnel and other external stakeholders. 4. Transparency and clarity of communications 14. Extensive online banking and insurance 24. Extensive branch network Environmental responsibility, in turn, setting demands on the responsibility The stakeholder survey was completed by 5. Responsible marketing 15. Consideration of corporate social responsibility 25. Stakeholders’ opportunity to contribute to corporefers to responsibility for the ecological exercised by banks and insurance 408 people. 6. Fair remuneration policy risks in risk management rate social responsibility activities 7. Moderate risk-taking and skilful risk management 16. Accident/loss prevention by Non-life Insurance 26. Charitable donations on a nationwide basis environment. It covers the reduction of an companies. Promoting financial stability 8. Reliable financial infrastructure 17. OP-Pohjola’s carbon footprint/climate impact organisation’s environmental impacts, as and ensuring the reliability of the financial In the survey, CSR aspects were divided 9. Continuous improvement of electronic banking 18. Assessing environmental risks and impacts in well as taking account of the environmental market infrastructure are of the utmost into four areas: OP-Pohjola’s role in the and insurance services financing and insurance decisions impacts of the whole value chain. importance. Finnish society, responsible products and 10. Assessing responsibility of investment vehicles, 19. Eco-friendly products and services and responsible investment products 20. Promotion of financial literacy in Finland services, stakeholder responsibility and 11. Active prevention of corporate/white-collar crime 21. Sponsoring local projects OP-Pohjola Group uses the term ‘corporate Banks and insurance companies also environmental responsibility. and misconduct social responsibility’ (CSR), since this play a special role in society and bear encompasses all of the impacts of our responsibility for building the nation’s Results of the Materiality Assessment operations. Responsibility is an integral wellbeing. The foundation of banking On the basis of the stakeholders’ part of OP-Pohjola’s values and strategy, operations is formed by the property responses, OP-Pohjola’s most important and the Group is committed to promoting entrusted to banks by customers, CSR aspects are customer data In addition to materiality assessment, CSR is being developed as an integral part opportunities are related to product and CSR in its business. especially their deposits. confidentiality and privacy protection, stakeholder representatives were asked of business operations. service development and new product employee skills development, the Group’s to provide their views on OP-Pohjola’s innovations. Through CSR measures, Economic and social responsibility have Furthermore, banks and insurance capital adequacy, and transparency and corporate social responsibility. More than The assessment results have been used the Group can make even more of a long traditions in the history of OPcompanies have indirect responsibility for clarity of communications. 500 free-form responses were received, in determining the focus areas and contribution to the creation of financial Pohjola, and CSR is deeply embedded in their customers’ finances. They should demonstrating stakeholders’ keen interest measures of the Group’s Corporate Social prosperity at local, regional and national its operations and day-to-day activities in provide guidance and advice in cases of Other CSR aspects deemed material in the subject. The responses emphasised Responsibility Programme. In future, level. Finland. The Group’s strategic goal is to be over-indebtedness, preparing for damage to OP-Pohjola’s operations were local social responsibility and how stakeholder feedback will be systematically a pioneer in CSR in the Finnish financial and asset management. responsible marketing, fair remuneration responsibility is naturally integral to the utilised in the development of OP-Pohjola’s The reliability of financial infrastructure in sector. OP-Pohjola collaborates with policy, moderate risk-taking and skilful cooperative mode of organisation and the responsibility activities. all circumstances, protection of customer various stakeholder groups in assessing The industry is well regulated, and risk management, a reliable financial opportunity to be a pioneer. On the other data, prevention of corporate/white-collar the importance of CSR to its stakeholders. responsibility is an integral part of the infrastructure, continuous improvement hand, respondents also expected more CSR development always has an impact crime and misconduct, and extreme Daily activities are guided by OPcorporate governance, risk management of electronic banking and insurance concrete measures and proof of action. on business. In companies, these effects weather conditions due to climate change Pohjola’s Corporate Social Responsibility and compliance of banks and insurance services, and assessing the responsibility The results of this assessment support take the form of business risks and are examples of risks affecting business Programme and Code of Business Ethics. companies. In the future, responsibility will of investment vehicles. OP-Pohjola Group’s approach, in which opportunities. For OP-Pohjola, business operations. At OP-Pohjola, managing these 8 9 Corporate Social Responsibility OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 risks is integrated into the Group’s risk business divisions, the central institution Central Cooperative, comply with Finnish management, corporate governance and and member banks. Responsibility for legislation. OP-Pohjola Group’s operations compliance activities. practical CSR activities lies with the Boards are specifically governed by the Act on Corporate Social Repsonsibility Programme of Directors and Executive Boards of Group the Amalgamation of Deposit Banks (Laki 1.2 Corporate Social companies, which implement corporate talletuspankkien yhteenliittymästä), the Responsibility Management social responsibility in accordance with Act on Cooperative Banks and Other At OP-Pohjola, corporate social their own decision-making processes. Cooperative Institutions, the Act on Credit responsibility is based on cooperative Measures are carried out as part of Institutions, the Insurance Companies Act values, robust capital adequacy and skilful risk management. Strategic CSR business management throughout the Group. In the OP-Pohjola Group Central and the Co-operatives Act. OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative’s subsidiary Local presence management is the responsibility of Cooperative’s Executive Board, CSR falls Pohjola Bank plc (Pohjola) complies with and society OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative’s within the Chief Communications Officer’s provisions and instructions governing Sustainable prosperity Executive Board. Operational measures area of responsibility. public limited companies, in addition to its Wellbeing and security on a local are defined with reference to the Corporate Articles of Association, and has issued its and nationwide basis Social Responsibility Programme. OP-Pohjola Group’s corporate own Corporate Governance. governance Implementation of the CSR Programme In their decision-making and corporate Taking into account the specific is controlled by a steering group, which governance, OP-Pohjola Group and its characteristics of the cooperative system, comprises representatives of the Group’s central institution, OP-Pohjola Group The Group’s Corporate Governance Environment Reducing environmental impacts of our operations 2011 2010 2009 Capital adequacy ratio under the Act on Supervision of Financial and Insurance Conglomerates 1.80 1.70 1.58 Responsibility Customer service performance reliability (%) 99.78 99.89 99.87 People-first Ethical business Support for local projects (€ million) 3.3 ¹ 2.1 ¹ 1.8 approach Code of Business Ethics Updates of guidelines and principles No. of eBills/eInvoices received by private customers (1,000) 2,955 2,315 1,479 Customer satisfaction, private customers (scale 1–5) 3.9 4.0 4.0 Prospering KPIs BonusesoftoCorporate owner-members Social Responsibility Programme (€ million)² 163 151 142 together Stakeholder Share of member banks with Representative Assembly of all member banks (%) 71 67 65 responsibility Stakeholder engagement Responsibility for customers Job satisfaction (scale 1–5) 3.9 ³ 3.9 3.8 Responsibility for employees Modernisation of administrative Average retirement age 61.5 61.3 60.4 communication Our carbon footprint (tonnes CO2)4 34,990 28,318 28,057 Green Office Label, no. of employees 2,550 2,422 2,420 Responsible products ¹ Furthermore, in 2010 OP-Pohjola Group decided to donate 3.6 million euros to Finnish universities, with the payments being made in 2010–11 and services Responsible investing ² Accrued bonuses Responsible lending Product and service innovations ³ Since the personnel survey’s structure changed in 2011, the previous scores are not comparable. 4 Scope 1 and 2 10 11 Corporate Social Responsibility OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 conforms, whenever applicable, with OP-Pohjola systematically develops Ethics was planned in 2011 and will be the Finnish Corporate Governance Code management practices related to corporate offered in 2012. Personnel approved by the Securities Market social responsibility. As part of the Group’s Association in June 2010. In preparing this financial reporting, OP-Pohjola monitors In 2012, the key focus areas in corporate Administration Local communities Corporate Governance, OP-Pohjola Group CSR development and provides regular social responsibility will be data security has also taken account of the Financial reports on the results. in banking and insurance services, Supervisory Authority’s standard on strong capital adequacy and skilful risk internal governance and organisation of OP-Pohjola’s Corporate Social management. In addition, as part of its activities. Responsibility Programme business management OP-Pohjola will Customers NGOs Corporate social responsibility has been develop responsible investment, financing and ownerOP-Pohjola This Corporate Governance describes the part of OP-Pohjola Group’s business and insurance operations. members Group structure and tasks of OP-Pohjola Group operations in the 21st century. The and its key functions and units, the duties planning of the Corporate Social CSR training and skills development, and responsibilities of key administrative Responsibility Programme began in 2010, especially awareness of the Code of Authorities Trade bodies, the corporate governance applied with a workshop attended by experts from Business Ethics and responsible business and decisionassociations by subsidiaries, Group control and steering all over the Group. In 2011, the contents management, will be important priorities makers principles, as well as internal control of the programme assumed a more in 2012. In addition, the Global Compact’s and financial reporting. The Corporate concrete form with the performance of a principles will be promoted among Schools and Media Governance enables OP-Pohjola Group to materiality assessment. On the basis of employees, and the Green Office system universities ensure that its operations are open and this assessment, OP-Pohjola Group Central will be used to make environmental transparent. Cooperative’s Executive Board defined matters more firmly rooted in OP-Pohjola’s the Group’s CSR policy. In the future, the corporate culture. OP-Pohjola seeks to Read more about corporate governance at programme will also support the Group’s differentiate itself by offering responsible Administration Personnel Local communities OP-Pohjola Group and Pohjola (www.op.fi annual planning. Businesses in the Baltic banking and insurance products and • In 2011, over 70% of ownermembers in member banks with • Monitoring HR strategy implementation • OP-Pohjola is a major taxpayer in its locality and www.pohjola.fi). countries will join the programme later. services. Representative Assembly • Coaching • OP-Pohjola is the largest source • Training for administrative • Enhancing and monitoring job of corporate finance in many representatives satisfaction and equality regions OP-Pohjola’s CSR policy definitions: In 2011, cooperative banks’ annual Stakeholder Engagement • Newsletter for administrative • Opportunities for competence • Diverse local and regional • OP-Pohjola Group will step up its planning was supported by a joint pilot, Responsibility cannot be defined by members • Piloting electronic voting in development activities and support for projects and initiatives • Profit-based bonus/personnel development of responsible products the outcome of which was a workbook organisations alone; it is closely related election of Representative fund scheme and pay discussions Assembly and services and engages in ongoing on cooperative banks’ corporate social to the needs of stakeholder groups. • Other wellbeing-enhancing activities efforts to improve responsible financing, responsibility. The aim of this workbook Stakeholder engagement is deeply investment and non-life insurance is to concretise the significance of embedded in OP-Pohjola’s cooperative practices. Environmental and social corporate social responsibility in business business model and philosophy. responsibility is taken into account management at cooperative banks. NGOs Trade associations Media across the value chain. When a company is owned by its • Information and financial support • Cooperation with the Federation • Transparent communication and KPIs describing the operations were customers, recognising their needs and for organisations of Finnish Financial Services, regular dialogue with the media • Being a responsible employer that created for the CSR Programme and understanding their expectations is easier. • Green Office in cooperation with the Confederation of Finnish Industries, EACB, Unico member • High scores in corporate WWF communication surveys supports staff development and banks and IIF cooperative operations. GRI reporting was Due to OP-Pohjola being a cooperative • Signatory to UN Global Compact wellbeing forms an integral part of OPinitiative also initiated during the year. Its practices business, it has direct communication Pohjola Group’s policy. We have in-depth • Local projects and initiatives were described and GRI performance channels with its important stakeholders, knowledge of CSR, and our expertise is indicators for OP-Pohjola Group such as customers and administrative valued by our stakeholders. established, in line with the Financial members. These channels can be • Active interaction with stakeholders Services Sector Supplement. In late 2011, effectively used to maintain ongoing provides OP-Pohjola Group with a OP-Pohjola Group signed the UN Global dialogue. natural way of developing a pioneering Compact. approach to CSR. As Finland’s leading The UN has designated 2012 as the Schools and Authorities and Customers and financial services group, OP-Pohjola Responsible investment, financing and International Year of Cooperatives. OPuniversities decision-makers owner-members • Decisions on donations to • Intense dialogue with authorities • Good knowledge of customers bears responsibility for the reliability of insurance were deeply embedded in business Pohjola Group’s representatives have universities in 2010 and related and local decision-making • Centralised lobbying expertise the country’s financial infrastructure. management in 2011. Creation of ethical been actively involved in planning for payment in 2010 and 2011 • Bonus system upgrade and the • Financial literacy training projects best loyalty benefit in the sector Being a Group owned by our customers, guidelines for subcontracting was initiated this on the Finnish advisory board for initiated by Group member banks • Most extensive multi-channel at local level we strive to promote financial literacy in as part of the development of purchasing cooperative business (Osuustoiminnan service network in Finland • Co-projects at schools with • Opportunity to influence through all of our target groups. activities. The aim is to set CSR requirements neuvottelukunta), the working group on Young Finland Association aimed the service network, feedback at enhancing the wellbeing of for suppliers and subcontractors. An online the year of cooperatives and the European system, online customer • Our CSR communications are open and course on the Group’s Code of Business Association of Co-operative Banks (EACB). children and adolescents community and Group member banks’s administration transparent. 12 13 Corporate Social Responsibility OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 • The Rio Declaration on Environment 2 OP-Pohjola has prepared for the year by and Development producing an online course on cooperative business for personnel and administration • The United Nations Convention Against and an electronic newsletter for Corruption administrative members. As part of the Group’s business measures, the aim is to continue the modernisation of cooperative By signing the initiative, OP-Pohjola has brought its CSR activities within the Corporate Social communications in 2012. International Commitments framework of international corporate social responsibility. The initiative also supports the implementation of the Responsibility Themes At the end of 2011, OP-Pohjola signed the Group’s CSR Programme and Code of Global Compact, which binds the Group Business Ethics. to comply with the UN’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the In 2009, Pohjola Asset Management Ltd environment and anti-corruption. Within and OP Fund Management Company Ltd their spheres of influence, the Global Compact were among the first Finnish companies initiative asks companies to embrace, support to sign the UN Principles of Responsible An investor initiative in partnership with UNEP and enact these core values. Investment (UN PRI), thereby committing Finance Initiative and the UN Global Compact to adherence to these principles in their Created in 1999, upon the initiative of the operations. In addition, both companies then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, have signed the international investorthe Global Compact’s principles are derived based Carbon Disclosure Project initiative, from and are therefore in harmony with which encourages companies to engage the following universal principles: in better reporting on climate changerelated issues, through more-established • The Universal Declaration of Human methods. These companies are also Rights involved in the Water Disclosure project, • The International Labour Organization’s in which organisations are urged to take Declaration on Fundamental Principles account of water use and availability in and Rights at Work their operations. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 OP-Pohjola Group’s CSR Group’s responsibility. Robust capital requirements on bank leverage and involve customer-oriented. The revamped service Data security and the provision of reliable that further payment confirmation works via adequacy provides stability in the event increased regulation in the field of liquidity provides customers with an overall view services to customers play a crucial SMS sent to a mobile phone, thus requiring Programme is built around of unforeseeable industry developments and financial risk exposure. Meanwhile, the of their banking and insurance activities. role in the Group’s responsible business two channels, makes it one of the safest five themes and their and enables growth, even in difficult times. new Solvency II reform will involve major operations. In addition to the service range, solutions available for defeating malware. respective KPIs. Furthermore, solid finances create a good changes in the solvency measurement of In addition to private customers, thanks to security issues are continually emphasised Banking customers were asked to test the foundation for bearing environmental and insurance companies. Within the banking a dedicated Web service the transactions in the development of online and mobile usability of the service during the design and social responsibility. and insurance business, the regulatory of non-life insurance corporate customers services. Preparations are made to counter development stages. The Local Presence and Society theme framework governing the capital adequacy were also simplified. An online service for cybercrime, and new security features are draws attention to the Group’s operations OP-Pohjola sees the financial sector playing and solvency is being specified on an micro and small businesses was piloted introduced as threats increase. Further payment confirmation has alreaalongside stakeholders at local and regional a key role in the growth and prosperity of ongoing basis to be in line with market in a few locations in 2011. The goal is to dy proved useful. As more experience is levels. It also takes account of OP-Pohjola’s the national economy, as well as in creating changes, and the related regulations offer more services in the future, on the Case: Ensuring Data Protection gained, payment confirmation and other position in Finland’s financial infrastructure. and providing fundamental services and have undergone changes at intervals of a basis of the experiences gained. security solutions will be further developed. opportunities for citizens, companies and few years. OP-Pohjola Group is active in In 2011, further payment confirmation was Constant efforts will be made to ensure the Stakeholder Responsibility encompasses organisations, in economically challenging preparing for the upcoming, new regulatory The popularity of online transactions introduced to the OP online service. This is security of customers. stakeholder engagement and matters times as well. framework. was reflected in a sharp increase in a security solution that offers customers affecting employee and customer satisfaction. the number of Web service users (e.g. enhanced security against any malware Local and Regional Projects with The purpose of capital adequacy More detailed information on capital adequacy insurance declarations and payment that may have infected their computers. Stakeholders Responsible Products and Services covers management is to secure OP-Pohjola can be found in OP-Pohjola Group’s Financial services) and steadily growing interest in Further confirmation is intended to A key element of OP-Pohjola’s Corporate the principles for responsible investment, as Group’s risk-bearing capacity and ensure Statements available at op.fi. online bank statements and e-invoices. make the customer aware of any abuses Social Responsibility Programme is local well as the responsibility of the banking and that the Group’s operations are not A future aim is to further improve access related to online payment transactions. and regional projects. Their aim is to insurance services and products offered by jeopardised over the long term. The Group’s The Group’s basic lending principles were to electronic services for all customers, If a transaction seems unusual, the data support wellbeing and vitality all over OP-Pohjola. capital adequacy is on a very solid basis in not changed in 2011. The weaker economic and to encourage customers to use transferred to the bank is forwarded to the Finland. terms of both the ratio under the Act on climate has not affected the number of these services and provide the necessary customer’s mobile phone. The customer The Ethical Business theme concerns the Supervision of Financial and Insurance non-performing loans and credit losses, guidance. In addition, a new service must then check the authenticity of the Member banks organise a wide variety the Code of Business Ethics and its Conglomerates and the ratio under the Act which has remained small. called ‘OP Mobile’ was introduced in payment before it can be confirmed through of local events and projects across the implementation within the Group. on Credit Institutions. 2011 to offer customers an easy way of the online service. country. Examples include a project aimed Development of Transaction Channels conducting their banking transactions via at creating summer jobs for young people The Environment theme deals with the OP-Pohjola Group carries out regular Responsibility at OP-Pohjola involves the a smartphone. The idea of further payment confirmation is initiated by Valkeakosken Osuuspankki and a environmental impacts of the Group’s stress tests of various types to ensure the development of transaction channels to protect customers’ assets from criminals Facebook campaign by Tampereen Seudun operations. continuity of its operations. In the EU-wide in order to meet customers’ new and OP-Pohjola Group pays particular and to ensure the reliability of online Osuuspankki, implemented in cooperation stress tests conducted by the European increasing needs. The Internet has attention to contributing to the reliability payment transfers, which are essential in with Syli ry, an association of parents of 2.1 Local Presence and Society Banking Authority (EBA), OP-Pohjola considerably increased in importance as of financial infrastructure. This involves today’s society. Anti-cybercrime activities are children with cancer. An example of a local OP-Pohjola Group’s firm roots in the Group’s Banking capital adequacy was very a transaction channel – the OP online securing the reliability of the Group’s own conducted by operators engaged in online environmental project is the Vesijärvi project Finnish society are reflected in the Group’s strong, as expected. service has been continuously developed operations, including payment transfers business, the police and other authorities. of Päijät-Hämeen Osuuspankki, which core values and corporate practices. to provide customers with comprehensive, and IT system maintenance. According to security professionals, the fact raises funds to save Lake Vesijärvi and other, Strong capital adequacy, skilful risk The key regulatory changes of the Basel high-quality online banking and insurance small lakes in the region. management and good governance form the foundation of OP-Pohjola’s corporate III reform for financial institutions will impose more stringent capital adequacy services. When redesigning the online service in 2011, the emphasis was on Final In 2010, OP-Pohjola decided to donate social responsibility. The Group contributes requirements, introduce new regulatory making it easy to use, personal and Customer service performance reliability, %¹ over EUR 3.6 million to Finnish universities. to regional vitality, while building long-term These donations were made in 2010 and trust with stakeholders. Final 100.0 99.87 99.89 99.78 2011, and both the central institution and cooperative bank federations (regional OP-Pohjola boasts Finland’s largest network Capital adequacy ratio under the Act on the Supervision cooperation organisations of member of Financial and Insurance Conglomerates 99.5 of banking and non-life insurance services. banks) were involved. This means that customers have equal 2.0 access to services wherever they live. 99.0 Member banks provide local and regional With its 532 locations across Finland, OP1.80 support for educational institutions and 1.5 1.70 Pohjola is well-placed to engage with local 1.58 various environmental projects. In 2011, communities and customers. The Group also 98.5 several local events were organised under provides customers with a wide range of the theme of financial literacy, for instance. 1.0 Web-based banking and insurance services. Many cooperative banks also support local 98.0 sports activities and there is a long tradition Responsibility for Finnish Financial 0.5 2009 2010 2011 of organising children’s HIPPO skiing Infrastructure contests and other sports events. A major OP-Pohjola’s values, type of business event is the cooperative banks’ annual 0.0 ¹ Trouble-free availability of key business systems vis-à-vis international arts competition for children, organisation, capital adequacy and skilful risk management form the basis for the total service time 2009 2010 2011 16 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 organised in cooperation with visual arts financial themes for private customers and OP-Pohjola uses social media (Facebook 2.2 Stakeholder Responsibility In autumn 2011, an online survey on the Finnish media sector. In journalist surveys teachers and the Finnish National Board of companies. Start Days events, for example, and Twitter) to promote the Group’s services OP-Pohjola is there for its owner-members strategy was conducted within the Group, carried out in Finland, OP-Pohjola Group Education. have been held across Finland for as long and products and answer questions posed and customers. OP-Pohjola Group among employees and administrative is usually rated among the best Finnish as 12 years. Arranged by Pohjola Insurance by customers. The idea is to increase maintains an active dialogue with its various members. The subject of the survey was the companies. Case: Corporate Social Responsibility of and local cooperative banks, these events interaction through new electronic channels stakeholders. Stakeholder engagement Group’s identity in 2020. Cooperative Banks – a Pilot Project are targeted at people who are thinking of of communication. is one of the Group’s key CSR themes, An important element of stakeholder establishing or acquiring a business. alongside cooperation with customers and Customers and partners have been taken engagement lies in various projects and A workbook on cooperative banks’ corporate Case: Promoting Financial Literacy open communications. into account in the background analyses events throughout Finland. In addition to social responsibility was compiled in 2011 In 2012, OP-Pohjola is planning to intensify its for the strategy and in strategy work by, major nationwide projects, OP-Pohjola in a pilot project with six member banks, work with schools, alongside select partners. As a result of economic globalisation Dialogue with Stakeholders for example, utilising completed customer organises numerous local projects and as part of OP-Pohjola’s Corporate Social The idea is to increase the awareness of and an increasingly complex operating In 2011, communications on and analyses and surveys, of which the events. In 2011, OP-Pohjola Group also Responsibility Programme. financial business operations among students. environment, consumers have more need engagement in the strategy process were materiality assessment was one. participated in several fairs, of which the Local work with schools is the responsibility to understand the economy and financial revised. OP-Pohjola is promoting deeper largest were the Housing Fair, SijoitusThe aim was to provide banks with of member banks, together with other matters. Research shows that many Finns involvement among employees and the OP-Pohjola Group emphasises transparency Invest 2011, Tax 2011, KoneAgria, the practical solutions and models in support OP-Pohjola Group companies. Forms of are unsure about the state of their own administration in this process. The strategy and responsibility for its customers, by Forest Fair and a range of education and of stakeholder cooperation, sustainable cooperation include student visits and theses, finances. process is now clearly more transparent than also engaging in active dialogue with the recruitment fairs. development and, thereby, sustainable work placements and recruitment fairs. OPbefore. The intention is for dialogue to run media. Through the member banks’ strong business success, as well as to support the Pohjola Group Central Cooperative is in charge Managing one’s own finances is about through all stages of the process. local presence and the central institution’s Personnel creation of ethical business guidelines. The of work with schools in the areas of product listing all income and expenses, nationwide communications, OP-Pohjola OP-Pohjola aims to be the financial sector’s workbook is intended as a practical tool for and service development and businesscovering day-to-day living expenses and Group is well connected with the entire most attractive employer and one of the implementing, monitoring and documenting related research projects. purchases, and about practical payment CSR solutions suitable for each bank. arrangements. As more property is OP-Pohjola publishes the Chydenius acquired, more knowledge and skills are The workbook takes account of the five magazine, whose mission is to provoke social also needed to plan one’s finances and Examples of national projects themes of OP-Pohjola’s Corporate Social discussion and present the views of prominent make the best of the services available on Responsibility Programme. Member banks Event History In 2011 experts and policy-makers on the economy the market. can assess their position with reference to and the working world. The magazine is stakeholder responsibility, local presence OP-Pohjola’s role in this is to help custoFuture of Entrepreneurship Organised annually since 2003. The workshop was held in Helsinki and targeted at financial, political and corporate and society, products and services, ethical mers form a big picture and an idea of the This workshop is targeted to SMEs and organised Participants: 450–600 people depending it was themed around current economic decision-makers, including those working in business and environmental matters. The future prospects of their finances and to in cooperation with Kauppalehti business magazine on the locality. In addition to the main issues concerning Finland and Sweden. OP-Pohjola Group’s administration. In addition idea is that banks will integrate the workprovide the necessary financial advice. For and Balance Consulting. The Business Manager workshop, smaller local events organised to Chydenius, OP-Pohjola Group publishes book on cooperative banks’ corporate social this reason, all of the customer’s banking and Company of the Year awards are given in the during the year. a range of customer magazines for various responsibility into their annual planning and insurance issues are discussed at workshop. target groups. and, thereby, into their business and daycustomer meetings. to-day operations. OP-Pohjola Week main celebration Organised annually since the 1960s and the The OP-Pohjola Group Week main The OP-Pohjola Week main celebration is an annual locality changes every year. Participants: celebration was held in Mikkeli. Financial Literacy As a Group owned by its customers, OPFinal festive event intended for customers, administrative staff and other stakeholders. It opens the OP-Pohjola 400–700 people depending on the locality. Week during which local Group member banks Pohjola has a focus on promoting financial Support for local projects, € million¹ organise various events. literacy and knowledge of the financial 4.0 sector in Finland. OP-Pohjola Group Forest Day Organised annually since 1985. Participants: The workshop was held in Helsinki and its 3.2 This workshop is intended for forest owners and 300–700 people depending on the locality. theme was titled “Forestry profitability in In 2011, OP-Pohjola conducted a 3.3 target groups interested in the subject. Forestry Finland”. financial literacy survey to gain an experts and elected officials gather together to discuss understanding of how Finns rate their 2.4 topical issues in the sector. knowledge of financial matters and their 2.1 financial planning and management 1.6 1.8 OP-Pohjola Group’s Harvest Session Organised annually since 1975. Participants: The workshop was held in Pori and its skills. The survey results will be used in This workshop is intended for those engaged in 300–700 people depending on the locality. theme was titled “Food supply chain planning OP-Pohjola’s Financial Literacy 0.8 agribusiness, with farmers in particular being the strengths in Finland and elsewhere”. Programme. A similar survey will be target audience. carried out in 2012. 0.0 2009 2010 2011 OP-Pohjola Group Research Foundation theme day Organised annually since 1990. The workshop's title was ”Europe in the To promote financial skills and financial Held in Helsinki, this annual workshop forms part of Participants: 200–250. melting pot – debt crisis, financial markets literacy, member banks have also organised the activities of this scholarship foundation. and economic growth“. local events for young people and senior ¹ Furthermore, in 2010 OP-Pohjola Group decided to donate 3.6 million citizens, as well as events on various euros to Finnish universities, with the payments being made in 2010–11 18 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 most desired amongst major Finnish as well as more widely on leadership interactive skills and leadership by coaching. member banks 16 per cent of the shares. Directors and, upon a proposal by the Board owner-member has one vote. The aim companies. Our strategic goal is to turn through coaching. As a major employer in This idea originated in the ICT organisation’s of Directors, the managing director. is to increase voter turnout and improve our management and employee wellbeing the financial sector, OP-Pohjola can offer project to develop coaching for supervisors. Engagement of Administration democracy among members. into a competitive edge. Business and its employees not only training, but also In cooperative banks, the highest decisionThe Board of Directors is the central service network development, employee opportunities to develop their skills by During planning, it became evident that making body is the Representative Assembly decision-making body in a cooperative In 2011, web-based elections were piloted competence enhancement, and staff transferring from one position to another. coaching cannot be a one-way process. or the Cooperative Meeting. In OP-Pohjola, bank. It sees to the proper organisation of in two cooperative banks, Etelä-Karjalan numbers and structure are all based on the Brainstorming led to the creation of a the aim is for at least the largest member the bank’s management and operations. Osuuspankki and Kainuun Osuuspankki, Group strategy. A shared equality framework plan has programme for interactive training, piloted banks to have a Representative Assembly. An To achieve continued success, the Board alongside postal elections. Ownerbeen prepared for the Group, as a guide in the autumn at a unit of ICT Competence assembly is a more democratic alternative, of Directors also ensures that the bank’s members were able choose whether to vote Through its internal operations, the Group for equality planning in Group companies. Centre. The aim of this training is to particularly if a bank has thousands or even business operations are systematic, efficient in the traditional manner by posting their makes heavy, long-term investments Based on this framework plan, the emphasise that everyone can affect their tens of thousands of owner-members. and profitable, adaptable to changes in the vote in an envelope or to vote online. In the in employee skills and leadership companies draw up their own annual own goals and development. It is also operating environment and well-managed in latter case they were directed from the OP development, employee wellbeing, plans. An extensive equality survey is highlighted that everyone can coach other Currently, more than 70 per cent of ownerterms of risks. online service to an external voting service. rewarding and promotion of equality. conducted at least every three years, people and promote mutual learning. members belong to banks that have a An online elections guide was also piloted Employees are encouraged to develop with implementation of the annual Representative Assembly. The target is to Members of the banks’ Boards of Directors to give all candidates an equal chance to their competence throughout their careers. plans monitored annually. Employees’ At OP-Pohjola, leadership by coaching has raise this figure to 90 per cent by 2017. have the opportunity to participate in introduce themselves. This helped voters to OP-Pohjola’s employer image in Finland is experiences of equality are also studied been implemented by offering training Among the duties of the Representative a training event involving an in-depth select the best candidate. regularly measured and monitored. annually. to all experts, in addition to supervisors. Assembly is adoption of the bank’s financial discussion of cooperative banks’ operations Working together produces the best results statements and balance sheet, as well as and objectives. Since 2011, members of The pilots were a success, with more woJob satisfaction and employee wellbeing are Remuneration and rewarding at OPwhen the parties involved have the same election of the Supervisory Board, which the Boards of Directors and Supervisory men and young people being elected to the actively monitored in a Finnish employee Pohjola Group are guided by the Group’s level of knowledge and awareness of the in turn elects the Board of Directors. The Boards have also been able to take OPRepresentative Assemblies. The composition survey, which was revised in 2011 to remuneration policy. Since the policy fundamental ideas behind operations. Representative Assembly is also a stepping Pohjola’s online courses on cooperative and of the banks’ membership is now better refbe consistent throughout the Group. is available on the Group’s intranet, stone to other administrative duties within banking operations, for instance. In 2011, lected in the assemblies. OP-Pohjola Group Topics covered by the survey include job employees are aware of the principles The pilots were carried out in 2011 and the the bank. an electronic newsletter was launched for companies have the mutual goal of growing motivation, commitment and supervisory involved. Remuneration, incentive overall project results will be presented in the members of these administrative bodies. the number of member banks’ Represenwork, in line with OP-Pohjola’s principles schemes and rewarding are developed 2012. The first experiences were positive. The Supervisory Board oversees the Board This enables the fast provision of information tative Assemblies. A further aim is to simulof good management. On the basis of the actively with a view to the long-term, to Pilots and assessments will continue in of Directors and managing director in the on topical issues. In addition, those involved taneously organise as many Representative survey results, operations are developed at ensure strong earnings performance, 2012. The aim is to implement interactive management of the cooperative bank in the banks’ administration can participate in Assembly elections as possible in 2013. work community, company and Group level. growth, competitiveness, motivation, coaching on a wide scale in other OP-Pohand elects the Board of Directors. It also the customer community’s online activities. commitment and the availability of new, jola organisations as well. confirms the bank’s principles of capital Employee wellbeing is supported by competent employees. Here, the objective adequacy management. The Supervisory Case: Representative Assembly Elections Go 2.3 Responsible Products moving the occupational health care focus is competitive and transparent rewarding. Owner-members and Shareholders Board confirms the bylaws of the bank, Electronic and Services towards preventive activities throughout Employees and employee representatives Every customer of a cooperative bank which deal with matters of far-reaching and OP-Pohjola invests heavily in the the Group. In addition, supervisors are are engaged in active cooperation in the can become an owner-member of their fundamental importance, as well as deciding The Representative Assembly of a development of responsible products trained to identify risks related to working development of remuneration practices. bank. Owner-members can participate in on the division of duties between the cooperative bank is elected through and services, through continuous capacity. Good management of people the bank’s administration and decisionmanaging director and Board of Directors. democratic elections, in which any ownerimprovement of its operating models of various ages in different life situations In 2011, the regulation of reward systems making. Owner-members have major The Supervisory Board elects the Board of member can be a candidate and every in the areas of responsible investment, and cooperation between the generations was tightened in the financial sector. opportunities to have a say through financing and insurance. In product and are developed through the ‘Good Age’ Adjustments were made at OP-Pohjola to the service network, feedback system service development, the aim is to ensure programme. meet these new requirements. The metrics of OP Personnel Fund and management’s longand member banks’ administration. Cooperative banks distribute OP bonuses Final responsible operations throughout the value chain, from the perspective of both At OP-Pohjola, employees have good term bonuses were also revised to render to their owner-members to the extent environmental and social responsibility. The opportunities for skills development. Future them consistent throughout the Group. they use the banks as their main bank Average retirement age Global Compact signed in 2011 obliges OPcompetence needs are explored during and insurer, in accordance with the 65 Pohjola to comply with the principles under annual planning. Competence management Case: Interactive Skills Development principles of cooperative business. Banking this initiative. within the Group is supported by uniform and insurance transactions accumulate 64 competence management tools. OP In the future, fewer and fewer people will be bonuses, a certain number of which Development of Electronic Services Academy supports the implementation of working alone. In particular, good customer entitles a customer to become a bonus OP-Pohjola offers a comprehensive 63 the strategy by offering a comprehensive service will require intensive cooperation customer. Bonus customers receive range of electronic banking and selection of training events for people in between various parties. For this reason, benefits, such as discounts on the daily insurance services. A local presence and 62 various positions. organisational citizenship and work financial services package and insurance 61.5 responsibility are also emphasised in 61.3 community skills, in addition to leadership premiums. The bonuses paid out in 2011 the use of electronic channels, since the 61 In personnel training, a special emphasis by coaching, became development priorities totalled EUR 163 million. extensive branch network guarantees has been placed on sales and interaction at OP-Pohjola in 2011. 60.4 personal support to customers as they skills. In management development, Pohjola Bank plc has approximately 34,000 60 begin to use these channels. Products the focus has been on enhancing the The ICT organisation of OP-Services has holders of series A shares. OP-Pohjola Group 2009 2010 2011 must be user-friendly and take account supervisory skills of new supervisors, created a new training project around Central Cooperative owns 37 per cent and the of the individual needs of customers 20 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 of all ages living in different areas. 16 per cent now receive their statements do so. The statistics for 2011 show that Pohjola Asset Management’s investment opportunities to participate in financing voting rights of the mutual funds managed Here, the aim is easy-to-use, intuitive on paper. During 2012, the aim is a over 650,000 orders for e-invoices were managers and analysts who make projects and finding solutions. by it, in accordance with the ownership products, as well as transparency and further reduction in the number of bank made through the OP online service. investment decisions daily. Pohjola Asset policy approved by the company’s Board plain reporting. OP-Pohjola’s solid capital statements sent by mail, by around OP-Pohjola expects that 60 per cent of Management believes that, by working In 2011, OP Fund Management Company of Directors. Pohjola Asset Management adequacy and customer ownership 100,000 a month. customers registered with the online in this way, it can effectively involve and Pohjola Asset Management were contributes to the practical implementation ensure secure products and services to service will be using the e-invoice service understanding of critical environmental, also actively involved in the activities of of OP Fund Management Company’s customers. In 2012, an online balance statement by the end of 2015. social and corporate governance-related Finland’s Sustainable Investment Forum ownership policy by actively participating in will be introduced in the corporate matters in decision-making. (FINSIF). The purpose of this forum is the general meetings of Finnish companies, Most of OP-Pohjola’s customers have online service, to reduce the number of Corporate customers have also recognised to increase awareness of responsible in particular, under the authorisation replaced paper-based statements with paper-based bank statements mailed to the opportunity to increase efficiency Meetings between investment managers investment. OP Fund Management of OP Fund Management Company. In online bank statements. Approximately companies. presented by e-invoices, which have and the companies in which customers’ Company and Pohjola Asset Management 2011, OP Fund Management Company three million online statements are become part of the basic payment services funds have been or will possibly be invested are FINSIF’s founding members, and exercised its right to vote at 47 annual or sent to customers every month, while The goal is to further raise the share package. In 2011, the Group’s corporate form a key way of obtaining information Pohjola Asset Management has been extraordinary general meetings. Moreover, the number of statements sent by of e-invoices. OP-Pohjola launched the customers sent and received approximately on and assessing the sustainability of represented on its board since the very a representative of OP Fund Management mail is less than a million. The online e-invoice for corporate customers in nine million e-invoices in all. Volumes companies. beginning. Company was appointed to the nomination bank statement has been the default 2003. E-invoices have been marketed more than doubled compared to the committees of two companies in 2011. statement for all OP-Pohjola customers to private customers since 2005. This previous year. In 2011, discussions on corporate social Positive Screening since the beginning of 2010; as few as makes OP-Pohjola Finland’s first bank to responsibility were conducted in 83 OP Fund Management Company and Case: Responsible Investment OP-Pohjola recommends using the meetings or through other forms of contact. Pohjola Asset Management have not e-invoice service as a replacement for the These discussions can be broken down by excluded certain industries or sectors The transport of people, raw materials and Final Finnish direct debit system, which will end as a result of changes brought about by subject as follows: the environment 61 per cent, social responsibility 16 per cent, and from their investment range, as the aim is to approach matters from a positive end products to the desired destination calls for a global logistics system. Typical SEPA. As of the end of 2012, customers corporate governance 23 per cent. These perspective. Positive screening is transport options include road, air and Bonuses to owner-members, € million¹ will be offered an easy way to transfer from figures include contacts with five companies particularly emphasised in the OP Climate sea transport, which are, almost without 180 direct debit to using e-invoices. in which OP Fund Management Company’s Fund. This portfolio includes companies exception, dependent on fossil energy and Pohjola Asset Management’s stance on that will be in a good position as societies sources. According to the Intergovernmental 150 163 Mobile services are constantly growing in certain issues, mainly related to the code and businesses adapt their energy Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the 151 importance. For this reason, OP-Pohjola of governance of Finnish public companies, solutions and use of materials towards logistics sector generates approximately 13 142 120 invested strongly in the development and was addressed. lower-carbon alternatives. Companies with per cent of global carbon dioxide emissions. provision of new services during the year. water-related operations are also included Due to rising energy prices and increasing 90 In spring 2011, OP-Pohjola established Implementation of corporate responsibility in the portfolio, since climate change pressure to reduce carbon dioxide 60 a new development unit in Oulu, with a principles can increase the economic value affects water consumption and availability. emissions, logistics companies are required special focus on the development of mobile of a company. Partners are therefore At the end of 2011, capital invested in the to draw up plans and take concrete action 30 services and electronic sales. In addition, encouraged to conduct investment studies fund totalled EUR 49.6 million. to cut down their emissions and energy the ICT organisation complemented its that include responsibility aspects, in consumption. 0 existing expertise by setting up a new unit addition to conventional financial analyses. Active ownership is an integral part 2009 2010 2011 in Oulu. of responsible investment. OP Fund As part of responsible investment, attenPohjola Asset Management and OP Fund Management Company exercises the tion must also be paid to environmental ¹ Accrued bonuses Responsible Investment Management participated in the Carbon Final Responsible investment is a standard form and Water Disclosure projects in 2011. The Share of owner-members at banks with Representative of investment for OP Fund Management Company and Pohjola Asset Management. purpose of these projects is to encourage businesses all over the world to pay Final Assembly of all owner-members, % They were among Finland’s first asset attention to the environmental impacts management companies to sign the UN of their operations and to seek solutions No. of eBills/eInvoices received by private customers, 1,000 80 Principles for Responsible Investment in to matters related to climate change and 3,000 2009. Since then, both companies have water consumption. 2,955 71 60 65 67 developed responsible investment practices 2,500 with even greater determination, and In 2011, OP Fund Management Company 2,000 2,315 participated in wider development efforts in and Pohjola Asset Management signed 40 the sector. a global statement of investors directed 1,500 at the Climate Change Conference held 1,479 Assessing the sustainability of investments in Durban, South Africa. The statement 1,000 20 results in more sustainable business urged policy-makers to adopt national and operations, thereby contributing to international treaties and to take action 500 0 the realisation of investors’ objectives. to reduce emissions, promote sustainable Responsibility analyses are performed by economic growth and improve investors’ 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 22 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 issues such as these. In 2011, Pohjola Pohjola’s ethical guidelines for lending, loan arrangement is selected for each this role, the company must take care to act Owing to its close cooperation with the appliances contribute to environmental Asset Management’s investment managers assessment of environmental risk is part customer, depending on their life situation. responsibly and in the customer’s interests Group’s member banks, Pohjola Insurance protection and improve the management had meetings with several logistics sector of the standard process of assessing If a customer is in financial difficulties, in all situations. Ltd can also be locally present when a of claims expenditure. Regular inspections companies. Examples of topics discussed a customer’s creditworthiness. Where an appropriate solution is always sought customer expects personal service. and servicing increase energy efficiency and were the measurement of and trends in the necessary, analyses are backed up by together with the customer. The aim is A non-life insurance company must also reduce the risk of refrigerant leaks. carbon dioxide emissions of sea transport more in-depth assessments, conducted by to help customers and viable companies ensure that it has good financial standing. Case: Pohjola Insurance – Risk companies, measures planned to reduce independent third parties, of environmental through difficult times. In practice, this means that the company’s Management Competence Centre Keeping an inspection record of these emissions and the environmental risks and responsibilities related to solvency and operations must have a refrigeration appliances enables the impacts and energy use of road transport individual customers. These assessments Case: Responsibility in Financing financially stable foundation. This is why the In early 2011, Pohjola Insurance established prevention of damage, protection of the operators. Most companies have already can be further expanded to cover the minimum target credit rating set for Pohjola a Risk Management Competence Centre, environment and a reduction in claims prepared plans and initiated measures to customer’s social responsibility as a whole. In 2011, Pohjola Bank plc and the Nordic Insurance Ltd is the current ‘A’. which brings all risk management expenditure. In addition to an inspection tackle the above-mentioned concerns. They Investment Bank (NIB) signed a contract services under one roof. The purpose of record, customers are given a journal for expect the solutions to lie in technological Pohjola’s Investment Banking published for a EUR 50 million loan programme. Pohjola Insurance is tasked with promoting the Competence Centre is to develop risk monitoring the servicing of equipment. development, larger transport units and the first ESG analysis of Finnish listed This financing is targeted at investments its customers’ risk management and management and security services for Customers have been informed of the lower travel speed in sea transport, for companies’ corporate responsibility in 2011. made by Pohjola Bank to improve customer security and preventing damage. A insurance customers. importance of inspections and maintenance instance. This analysis examines how companies companies’ energy efficiency, such as dedicated Risk Management Competence for the prevention of refrigerant leaks and take account of environmental, social building projects for housing cooperatives Centre was established in 2011, to In 2012, for the first time the Risk minimisation of environmental impacts. Responsible Banking Products and and corporate governance issues in their and wastewater treatment in harbours. The collaborate with customers in assessing Management Competence Centre will A condition was subsequently added to Services operations. These are called the ESG purpose of environmental loans is to finance their potential risk and security factors and present a national Security Award and insurance policies that obliges the customer At OP-Pohjola Group, corporate financing is criteria (environmental, social, governance). repair investments made by households optimising their insurance solutions. regional Security Awards to corporate to keep a record of inspections. guided by ethical principles and guidelines Investment Banking’s responsibility analysis and housing cooperatives to increase customers that have developed security and for lending, which take account of social and currently covers all companies in the OMX energy efficiency and reduce negative Climate-related risks are increasing in risk management in a responsible manner At the end of the year, those involved in the environmental responsibility. In line with the Helsinki 25 Index, excluding Pohjola. environmental impacts, as well as new significance. Finland has so far been within their companies. Keep It Cool project were asked to provide Global Compact, OP-Pohjola is committed construction projects. In order to create the spared damage caused by dramatic comments and ideas for the development to promoting respect for human rights Financing for Private Customers sought-after environmental benefits, such natural phenomena, but the country must The Risk Management Competence Centre of the project. Trends in loss and damage and fundamental principles and rights at OP-Pohjola’s guidelines for lending projects are required to exceed building nevertheless prepare for risks of this type. will also introduce a new corporate risk statistics are also being followed. The aim is work, environmental protection and antito private customers are based on regulations. A non-life insurance company should do its management solution, aimed at increasing to expand these activities with retail tracorruption activities. responsible practices that take account of share to ensure that sufficient attention is corporate customers’ development efforts de customers and to raise the number of the customer’s ability to repay the loan. A Through lending, Pohjola and NIB support paid to climate-based risks. in responsible security. In addition, a service customers who, by acting responsibly with Recognising, analysing and taking account customer’s risk is assessed holistically and measures that reduce emissions into package designed to improve the safety of respect to their refrigeration equipment, of the environmental impacts of the lending is carried out with consideration water and air and promote the use of The importance of personal insurance private customers’ homes will be launched protect the environment and reduce their projects financed is also important from to the Financial Supervisory Authority’s environmentally friendly solutions in is constantly growing. Pohjola Insurance in 2012. energy consumption. the perspective of risk management. The lending recommendations and the heating systems. This loan programme is an focuses on ensuring the wellbeing of both recognition of environmental risks is included customer’s share of self-financing. excellent example of how account can also private customers and the employees of In early 2012, a training programme will 2.4 Ethical Business in OP-Pohjola’s standard company analysis. be taken of smaller-scale projects aimed corporate customers. The company provides be initiated for customer service personOP-Pohjola Group builds long-term In loan negotiations, special attention is at mitigating direct environmental effects. statutory and voluntary insurance policies nel, with the aim of training approximately customer relationships based on mutual OP-Pohjola refrains from financing paid to the customer’s ability to pay their Enhanced waste management and energy aimed at managing customers’ accident and 200 people in enterprise risk management trust. Bolstered by strong professional projects whose purpose, background or debt, which is based on available income efficiency have a clear positive impact, health risks. (ERM). The purpose of this programme is to skills, the Group bears responsibility for environmental impacts are insufficiently and risks associated with loan servicing. not only on the environment but also on complement the risk management comthe high quality, expertise and reliability understood. In accordance with the Group’s Topics discussed with the customer include standards of living. In order to promote wellbeing and petence of Pohjola Insurance employees, of its services, as well as for the security guidelines, lending is conditional on the impact of an increase in interest rates preventive health activities, Pohjola thereby also enabling even better customer of its services and products. OP-Pohjola’s meeting the necessary official regulations on loan servicing costs and the loan period. The operating model is principally the same Insurance has established Pohjola Health service in categories other than insurance operations are guided by good banking and and acquisition of the required permits as that used in Pohjola Bank’s existing Ltd, which offers services related to products. insurance practices. We comply with laws, and insurance policies. OP-Pohjola also Careful assessment of the customer’s credit lines from the European Investment wellbeing. By assessing factors affecting standards and regulations and adhere to instructs banks to verify that environmental ability to pay back the loan is mutually Bank (EIB) and the Council of Europe customers’ health and wellbeing, the Case: ‘Keep It Cool’ Collaborative Project the principles of honest and fair operations risk management in companies receiving beneficial to the customer and the bank. Development Bank (CEB). The maturity of company can ensure that all health risks are everywhere. funding is sufficient and to find out whether An extensive financial services package the environmental loan is eight years and covered. Ensuring security and risk management changes are expected in environmental allows OP-Pohjola to provide customers it forms part of Pohjola Bank’s long-term are important to Pohjola Insurance. The Customer confidence is the prerequisite legislation that might result in investment with essential information in support of funding activities. A non-life insurance company’s ability company’s key objectives include the for successful operations in the financial needs and complicate operations. decision-making and to offer customised to serve their customers is put to the development of security partnerships and sector. OP-Pohjola Group strives to know Furthermore, the history of the business comprehensive solutions from the Group’s Responsible Insurance Services test when an accident occurs. Since it is the acquisition of new partners. its customers and be familiar with their operations should be examined, if there is banking and insurance product range. The purpose of a non-life insurance important for Pohjola Insurance to offer business operations and backgrounds, reason to suspect that activities harmful to Young customers in particular are assisted company is to ensure that possible damage a high-quality claims settlement service, In spring 2011, Pohjola Insurance as thoroughly as required. Knowing the environment have been carried out. in managing their finances. does not pose insurmountable financial claims settlement has been further implemented a project titled ‘Keep It Cool’, in customers is helpful in recognising their difficulties to the party suffering the loss. A improved. This work will be continued, cooperation with the Finnish Refrigeration needs, thereby enabling the provision of Pohjola finances overseas operations of In line with OP-Pohjola’s long-term non-life insurance company assumes risks alongside continuous development of online Enterprises Association (FREA). Better the best possible products and services. Finnish companies. In addition to OPperspective on operations, the best possible that are too great for customers to bear. In customer service. servicing and maintenance of refrigeration OP-Pohjola Group’s salaried employees and 24 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 members of governance bodies are bound financial standing to the necessary extent. Group, guidelines and employee training Case: Employee Training to Prevent Abuse 2.5 Environmental OP-Pohjola Group’s Carbon to confidentiality by law; bank and insurance OP-Pohjola treats its customers in an form an important part of the processes Responsibility Footprint secrecy guarantee confidential processing of appropriate, fair and equal manner, and all in place to ensure that payment transfers Familiarising employees with the Code of OP-Pohjola aims to reduce the In recent years, the carbon footprint has all customer data. Employees may process customer-related information is processed and other services, for instance, are Business Ethics and training them in the environmental impacts of its operations and become a key indicator of environmental customer information only to the extent with due care. not used to obscure the origin of assets prevention of abuse are an important systematically develop its environmental responsibility. It is helpful in recognising an required by their duties. obtained through criminal activity. part of OP-Pohjola’s employee training. management practices. It also strives to organisation’s impact on global warming Employees are trained in order to enhance An online course titled ‘The Many promote solutions that cause less harm and in cost-effectively diminishing Regulation of the financial sector sets strict their professional expertise, by providing Risk-taking is an inherent part of Faces of Money Laundering’, prepared to the environment. In 2012, OP-Pohjola greenhouse gas emissions. requirements on business operations. a wide range of training opportunities in banking and insurance operations. At in collaboration with the Federation of will establish targets for the reduction of Among the fundamental requirements are various areas of banking and insurance, OP-Pohjola Group, the purpose of risk Finnish Financial Services, was launched emissions across the Group. Calculation of the carbon footprint is based ensuring the confidentiality of customer including insider regulations, ethics, data management is to identify threats and in 2009. This course illustrates the on activity-specific data (kWh, kg, km) and data and continuous development of security and legislation. In 2011, the diverse opportunities affecting the Group’s identification and due diligence obligations Environmental responsibility encompasses the emission factors for materials and data security. As required by good guidelines and principles in use in OPoperations. related to the prevention and detection of the environmental impacts of both activities (tnCO2/kWh, tnCO2/kg), selected practice, OP-Pohjola values its customer Pohjola Group companies were combined money laundering and terrorist financing, products and services and the Group’s own to best match local conditions. The carbon relationships and treats its customers to create a Code of Business Ethics. Over The primary objective of risk the obligation to obtain information on operations. It is important that OP-Pohjola footprint is measured in a transparent equally and professionally. OP-Pohjola is the course of 2012, employees across the management is to secure the riskunusual transactions, and the obligation raise environmental awareness among its manner, using international standards also engaged in active efforts to prevent Group will be familiarised with the code bearing capacity of all entities within to report suspicious transactions. customers, offering products and services that and generally accepted practices. Use of money laundering and terrorist financing. through an online course. the Group and to ensure that they are allow the Group to mitigate the environmental data based on assumptions is recognised Customer satisfaction is monitored through not exposed to excessive risk that may The online course covers the most common effects of the entire value chain. and highlighted, and a margin of error is a customer satisfaction survey conducted Examples of the tools used in 2011 to endanger the profitability, solvency or cases that occur in banking and insurance calculated for the footprint. on a regular basis. Feedback from implement the Code of Business Ethics are continuity of the entity’s operations, or operations and considered typical in terms In 2011, OP-Pohjola continued the customers is important, and all feedback training events for entities within OPthose of the entire OP-Pohjola Group. of money laundering. It also creates a basis development of investment, financing The carbon footprint is expressed as carbon and complaints are taken seriously. Pohjola Group on insider regulations and The risk management process includes for further training. In addition to the online and insurance products and services that dioxide equivalents (tnCO2eq). Carbon the prevention of money laundering. Such the recognition, measurement and course, other training sessions are availabare more environmentally friendly. It also dioxide equivalents are calculated for all OP-Pohjola is committed to responsible training is provided by the Legal Services evaluation of risks, and their limitation, le. The aim of this is to ensure that OPpromoted the implementation of the Green greenhouse gases (in addition to carbon marketing and advertising. The Group group of the Legal and Collection Services reporting and supervision. Pohjola’s employees are aware of statutory Office system in its offices. dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, among complies with marketing legislation and the of OP-Services Ltd. obligations related to the prevention of others) by taking account of their global self-regulation guidelines of international The Compliance function ensures that all money laundering, and to ensure that these warming potential compared to carbon organisations, including those of the Prevention of money laundering and entities within OP-Pohjola Group comply obligations are fulfilled. dioxide. International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). terrorist financing is a statutory obligation with laws, official instructions and OP-Pohjola also adheres to the marketing (Act on Preventing and Clearing Money orders, self-regulation of the markets OP-Pohjola’s carbon footprint was guidelines of the Finnish Consumer Agency. Laundering and Terrorist Financing) for all as well as the internal policies and calculated in accordance with the those operating in the financial sector. OPguidelines of the Group and its entities. Our carbon footprint, tonnes CO2¹ Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidelines1 In marketing, OP-Pohjola aims to provide Pohjola Group sees to it that its employees A further aim of compliance activities is developed by the World Resources Institute all information on products and services are aware of the obligations set out under to ensure that appropriate and ethically 35,000 and the World Business Council for 2,082 that may be of importance to customers legislation, to the extent necessary for the acceptable policies and practices are 30,000 90 Sustainable Development. It is the best when making decisions. Marketing directed performance of their duties. At OP-Pohjola observed in customer relationships. available tool for calculating the carbon at children and young people is highly 25,000 3,025 3,101 12,191 footprint of an organisation. 146 54 restricted. OP-Pohjola takes account of this 20,000 group’s general inexperience and limited 11,722 12,233 321 When assessing the calculation results, it capacity to act. 15,000 should be noted that the carbon footprints Code of Business Ethics Final 10,000 397 277 of different organisations are not directly comparable. Before such a comparison, it OP-Pohjola complies with industry Customer satisfaction, private customers, scale 1– 5 5,000 must be verified that the limitations and regulations, good banking and insurance 12,768 12,650 20,305 assumptions applied in the calculation, as 5 0 practices and good stock market practices, well as the emissions factors, correspond to which guide its operations. In addition, 2009 2010 2011 each other. OP-Pohjola adheres to several acts as 4 4.0 4.0 ■ Electricity: buildings well as regulations and guidelines issued 3.9 Targets for reducing OP-Pohjola Group’s ■ Electricity: computer room by supervisory authorities. The Code 3 carbon footprint will be set in 2012. In the ■ Heating of Business Ethics provides an ethical evaluation of OP-Pohjola’s carbon footprint, ■ Fuels: buildings foundation for all those employed by OP2 major factors affecting the carbon footprint Pohjola, whatever their role, position or ■ Cars included electricity, heating of properties, location. 1 paper consumption and motoring. We strive to influence our carbon footprint by Good banking and insurance practice 0 ¹ Scope 1 and 2 promoting the environmental awareness of requires OP-Pohjola to apply customer due employees and the expansion of the Green 2009 2010 2011 diligence and be aware of each customer’s 1 www.ghgprotocol.org Office system. 26 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Themes OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 of around 10,566 average Finnish singleCase: OP-Pohjola Group’s Carbon Footprint family homes3 (8,723). The planting of 150,453 trees (124,208) would be requiOP-Pohjola Group assessed its carbon red to compensate for these emissions4. footprint in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Calculation of the carbon footprint is helpful in recognising an organisation’s impact WWF’s Green Office on global warming and in cost-effectively Green Office is an environmental diminishing greenhouse gas emissions. management system for offices, developed by WWF Finland in 2002. In 2011, OP-Pohjola Group’s carbon footprint was approximately 46,490 tonnes of carbon The aim of this system is to reduce the dioxide equivalents (38,380 in 2010), which greenhouse gas emissions of offices, raise Case: Green Office equals 3.7 tnCO2 per employee2 (3.2 tnCO2). environmental awareness and encourage Some 70 per cent (65) of OP-Pohjola Group’s people to make ecological everyday choices. With WWF’s Green Office system, workplaces carbon footprint was caused by electricity and can enhance their employees’ environmental heat consumed on office premises, 9.4 per Offices play a crucial role with regard to awareness, reduce their environmental cent (13.5) by motoring and 10.3 per cent energy consumption and sustainable impact, achieve cost-savings and slow down (11.7) by paper consumption. The margin of solutions. The system benefits both the climate change. OP-Pohjola is committed error is 18 per cent (15). organisation and the environment. to expanding the use of the Green Office OP-Pohjola’s carbon footprint corresponds to the emissions from the energy consumption OP-Pohjola Group is committed to expanding the use of the Green Office system in its offices. In 2011, OP-Pohjola negotiated with WWF on Group-wide Green Office targets. The Green Office system 3 GRI Corporate system in 2012. has been in place in OP-Pohjola’s offices in Teollisuuskatu Street, Helsinki, and certain cooperative banks, since 2003. In 2011, the Responsibility Data system was implemented by OP-Pohjola’s offices in Lapinmäentie Road and Hiomotie Green Office Label, no. of employees Road, as well as the Group’s new Oulu unit 3,000 and member banks all over Finland. 2,500 Green Office enables offices of all sizes to 2,550 reduce their environmental impacts and 2,420 2,422 2,000 achieve savings in waste and energy costs, for example. With regard to OP-Pohjola’s 1,500 carbon footprint, particular attention is paid to the energy and paper consumption of offi1,000 ces. The system provides tools for enhancing 500 the environmental awareness of employees and diminishing the environmental effects of 0 operations. 2009 2010 2011 2 The annual carbon footprint of the average Finn is approximately 12 tonnes of CO2. In addition to housing and transport, this figure includes emissions generated by industry and agriculture. Globally, the average footprint of one person is 4.5 tnCO2 (source: World Bank Online Database / CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita)). These figures have been arrived at by dividing a country’s total emissions by the number of residents. 3 A 120 m2 house of a family of four consumes about 20,000 kWh of energy per year. A rough estimate is that electricity and heat consumption account for 5,000 and 15,000 kWh of this consumption, respectively. If a house has district heating, the emissions of a single-family home amount to about 4.4 tonnes of carbon dioxide. These emissions have been calculated on the basis of the average specific emissions of electricity production, 200 g CO2 /kWh, and the average specific emissions of separate production of district heat, 226 g CO2 /kWh, in Finland. (Source: WWF Finland) 4 One tree absorbs an average of 0.9175 tonnes of carbon dioxide over a period of 40 years after planting. However, the growth of a tree requires space for the roots, sunshine and water. For this reason, three trees must be planted to ensure that at least one lives the required 40 years. One tree is therefore needed to absorb 0.309 tonnes of carbon dioxide. (Source: WWF Finland) 28 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 OP-Pohjola Group’s GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement. follows the work of the International disclosures referred to in the GRI Guidelines principles, with a special emphasis on the presented in detail in Note 57 Segment sustainability reporting OP-Pohjola Group’s sustainability reporting Integrated Reporting Committee (IIRC), can be found. Standard disclosures environment. The fund’s assets are mainly reporting to OP-Pohjola Group’s Financial also encompasses information required which is preparing a model for integrated are mainly presented in the corporate invested in sectors on which climate change Statements (www.op.fi). has been implemented by the Global Compact, with regard to the corporate reporting. Our aim is to develop responsibility section. In addition, standard and the related preparations are estimated by integrating it with the promotion of principles related to human sustainability reporting as an integral disclosures are included in the following to have the greatest impact. The companies Products designed to deliver a specific Group’s annual reporting. rights, labour, the environment and antipart of the Group’s annual reporting and, sections: OP-Pohjola Group in 2011, in the fund’s portfolio are typically those environmental benefit, OP Climate Fund’s corruption activities. thereby, to measure the results and impact Business Operations, and Structure and that stand to gain from climate change share of the capital invested in all equity of our CSR activities in relation to the Governance. The GRI content index has mitigation measures. Their business has to funds (FS8) The Corporate Social Responsibility Integrated reporting combines CSR data Group’s operations. been prepared in accordance with the do with energy efficiency and technology, The trend in OP Climate Fund’s value and Report has been prepared in compliance with the Group’s strategy and business, guidelines provided by the GRI Financial recycling, water and waste management the fund’s share of the capital invested in with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) corporate governance and financial results. 3.1 GRI Content Index Services Sector Supplement. OP-Pohjola and the related infrastructure. all equity funds is shown in Figure FS8 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. In the development of its approach to The GRI content index shows where in Group’s GRI reporting contains all OP-Climate Fund’s share of all OP equity Consideration has also been taken of the sustainability reporting, OP-Pohjola OP-Pohjola Group’s annual report the information and indicators identified by a Product Portfolio funds’ assets. The fund’s portfolio includes materiality assessment as significant to Percentage of the portfolio for business lines companies that will be in a good position stakeholders and the Group’s business by sector (FS6) as societies and businesses adapt their GRI Performance Indicators operations. Part of this information is The Group’s product portfolio is composed energy solutions and use of materials reported in a different manner to that of various financial sector products and towards lower-carbon alternatives. At the 2011 2010 2009 recommended by the GRI Guidelines. An services. A breakdown of the portfolio is end of 2011, the capital invested in the fund account is given of deviations with respect FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit. OP1.5 2.6 3.4 to such information. GRI Content can be Climate Fund's share of all OP equity funds' assets (%) found at the end of the report. FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down EC3 Coverage of defined benefit pension plan obligations (€ million) ¹ -71 -182 -159 by purpose, OP-Climate Fund’s share of all OP equity funds’ assets % 3.2 GRI Perfomance Indicators GRI Aspects in the Financial Sector LA1 Total workforce 13,229 12,504 12,504 4.0 The GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement specifies and provides guidance LA2 Employee turnover (%) 3.6 4.7 4.6 3.2 on special issues related to the sustainability 3.4 reporting of banks and insurance companies, LA7 Lost time (sickness absence) rate (%) 3.5 3.7 3.6 2.4 including a responsible product and service 2.6 portfolio and responsible investment and LA10 Training investments, % of total payroll 2.5 2.0 2.4 1.6 ownership. With regard to the product and service portfolio, responsibility refers 1.5 LA12 Employees involved in performance and career development reviews (%) 90 92 95 to the reporting organisation’s activities 0.8 and initiatives aimed at developing and LA13 Employees by gender (%) marketing products and services that meet 0.0 responsibility criteria. Particular attention is Men 27 25 25 paid to products and services that generate 2009 2010 2011 benefits related to social responsibility or Women 73 75 75 environmental impacts. A further objective Pohjola Asset Management’s ESG process description is to describe the share of such products and LA13 Employees by age (average age) 43 44 44 services in the existing product and service portfolio as well as how the organisation EN4 Energy consumption (kWh ) ² 45,064,231 49,236,757 49,633,794 Principles for responsible promotes new sustainable product Engagement investment • Meetings with companies innovations in the financial sector. EN16 Total greenhouse gas emissions (tonne) 46,490 38,380 38,715 • Investors’ joint projects ESG Manager Responsible Products and Services EN1 Materials used (office paper, kg) ³ 387,365 448,601 574,154 Responsible products and services is one Investment of the focus areas of OP-Pohjola Group’s managers EN22 Total weight of waste (tonne) 4 1,058 990 1,166 corporate social responsibility. Matters related to corporate responsibility and ¹ For details, see Note 28 to OP-Pohjola Group’s Financial Statements their development have influenced the content of many products and services Information acquisition, including Reporting to UNPRI ² Includes electricity consumed by office premises in OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated’s use and by data centres offered by the Group. This is despite the responsibility perspective within the Haaga and Teollisuuskatu premises and heating energy consumed by office premises in OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative only partial completion, so far, of integrating • Meetings with companies Consolidated’s use. • Research responsibility into our product and service development. An example of a product ³ Includes OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated and Helsinki OP Bank Plc and an estimate of materials used by OP-Pohjola OP Fund Management providing environmental benefits is the Group member cooperative banks based on the use by the first two per employee Investment decisions Company OP Climate Fund, in which investments • Positions • Owner engagement are made in line with sustainability 4 Includes buildings in OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated’s own use 30 31 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 totalled EUR 49.6 million, which accounts particular, under the authorisation of OP rights of the mutual funds it manages Economic Responsibility EN16 Total greenhouse gas emissions, tonne for 1.5 per cent of the capital invested in all Fund Management Company. Some OP in accordance with the ownership policy Economic responsibility encompasses both equity funds. Funds investing abroad are managed by approved by the company’s Board of ensuring the economic sustainability of an 50,000 investment managers outside Pohjola Directors. Pohjola Asset Management organisation’s operations and taking account 46,490 In addition, Pohjola Bank plc and the Asset Management. OP Fund Management contributes to the practical implementation of the wider economic impacts on society. In 40,000 Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) have signed Company has also signed the UN Principles of OP Fund Management Company’s the financial sector, economic responsibility 38,715 38,380 an agreement for a EUR 50 million loan for Responsible Investment (UN PRI), and ownership policy, by actively participating is of key importance, since responsibility 30,000 programme. This is for financing projects reports on their implementation with in general meetings of Finnish companies, for customers and the role of companies related to improving energy efficiency and respect to all of its funds. in particular, under the authorisation as capital and insurance providers are 20,000 wastewater treatment. Financing is targeted of OP Fund Management Company. In emphasised during difficult economic times. at investments made in energy efficiency Pohjola’s Investment Banking published the 2011, OP Fund Management Company Economic responsibility lies at the core of 10,000 by Pohjola Bank’s customer companies. first ESG analysis of Finnish listed companies’ exercised its right to vote at 47 annual or OP-Pohjola Group’s operations. Solid capital These investments support measures that corporate responsibility in 2011. This analysis extraordinary general meetings. Moreover, adequacy, moderate risk-taking and skilful 0 reduce emissions into water and air and examines how the companies take account a representative of OP Fund Management risk management, along with commitment promote the use of environmentally friendly of environmental, social and corporate Company was appointed to the nomination to the long-term development of society, 2009 2010 2011 solutions in heating systems. governance issues in their operations. committees of two companies in 2011. are the cornerstones of our business. Investment Banking’s responsibility analysis Responsible Investment currently covers all companies in the OMX Financial literacy (FS16) In accordance with its mission, OP-Pohjola EN4 Energy consumption, MWh Active Ownership Helsinki 25 Index, excluding Pohjola. See page In 2011, financial literacy was promoted creates local, regional and national FS10 Interaction on sustainability issues 31 for chart Pohjola Asset Management’s ESG among various target groups, by working prosperity and stability. The Group 50,000 541 201 with companies held in the organisation’s process description. with schools, for instance. In addition, our contributes to regional vitality and builds 6,732 4,752 333 portfolio member banks have organised small-scale long-term trust in local communities. 40,000 25,318 4,829 25,385 A responsible investment process is used Assets subject to positive or negative local events related to teaching financial skills 24,633 by both Pohjola Asset Management and OP environmental or social screening, OP and financial literacy to young people and OP-Pohjola generates long-term financial 30,000 Fund Management Company. This process Climate Fund (FS11) senior citizens. Banks have also held events prosperity for its stakeholders. Direct covers the entire chain, from Pohjola Asset At the end of 2011, assets invested in with various financial themes for private economic impacts on shareholders are 20,000 Management’s principles for responsible OP Climate Fund amounted to EUR 49.6 customers and companies. A financial literacy illustrated in Table EC1 Direct economic value 18,965 16,974 investment to meetings with companies and million, accounting for 1.5 per cent of the survey was conducted during the year to generated and distributed to stakeholders. 10,000 15,269 engagement processes within investment assets of all equity funds. gain an understanding of people’s knowledge management. In line with this process, of financial matters in Finland and of their Economic Impacts (EC1 and EC9) 0 the voting rights of OP funds are used by Voting policies applied to environmental financial planning and management skills. Economic impacts are created by direct OP Fund Management Company. Both or social issues for shares over which the The survey will be utilised in the planning cash flows, such as bonus payments to 2009 2010 2011 companies report to the UN PRI annually. reporting organisation holds the right to vote of measures aimed at promoting financial customers, purchases from suppliers and ■ Heating: OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated buildings or advises on voting (FS12) literacy. Chydenius, the financial magazine service providers, employee compensation, ■ Electricity: OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated buildings In 2011, Pohjola Asset Management Active ownership is an integral part published by OP-Pohjola Group for financial, tax payments to the state and municipalities ■ Electricity consumed by centralised server computer systems discussed corporate social responsibility of responsible investment. OP Fund political and corporate decision-makers, and support for community activities. OP■ Fuels: OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated buildings in 83 meetings or through other forms of Management Company exercises the voting underwent a transformation. Pohjola Group’s goal is to offer its ownercontact. The breakdown of these discussions members the financial sector’s best loyalty by subject was as follows: the environment benefits. OP-Pohjola has Finland’s largest 61 per cent, social responsibility 16 per EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed to stakeholders network of banking and non-life insurance cent, and corporate governance 23 per services. This network seeks to ensure that EN1 Materials used, office paper, kg¹ Direct economic added value generated 2011 2010 2009 cent. Responsibility analyses are performed customers have equal opportunities to carry 600,000 (€ million) by investment managers and analysts, out transactions. Our cooperative banks and 574,154 who make investment decisions daily. their offices across Finland enable effective 480,000 a) Income Customers 2,059 2,024 1,872 Meetings between investment managers interaction with customers and the local and companies in which customers’ funds community. 448,601 Breakdown of economic value added 360,000 have been or will possibly be invested are 387,365 a key way of obtaining information on and OP-Pohjola Group is a significant purchaser b) Purchases Suppliers 547 505 489 240,000 assessing the sustainability of companies. of Finnish goods and services, as evidenced by Finnish suppliers and service providers c) Employee compensation Personnel 696 643 622 120,000 OP Fund Management Company exercises accounting for 97 per cent of the value the voting rights of the mutual funds of purchases in 2011, estimated on the d) Returns to owner-members Owners 176 163 160 0 managed by it, in accordance with basis of information on the 100 largest the ownership policy approved by the suppliers and service providers. This share 2009 2010 2011 e) Income tax Government 87 135 126 company’s Board of Directors. Pohjola excludes operations in the Baltic countries. Asset Management contributes to the OP-Pohjola Group is further developing ¹ Includes OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated and f) Donations and other community Non-profit 3 2 2 Helsinki OP Bank Plc and an estimate of materials used by OP-Pohjola practical implementation of OP Fund its purchasing policy by, for example, investments organisations Management Company’s ownership applying more detailed guidelines to the Group member cooperative banks based on the use by the first two policy, by actively participating in general assessment of supplier and service provider per employee. Business development 549 575 473 meetings of Finnish companies, in responsibility. 32 33 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 EN22 Total weight of waste, tonne¹ OP-Pohjola Group is a major employer in LA1 Workforce by type of employment contract, % its employees and customers. many municipalities and, consequently, a 1,500 100 driver of the regions’ purchasing power. 7 8 8 Energy and Climate Cooperative banks are often among the Carbon footprint, reduction of greenhouse 1,200 80 largest taxpayers. gas emissions (EN4 and EN16) 1,166 OP-Pohjola Group’s operations have both 900 1,058 60 990 OP-Pohjola Group directs economic benefits direct and indirect environmental impacts. towards non-profit organisations through The latter are related to the Group’s role 600 support, donations and sponsorship. 40 in taking account of the environmental impacts of customers’ operations and in 300 Economic impacts on stakeholders may 20 providing guidance and advice to customers also be indirect. Such indirect impacts on financing, non-life insurance and 0 are created through contributions to local 0 93 92 92 investment decisions. and regional economic vitality, as well as 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 through social contributions. Examples of OP-Pohjola aims to reduce the ¹ Includes buildings in OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative indirect economic impacts are: ■ Fixed-term environmental impacts of its operations Consolidated’s own use ■ Indefinite-term (energy, waste and materials) and to • Employment (creation of new jobs, systematically develop its environmental work placements, summer jobs, management practices. apprenticeship training); • Acquisitions (purchases from local LA1 Workforce in the Baltic countries by country, gender, type of employment and OP-Pohjola Group assessed its carbon LA1 Workforce by gender, % suppliers and service providers); type of employment contract (%) footprint in 2009, 2010 and 2011. In 2011, its carbon footprint totalled around 46,490 100 • Investments (properties, maintenance, Estonia Latvia Lithuania tonnes of CO2e (38,380 in 2010). The 75 75 73 local infrastructure and building projects); greenhouse gas emissions of the Group’s Man 37 32 39 80 • Financing (financing for start-ups, local operations (Scope 1 & 2) amounted to financing, ethical lending criteria by 34,990 tonnes of CO2e (28,316). See page Woman 63 68 61 60 sector); 33 for graph EN16 Total greenhouse gas emissions, tonne. • Tax payments (income tax, local taxes, 40 property taxes, other taxes). OP-Pohjola Group’s energy consumption Full-time 100 92 94 20 27 Coverage of the organisation’s defined Curbing climate change resulting from 25 25 benefit plan obligations (EC3) energy consumption is a key objective Part-time 0 8 6 At OP-Pohjola Group, retirement benefits of the Group’s environmental activities. 0 are determined by pension legislation In collaboration with its partners, OP2009 2010 2011 and OP-Pohjola Group’s own pension Pohjola Group has developed solutions plans. Statutory pension cover for OPfor the repair, maintenance and use of its ■ Men Fixed-term 94 94 97 Pohjola’s employees is arranged through properties, which reduce their life-cycle ■ Women pension insurance taken out with OP environmental impacts. Indefinite-term 6 6 3 Bank Group Pension Fund or pension insurance companies. A few companies Specific consumption of electricity in within OP-Pohjola Group have provided OP-Pohjola Group’s largest properties LA1 Workforce by type of employment, % supplementary pension cover for their in Helsinki (Teollisuuskatu, Vääksyntie, employees through OP Bank Group Pension Lapinmäentie and Hiomotie) was 45.1 100 Fund or a life insurance company. LA2 Employee turnover, % GWh (49.2). More detailed information on 9 9 9 Op-Pohjola Group’s energy consumption is 80 5 Read more in the Consolidated Financial available in graph EN4 Energy consumption, Statements of OP-Pohjola Group’s Annual 4.6 4.7 MWh, page 33. 60 Review 2011. 4 Materials (EN1) 3.6 40 Environmental Responsibility 3 OP Pohjola Group’s operations consume At OP-Pohjola, environmental responsibility large amounts of office paper. OP-Pohjola 20 encompasses the environmental impacts of 2 has initiated measures to reduce the use of both products and services and the Group’s paper through wider implementation of the 0 91 91 91 operations. We aim to systematically reduce 1 Green Office system within the Group and the our carbon footprint and openly report on development of electronic services. In 2011, 2009 2010 2011 the environmental impacts of our operations. OP-Pohjola consumed 387.4 tonnes of office 0 ■ Full-time Through its actions, OP-Pohjola also strives 2009 2010 2011 to increase environmental awareness among ■ Part-time 34 35 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 LA13 Composition of governance bodies by gender, % paper (448.6 in 2010). Turn to page 33 for LA13 Composition of governance bodies by age, % develop their competencies throughout graph EN1 Materials used, office paper, kg. their careers. 100 100 32 33 34 Waste (EN22) Workforce structure (LA1, LA2 and LA13) 80 80 Waste sorting is an everyday activity at In 2011, the number of OP-Pohjola Group OP-Pohjola. All employees have their own employees grew by 723. At the end of 2011, 60 68 67 66 containers for office paper, waste paper 60 the Group employed 13,229 people (12,504 and waste which can be used in energy in 2010). Of these, 92 per cent (92) were 40 generation. Shared premises have containers 40 indefinite-term and 8 per cent (8) fixed-term for confidential material, mixed waste and employees. In the Baltic countries (Seesam 20 biodegradable waste. There are also collection 20 and Pohjola Finance), OP-Pohjola Group points for other types of waste, such as has 335 employees (336), of whom 95 per 0 batteries, wood and hazardous waste. The 0 cent (91) have indefinite-term and 5 per amount of waste generated is reduced cent (9) fixed-term contracts. More detailed 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 by developing practices, for example by information on workforce by gender, type ■ Men enhancing electronic archiving and recycling Women Men of employment and type of employment ■ Women and by providing better instructions on ■ Under 30 yrs ■ Under 30 yrs contract both in Finland and in the Baltic waste sorting. On office premises used by ■ 30–39 yrs ■ 30–39 yrs countries can be found on pages 34–35 in OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative ■ 40–49 yrs ■ 40–49 yrs graphs LA1. Breakdown by personnel group, % Consolidated, waste volumes have fallen in ■ Over 50 yrs ■ Over 50 yrs 100 recent years, due to conscious efforts. See Employee turnover was 3.6 per cent (4.7), 3.9 4.0 2.1 page 34 for graph EN22 Total weight of which can be regarded as low in the financial 9.4 9.0 11.4 80 23.7 25.1 27.0 waste, tonne. LA13 Composition of employees by age, % sector. See page 35 for graph LA2 Employee turnover, %. 100 60 Owing to efficient sorting, the recovery rate 63.0 61.9 59.5 of 87.4 per cent has been achieved for all OP-Pohjola wants to provide equal working 80 40 waste generated by OP-Pohjola Group Central opportunities for all employees. Of the total Cooperative Consolidated. Waste taken to a workforce, women accounted for 73 per landfill site accounted for 12.6 per cent. 60 cent (75) and men for 27 per cent (25) in 20 2011. OP Pohjola Group’s age distribution Environmental impacts of products and 40 has remained stable. At the end of 2011, 0 services (EN26) the average age of was 43 years (44). 2009 2010 2011 OP-Pohjola offers a comprehensive range of 20 See pages 36–37 for the graphs on the electronic banking and insurance services, composition of governance bodies and ■ Salaried employees which are continuously developed. In 2011, 0 employees by age and gender (LA13). ■ Experts personal customer service also went online. 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 ■ Supervisors and team leaders New tools, such as videoconferencing and Salaried Experts Supervisors and Management In 2011, the average age of retired ■ Management online discussion, were tested on the Web. employees team leaders employees was 61.5 years (61.3), and they The goal is to offer customers investment, Women Men had been employed by the Group for 24.5 financing and non-life insurance products and ■ Under 30 yrs ■ Under 30 yrs years (23.3), on average. LA13 Composition of employees by gender, % services that can help reduce environmental ■ 30–39 yrs ■ 30–39 yrs impacts across the value chain. The creation Skills development (LA10 and LA12) 100 ■ 40–49 yrs ■ 40–49 yrs of ethical guidelines for subcontracting At OP-Pohjola Group, employees have ■ Over 50 yrs ■ Over 50 yrs was initiated as part of the development of good opportunities for skills development. 80 purchasing activities. The aim is to specify CSR Employee training has emphasised sales requirements for suppliers. and interaction skills, while management 60 LA10 Training investments as percentage of total payroll, % development has focused on the ability to Social Responsibility 5 change and develop, among other themes. 40 OP-Pohjola Group’s cooperative structure OP-Pohjola Group also offers its employees and operating principles make it wella wide array of opportunities for competence 4 20 placed to implement social responsibility. development by transferring from one HR management at OP-Pohjola is based position to another. In 2011, training 3 0 on the Group’s values and responsible investments accounted for 2.5 per cent (2.0 practices. The principles of HR management in 2010) of the total payroll. See graph LA10 W M W M W M W M 2 2.4 2.5 guide responsible operations and their Training investments as percentage of total Salaried Experts Supervisors and Management 2.0 employees team leaders development. The Group invests heavily payroll, % to the left. in the development of employee skills 1 ■ 2011 ■ 2010 and management, employee wellbeing, Employee performance reviews also play remuneration and the promotion of 0 an important role in training and education. ■ 2009 equality. Employees are encouraged to 2009 2010 2011 Performance and career development 36 37 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 LA12 Employees involved in performance and labour standards will be included in the training events on the prevention of money the GRI performance indicators regarded at least two previous financial years. For career development reviews, % Group’s new purchasing policy, which is laundering and customer due diligence as most significant on the basis of the indicators for which no comparative data currently being revised. We expect our were actively organised in 2011. Training in materiality analysis. The GRI indicators is available from previous financial years, 100 partners and suppliers to act responsibly, which the latest aspects of the Group’s Code include the most material economic, social only the data for the reporting period is 95 92 in compliance with the Group’s operating of Business Ethics have been added will and environmental indicators as well as presented in the report. 80 90 principles. begin in 2012. This training is targeted at all indicators from the GRI Financial Services employees. Sector Supplement related to product and Bases for calculations of the CSR 60 The online course of the Code of Business service responsibility. Programme KPIs Ethics that is to be initiated in 2012 will 3.3 GRI Reporting Principles The ‘Capital adequacy ratio under the Act 40 also include training on human rights. In This report is OP-Pohjola Group’s first Definition of Materiality on Supervision of Financial and Insurance addition, employees will receive training actual Corporate Social Responsibility Materiality has been assessed by considering Conglomerates’ was calculated by dividing 20 on the principles of the Global Compact Report prepared in accordance with the the importance of various sustainability OP-Pohjola Group’s total capital resources by as part of OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. aspects, from the perspective of stakeholder the minimum amount of capital resources. 0 Social Responsibility Programme. This Previously, the GRI Guidelines have been interests and the impacts of OP-Pohjola’s These figures were obtained from OP2009 2010 2011 will enable them to identify ways in which used in OP-Pohjola’s sustainability reporting operations. To find out which topics are Pohjola Group’s financial statements. they can promote the realisation of human as general guidance only. The report includes of interest to the Group’s stakeholders, a rights in business. a GRI Content Index and an assessment of survey was performed of key stakeholder Customer service performance reliability LA7 Lost time (sickness absence) rate, % the GRI Application Level. OP-Pohjola aims groups. The survey was responded to by 408 refers to the trouble-free availability of key Society (SO3) to further develop the Group’s sustainability stakeholder representatives, who evaluated banking and insurance business systems. 5 OP-Pohjola contributes to sustainable reporting in compliance with the the importance of various sustainability The availability of business services is financial prosperity, security and recommendations of the GRI Guidelines and aspects for OP-Pohjola, on a scale of 1 to reported monthly by providing the uptime 4 wellbeing in society. The Group interacts the Financial Services Sector Supplement. 5. A materiality matrix was drawn up as a percentage compared to the total minutes 3.7 continuously with local communities and The Group’s GRI report also meets the result of the survey, showing which aspects measured during that month. The annual 3.6 3.5 3 collaborates on a wide scale to boost reporting obligations related to the UN Global are prioritised on the basis of stakeholders’ figure is the average of the monthly figures. regional vitality. In accordance with Compact and the promotion of human rights, interests. The most material CSR themes to 2 its values, the Group operates locally, labour, environmental and anti-corruption OP-Pohjola Group’s business operations are The figures for ‘Support for local projects’ regionally and nationally as an exemplary policies in OP-Pohjola’s business. The GRI reflected in the focus areas of the Group’s were derived from accounting records by 1 and ethically responsible company. Content Index shows which indicators have Corporate Social Responsibility Programme. taking into account donations, awards and been used to describe the implementation The impacts of corporate responsibility sponsorship. The following were manually 0 OP-Pohjola’s operations are guided by of the Global Compact’s ten principles. on business were assessed as risks and removed from the figures: sponsorship a Code of Business Ethics. We comply In the future, OP-Pohjola will develop its opportunities and as factors affecting classified as sports advertising and EUR 2009 2010 2011 with laws, standards and regulations sustainability reporting as an integral part of competitiveness. 3.6 million donations to universities, whose and adhere to the principles of honest the Group’s annual reporting. payment was divided between the years and fair business everywhere. This As a result of the materiality assessment, 2010 and 2011. ‘Support for local projects’ reviews are conducted with all of OPHuman rights (HR3) includes anti-corruption and anti-bribery Reporting Principles the Corporate Social Responsibility Report does not include the Baltic operations. Pohjola Group’s employees in Finland and Respecting human rights is a key element policies, transparency in influencing OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social presents those CSR issues that are most overseas. Graph LA12 Employees involved of corporate social responsibility. By signing public policy-making and adherence Responsibility Report includes the important to OP-Pohjola Group. In the ‘Bonuses to owner-members’ include in performance and career development the principles of the UN Global Compact, to competition regulations. Industry data for 2011, in accordance with the future, the assessment will be regularly bonuses accrued in 2011 by the cooperative reviews, %, see above. OP-Pohjola Group has committed itself to regulations place strict requirements Group’s structure and financial reporting updated through stakeholder engagement banks’ owner-members and Helsinki OP supporting human rights and fundamental on business operations and their social principles. The report is divided into three and as part of the Corporate Social Bank Plc’s bonus customers. Employee wellbeing (LA7) labour principles in its business operations. impacts. OP-Pohjola Group’s internal parts. Corporate Social Responsibility at Responsibility Programme. OP-Pohjola is committed to determined OP-Pohjola Group does not, under any control, corporate governance and capital OP-Pohjola Group explores corporate The ‘Job satisfaction’ figures are based on the and ongoing efforts to promote employee circumstances, accept the violation of adequacy management process are responsibility from the perspective of Bases for calculations annual personnel survey by calculating a job wellbeing. Job satisfaction and employee human rights or workers’ rights. OP-Pohjola governed by the Act on Credit Institutions, business and strategy. It defines the OP-Pohjola Group’s sustainability satisfaction index. In 2011, the survey was wellbeing are monitored in an employee Group operates mainly in Finland and to a the Act on Cooperative Banks and Other fundamental elements of OP-Pohjola reporting is mainly performed within the responded by 4,105 people from OP-Pohjola survey, which was revised in 2011. On the minor extent in the Baltic countries. The Cooperative Credit Institutions, the Group’s corporate responsibility and same boundaries as the Group’s financial Group Central Cooperative Consolidated and basis of the survey results, operations are recognition and management of human Insurance Companies Act and the Act on introduces the focus areas, measures and reporting.The KPI and GRI indicators 3,592 people from Group member banks developed at work community, company rights risks are part of the Group’s risk Deposit Bank Amalgamations, as well management of the Group’s Corporate related to economic and social indicators across Finland. Since the personnel survey’s and Group level. management, compliance operations and as the Financial Supervisory Authority’s Social Responsibility Programme. Corporate and products and services were calculated structure changed in 2011, the previous stakeholder engagement. standards, regulations and guidelines. By Social Responsibility Themes gives a and are presented in accordance with scores are not comparable. In Finland, all of OP-Pohjola’s employees signing the Global Compact’s principles, more detailed presentation of the content, the accounting principles. Environmental are covered by occupational health services. OP-Pohjola Group can best promote human OP-Pohjola has also committed to measures and objectives, as well as key responsibility data differ from the used The figures on eBills received by private In the Baltic countries, these services are rights through its products and services as promoting the development of antiperformance indicators, of the focus areas boundaries because the data presented customers are collected monthly a service arranged as required under the legislation well as through responsible purchasing. corruption and anti-bribery policies within of OP-Pohjola’s corporate responsibility. are based on those on OP-Pohjola Group’s statistics system. of each country. The assessment of human rights risks is an its sphere of influence. These focus areas have been selected Facility Management Services. Any integral part of the process of responsible on the basis of the materiality principle. deviations and restrictions are reported in Customer satisfaction is calculated based on In 2011, the lost time rate was 3.5 per investment. Account is also taken of social Continuous staff training aimed at fighting The CSR themes are built around the connection with the indicators concerned. the results of customer satisfaction surveys cent (3.7 in 2010) of the standard working responsibility risks in ethical lending money laundering and other financial responsibility aspects identified as most conducted among private customers by hours. Graph LA7 Lost time (sickness principles and insurance risk assessments. fraud forms are an important part of material to OP-Pohjola Group’s operations. Numerical data are presented for the member banks. The result is the average of absence) rate, %, see above. Moreover, respect for human rights and OP-Pohjola Group’s operations. Employee GRI Corporate Responsibility Data presents reporting period and comparative data for the scores for customer loyalty and customer 38 39 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 GRI content Fully reported Partly reported Not reported satisfaction (on a scale of 1 to 5). In 2011, a • Other indirect emissions (Scope 3 The following are included in administration GRI content Page Status Explanation Global Compact – inclusion is voluntary): waste and total of 25 Group member banks conducted broken down by age and gender: members of wastewater, electricity consumption 1. Strategy and analysis the survey with a total of 7,415 respondents. the Representative Assembly and Supervisory in a server room located on a service Board, chairman and deputy chairman of the provider’s premises, business travel, 1.1 Statement from the CEO 4 x ‘Our carbon footprint’ includes the Group’s Supervisory Board, members of the Board of purchased transport and mailing, lifedirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) Directors, chairman and vice chairman of the cycle emissions of paper consumption. 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 8 x and indirect emissions resulting from the Board of Directors and deputy members of generation of electricity and heat purchased the Board of Directors. 2. Organisational profile from other entities (Scope 2). The GRI The following were left out of calculations: reporting principles explain the calculation in energy consumption in holiday properties Employee turnover is reported for the 2.1 Name of the organisation 5–6 greater detail. The calculations exclude the in the Kuusiniementie housing corporation entire Group. These figures do not include operations in the Baltic countries. and on rented premises for ATMs; overseas internal turnover, i.e. employees who have 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 5–6 operations; commuting; and business travel transferred from one position to another The number of employees working in by train, bus and local transport. No data within the Group. 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 5–6 Green Office-labelled offices is calculated on were available on these excluded activities, the basis of the numbers reported by the which fall under Scope 3, within the time Skills development (LA10 and LA12) 2.4 Location of headquarters 5–6 offices concerned. The calculations exclude frame reserved for calculations. In addition, Training was calculated in the form of employees working in offices in the Baltic sufficient emissions factor data were training investments as a percentage of the 2.5 Countries in which the organisation's operations are 5–6 countries. unavailable for the consumption of materials total payroll. located other than paper. GRI Indicators Specific to the Financial All employees of OP-Pohjola Group, including 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 5–6 Sector (FS) Energy consumption is reported for OPmanagement and employees in the Baltic In relation to the GRI indicators specific to Pohjola Group’s largest properties in Helsinki countries, are involved in performance and 2.7 Markets served 5–6 the financial sector, the information is based (Teollisuuskatu, Vääksyntie, Lapinmäentie career development reviews. With respect on figures provided by business units, the and Hiomotie), as accurate electricity to OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation www.op.fi > OP-Pohjola Group accuracy of which has been internally assured. consumption data is available for these. Consolidated, the percentage share of those Annual Report 2011 Year 2011 > involved in these reviews is calculated on the Key Figures and Ratios Financial Reporting (EC1 and EC3) Materials (EN1) and waste (EN22) basis of responses to the annual personnel Information on economic responsibility is The materials reported include office paper survey. The calculations exclude employees 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period www.op.fi > OP-Pohjola Group based on OP-Pohjola Group’s audited IFRSconsumed by OP-Pohjola Group Central who joined the Group after the period Annual Report 2011 Year 2011 > compliant Financial Statements 2011. Cooperative Consolidated and an estimate of covered by the previous performance and 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period Highlights 2011 office paper used by member banks on the career development reviews. Environmental Reporting basis of their number of employees. Waste 3. Report parametres Energy and climate (EN4 and EN16) recovery rate is reported for OP-Pohjola Employee wellbeing (LA7) OP-Pohjola’s carbon footprint was calculated Group Central Cooperative Consolidated. The wellbeing of the Group’s employees is Report profile in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas monitored in an employee satisfaction survey. Protocol guidelines developed by the World The accuracy of the reported corporate 3.1 Reporting period 39 Resources Institute and the World Business responsibility data was ensured by the All of OP-Pohjola’s employees in Finland Council for Sustainable Development, which providers of the data and those in charge are covered by occupational health 3.2 Date of the most recent report 39 is the best available tool for calculating the of reporting. In the future, OP-Pohjola will services, provided in accordance with the carbon footprint of an organisation. improve the scope of reporting, as well as Occupational Health Care Act (1383/2001). 3.3 Reporting cycle 39 data collection and internal quality assurance In the Baltic countries, these services are The following emission sources were taken practices. arranged as required by legislation in each 3.4 Contact information 47 into account, in line with the division of the country. Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Social Reporting Report scope and boundaries The data on employees were obtained The lost time rate is proportioned to the • Direct greenhouse gas emissions from the from the SAP Personnel system. The theoretical working time. Group’s operations (Scope 1 – must be 3.5 Process for defining report content 8–9; 39 figures for employees cover OP-Pohjola included): fuel consumption of emergency Group, excluding the Baltic operations GRI Application Level power systems and vehicles owned by the 3.6 Boundary of the report 39–40 (Seesam and Pohjola Finance) and OPOP-Pohjola Group’s CSR Report Group (including leased cars in use); Kiinteistökeskus estate agents (OPKK). corresponds to GRI Application Level B. 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary 39–40 • Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from In line with this level, OP-Pohjola reports consumption of electricity and heat Workforce structure (LA1, LA2 and LA13) on those corporate responsibility data 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries etc. 39–40 purchased from other entities (Scope 2 – The number of employees is reported and indicators that are material to its must be included): electricity and heat on for the entire OP-Pohjola Group (incl. operations, in such a manner as to provide 3.9 Data measurement techniques 39–40 office premises used by OP-Pohjola Group the Baltic operations), broken down by an adequate and balanced account of the Central Cooperative Consolidated and the employment type, employment contract, Group’s corporate social responsibility and 3.10 Restatements of information 39–40 member banks; gender and age. its impacts. 40 41 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 GRI content Page Status Explanation Global Compact GRI content Page Status Explanation Global Compact 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary or 39–40 4.17 Responding to key topics concerning stakeholders 8–9; 12 measurement methods applied Financial indicators (FS) GRI content index Management approach to finacial responsibility 3.12 GRI content index 41–45 FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components 21 Assurance applied to business lines 3.13 Policy and practice with regard to external assurance 39–40 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental 21 and social risks in business lines Governance, commitments and engagement FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and 21 Governance compliance with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions 4.1 Governance structure 10 FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement 11 4.2 Position of the chair of the Board of Directors 10 the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines 4.3 Independent, non-executive directors on the Board of 10 Directors FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners 21 regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 10 recommendations to the Board of Directors Product portfolio 4.5 Executive compensation 10 FS6 Product portfolio breakdown 31 4.6 Avoiding conflicts of interest 10 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to 22-23 deliver a specific environmental benefit 4.7 Determining the qualifications and expertise of Board 10 members in term of strategic management and CSR Active ownership 4.8 Mission, values statements, ethical principles and 10 www.op.fi > OP-Pohjola Group FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the 21-23; sustainability principles Annual Report 2011 > institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation 32 Strategy > Core Values has interacted on environmental or social issues 4.9 Board-level procedures overseeing sustainability 10 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative 21-23; Positive screening performance environmental or social screening 32 4.10 Evaluating Board performance 10 FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for 21-23; shares over which the reporting organisation holds the right 32 Commitments to external initiatives to voting shares or advises on voting 4.11 Addressing the precautionary approach or principle 14 7 Economic indicators (EC) 4.12 External charters, principles or initiatives endorsed 14 Management approach to economic responsibility 10; 33 4.13 Memberships in associations 23 Economic performance Stakeholder engagement EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 33 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged 13 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan 34 obligations 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders 12 EC9 Inderict economic impacts 33–34 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 8-9; 12 42 43 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 GRI content Page Status Explanation Global Compact GRI content Page Status Explanation Global Compact Environmental indicators (EN) Diversity and equal opportunity Management approach to environmental 10; 34 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and employee 37 1, 6 responsibility breakdown Materials Human rights (HR) EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 35–36 8 HR3 Employee training on human rights 38 Training in good business 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 practices Energy HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions No reportable cases EN4 Indirect energy consumption 35 8 taken Emissions and waste Society (SO) EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 35 8 Corruption EN17 Total indirect greenhouse gas emissions 27 SO3 Anti-corruption training 38 Training to prevent misconduct 10 and fraud EN22 Total amount of waste 36 8 SO Total number of legal actions over anti-competitive, cartel No reportable cases Products and services and monopoly practices EN26 Mitigating environmental impacts of products and services 36 7, 8, 9 Product responsibility (PR) Social indicators Management approach to product responsibility 10; 21 Management approach to social responsibility 10; 19 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products 18; 21 and services Labour practices and decent work (LA) Product and service labelling Employment PR5 Results related to customer satisfaction, including results 26–27 LA1 Breakdown of workforce 37 of surveys LA2 Brakedown of employee turnover 37 6 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of 18 beneficiary Occupational health and safety Customer privacy LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absentee rates 38 Sickness absence 1 and fatalities PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 26–27 Customer feedback processing 1 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 37–38 Average training expenditure LA12 Employees receiving performance and career development 37–38 reviews 44 45 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Contact Information Contact persons for CSR issues Carina Geber-Teir Chief Communications Officer, Member of the Executive Board Stina Suominen Senior Vice President, Brands and CSR Sanna Auvinen CSR Manager Niina Pullinen Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Pohjola Bank plc Rami Tulonen Controller Inquiries and other contacts: viestinta@op.fi V IRONMEN EN T AL NORD EL IC LAB 441 002 Printed matter 46 47 OP-Pohjola Group Teollisuuskatu 1b, 00510 Helsinki Telephone +358 (0)10 252 010 www.op.fi/yhteiskuntavastuuraportti2011
