Edita Västra Aros AB 2011 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress STATEMENT For Edita Västra Aros, it feels very natural to work after the ten principles of Global Compact. As a supplier to many large companies we are glad to see growing interests in setting requirements for CR issues in agreements and contracts. Edita have documented results that show business benefits from proactive environmental work. For example savings from energy efficiency projects and optimized waste handling. Another priority is to keep and raise the level of environmental knowledge that employees, customers and other stakeholders have. Lars Göran Nyberg Managing Director, CEO January 23rd 2012 Edita Västra Aros commitment to Global Compact Edita Västra Aros AB is a swedish printig house and book binder with 100 employees. Edita has for many years run a business with environment high up on the agenda. Edita is a ISO 14001 certified, FSC certified, Nordic ecolabel licenced printinghouse and a Climate Neutral Company. We have in 2009 and 2010 won three rewards for our achievements and proactive environmental work. Environmental and social work is part of every day work i Edita Västra Aros. Action taken, impact achieved and/or plans for the GC 10 Principles upcoming years HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Support and respect the protection Edita Västra Aros has supported Hand in Hand, an organisation that works within five areas; womens entrepreneurship, elimination of child labour, of internationally proclaimed health, democratic development and environment to create jobs and make it human rights possible to start new companies. Edita Västra Aros support the local City Mission for homeless people. 2. Ensure that we are not complicit in Edita Västra Aros are strongly against perpetration of human rights and we will act with persistance if it appears within the sphere we can affect. human rights abuses LABOUR 3. Uphold the freedom of association Edita Västra Aros respects all employees the right to form and join trade unions of their choice and to conduct collective bargaining. Our company has and the effective recognition of the collective wage agreements. We ensure that the official representatives of right to collective bargaining unions are not discriminated and that the representatives may contact with union members and access to their workplace. Company management and representatives of unions have a professional and helthy relationship in Edita Västra Aros. 4. Uphold the elimination of forced or Edita Västra Aros have collective agreement between unions and employers' association which governs wages and other employment conditions. compulsory labour 5. Uphold the effective abolition of Edita Västra Aros does not proceed and will not tolerate the use of child labor. child labour 6. Uphold the elimination of All employees should be treated equally, fairly and with respect regardless of race, religion, social background, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, discrimination in respect of gender, age, union membership or political commitment. We have a equality‐ employment and occupation policy and an equality‐plan in Edita Västra Aros. ENVIRONMENT 7. Support a precautionary approach Edita Västra Aros follow the laws and regulations that exist. We are certified according to ISO 14001, the Nordic Ecolabel and holds FSC‐COC certificate. We to environmentally challanges have an ambition to be proactive in environmental issues. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote Edita Västra Aros also take responsibility by being a Climate Neutral Company (verified by Respect Europe AB). We have chosen to offset our greenhouse gas greater environmental emissions by investing in a CDM bio energy project in India. responsibility Edita Västra Aros also support school education material for 10‐12 years old children in Sweden. The material aims to educate children in how we can live on this planet in a way that is less harmful to the environment and sustainable in long terms. Thanks to local companies and municipality the education material is free for all schools. Edita Västra Aros offer ecolabelling on printed products – a good sign for the sender to show that they choose ecolabelled paper and use a climate neutral supplier. In our communication we spread knowledge in how to reduce ecological footprints of purchased printed products. 9. Encourage the development and Achivied • All purchased electricity comes from renewable energy diffusion of environmentally • Energy Survey in collaboration with energy consultant friedndly technologies • 45% reduction of energy use in last five years (in relation to production volume. • New control‐ and regulation system for energy • All staff carrying out “Environmental driving license” • Reduced co2 emissions in comparsion with used amount of paper two years in a row. 15% decrease between 2007 and 2008. 8% decrease between 2008 and 2009. • Installed controlled lighting in storage. New lighting fittings in production premises. It will reduce total electricity consumption with 7%. • Educated costomers in choosing more environmentally friendly alternatives. Plans the coming years and on‐going activities • Optimization / control of ventilation. • Eco driving training for sales department. • Uphold frequent use of video conferencing instead of travelling. • Increase environmental awareness among employees and customers by customer events and education for employees regularly. • Optimize waste handling in cooperation with waste plant. • Test new solvents that is better for environment. ANTI‐CORRUPTION 10. Work against all forms of Edita Västra Aros is strongly against all forms of corruption including extortion and bribery. Corruption is always something you need to be attentive about corruption, including extortion and because it can appear anywhere. Business, trades, agreements, contracts and bribery negotiations is in Edita Västra Aros always held in a legal, professional and businesslike way. Summarized by Anna Lindblom Environmental Manager at Edita Västra Aros AB, Västerås, Sweden 2012‐01‐23
