FY2011 Sustainability Report Humanity and the Future About this report This is the second Sustainability Report published by Kyobo Life after its first report was published in July 2011. Kyobo Life publishes its sustainability report to communicate with stakeholders on its sustainability management activities that pursue win-win growth with all its stakeholders. Report Boundary The boundary of this Report includes the business activities of Kyobo Life's main office, domestic branches, and Kyobo Life Customer Plazas, but not those of the Company’s overseas branches. Some of environmental data do not include its domestic business sites. In this case, we marked them. Kyobo Life will gradually expand the report boundary in the future. Report Period This report contains the sustainability management activities of Kyobo Life in FY2011. (from April 2011 to March 2012) Quantitative data go to the three prior fiscal years to help readers compare performance across the years. Quantitative data from different report periods were marked to be distinguished. Report Standards This report honors the G3 Guidelines of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and is based on issues drawn through the engagement of stakeholders and the ten principles of the UNGC (UN Global Compact). Accreditation With an eye towards enhancing its reliability, this Report has been verified in terms of contents and data by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies of Korea which performed the three-principle verification of AA1000AS (2008), and received GRI Application Level Check. Pages 78 and 80 have a third-party verification certificate and a GRI Application Level Check Statement Contents 02 | CEO’s Message 04 | Corporate Introduction 10 | Corporate Governance 12 | Sustainability Management System 14 | Stakeholder Engagement Customers and the Future 23 | We will always listen to our customers and manage the company through their eyes. 29 | We will continue to improve the quality of our service from underwriting to payment. Financial Planners & Employees and the Future 37 | We will maintain our corporate culture based on joy, confidence and trust. 42 | We will provide all employees with equal opportunities and reward them based on fair evaluations. 44 | We will enhance the expertise of our financial planners and employees. Investors and the Future 51 | We will continue to generate additional profits through sustainable growth. 55 | We will increase our corporate value with preemptive risk management skills. Government & Community and the Future 63 | We will be proactive in leading and participating in community service projects. 70 | We will carry out conservation activities in a manner that is reflective of our business. 74 | We will grow with our peers through fair competition. Appendix Humanity and the Future 78 | Third Party’s Assurance Report Kyobo Life's sustainability management philosophy aims to bring a bet ter future to all stakeholders including customers, financial planners, employees, 80 | GRI Application Level Check Statement investors, peer companies, regulatory agencies and the surrounding communities. 81 | Index (GRI, ISO26000, BEST) The human being is the most important element in the world and companies continue to exist to enrich the 85 | UN Global Compact lives of human beings, making it only reasonable that companies’ management philosophy should also lie in 86 | Kybo Life's Code of Professional Ethics the value of the human being. Therefore, Kyobo Life named this Report, “Humanity 87 | Awards Related to Sustainability Management and the Future” to emphasize the importance of human beings, who create the paths to the future and benefit 87 | Association Memberships for Sustainability Management from it. 88 | Financial Highlights 2 FY2011 Sustainability Report CEO’s Message CEO’s Message Dear respected stakeholders: The year of 2011 was quite a tough year for us due to the financial crisis in Europe and an economic slump amid the aftermath of the global financial crisis in 2008. Despite the tough situation, Kyobo Life announced “Vision 2015” to become the company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services. All employees are pulling out all the stops to realize the vision. For example, we implemented the Life Long Care Project to make an improvement to the past business practice which focused on attracting new customers and enhance the quality of our services a great deal on a full scale. 3 FY2011 Sustainability Report CEO’s Message We champion a cause that every person is a precious being and their values should be respected and achieved. This was reflected in this sustainability report. The meaning of the title, “Humanity and the Future” is that Kyobo Life will help people to have their rights and senses of responsibility and duty and create better futures. “Humanity and the Future” is also that Kyobo Life will take the initiative in creating a better society by switching from old material-oriented values to people-oriented values. Last year, we made four pledges to stakeholders in our first sustainability report published last year. We will tell you the results of the pledges and make clear that we will keep on fulfilling the four pledges. We are fulfilling our first pledge to always give utmost priority to customer service by carrying out the Life Long Care 4 Pledges of Kyobo Life Project for the enhancement of service qualities throughout all processes from underwriting, to retention, and to payment. But we regret that the number of complaints did not decrease despite these efforts. We will carefully listen to 1. K  yobo Life will always give utmost various voices of customers and step up our efforts to quickly apply them in improving products and services. We are priority to customer service. fulfilling our second pledge to grow together with our financial planners and employees by increasing opportunities for 2. Kyobo Life will grow together with FPs to grow into specialists in line with the implementation of the Life Long Care Project. To promote two-way comits financial planners and employees 3. Kyobo Life will continue to be an munication with employees, we held many business briefing sessions. Through these sessions, the Company reinforced attractive investment to investors its teamwork. In order to fulfill our third pledge to continue to be an attractive investment to investors, we established 4. K  yobo Life will progress together more branches in the Seoul metropolitan area around Gangnam and areas with strong growth potential and solidify with the gover nment and t he policies to give more benefits to excellent customers. In addition, with an aim to enhance profitability and stability in community the asset management sector, we will build ALM (Asset Liability Management) and a preemptive risk management process more precisely. Kyobo Life is implementing the fourth pledge to progress together with the government and the community in various sectors such teenagers, education, culture, publication, farming towns and the lower income area through employees’ voluntary services and contributions. In particular, we will establish systemic investment standards for socially responsible investment (SRI) which considers social and environmental factors and put them into practice on a full scale Last year, for the first time in the Korean life insurance industry, Kyobo Life published a sustainability report which received good reviews from the government and civic groups. We won the Prize of the Minister of Knowledge Economy at the 6th Sustainability Management Awards of the Ministry of Knowledge Economy and took home the Grand Prize in the life insurance sector for two straight years in the Korea Sustainability Competition of the Korean Standards Association. As a member of the UN Global Compact, Kyobo Life advocates the ten principles in the four categories such as human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Moreover, Kyobo Life will grow into a representative sustainable company that concentrates on the basics of corporate management, overcoming tough business environments. Kyobo Life will take the lead in the Korean financial and insurance industry, aspiring to become “Respect company that will last more than 100years” and listening to voices of stakeholders. Thank you. Chang-jae, Shin CEO and Chairman of Kyobo Life 4 FY2011 Sustainability Report Corporate Introduction Corporate Introduction Company Kyobo Life is a life insurance-specialized company that does everything it can do to realize its vision to become a “company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services (No.1 Provider in insurance coverage and onIntroduction going services). Providing optimum insurance coverage and on-going services means helping all people prepare for any and all hardships in their lives by offering better-than-anticipated financial guarantee and psychological stability. Kyobo Life has three regions, four divisions, three departments, 56 teams, and one center in its HQ office and a sales organization consisting of 14 divisions and five departments. The Company operates 665 branch offices and 66 Customer Plazas throughout Korea. We have offices in New York, Tokyo and Beijing and an asset management company in the U.S. A Brief Outline of Kyobo Life Date founded August 7, 1958 No. of employees 4,529 Location of HQ No. 1, Jong-no 1-ga, Jong-no-gu, Seoul Capital KRW5.1 trillion CEO and Chairman Chang-jae Shin Total assets KRW62.4 trillion No. of FPs 19,480 Operating Revenues KRW10.6 trillion Branches KYOBO LIFE NEW YORK KYOBO LIFE TOKYO REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE KYOBO LIFE BEIJING KYOBO LIFE ASSET REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE MANAGEMENT CO., LTD (AMERICA) Seoul (Branches 204 Customer Plazas16) Gangwon (Branches 19 Customer Plazas2) Branches Customer Plazas Gyeonggi ( 116 12) Chungbuk (Branches 19 Customer Plazas2) Branches Customer Plazas Incheon ( 34 4) Gyeongbuk (Branches 37 Customer Plazas4) Branches Customer Plazas Daejeon ( 18 2) Daegu (Branches 31 Customer Plazas3) Chungnam (Branches 17 Customer Plazas 1) Ulsan (Branches 14 Customer Plazas2) Branches Customer Plazas Jeonbuk ( 28 3) Busan (Branches 46 Customer Plazas5) Branches Customer Plazas Gwangju ( 17 2) Gyeongnam (Branches 36 Customer Plazas4) Branches Customer Plazas Jeonnam ( 21 3) Jeju (Branches 8 Customer Plazas 1) Organization Chart Chairman & CEO Chief B2B Marketing Officer Chief Investment Officer Chief Education Officer Retirement Pension Investment Management Credit & Loan Corporate Finance Product Development & Support Financial Management HR, Information & Biz Innovation Gangbuk FP Regional Gangnam Special FP Regional Gyungin FP Regional Busan FP Regional Jungbu FP Regional Daegu Regional Honam FP Regional AM Bancassurance GFP Group Sales Division 1 Group Sales Division 2 Group Sales Division 3 Group Sales Division 4 Group Sales Division 5 Global Business FMG FA Direct Marketing 5 FY2011 Sustainability Report Corporate Introduction Major The largest shareholder of Kyobo Life is CEO & Chairman Shin Chang-Jae with 33.78%, followed by Daewoo International (24.00%) and KAMCO (9.93%). Shareholders Shareholders KAMCO 9.93% Triumph II 1.07% KEXIM 5.85% Daewoo International 24.00% Others 0.33% ESOP 1.02% Finventures KBL 5.33% AXA 2.24% Corsair 9.79% In-jae Shin and two others 6.65% Chang-jae Shin 33.78% Affiliates Kyobo Life has an affiliate ownership that is based on life insurance, and together with its affiliates, pursues synergies that help heighten its brand and corporate value. Affiliates Kyobo AXA Kyobo Securities Securities brokerage Investment Asset management 51.63% www.iprovest.com Managers www.kyoboitm.co.kr 50.00% Book and Management of Kyobo Book Center Kyobo Realco periodical retail commercial real estate 85.00% 100.00% www.kyobobook.co.kr www.kyobobldg.co.kr KCA Claim Kyobo Information Computer system Insuranceand pensionAdjustment/ & Communication integration & consulting related service Insurance 89.83% www.kico.co.kr www.kcasonsa.co.kr 100.00% Saengbo Real Real estate trust and A&D Credit Credit investigation Estate Trust related service Information & debt collection 50.00% www.sbnet.co.kr 19.50% www.andamc.com 6 FY2011 Sustainability Report Corporate Introduction Visoin for The vision for employees of Kyobo consists of a core purpose, core values and a future where the vision is realized. The core goals are perpetual as long as Kyobo Life exists. The core values are preferential standards on decision-makEmployees ing and actions by members of Kyobo Life. The future where the vision is realized refers to a clear and prime goal which all members of Kyobo Life have to devote their energies during a certain period of time. Vision System Vision 2015 The company that provides optimum insurance Vision 2015 coverage and on-going services (No.1 provider in insurance coverage and on-going services) Our vision is to become a company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services by 2015. Customer Centricity Our mission is Core Purpose to help people not to despair hardships in their lives. Honesty and Sincerity Challenge and Creativity Core Value Customer Centricity Honesty and Sincerity Challenge and Creativity We give the top priority to our We are fully accountable and We strive to accomplish challengcustomers always endeavor to serve our ing goals with a sense of creativcustomers in an honest and ity to develop both the company sincere manner and ourselves 7 FY2011 Sustainability Report Corporate Introduction Main Kyobo Life deals in a wide range of financial products such as insurance, loans, funds and trusts for individual and corporate customers. In particular, we help our customers rationally prepare for various calamities by offering financial Products planning which focuses on the fundamental areas of life insurance – guaranteeing stable lives of customers’ families and helping customers enjoy happy retirement lives, Introduction of Insurance Policies Combination life insurance & CI Whole life insurance & Term insurAnnuity & Savings-type insurance | (Critical Illness) insurance | Combination ance | Whole life and term insurance provides Annuity is used mainly for accumulating cash or for life insurance covers not only its policyholder benefits to beneficiaries upon the death of the planning a financially stable retirement. Policyholders but his/her family as well. Critical Illness policyholder. The Company offers various types of have an option to be paid monthly payments either insurance is a product where the policyholder whole and term life insurance, including universal during a stated period or until their death.Savings-type receives part of the insurance payment if he/she whole life insurance that allows adjustments and insurance is used for accumulating assets and funds. is diagnosed with one of the critical illnesses withdrawals of premiums and term life insurance that listed in the insurance policy, and his or her provides coverage for a limited period of time beneficiaries are paid the remaining sum upon his or her death. The product is a combination of health insurance and whole life insurance. Educational endowment & Juvenile Health insurance & Accident insurRetirement pension | Following the passage insurance | Educational endowment helps ance | Kyobo Life's other guarantee-type insurance of the law legislating pension systems for workers, parents prepare for their children's educational includes health insurance that makes payments when the company started providing domestic corporations expenses. If parents die, their children will be given policyholders get diagnosed with one of the listed and public institutions with various retirement pension doubled educational funds. Parents can choose special illnesses or undergo a medical operation, long-term plans and services, including the management of contracts to prepare for their children’s disability, convalescence insurance that covers any accidentpension funds and assets. accidents and diseases. or dementia-related inactivity, accident insurance for Juvenile insurance strongly covers all accidents and accidents, and medication insurance that pays for illnesses to which young children are susceptible. drugs and medicine. ※ Kyobo Life’s home page (www.kyobo.co.kr) provides detailed information on products including insurance policies. 8 FY2011 Sustainability Report Corporate Introduction Business The process of life insurance is composed of three stages –underwriting, retention and payment. We recommend and explain the best solution befitting customer needs and customers’ economic power through long-term insurance Operation planning in the underwriting stage and explain contents of insurance policies and breakdowns of future coverage in the retention stage and help them complete remaining processes. We help customers overcome difficulties by paying insurance money in the payment stage. Kyobo Life is stably managing premiums of the customers from a long-term viewpoint. Insurance Business Process Subscription & Retention Payment Customers Kyobo Life New Subscription 1,035thousand cases Customer 4,465thousand people Payment 2,888 thousand cases Subscription Retention Payment Issues 29~30p Issues 30~32p Issues 33p Comprehemsive Life Long Care Project Reception of Claims on Insurance Subscription Policies and Expansion of Places for Payment Retained Insurance Premiums 9.3trillion won 1st Insurance Paid Insurance Premiums Money Loans 14.1trillion won 1.5trillion won Real Estate12.2trillion won 7.3trillion won Asset Securities 29.5trillion won Management ※ Insurance money is sorted into insurance money for accidents (deaths, injuries and hospitalization), prepaid insurance money (money for school expenses, money for health care and money for congratulation), living benefits (refund value, withdrawals and dividends), others (insurance policy loans, retirement benefits and compensation for income loss), maturity and pensions. 9 FY2011 Sustainability Report Corporate Introduction Kyobo Life’s total revenues arrived at KRW13.5 trillion thanks to insurance premiums, investment income from asset management and other income in FY2011. Kyobo Life distributed the revenues to its stakeholders. The company distributed KRW11.1 trillion in insurance payment, KRW678 billion in FP commission and training expense, KRW395 billion in wage and benefit, KRW103 billion in dividend, and KRW605 billion in central and local government tax and donations. Distributing Economic Values by Stakeholder Premium Income 10.8trillion won Investment Income 2.7trillion won Total Income 13.5trillion won Customers FPs Employees Investors Government & community the others 11,111 billion won 678 billion won 398 billion won 106 billion won 605 billion won 626 billion won Insurance benefits Commissions and Wages and Dividends Tax, donations, etc Profit and other payment, reserve training expenses benefits, etc expenses provision 10 FY2011 Sustainability Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Board of Directors (BOD) is the key decision-making body of Kyobo Life. Kyobo Life elevates transparency in its corporate governance through the active participation of outside directors. Corporate Governance Chart General Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Risk Outside Director Audit Committee Management Management Compensation Recommendation Committee Committee Committee Committee Board of The Board of Directors deliberates and resolves issues covered in the articles of incorporation, delegated by the General Meeting of Shareholders, or related to the Company’s basic policy or business operations and oversees directors’ Directors activities. Composition Koybo Life’s Board of Directors is composed of eight members, three inside directors and five outside directors. The Company appoints directors at the general shareholders’ meeting after screening their qualifications in accordance with related laws including the Insurance Business Law. Outside directors are nominated by the Outside Director Recommendation Committee. The committee reviews candidates’ specialties and their interests with respect to those of the Company before recommending them. Therefore, Kyobo Life prevents any possibilities of irregularities on the part of outside directors by taking advantage of their exposure to inside information. BoD Composition Separation Name (Year of Birth) Position Chang-Jae Shin (1953) CEO and Chairman Inside Soon Han Lee (1952) Executive Auditing Director directors Seok ki Lee (1965) Chief Asset Management Officer Byong-ho Gong (1960) Head of Gong Byong-ho Management Research Center and Lecturer of Business Administration at Kyungwon Univ. Tae-koo Lee (1948) (former CEO of POSCO Construction) Outside Heong-chul Kim (1953) Former CEO and VP of Jeil Fire and Marine Insurance directors Jang-woo Lee (1957) Professor of Business Administration at Kyungbuk National University Nicholas B. Paumgarten (1945) Chairman of Corsair Capital 11 FY2011 Sustainability Report Corporate Governance Operation of the BoD The regular board meeting is held once a month while an interim board meeting can be convened at the request of the Chairman of the board or the board. In the fiscal years from 2009 to 2011, the BoD held board meetings 23 times. The Company posts on its website its outside directors’ activities such as their committee participation, their opinions on matters and voting results every month. Sustainable Management Items at BOD Separation Sustainable Management Items 1st (2011. 4. 19) •Measures to build preventive labor-management relationships 2nd (2011. 5. 19) •Results of operation evaluation of internal accounting controls for FY2009 •On progress on the implementation of anti-money laundering measures •On progress on the implementation of the fair trade compliance program 9th (2012. 3. 27) •On evaluation results related to the operation of internal controls in the second half of 2011 Committees The BoD delegates to other committees all business-related functions except for tasks related to general shareholders’ meetings and tasks exclusively handled by directors and the BoD. All committees have outside directors on board to Under BoD maximize the efficiency and quality of their decision-making. Committees under BoD and Meetings Times Separation Roles 2009 2010 2011 Evaluates the appropriateness of the Company’s internal control system. Audit Committee -Maintains its independence from the BoD and other committees as three out of its four members 4 6 6 are outside directors. Management Deliberates on and resolve matters delegated by the BoD such as key business and financial 8 5 6 Committee matters and matters about directors and executives Outside Director Nominates candidates for outside directors. Recommendation -Outside directors are appointed at general shareholders’ meeting after the recommendations of 2 1 2 Committee the Outside Director Director Recommendation Committee Resolves important matters concerning risk management Risk Management -Reports the results of regular risk analyses, risk management measures and risk monitoring to 6 9 12 Committee the BoD. Deliberates on and resolve the design and operation of a compensation system for the management and employees. Compensation -Maintains independence by making outside directors outnumber other members and managed 2 3 Committee compensation systems in connection with risks. -Designs the compensation system to satisfy international recommendation to secure soundness. ※The Compensation Committee has operated since FY2010. Performance Annual performances by sectors compared to annual goals are reported to the BoD after the end of a fiscal year. The Company’s top management are entitled to compensation based on the evaluation results of their job performance. The Evaluation and ceilings on directors’ pays are set at general shareholders’ meetings. Their pays are made public at the Company’s webCompensation site. 12 FY2011 Sustainability Report Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management System Kyobo Life’s sustainability management is an action on its pledge to grow together with all stakeholders. Kyobo Life has built a sustainability management system made up of ten procedural principles for fulfilling its pledges and 12 key performance indicators. Sustainability Management Framework Sustainability Management To pursue prosperity together with all stakeholders Philosophy The company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services Vision 2015 [No.1 Provider in insurance coverage and on-going services] Always give utmost Grow together with Continue to be an Progress together Pledges priority to customer its financial planners attractive investment with the government service and employees to investors and the community 1. We will always listen to 3. We will maintain our 6. We will continue to 8. We will be proactive in our customers and manage corporate culture based on generate additional profits leading and participating the company through their joy, confidence and trust. through sustainable in community service eyes. growth. projects. 4. We will provide all 2.We will continue to employees with equal 7. We will increase 9. We will carry out Four pledges to stakeholders improve the quality of our opportunities and reward our corporate value conservation activities in a Principles service from underwriting them based on fair with preemptive risk manner that is reflective of to payment. evaluations. management skills. our business. 5. We will enhance the 10. We will grow with expertise of our financial our peers through fair planners and employees. competition. •Persistency rate (13th •Education hours per •Total assets •Social contribution ratio/ month) employee. •ROE(Return on equity) amount •Customer satisfaction •Financial planner/ •Financial soundness •Share of social index employee satisfaction indicator(Risk-Based responsibility KPI •Market share index Capital) investment(SRI) •Financial planner retention •Energy consumption rate (13th month) ※ When reporting activities in FY2010, the Company changed market shares from a KPI from investors’ viewpoint to one from customers’ viewpoint and reflected its total assets in the report as a new KPI from investors’ viewpoint. Sustainability Kyobo Life is operating a consultative body with a view to helping push for sustainability management. The Sustainability Management Consultative Meeting helps its chairman, CEO of Kyobo Life make decisions by discussing major Management-Related sustainability management issues. Heads of related department and teams express their opinions about the issues in Consultative Body the Working-Level Sustainability Management Consultative Meeting to enhance the efficiency of the Sustainability Management Consultative Meeting. Sustainability Management Consultative Meeting Separation Topic 6th (2011. 04. 25) Final report on the sustainability management project Collecting opinions of stakeholders and revising Code of Professional Ethics and 7th (2011. 05. 27) Professional Ethical Action Guidelines 8th (2011. 08. 01) Results of collecting stakeholders’ opinions 9th (2011. 09. 08) The results of surveys in FY2010 10th (2011. 11. 03) Analysis of the present state of KPI 11th (2012. 01. 03) Results of holding meetings with stakeholders Analysis of long-term sustainability management KPI and direction of publication 12th (2012. 02. 21) of sustainability report 13 FY2011 Sustainability Report Sustainability Management System Status of Sustainability Kyobo Life established and suggested 23 tasks related to its sustainability management system in its first sustainability report. The Company is carrying out the tasks by considering the characteristics of the management environment and Management Tasks the tasks such as reflecting the tasks in companywide tasks. Progress in Pushing for Tasks Stakeholders Task Highlights Page Retention service innovation project Carried out Life Long Care Project 30~32p Customers Reinforcing protection of customer information Steadily pushed for task 28p Improved financial planner education system in line with Life Devising measures to enhance financial planners’ loyalty 44~46p Long Care Project and ran various educational programs Sharing and managing corporate culture company-wide Consolidated internal communication 37~38p Creating excellent working conditions (hygiene, safety, Ran family-friendly corporate culture programs 40~41p FPs and health and working environment) Employees Devised measure to improve duty-oriented HR system (pushed for related communication), implemented duty-oriented Expanding and strengthening duty-oriented HR system promotions and job rotation for employees who performed the duty for a long time. Reflected human right matters in Professional Ethical Action Improving human right-related system 43p Guidelines Reinforcing programs to support retirees To be pushed for after FY2013 22p 36p Managing performances each stakeholders Managed KPI by stakeholders 50p 62p Developing new growth engines To be pushed for after FY2013 Investors Strengthening duty-oriented risk management Steadily pushed for the task 55~58p Advertised Life Long Care Project and devised measures for Enhancing brand value 32, 14p improvement through brand survey Upgrading specialized social contribution activities Steadily pushed for the task 63~71p Changing home page to be friendlier with stakeholders Pushed for the task (To be completed in November 2012) Conducting activities to expand people’s awareness of Steady internal and external communication (Winning prizes sustainability management related to sustainability management) Government and Improving stakeholder engagement process Completed 14p Community Building environmental management system To be pushed for after FY2013 Mapping out plan to push for midto long-term SRI To be pushed for in FY2012 Managing environmental data (CO2 and energy) Steadily pushed for this task 73p Forming sustainability management supply chain To be pushed for after FY2013 (purchase, procurement and etc.) ※The Company combined “the company’s and employees’ sharing vision and promoting win-win growth,” “strengthening fair performance assessment” and “building a human risk management system (recruitment, training and education, change in duties and leaving the Company for another job) among 23 tasks into “expanding and strengthening duty-oriented HR system.” 14 FY2011 Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Kyobo Life is listening to opinions of stakeholders with the aim of realizing a philosophy of sustainability management, “To pursue prosperity together with all stakeholders” Conducting Survey Separation Method Objects Period Highlights Page 2,000 people who bought life insurance over past three •Customer satisfaction compared to competitors Customer years (including 1,000 people •Understanding customer needs on the Company 23p satisfaction who bought life insurance of (FPs) Customers other companies) 1,500 people who bought Nov. to Dec. of 2011 •Life insurance brand index Brand insurance or is planning to do •Checking brand image of Kyobo Life so. •Surveying FP satisfaction and understanding 1,470 FPs (including 62 FPs of their needs. FP satisfaction other companies) •Drawing FPs’ superior and inferior element in FPs and competition Employees Employee No survey was conducted due to internal reasons. satisfaction Investors •Popularity, likeability, reputations by properties 180 opinion leaders in Dec. 2011 to Jan. Government and Reputation insurance industry 2012 and elements to improve reputations of life Community insurers and their CEOs. , Holding Meetings Separation Objects Period Method Highlights •Collecting opinions for improvement after Nov. 28 to 28 in 2011 Customers Panel of customers Meeting experiencing insurance underwriting process Dec. 12 to 13 in 2011 •Ideas for comprehensive subscription •Competitiveness when taking commissions Members of Prime Leaders into account Jul. to Nov. in 2011 Meeting Club •Providing tools for sales FPs and •Education to forster FPs. Employees Business briefing sessions and •Operating duty-oriented HR system Salespeople Jul. to Nov. in 2011 meetings after visiting •Managing HR such as recruitment salespeople Visit and exchange of Meeting with Customers Employees of credit rating •Communication issues in terms of profitability, Investors Mar. to Nov. in 2011 opinions via phone and agencies and analysts growth potential and stability email •Reinforcing protection of insurance consumers Recent major policies and Constant monitoring Understanding and •Expanding SRI such as supporting ordinary systems throughout the year monitoring major issues people Government Workers of non-profit •Corporate image of Kyobo Life and Community organizations, relevant •Suggestions on social contribution activities. professors and those in Oct. to Dec. in 2011 Visit and meeting •Activating employees’ participation charge of social contributions Meeting with FPs at companies 15 FY2011 Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test Kyobo Life conducted a materiality test through a 2x2 matrix system based on two axles – interest of stakeholders and influences of companies for the purpose of prioritizing contents. The Company placed more weight on major issues drawn through the material test in this report. Selection of Issues Kyobo Life selected issues drawn from environmental analyses conducted during the establishment of its sustainability management. The Company classified the issues in accordance with the ten principles of Kyobo Life’s sustainability management in order to prevent issues from attaching too much importance to specific stakeholders. Issues by Principles Separation Issues •Dealing with customers’ •Developing excellent •Directly listening to voices of Principle complaints products customers 1 •Protection of customers’ •Channels to serve customers •Customer service information Customers •Following comprehensive •Payment service Principle subscription process •Retention service •Informing of unpaid accident 2 •Insurance planning •Product guides insurance money capabilities •Welfare and benefits Principle •Internal communication •Consulting channels •Program to support education 3 •Supporting B2B2C marketing •Protecting human rights of FPs children FPs •Ban on discrimination •Program to foster new FPs Principles •Commission system •System to support excellent •Specialized financial 4·5 •Educational program FPs education FPs and Employees •Family-friendly corporate Principle •Internal communication •Consulting channel culture 3 •Welfare and benefits •Protecting human rights •Labor-management culture Employees Principles •Ban on discrimination •Duty-oriented HR system •Self-development program 4·5 •Internal contests •Team study program •Knowledge exchange Principles •Credit rating •Management innovation •Internal control Investors 6·7 •Focusing on growing markets •Risk management •Preventing insurance frauds •Teenager support program Principle •Volunteer activities •Supporting premature babies •Support social, cultural, athletic 8 •Family love programs •Social Company and artistic events •Promoting environmental Principle •Expanding SRI awareness •Eco-friendly volunteer work Government and Community 9 •Saving energy •Eco-friendly social •Environmental data contribution activities •Self-controlled fair trade •Work ethics education Principle •Dawin Service compliance •Business ethics programs for 10 •Supporting partners •Business transparency employees 16 FY2011 Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement Evaluation of Stakeholders’ Interest Kyobo Life evaluated stakeholders’ interest on the basis of frequencies of answers to questions by stakeholders. With an eye toward enhancing the reliability of answers, the Company asked only about principles of sustainability management. Survey of Stakeholders Customers FPs Principle 1 and Principle 2 Issues | Principle 3, Principle 4/ Principle 5 Objects | Talk Talk Club Objects | FPs Summary Summary •Method : e-mail •Method : Intranet •Period : 2011. 10. 17~21 exclusively for FPs •258 people answered •Period: 2011. 10. 18~20 •145 people answered Principle 9 Summary Summary •Method : e-mail •Method : Corporate •Period : Oct. 17 to 25 in intranet 2011 •Period: 2011. 10. 18~24 •34 people answered •318 people answered Objects | External opinion leaders Objects | Employees Issues | Principle 6/ Principle 7 Issues | Principle 3, Principle 4/ Principle 5 Investors, Government and Communities Employees Evaluation of Influences on Company Kyobo Life evaluated the influences of issues on the Company according to the frequencies of issues dealt with in the company newspaper, “The Kyobo Community.” The period of the evaluation was the recent three years. The Company adjusted weight to make recent issues reflected more in the report. Reflecting Weights by Fiscal Years Separation Unit FY2009 FY2010 2011 Weight % 20 30 50 17 FY2011 Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement Result Kyobo Life selected 11 out of 60 issues as important issues. The company focused more on these issues in this report. Results of Material Test Dealing with customers’ 24p 1 Customers 2 Retention service 30~32p complaints Supporting B2B2C marketing 39p 3 5 Internal communication 37~38p FP's and Employees FP education program 44~46p 4 6 Family-friendly 40~41p corporate culture Focusing on growing markets 53~54p 7 Investors 8 Risk management 55~58p Volunteer activities 64~65,71p 9 Government and Communities 11 Expanding SRI 70p Teenager support programs 66~67p 10 8 7 4 6 2 5 Interest of Stakeholders 1 11 10 4 3 9 Impact on the Company 18 FY2011 Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement Experts’ Discussion Kyobo Life held a meeting for external sustainability management experts to efficiently implement sustainability management. Some of the discussed items in the meeting were reflected in this report. The others will be used for realizing sustainability management. Summary of Meeting •Date and Time : 16:30~18:30, October 19 (Wed). 2011 •Place : The Main Conference Room on the 17th floor of Gwanghwamun Building of Kyobo Life •Participants: Min-gu Jeon(Director of Two Tomorrows), Ho-chang Lee(Professor of Kyunghee University), Won-jae Lee (Director of the Hankyoreh Economic Research Institute), Cheol-hwan So(Manager of CSR Office of Samsung Fire and Marine Insurance), Gyeong-sook Sohn(Head of Social Contribution Team of the Federation of Korean Industries), Chun-seung Yang(Executive director of the Korea SRI Forum) •Theme: Review of Sustainability Management and Suggestions on Sustainability Management Activities of Kyobo Life Host: Dong-su Kim(Director of the Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center “Kyobo Life had better firm principles on SRI.” Chun-seung Yang “If a sustainability report contains favorable information only, its value as a report will decrease. It is important for the company to include key parts of unfavorable information and suggest rational alternatives. The report lacks consistency in terms of contents. For example, issues suggested in the front part of the report are not explained later. The report also needs to make more mention of future KPI goals. The report should make clear the Company’s position about socially responsible investment and principles of its socially responsible investment. The life insurer needs to promote its activities to cope with climate change and financial education for teenagers.” “Kyobo Life needs to build an environmental management system such as the operation of eco-friendly programs.” Cheol-hwan So “Although the 2010 Sustainability Report meets the requirements of the GRI, I wish that the report would enhance the balance of the environmental, social and financial parts. Kyobo Life needs to consider a report type that integrates financial and non-financial performances and needs communication via online media including SNS in addition to a printed report. The life insurer needs to build an environmental management system. It will be good to manage environment-friendly social contributions or programs that can make employees’ lifestyles environment-friendly. I suggest that outside directors and a panel of sustainability management experts take part in a consultative meeting presided by the CEO and Kyobo Life participates in financial industrial initiatives such as the UNEP or UNPRI.” 19 FY2011 Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement “A sustainability report should be easy to read and reflect the characteristics of the main business of the company.” Won-jae Lee “A sustainability report should be so easy that a middle school student can understand it. The report should also reflect the characteristics of the main business of the company. The main business of an insurance company is insurance policies and asset management rather than environmental management. But the product and SRI sections in the report need expanding. Although the GRI satisfaction rate is high, there are several differences in requirements of the GRI Guidelines and those written in the report. “Balanced reporting is very important.” Min-gu Jeon “In relation to SRI, Kyobo Life should suggest more concrete and quantitative data on environmental items such as investment in new and renewable energy. Kyobo Life needs to reinforce its support for marginalized people or the development of products and services for them and make more efforts to tackle climate change. Completing the government’s roles on decreases in labor and social welfare benefits due to low childbirth and an aging population can become an opportunity for financial institutions. Balanced reporting really matters. In light of this, I wonder how the Fair Trade Commission’s fine on Kyobo Life in this year will be described in the upcoming report. ” “I t will be better for Kyobo Life to suggest a new vision for social contributions.” Kyeong-sook Sohn “As for the social contribution sector, I think, Kyobo Life’s report needs differentiation from other reports, compared to Kyobo’s rich contents. In addition, the Company now needs to suggest a new vision or direction about social contributions which Kyobo Life has pushed for over the past ten years. Including interviews in the report will make the report reader-friendlier and easier to read. Kyobo Life is advised to make contents easy to understand and contain basic items. They may consider a method to include compact information in the report and details in attachments.” “Kyobo Life should increase concrete information and data satisfying the guideline.” Ho-chang Lee “The composition of the report that divides the stakeholders into four groups and suggests ten principles possesses reader-friendliness as one of its strong points. Examining the report from the economic, environmental and social angles of sustainability management, this report may seem a little bizarre. Kyobo Insurance should enhance the reliability of information by increasing detailed information befitting the GRI Guidelines and making clear information sauces or correcting wrong parts. The report lacks relations among performances. In this connection, it is needed to suggest a process model on the main business.” Customers and the Future Kyobo Life will always give utmost priority to customer service. We will always listen to our customers and manage the company through their eyes. We will continue to improve the quality of our service from underwriting to payment. Disclosure on Management Approach Kyobo Life will always give utmost priority to customer service. Pledge 1. We will always listen to our customers and manage the company through their eyes. Pledge 2. We will continue to improve the quality of our service from underwriting to payment. Progress on the Pledge (KPIs) Persistency ratio (13th month) Customer satisfaction index 23p Market share Unit : % Unit : Points Unit : % 2011 84.6 2011 74.5 2011 12.4 2010 81.3 2010 74.3 2010 13.0 2009 79.8 2009 76.6 2009 13.0 ※ |Persistency ratio = (retention / new insurance pre※ Market share (premium income) for 2011 is as of the miums) × 100 end of February, 2012 ※ Kyobo Life replaced customers retained, a KPI from customers’ viewpoint with a market share which was a KPI from investors’ viewpoint when the Company reported its activities in FY2010. Results of Materiality Test ※  The summary of the materiality test is available on page 15~17 Directly listening to Customer service voices of customers Retention service 30~32p Interest of Customers Payment Dealing with customers’ 24p service Product guides complaints Developing excellent Following Insurance planning comprehensive capabilities products subscription process Protection of customers’ information Channels to serve customers Informing of unpaid accident insurance money ● Issues of Principle 1 ● Issues of Principle 2 Impact on the CompanyInterest of Customers 23 FY2011 Sustainability Report Customer and the Future We will always listen to our customers and manage the company through their eyes. Kyobo Life has conducted a customer satisfaction index (CSI) survey in order to practice core value, “customer satisfacCustomer tion” since 2000. The Company is quickly responding to change in customers and the market such as grasping customer Satisfaction Index satisfaction levels and customer needs and devising measures through the CSI survey. The 2011 CSI of 2,000 people Survey who bought life insurance across the nation over the past three years showed an increase of 0.2 points from the previous year. Kyobo Life will continue to and strive to enhance customer satisfaction such as drawing tasks to improve by analyzing satisfaction and improvements by items and implementing the tasks in 2012. Matters to be improved Attitude Customer Customer Underwriting Insurance After-sales Corporate Call center Year Unit in facing Payment Loans Plaza Plaza process policy service image service customers service environment Customer points 77.9 74.4 73.9 73.9 76.9 76.5 73.2 77.4 78.0 74.5 satisfaction Importance % 14.7 14.0 26.2 14.1 12.9 12.1 0.8 1.0 0.9 3.3 Efforts for Dealing Kyobo Life inducted to the Hall of Fame of Customer Satisfaction while winning the Grand with Customers’ Prize at the Customer Satisfaction Management Dissatisfaction Awards from the Korea Management Association for five straight years in recognition of its active customer satisfaction-oriented management. But in 2010, the grade of its handling complaints fell to Grade 3 and the Company received excessively many customers’ complaints (a key indicator of customer satisfaction management), compared to other companies. Accordingly, Kyobo Life’s dedication monument in the hall of fame was covered on November 5, 2011. This expressed the will of Kyobo Insurance to Kyobo Life’s dedication monument in the hall of fame was covered listen to customers’ voices more carefully and to deal with customers’ complaints more actively. The Financial Supervisory Service’s grading based on customer complaints Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Kyobo Life 2nd (satisfactory) 3rd (average) 3rd (average) 1st (excellent) : 0 1st (excellent): 0 1st (excellent) : 0 2nd (satisfactory) : 5 2nd (satisfactory) : 4 2nd (satisfactory) : 5 Grade Competitors 3rd (average): 5 3rd (average): 5 3rd (average) : 7 4th (unsatisfactory): 1 4th (unsatisfactory): 5 4th (unsatisfactory) : 2 5th (bad) : 8 5th (bad) : 5 5th (bad) : 5 24 FY2011 Sustainability Report Customer and the Future Complaint Reception and Handling Process | With an eye toward coping with complaints of customers more efficiently, Kyobo Insurance improved its process to handle customers’ complaints in January 2012. Such complaints are collected via a wide variety of channels and put into the “Soritgui System,” a VOC (Voice of Customer) management system of Kyobo Life. The complaints are automatically delivered to the head of a related organization and a service recovery specialist in charge of handling them. Then the service recovery specialist informs customers of the reception of the complaints. The specialist and CEO’s Visit to Call Center the head visit and talk over the complaint with the customer in person in order to understand a complaint more accurately. The Company has enabled the head who knows the complaint best handle the complaint on his own by cooperating with the service recovery specialist. The head input the results within three days after receiving customers’ complaints and the service recovery specialist decides the final treatment after reviewing its adequacy. Afterwards, the Company conducts post-treatment management such as informing the customers of the results. ※“Soritgui”: A pure Korean word meaning brightness to understand other people’s words or songs. Recertification of CCM | The Fair Trade Commission recertified the CCM (Consumer Centered Management) of Kyobo Life on June 28, 2011. The CCM is a system to evaluate if a company composes all corporate activities from consumers’ point of view and steadily improves its related activities. The Fair Trade Commission decides the certification through the evaluation of the construction and implementation of a selfregulatory system and an internal control system and the implementation of related education every two years. This recertification is the second for Kyobo Life since the first certification on July 1, 2007. Certificate of Excellent Consumer-Centered Management 25 FY2011 Sustainability Report Customer and the Future Cu stomer Ser vice Kyobo Life is strengthening its customer service through the call center to elevate customers’ convenience. As the scope of the work of the call center expands from answering questions and complex office processes, the Company is through Call Center offering specialized services by dividing call center numbers by services. Call Center Numbers by Services Insurance 1588-1001 Loan 1588-1010 Bancassurance 1588-1099 Retirement Indirect investment pension 1588-0770 Changing contract 1588-3693 securities 1599-7899 (beneficiary certificates) Silver Call Service | The Silver Call Service is offered on the basis of an ARS(Automatic Response Service) system. This service may be difficult for senior citizens to use. With a view to reducing such inconvenience, when a customer over 60 years old makes a call to the call center, our Silver Call Service directly put the customer through to an employee of the call center in the early stage of the ARS system. Flow Chart 1588-1001 Inputting resident registration number 60 years or older [N] [Y] Main ARS menu Silver call service to directly talk to call center worker. Unless you want [#] this service, put the # button. Connected to call center worker 26 FY2011 Sustainability Report Customer and the Future Product All insurance policies of Kyobo Life are developed on the foundation of scientific rationality such as the law of large numbers and the equivalence principle. The Financial Supervisory Service approves new products after checking Development whether or not they are fairly designed. After a certain period from the release of a product, we make endeavors to maintain the fairness of product design by analyzing a difference between expected experience rate and real experience rate during the product development period and repricing products. ※ Law of large numbers: The average of the results obtained from a large number of trials should be close to the expected value, and will tend to become closer as more trials are performed. People can decide accident probabilities of individuals. ※ Equivalence principle: Equivalence principle means that the insurance premiums are calculated in such a way that the expected present value of the premiums is equal to the expected present value of the benefits. Product development process Establish product Review development Product Development plan Reflecting Product design Pricing Management Council, Risk Management customer needs in Council and Marketing development Council Approval (Financial Supervisory Service) Change or Monitoring and Release of new Submitting business plans, insurance clauses, suspension Repricing product documents on how to calculateinsurance premiums and legal reserves Product development Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Main and special contacts case 29 15 16 Launching (Nonparticipating) Kyobo Happy Preparation Insurance for Funerals | Senior citizens want to prepare for a beautiful finish as much as they want to live happily. Kyobo Life developed and launched (Nonparticipating) Kyobo Happy Preparation Insurance, a whole life insurance that mainly covers deaths of senior citizens by considering needs of senior citizens who want to prepare for their funerals in September 2011. In addition to paying death benefits, (Nonparticipating) Kyobo Happy Preparation Insurance helps bereaved families hold funeral ceremonies by offering services in partnership with a funeral company Kyobo Happy Preparation Insurance for Funerals 27 FY2011 Sustainability Report Customer and the Future Development of Specialized Services | Kyobo Life is developing and offering specialized services such as the Health Care Service and the Kyobo Educare Service to customers. The Kyobo Educare Service is an educational service that examines developments of children by growth stages through industry-academy cooperation and in partnership with outstanding companies. The Health Care Service manages the health of customers who underwrite specific insurance policies whose insurance money is above a certain level. As of March 2012, the Kyobo Educare Service and the Kyobo Healthcare Service were offered to 160,265 and 612,340 customers, respectively. Kyobo Educare Service Diagnosis and examination of children (intelligence, character, aptitude, creativity), aptitude test for Physical Growth parents, counseling on fostering children (one to one on the Internet), offering fostering information and development diagnosis (paid service) READ Test (reading, vocabulary and reading behavior), Internet library, reading coaching by parents Reading and e-learning Children’s experience (reading Camp, English Camp, Economics Camp and Overseas Cultural Camp) Experience Education and family experience (family cultural travel) Learning Study of English and Chinese letters and career mentoring (study, career and studying abroad) Kyobo Healthcare Service Everyday Healthcare Health consultation (with specialized doctors), providing health information (Internet, short text Service messages and email) and making health check reservations for customers. When customer is diagnosed with cancer, heart disease, cerebrovascular disease and high blood Treatment Support pressure-related disease and diabetes) Hospital / doctors information service, nurse’s house call, Service second opinion service and medical legal advisory service ( when medical accident takes place) Disease Management Nurse’s house call (minimizing sequel and complication by providing service shortly after operation) Education Service and offering the latest health information by diseases House call to take care of premature babies, making health check reservations for customers and Family Support Service giving special treatment and offering cancer-related information Educare Service Health Care Service 28 FY2011 Sustainability Report Customer and the Future Lifelong Asset Kyobo Life runs the Lifelong Asset Management Seminar by delivering economic and financial information and the real value of life insurance to customers. The type of the seminar vary depending on characteristics of customers and orgaManagement Seminar nizers. We have useful and accurate information delivered to customers via education programs by wealth managers who are asset management specialists at Noblie Center across the nation and external specialists. Types and Themes of Lifelong Asset Management Seminars Organizer Events Ten Principles ① Efficient asset management strategies in preparation for volatility •Seminar for VVIP customers (once a year) HQ in financial market •Joint seminar with media companies ② Lifelong asset management strategies through financial planning ③ Happy retirement planning Regional HQ •Seminar for VIP customers (once a year) ④ Tax-avoiding strategies •Specialized seminars by characteristics of ⑤ CEO plans for happy future customers (once a quarter) Support Team ⑥ Efficient asset management strategies for hospital CEOs. •Seminar connected with Dawin Service (when ⑦ Measures for efficient asset management for self-employed necessary) ⑧ Asset management strategies for customers who compensations •Specialized seminars by characteristics of for their land FP Branch customers (once a month) ⑨ Efficient asset management for senior citizens •Seminars managed by FPs (when necessary) ⑩ Financial management strategies for lessors Lifelong Asset Management Seminar (FP HQ) Lifelong Asset Management Seminar (Support Team) Protection of The protection of customers’ information in business activities is becoming more and more important with the enforcement of the Personal Information Protection Act in September 2011 and etc. Kyobo Life has been actively carrying out Customer Information customer information protection activities establishing a department specialized in the protection of customer information and operating a DRM (Digital Rights Management) system to say nothing of the observance of related laws. The Company has been implementing the companywide Customer Information Protection Self-Evaluation System where each department sets major tasks for the protection of customer information and evaluate and improving the protection. The information protection specialist and head of each department conduct the evaluation of protection. The customer information protection department regularly monitors evaluation by each department. We praise and reward outstanding departments and warns heads of poorly performing departments to have more awareness of the importance of customer information protection. In addition, we are implementing education programs on the protection of customer information for all our financial planners and employees on a regular base. Beginning in FY2012, Kyobo Life is planning to reinforce education programs on the protection of customer information in compliance with a law to expand education hours Education on Customer Information Protection Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Average per person Hour 4 4 4 Completion rate % 100 100 100 29 FY2011 Sustainability Report Customer and the Future We will continue to improve the quality of our service from underwriting to payment. The Comprehensive Subscription Process refers to the customer assistance mechanism that helps customers correctly Beginning of perceive the value of life insurance and buy products that meet their needs. This process is possible only through the Customer Satisfaction, observance of the three basics, the thorough explanation of what customers should know and the sincere notification Comprehensive of mandatory pre-underwriting information. Kyobo Life always provides repeated education for all financial planners. The company makes up for weak points in the subscription system to make this process smooth. Moreover, we emphaSubscription size the full implementation of comprehensive subscription by reflecting failure in comprehensive subscription in our internal punishment standards. A revision of the Insurance Business Law has made it mandatory for financial planners to receive education programs on the production of insurance customers and the extirpation of incomplete sales. Since May 2011, all financial planners of Kyobo Life have taken a 25-hour-long cyber education program on related laws, ethics and dispute cases of the Korea Insurance Institute. The Company urges its financial planners to thoroughly complete the course by taking a strong measure to disable financial planners who did not complete the course from selling products. Things to Do for Comprehensive Subscription •Signature of customer/ Honoring 3 Principles insured Person •Delivery of clauses and thorough explanation •Giving customers application forms which customer should keep Comprehensive Subscription Nec Accur ess atel a y Buy ry Info Writi ng ini uld pla ho Ex s S Insu rma ng hly er ran tion ug tom w ce to oro us no Informing customers of Th at C K Guiding customers h into accurately writing basic product information W necessary information for such as characteristics and buying Insurance before coverage of policies underwriting. Diagnosing Appropriateness of Variable Insurance | As buyers of variable insurance take risks from insurance premium management, it is quite important to recommend insurance policies suiting customers by analyzing their preferences in buying insurance on the basis of information such as customers’ ages, wealth and purposes of buying insurance. This is called “diagnosing appropriateness of variable insurance.” This diagnosis has become obligatory since January 2011 due to the Insurance Business Law and its enforcement ordinary. Kyobo Life has ordered heads of branches to finally confirm the implementation of the diagnoses to prevent the diagnoses from being carried out for form’s sake. The Company had the appropriateness thoroughly checked by segmenting questions for diagnoses. 30 FY2011 Sustainability Report Customer and the Future System to Review Product Advertisements and Insurance Guide Materials | Roles of product advertisements and insurance guide materials are quite significant in explaining intangible insurance policies. But if wrong information is delivered to customers via wrong advertisements and materials, a big loss can occur. To prevent such risks, Kyobo Life provides only advertisements and materials approved through its own review system for customers. We take into account customers’ positions in producing advertisements and materials such as enlarging precaution parts such as guarantee conditions to be more noticeable and explaining complicated terminologies in simpler terms to help customers understand them better, not to speak of checking whether or not advertisements and materials honor related laws and regulations through the review system. In addition, the Company is operating a separate internal reporting channel along with thorough education in order to eradicate the use of unapproved materials. If unapproved materials are used, the Company punishes financial planners and managers who used them in compliance with internal regulations. Reviewing Product Advertisements and Insurance Guide Materials (Unit : Case) 2011 600 2010 420 2009 424 ※ Data collection began in June 2009 Life Long Care Kyobo Life’s VISION2015 is to become a company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services. Optimum insurance coverage and on-going service means offering financial guarantees and mental stability to customProject ers throughout all insurance processes of underwriting, retention and payment. With the aim of becoming a company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services, the Company pushed for the “Life Long Care Project’’ aimed at strengthening services in the retention stage weaker than the underwriting and payment stages. Contents | The core concept of the Life Long Insurance Business Culture with a Focus on Customer Retention Service Care Project is to change the paradigm of insurance sales -a switch from a new insuranceoriented sales culture to sell more insurance or ce f ervi policies to a customer service-oriented insura l i ty S mers d-Qu Sa usto Goo ined C tis ance business culture to secure more customReta fyi ng ers. cta tio n Ex pe rs sto me Cu sof g New Life Long Care Recommendin Project Customers Pre ve n Ca ting nc eli Custo ng Ins mers ura f Sellin g Mo nc rom re Ins e uranc Policie e s 31 FY2011 Sustainability Report Customer and the Future key concept of Life Long Care Project Transforming Focusing on Paradigm Guarantees for Customers (from the viewpoint Focusing on Selling of customers) More Insurance (from the viewpoint of the company) To this end, Kyobo Life went ahead with establishing four major activities by the financial planners to retain policy holders. The four major activities are informing customers of their insurance coverage, providing information about unclaimed payments, cleansing customer information, and analyzing the protections and informing customers about various products and services. All financial planners of Kyobo Life should offer these four services by visiting customers once or more times a year. Carrying Out Services of 4 Major Activities to Retain Policy Holders 4 Major Activities to Retain Policy Holders Re-informing customers of details Explaining coverage of purchased of policies that they may forget. policies Checking whether or not customers Checking and informing of unclaimed forgot to claim insurance money insurance money and helping them receive unclaimed insurance money Checking change in customer Cleansing customer information information and correcting it Analyzing coverage and informing of Proposing new products and services products and services befitting new lifecycles 32 FY2011 Sustainability Report Customer and the Future Emblem Education and Communication | Kyobo Life built consensus on the importance of activities to retain policy holders by conducting communication about the Life Long Care Project by class for financial planners and employees. After the full enforcement of the project, the Company held a meeting for financial planners who provide the Life Long Care Service in order to draw matters to improve. We produced and supplied a practical manual, created various marketing tools and built an IT system for the purpose of helping financial planners retain policy holders. Furthermore, we expressed a strong will for the Life Long Care Service through the emblem that symbolizes the service and various types of advertisements Advertisement TV Ad Poet Do-hyeon Ahn Newspaper Ad TV Ad Poet Jeong-hee Mun Roadmap | Kyobo Life established a two-stage roadmap to actively push for the Life Long Care Project. The Company will concentrate on developing capabilities to retain policyholders in the first stage which began in FY2011. We are planning on enhancing our activities to retain policy holders in the second stage in FY2014. Roadmap of Life Long Care Project Goal Method •Developing capabilities to retain policyholders and •Beginning from exclusive facing channel 1st Phase specializing in retaining them •Introducing point system for standard Life Long Care (2011 to 2013) •Applying unique strengths of Kyobo Life and achieving Service activities. results. •Introducing system to screen policyholder retention education •Expansion into all channels •Upgrading policyholder retention •Connecting standard activities for Life Long Care Service 2nd Phase •Taking lead in creating new trend in domestic life insurance and commissions for FPs (2014 to 2015) industry •System to screen policyholder retention education connected to compensation Realizing VISION2015 •Taking initiative in keeping promises with customers •Enhancing image and reliability of life insurance •Contributing to elevating quality of life of customers ※The Point System for Standard Life Long Care Service Activities : A system to give points by items about the four major activities to retain policy holders by items and turn the points into cash. 33 FY2011 Sustainability Report Customer and the Future Reception of Claims on Different from claims on general financial products, customers need to submit documents that prove reasons for payment when they claim insurance money. Such submitted documents are used as basic materials for fair judgments on Insurance Policies and insurance money payment 66 nationwide Customer Plazas are in charge of receiving claims and payment. 4p Expansion of Places for But if a customer’s neighborhood does not have Kyobo Life Customer Plaza or the customer has difficulty visiting the Payment place, it will be troublesome to claim or receive insurance money. We are putting forth efforts to address such a problem. Operation of Reception Windows In Addition to Reception Windows by Regions Customer Plaza | Kyobo Life is operating 89 windows to receive claim in addition to Customer Plaza. Claim documents received Gyeonggi through these windows are sent to and processed by nearby Cus18(12) Seoul 3(1) Gangwon 9(4) tomer Plazas. Among them, 44 windows are capable of handling Incheon 1(0) simple payment services to increase customers’ convenience. Chungbuk 3(1) Gyeongbuk 13(6) Chungnam Daejeon 0 9(6) Daegu 3(3) Reception and Payment Services through Visit | Kyobo Jeonbuk 4(1) Ulsan 1(0) Gyeongnam Pusan 2(1) Life is operating a system to help customers who are unable to visit 10(5) Jeonnam the windows claim and receive insurance money. The “Proxy InsurGwangju 1(0) 11(2) ance Claim Service” is a service where a financial planner visits a customer and receives claim documents from the customer and ( ): Reception and Payment Jeju 2(1) delivers the documents to a Customer Plaza. The “Payment Service Window through Visit” makes employees or financial planners visit a customer and pay insurance money to the customer when the customer asks for the service. Kyobo Life will grow together with its financial planners and employees We will maintain our corporate culture based on joy, confidence and trust. We will provide all employees with equal opportunities and reward them based on fair evaluations. We will enhance the expertise of our financial planners and employees. Financial Planners & Employees and the Future Disclosure on Management Approach Kyobo Life will grow together with its financial planners and employees Pledge 3. We will maintain our corporate culture based on joy, confidence and trust. Pledge 4. We will provide all employees with equal opportunities and reward them based on fair evaluations. Pledge 5. We will enhance the expertise of our fi nancial planners and employees. Progress on the Pledge (KPIs) Education hours per employee Financial planner/ Financial planner retention Unit : Hour employee satisfaction index rate (13th month) ▒FPs ▒Employees Unit : Points Unit : % 72.0 2011 102 2011 2011 40.9 — 2010 109 74.9 2010 40.6 2010 — 2009 98 2009 48.8 78.0 2009 70.3 ※ Financial planner retention rate = (Existing FPs / appointed FPs) × 100 ※ E mployee satisfaction survey was not con※ 13th month retention FP: An FP who has one or ducted in FY2010 and FY2011 due to internal more new contracts that the FP has sold and 10 circumstance. or more retained contracts on his or her 13th month as an FP. Results of Material Test ※ The summary of the materiality test is available on page 15~17. ● Issues of Principle 3 ● Issues of Principle 4·5 Welfare and benefits Welfare and benefits Internal 37~38p Family-friendly 40~41p communication Self-development corporate culture Commission program system Internal Educational program 44~46p contests Interest of Employees Specialized Duty-oriented financial education Interest of FPs HR system Internal communication 37~38p Supporting B2B2C marketing 39p LaborProgram to management Ban on foster new FPs culture discrimination Program to support education of FPs children Consulting channel System to support Knowledge excellent FPs Consulting exchange Ban on discrimination channel Team study Protecting program Protecting human rights human rights Impact on the Company Impact on the Company ※ Protecting human rights was classified into an item in Principle 3 during the materiality test. But the item was treated as a Principle 4 item in the main body. 37 FY2011 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Employees and the Future We will maintain our corporate culture based on joy, confidence and trust. Kyobo Life is striving to create a corporate culture based on joy, confidence and trust by strengthening internal comInternal munication between the management and employees, employees and financial planners (FPs) and employees in the Communictation headquarter building and employees in sales branches. Management’s Direct Communication with FPs | The management listens to voices of FPs by taking part in the workshop of the “Prime Leaders Club,” a club of excellent FPs. The workshop is held four times a year and participated in by about 100 members. They exchange opinions on their difficulties and the major issues of the Company with the management. Discussed items are reflected in policies in consideration of their importance and urgency. The management has two regular meeting with “FP Honorary Executive Members” a year. In July 2011, the Company gave FP Honorary Executive Members employee ID cards as a token of its will to listen to voices of FPs more carefully. Presenting Honorary Executive Members Employee IDs to FPs Business Status Briefing Session Business Status Briefing Sessions | Kyobo Life holds business status briefing sessions to help employees better understand its business status and promote internal communication. Employees share the business performances of all sectors such as insurance sales and asset management and learn the business environment such as domestic and international economic forecasts through the briefing sessions. The program of the session includes a time for questions and answers between employees and the management. We enhance the reliability of the communication session through explanations by executives and summaries by the CEO. Business Status Briefing Sessions Separation Period Time Place Main Contents • Business performances and environment 1st August 23 to 26, 2011 5 HQ, Gyeseongwon • Key business policies • Communication related to HR management and employee benefits 2nd Oct. 17 to 19, 2011 2 Gyeseongwon • Status of customer complaints and items to be intensively executed 2012. 2. 2 ~ 2. 20 • Q&A 3rd 7 HQ, Gyeseongwon Feb. 2 to 20, 2012 • General summaries by CEO 38 FY2011 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Employees and the Future In-House Satellite Broadcasting and Company Newspaper | Kyobo Life is sharing key corporate issues and information with all FPs and employees by producing and airing in-house satellite broadcasting programs and publishing an in-house newspaper. Every morning from Monday through Friday, the Company airs in-house satellite programs for 20 minutes. On Monday, the Company broadcasts “Kyobo Newsweek” which rounds up its major news. From Tuesday to Thursday, employees can watch various types of marketing programs such as success stories and special lectures by celebrities. Beginning in June 2011, the Company broadcast marketing support programs at the headquarters with the aim of helping employees at the corporate headquarters. Employees are able to watch programs and read their manuscripts on the corporate intranet. “Kyobo Community,” a corporate newspaper of Kyobo Life is distributed at the headquarters and sales branches twice a month. The newspaper recorded its 233rd issue in March 2012. “Kyobo Community” delivers the Company’s major news, interesting news from reporters at different locations, features and columns and health news and so on to employees and FPs. All stories are available in the form of pdf files on the intranet. Operating “Compliment Corner” | In order to promote sound communication, Kyobo Life operates “Compliment Corner” where employees can give compliment points through the company intranet to those who deserve. Each quarter, employees with high points are invited to a “complimentary luncheon” with the CEO. The luncheon began in 1999 and the number of invited employees reached 718. The Company also promotes the joy of sharing by donating compliment points accumulated during the year to social welfare organization at the end of every year. In January 2012, 3,246 employees donated 104,958 points which were converted to money (one point: KRW10). The money was delivered to “Happy Morning Reading,” a non-profit organization to donate books to children of lowincome families. Complimentary Luncheon Participation in Compliment Corner Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 No. of participants Persons 3,716 3,247 4,451 Points Points 96,395 126.924 136,059 Participation rate % 86.2 74.2 98.3 Club Activities | Kyobo Life supports various in-house club activities in order to promote friendships among employees and to foster a pleasant corporate culture. As of March 2012, 30 clubs were active nationwide, and all their members totaled 1,238. The Company supports with various fees involved in club activities such as fees to use facilities, invite lecturers and plan and hold events for the purpose of encouraging employees take part in such activities. Club Activity 39 FY2011 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Employees and the Future Supporting B2B2C B2B2C is a combined and shortened form of “Business to Business (B2B)” and “Business to Customer (B2C).” In this system, a company becomes the first customer and employees of the company become the second customer. In the case Marketing of Kyobo Life, a group that Kyobo Life offers retirement pension service is the first customer and employees of the company who receive services from FPs of Kyobo Life are the second customer. The strengthening of B2B2C marketing is meaningful in that the activity base for FPs expands into customers of retirement pensions. The activation of B2B2C marketing should be premised on an Joint Marketing to Promote increase in groups which want to introduce retirement B2B2C Marketing pensions. To this end, Kyobo Life is actively endeavorYear and ing such as preferentially providing the Dawin Service Partners Date Program which offers know-how in customer satisfacThe Korea Federation of 2011. 04. 12 tion such as education, consulting and advice and carryTeachers' Associations Korea Transportation ing out marketing connected to many associations and Joint Marketing 2011. 05. 23 groups. Safety Authority(3rd) Korea Rural Community 2011. 06. 17 Corporation Kyobo Life selects FPs specialized in retirement pensions among FPs who have fund investment consultant licenses The Association of 2011. 08. 23 and licenses to sell retirement pensions. FPs specialized in retirement pensions deliver retirement pension manageKorean Oriental Medicine 2011. 11. 30 Supreme Court of Korea ment reports to employees of groups which introduced retirement pensions and offer a guarantee analysis service. It is Korea Health and Welfare very important to offer an investor protection process through FPs specialized in retirement pensions as DC retirement 2012. 0 1. 17 Information Service pensions can change depending on performances of reserve management. Furthermore, the Company is actively imple2012. 02. 07 Road Traffic Authority menting education programs to expand FPs’ B2B2C marketing-related capabilities. 46p Enhancing Employee No Kyobo Life employees engage in work and activities which are dangerous and cause diseases. Its salary system Quality of Life does not discriminate people due to their genders. As of March 2012, the basic salary for a newly recruited worker with a college degree is 262% of the legal minimum salary in 2012. We are running various programs for employee welfare and benefits to elevate productivity through employees’ immersion into work. Programs for Employee Cafeteria Plan | A cafeteria plan refers to an employee welfare and benefit program where employees can select Welfare and Benefits welfare and benefit items according to their needs within a certain boundary. Annual individual amounts of money Separation Contents depend on employees’ positions and years of service. Employees can use their money with cafeteria cards. Kyobo Life Legal welfare and benefits limited purposes of card use to welfare and benefit items set by the Company, self-development, healthcare, physical (four major social insurance training and cultural life items to prevent the financial source from being used for inappropriate purposes. policies), scholarships, paying transportation charges, free life insurance for employees, Stable Life individual support for employees’ buying retirement Support for Pensions for Employees | Kyobo Life pays 50% of national pension contributions and part of indipension plan, support for vidual pension contributions for employees. In addition, in accordance with the pension laws, the Company puts aside a employees’ family events, sum worth a one-month salary every year with a third-party financial institution and provides the accumulated sum eigifts for those who retire, paying for clothing expenses ther in a lump sum or in a monthly annuity upon employees’ retirement. The pension system consists of defined benefit (DB) and defined contribution (DC). Loans to buy and rent Housing houses, offering company Stability houses and dormitories. Healthcare, rest homes, Healthy and athlete meet for Cultural Life employees and clubs for employees 40 FY2011 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Employees and the Future Kyobo Life has been pursuing the value of the love of a family while judging that the love of a family has the essence Family-Friendly and value of life insurance. In recognition of these projects, the Company received a “Presidential Award for Excellent Corporate Culture Family-Oriented Company” in 2,000 from the Ministry of Health and Welfare and an S grade, the highest grade in the next year. We will continue to do everything we can do to spread the love of family externally and promote a familyfriendly corporate culture internally. Supporting Employees’ Purchase of Life Insurance | Kyobo Life helps employees and their families practice the love of a family by supporting their purchase of life insurance. All employees are covered by “Vision Plus Accident Insurance” with one year maturity which covers accidental deaths, general deaths, medical costs and cancer diagnoses. The Company pays all insurance premiums for this insurance of employees. Employees are able to choose special contracts of the insurance to cover their spouses and children. Premiums for special contracts are used as employee welfare points for the cafeteria program. Paying Life Insurance Premiums for Employees Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Insurance premiums KRW1,000 709,282 898,814 904,409 Supporting Healthcare of Employees and Their Families | All employees of Kyobo Life are able to have their health checked thanks to the support of their company. The Company also supports employees and their families when they receive anti-flu shots at seven healthcare centers across the nation. Moreover, we opened “Health Consultation Room” on our corporate intranet for employees. Specialized doctors at the Kyobo Life Healthcare Centers answer questions from employees. Healthcare Support Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Employee health check-up Person 2,497 3,790 2,734 Anti-flu shot Person 897 2,064 2,207 Use of Health Consultation Room Case 46 33 20 Operating Family Love Day Program | Kyobo Life encourages all employees to leave their office at 6:00 pm and spend time together with their family members by designating the third Wednesday of every month as “Family Love Day.” So thanks to this program, they are able to share love with their family members first. The Company is operating “Family Love Day” under the management of the head of each business unit in consideration of characteristics of duties and work schedules not to have a negative impact on business performances. Supporting Employees with Allowances for Childcare | With an eye toward supporting employees’ family love, Kyobo Insurance pays KRW50,000 per child as an allowance for childcare to employees with preschoolers once a month since July 2011. In nine months until March 2012, the Company gave 1,398 employees childcare allowances amounting to KRW763.9 million. To reach its goal, Kyobo Life gives childcare allowances even to employees on parental leave. 41 FY2011 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Employees and the Future Operating Childcare Information Room | Kyobo Insurance opened and is running “Childcare Information Room” where employees can freely exchange childbirth and childcare information on its intranet. The menu of the room consists of childbirth information, childcare information and a market of products for childbirth and childcare. Free Use of Gyeseongwon in Summer Vacation | Kyobo Life helps employees and their families practice family love by allowing them to use Gyeseongwon, the employee training center of Kyobo Life free of charge during summer vacations in July and August. Employees who can use the center are decided on a first-come-first-served basis. Participating families are able to use rooms and facilities of the center for three days and enjoy free breakfasts every morning. Family Love and Happiness Camp Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Time Time 8 6 4 FPs 111 (537) 144 (610) 92 (403) Family Participating families Employees 42 (172) 70 (319) 45 (192) (person) Total 214 (929) 137 (595) Family Love Photo Contest | In November 2011, Kyobo Life held the Family Love Photo Contest for employees under the theme of “Our Family Full of Happiness and Love” in order to spread the meaning of family love. 182 employees submitted 467 photos to the contest. The Company selected 11 works as prizewinners. We held the Kyobo Life Photo Exhibition with prize-winning photos and printed them in the company newspaper. Prizewinners Picnic First Meeting Labor-Management Kyobo Life has championed the freedom of association and the right of collective bargaining. Kyobo Life views labor unions as business partners and accordingly pursues labor relations that are mutually benefiRelations for cial. As of March 202, the Kyobo Life labor union consists of 3,034 employees, or 74% of the workforce. The laborCoexistence management conference holds meetings and discussions every quarter to actively address major issues like employment, safety and salaries as well as annual wage bargaining and collective bargaining every two years. The collective agreement stipulates that a major change take place in the Company, the Company immediately report it to the labor union in accordance with Article 7 of the agreement. The management is maintaining an amicable labor-management relationship by sharing suggestions on major meetings with the labor union in advance. The management and the labor union discussed matters such as an improvement in the profit sharing system, a clerical employee career development plan and the establishment of the “FUN” culture. 42 FY2011 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Employees and the Future We will provide all employees with equal opportunities and reward them based on fair evaluations As of the end of FY2011, the number of Kyobo Life employees stood at 4,529 while Kyobo Life had 19,000 FPs. Female Current Executives & employees accounted for 44.6% of the total workforce. The Company was hiring 50 physically challenged people. 163 Employees Status employees retired during FY2011. Female FPs accounted for 80.0%. Employee Status Regular employees (Unit : persons.) 2009 2010 2011 (4,309) (4,377) (4,529) 2,510 1,799 2,504 1,873 2,511 2,018 ■ Male ■ Female Physically Challenged Employees (Unit : persons.) Retirement rate (Unit : %) 2011 60 26 call center workers 2011 3.6 2 IT specialists 2010 52 2010 3.5 18 workers at branches 2009 50 2009 3.7 14 workers at HQ. Recruitment (Unit : persons.) Irregular employees (Unit : persons.) 2011 382 2011 223 2010 325 2010 160 2009 248 2009 205 New Employees 43 FY2011 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Employees and the Future FP Status (Unit : persons.) 2009 2010 2011 (20,410) (19,492) (19,480) 3,050 3,388 3,682 17,022 15,810 16,430 ■ Male ■ Female Efforts for Protecting Kybo Life supports and respects the protection of human rights internationally announced. The Company put an emphasis on it by reflecting items related to human rights protection in the “Professional Ethical Action Guidelines” revised in Human Rights June 2011 and is striving not to be implicated in human rights violations. Prevention of Sexual Harassment in Office | Kyobo Life is actively making efforts to prevent sexual harassment at workplaces while recognizing it as an example of human rights violations. The prevention of sexual harassment is much emphasized during the education of managers managed by the compliance officer. Moreover, sexual harassment prevention education is implemented for all FPs and employees. Abolishing Employment Discrimination | When recruiting employees, the Company provides job opportuniEucation to Prevent Sexual Harassment ties regardless of genders, ages, religious faith, or places of birth. All employees are given opportunities only on the basis of their ability and performances in the process of their employment, promotion, reward, education, and retirement. Ban Child Labor and Forced Labor | Kyobo Life not only prohibits labor employment of youths aged 15 and below but enforces limitations on the employment of teenagers aged 18 and under. The Company also bans all types of forced labor against workers’ will. Kyobo Life regularly conducts the measurement of employees’ capabilities and the assessment of their performances. Fair Assessment The measurement of employees’ capabilities is to measure individual ability required to achieve a goal and conduct business. The assessment of their performances is to assess the results of employees’ work to achieve their individual When making objection goals in connection with goals of the Company and their bosses. In the case of performance assessment, the Company Filling up and submitting tries to make assessment fairer by allowing employees to object to assessment results. Objections are reviewed by the objection application form HR Management Council and make change in assessment grades or are dismissed. Assessment Process Review by HR Council Assessment by Confirmation Assessment evaluators Self-Assessment (head of second Reporting results meeting (head of highest Reporting results of review highest) organization) 44 FY2011 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Employees and the Future We will enhance the expertise of our financial planners and employees. Kyobo Life believes that the Company must increase capabilities of FPs to achieve its corporate vision. The Company Educational Programs helps FPs grow into experts recognized by customers by providing various and effective educational programs. We for FPs checked and improved our FP education programs in line with our companywide “Life Long Care Project” in FY2011. FPs are enhancing their service capabilities by watching in-house satellite broadcasting programs on marketing at branches every morning and receiving education on the Life Long Care Service. Direction of Nurturing Excellent FPs in FY2011 New contract-oriented Retention-oriented Concept (Focus on securing contracts) (Focus on securing customers) Connected to companywide marketing Knowledge and technology-oriented strategies Execution Strengthening capabilities to carry out Life Enhancing sales knowledge Long Care Service Training Programs Meeting Needs of FPs | Kyobo Life has run Theme Courses since the latter half of fiscal year 2011 to better meet the needs of its FPs. The courses are characterized by the on-site employees’ selection of training topics and the main office’s support for related contents and costs after review and examination. Additionally, it has provided Open Weekend Courses to assist planners outside Seoul and Gyeonggi Province, who have relatively less opportunities for their own development. Training program schedules are notified on a monthly basis and then any planners can make a voluntary application. Weekend Open Courses Date Place Person Details Apr. 9, 2011 Gyesung Training Center 332 • 7 Habits of Successful Leaders • Successful FPs, Innovative FPs May. 7, 2011 Gyesung Training Center 361 • Customer-specific Approaches Jun. 11, 2011 Gyesung Training Center 323 • Storytelling-based Customer Consulting Jul. 9, 2011 Busan FP HQs 563 • Financial Literacy (inheritance, asset transfer and real Aug. 13, 2011 Gyesung Training Center 201 estate), Retirement Planning Strategies Sep. 3, 2011 Daegu FP HQs 398 • Research and Case Studies: Trust Products and Variable Oct. 8, 2011 Gyesung Training Center 239 Insurances • Understanding of Major Diseases Nov. 5, 2011 Jeolla FP HQs 276 • Studies on Smile and Success 45 FY2011 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Employees and the Future Education of Newly Recruited FPs | It is quite important to provide systematic education to newly recruited FPs to help them grow into specialized FPs. New FPs who completed the Basic FP Course in eight months, receives the BTP (Basic Training Program) at each branch and education programs by a step-by-step cultivation system for one year. We have been running a cultivation course around capability enhancement for the Life Long Care Project since FY2011. Cultivation Process for New FP Start to 1st Month 2nd Month 2nd Month to 3rd Month 5th Month 7th Month 12th Month 3rd Month Basic FP Step 2 to Step 3 to Step 4 to Course (including Step expand expand expand Kyobo Retirement Challenge 1 to expand capabilities capabilities capabilities Employee Planning Leaders capabilities for for Life Long for Life Long for Life Long Course Course Course Life Long Care Care Service Care Service Care Service Service) 8 weeks / Support 2 days / HQ 4 days / Support 2 days / 2 days / 2 days / HQ 2 days / Group Group Gyeseongwon Gyeseongwon Gyeseongwon Course to Expand Capabilities for Life Long Care Service Step 1 Step 2 to Step 4 Basic concept of Life Long Care Service Four major activities of Life Long Care Service, : Background, tools, process, system and practicing making appointment to visit and promotions studying coverage of main products ※Four major activities of Life Long Care Service: Informing of coverage of purchased policies, checking and informing of unclaimed insurance money, customer information cleansing and guarantee diagnoses and offering information on M-learning Programs | Kyobo Life is providing different M-learning programs as the usage of smart phones and tablet PCs is on the rise. With the help of the SMART Sales Support program, employee capability enhancement can overcome the constraints of time and space. The program includes various useful contents such as product information, daily drills, professional qualification, underwriting tips, retirement pension information and m-learning on insurance & taxes. SMART Sales Support 46 FY2011 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Employees and the Future Programs for Enhancement of B2B2C Marketing Competence | FPs’ competence enhancement is essential for successful B2B2C marketing. Kyobo Life is helping its planners shore up their B2B2C marketing competence with a variety of programs. 39p Those who have been qualified for selling variable insurance but not for retirement pension products can make use of its online curriculum. By passing the tests for the Certified Fund Investment Advisor and the Retirement Pension Planner after completing it, they can qualify themselves for the position of a financial planner specialized in retirement pension Workshop to Promote B2B2C Marketing plans. To maximize the ability of them, who are the key to B2B2C marketing, each HQs is offering training programs about retirement pension management reporting and the Gyesung Center is providing a two-day working level program. Also, those retirement planners at each support operations unit have organized retirement annuity study groups to share their know-how and best practices. During the six-month period starting from May 2011, 39 study groups were formed nationwide, led by the heads of the support operations units. Support for Kyobo Life offers sorts of programs for employee capability development and leads all of its personnel to establish and engage themselves in related plans. During the course, business unit heads take the leading role and evaluate their Employee Capability members’ training completion. The results are reflected in screening for promotion for higher motivation. Development Training Process for Competence Enhancement Learning Planning Implementation Feedback Result Utilization [Plan] [Do] [See] ▶ Establishment of career ▶ Training according to ▶ Coaching by and interview ▶ Yearly feedback from BU development plans enterprise-wide schedule with BU heads heads ▶ Selection of learning ▶ Application of results to ▶ Feedback regarding ▶ Reflection of learning programs (interview with business operations learning performance in employee and approval by BU heads) assessment Essential Training Programs | The essential training is divided into enterprise-wide programs for all employees, class-specific ones for those in certain positions and task-specific ones having the purpose of job skill improvement. Topics of the enterprise programs have revolved around important issues of each year relevant to all employees. For example, that of 2009 was the significance and ways of customer privacy protection and 2010 was customer satisfaction management. In 2011, the program covered the revised code of ethics. Competence Enhancement Programs for Female Employees | Kyobo Life has run dedicated programs for its female workers since FY 2011. The Sponsor & Buddy for assistant managers and those higher in ranks serves the goal by matching in-house personnel with them and helping them deal with their troubles. 81 assistant managers at the main office joined the test operation between February and April 2012 and the program is scheduled to be expanded corporate-wide from FY 2012. Additionally, the In-house Insurance College is slated to be opened in that fiscal year. It will furnish female employees with essential knowledge regarding insurance and finance while facilitating their efforts for job skill improvement. 47 FY2011 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Employees and the Future Team-based Training Programs | This type of programs are categorized into Action Learning, CoP (Community of Practice) and Sociodrama. The first one is to deal with present topics of each business unit through mutual learning among its members. The second group is about creating outcomes and the third is to find out internal conflicts and solutions in the form of role plays. Every employee participates in at least one of the programs. Team-based Program Overview CoP Program Action Learning Competence Sociodrama Project Problem-solving Development Unit Main Office div./dept. Main Office and field unit Main Office div./dept. Number of Team 6 to 8 4 to 8 5 to 10 8 to 10 Members Issues related to each Current issues relevant Tasks for improvement Solution of conflicts division or department to the goals and Employee competence Topic found in daily business occurring in daily among major corporate performance of each enhancement activities business activities strategies of FY 2011 business unit Number of 130 (20 teams) 67 (11 teams) 932 (124 teams) 1,758 (301 teams) 79 (11 teams) Participants CoP Sociodrama Posting Status Total (Unit : Case) 2011 6,299 Self-directed Learning Programs | The idea of these programs is for employees to take part on their own volition in the online, reading-based learning, certificate qualification courses or joint programs with the Korea Insurance 2010 3,958 Institute. The corporation is offering related expenses as part of the participants’ salaries. Every employee enrolls in one of the programs at the least. 2009 2,975 Subsidies Given to Program Participants Amount Unit 2009 2010 2011 Per Person (Unit : Case) Total 982,568 1,093,871 1,077867 1,000 won Per person 289 322 312 2011 1.8 2010 1.2 Knowledge Activities | This refers to posting best practices, know-how, process improvement cases and fresh business tips on the knowledge exchange market of the intranet. Every employee posts at least one article and knowl2009 0.9 edge assessors evaluate the postings to grade them and filter out disqualifiers. Investors and the Future Kyobo Life will continue to be an attractive investment to investors. We will continue to generate additional profits through sustainable growth. We will increase our corporate value with preemptive risk management skills. Disclosure on Management Approach Kyobo Life will continue to be an attractive investment to investors. Pledge 6. We will continue to generate additional profits through sustainable growth. Pledge 7. We will increase our corporate value with preemptive risk management skills. Progress on the Pledge (KPIs) Total Assets 51p Return on equity(ROE) 52p Financial Soundness Indicator(Risk-Based Capital) Unit : Trillion won Unit : % Unit : % 2011 62.4 2011 11.1 2011 247.1 2010 57.9 2010 15.1 2010 222.6 2009 54.1 2009 15.6 2009 — ※W hen repor ting its performances in FY2010, a ※Return on equity (ROE) = Net profit / {(net worth at ※Risk Based Capital (RBC) ratio = Solvency Margin / market share was a KPI from investors’viewpoint. outset of year+net worth at year-end)/2} × 100 RBC Total Risk × 100 Kyobo Life changed a market share into a KPI from ※R BC ratios are published from the 2010 fiscal year customers’ viewpoint and reflected total assets as a data. new KPI in this report. Results of Materiality Test ※The summary of the materiality test is available on page 15~17. Risk management 55~58p Focusing on 53~54p Opinion Leaders’ Interest growing markets Management innovation Credit ratings Internal control Preventing insurance frauds Impact on the Company 51 FY2011 Sustainability Report Investors and the Future We will continue to generate additional profits through sustainable growth. Kyobo Life has been enjoying a continuous increase in assets through the expansion of highly profitable guarantee-type Growth Potential product portfolios, the securing of excess profits through volatility in a low interest rate-based financial market, asset management based on preemptive risk management and etc. Total Assets (Unit : Trillion won) 62.4 57.9 54.1 50.0 46.2 43.0 38.5 32.4 35.5 29.8 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 In FY2011, Kyobo Life posted KRW62,361 billion in total assets, KRW5,139 billion in total shareholders’ equity and KRW10,620 billion in operating revenues while maintaining the industry’s leading position in terms of size in Korea. In FY2011, its total assets and shareholders’ equity expanded KRW4,476 billion and KRW542 billion, respectively, compared to the previous year. Growth indicators Total Assets (Unit : Trillion won) Operating revenues (Unit : Trillion won) 2011 5.1 2011 10.6 2010 4.6 2010 11.0 2009 3.9 2009 12.4 ※Operating revenus equals sales of general companies. 52 FY2011 Sustainability Report Investors and the Future Profitability Despite grave crises such as a credit card crisis and a global economic crisis, Kyobo Life steadily expanded its total shareholder’s equity through profit-oriented management and thorough risk management. The company has been maintaining stable ROE at a level higher than 11% level on average since FY2007. ROE (Unit : %) 38.7 32.4 20.6 17.8 15.6 15.1 11.1 16.6 8.4 11.0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Affected by a financial crisis-triggered global downturn, the overall profitability of financial business was weakened. Notwithstanding, Kyobo Life enjoy strong profitability, chalking up ROA of 0.91%, ROE of 11.1% in FY2011 and KRW546 billion in net income in FY2011. ROA (Unit : %) Net income (Unit : 100 million won) 2011 0.91 2011 5,455 2010 1.14 2010 6,389 2009 1.01 2009 5,252 ※ROA = Net income/{(Beginning assets+ Ending assets)/2} × 100 Stability Kyobo Life is expanding its total shareholders’ equity by pushing for steady profitability-oriented management and maintaining stable capital adequacy through risk management. An RBC ratio indicates capital adequacy. 50p In FY2011, its RBC (Risk Based Capital) ratio is steadily improving by growing 24.5%p to 247.1%, which is far above the regulatory minimum of 100%. Its non-performing assets ratio, a measure of the adequacy of asset management, stood at 0.14% as of FY2011. Stability indicator Non-performing assets ratio (Unit : %) •N on-performing assets ratio = (non-performing assets / assets 2011 0.14 classified for asset soundness) × 100 •A ssets classified for asset soundness: Assets classified by asset 2010 0.15 soundness classification standards of insurance companies. •N on-performing assets: The combined amount of 20% of assets classified into “fixed,” 75% of assets classified into “collection 2009 0.13 questionable” and 100% of assets classified into “estimated losses” among assets classified for asset soundness 53 FY2011 Sustainability Report Investors and the Future Focusing on Growing Kyobo Life selected a focus on growing markets as one of its major tasks for FY2011. The Company selected as four major growing markets, the retirement life guarantee insurance market, the Gangnam Markets and Seoul Metropolitan Markets, the wealthy class market and the retirement pension market. Retirement Life Guarantee Insurance Market | Kyobo Life has promoted sales of retirement life guarantee insurance and family life guarantee insurance according to its steady push for marketing strategies that concentrated on the essence of life insurance. The company is striving to develop specialized products for trends in the market and reinforce capabilities to map out plans for retirement lives to expand its business in the retirement life guarantee insurance market with relatively big growth potential. In June 2011, we published the “Korean Senior Report” which analyzed lifestyles of senior citizens for the first time in Korea in order to expand our capabilities on retirement life guarantee and secure a marketing theme in the senior market. Furthermore, in November 2011, we held the “2011 Senior Trend Forum” with the participation of about 460 people such as about 200 customers with strong needs for retirement life guarantee, representatives from government organizations and people from the academic world. 2011 Senior Trend Forum Gan gna m and S eoul M e t r opoli t an Markets | Kyobo Life picked 16 target zones with the intention of promoting its business in the big, lucrative and competitive Gangnam and Seoul Metropolitan Markets In FY2011, the Company made a foray into 13 zones among them. With an eye toward successfully entering the growing markets, we will post outstanding human resources in strategic positions to realize self-controlled marketing befitting market situations and push forward with financial support and support for an improvement in infrastructure. Opening VIP Center Selection of and Business in Growing Markets Establishing Separation Sales Offices Relocation of Branches Support Teams Yangju, Namyangju (Jinjeop), Yangcheon-gu (Mok-dong), Hwaseong (Dongtan), Busan (Haeundae), Growing Markets Yongin and Suwon the Gangnam area (VIP), Cheongwon-gun (Ochang, Osong), Ulsan, Daegu (Sangin), Gunsan (Susong) Seongnam (Bundang), Gimhae, Changwon ※ The underlined regions are not entered yet. 54 FY2011 Sustainability Report Investors and the Future Wealthy Class Market | Kyobo Life established wealthy class marketing strategies and the Nobiliaire Support Team to differentiate its expansion in the high-income bracket in FY2011. The Company is offering products and services befitting customers of the wealthy class around Nobiliaire Center with rich know-how in marketing for affluent customers across the nation in accordance with a strategy to become a company with the best customer asset management in the wealth class market. As a part of the strategy, we improved the Rapport Program, a customer relation management program through which the management and customers meet each other. The Rapport Program is run in the forms of a meeting between customers and the management, a group meeting which offers communities among customers, a non-face-to-face program that offers special services on important days such as birthdays and anniversaries of customers. In February 2012, we held a Rapport Program event under the theme of “Going Together with Friends” with the participation of 400 people such as customers, executives and financial planners in an effort to promote the Rapport Program. Rapport Program (Group Meeting) Rapport Program (Meeting between Top Management and Customers) Retirement Pension Market | Kyobo Life is reinforcing its competitiveness in the corporate market and the global market by putting the utmost efforts not only into selling retirement pensions but also into doing its best in the retention service. The company suggested a solution to run a retirement pension system by carrying out quarterly communication with customers and upgraded its IT system for retirement pensions to enable customers to conveniently use services. In May 2011, we improved processes to provide retention services for customers of DC (Defined Contribution Retirement Pension) and IRA (Individual Retirement Account) services at Customer Plazas across the nation. In addition, we are steadily expediting B2B2C marketing projects to enhance its marketing competiRetirement Pension Retention Service tiveness in the retirement pension market. 39p 55 FY2011 Sustainability Report Investors and the Future We will increase our corporate value with preemptive risk management skills. A “risk” refers to an uncertainty which can become an opportunity factor or a risk factor for reaching a management Risk Management goal. “Risk management” means a process to grasp and manage such uncertainties. Effective risk management is very instrumental in reaching a business goal. Kyobo Life is adopting an ALM policy that set risk limits that can have an impact on its capital in advance and monitor the observance of the limits and considers both debts and assets in order to maximize its corporate value in the midto long-term. In addition, the Company is measures risks that can take place in general management activities such as insurance sales and asset management and managing total risks at a certain level by utilizing risk management methods such as evading, accepting, shifting and alleviating risks Risk Management Process | The risk management process of Kyobo Life is 1) recognition 2) measurement and evaluation 3) responses and control and 4) monitoring. Risk Management Process Are risks at a manageable level? What are risks against reaching management goals? Methods to cope with and control What causes losses? various risks are properly used. Is ck there any problem? fe edba in g/ t or R ni ec Mo og niz in g Reaching r is k s Management Goals g Tacklin (Steadily generating profits for a long period) c and on t risk s rollin gr ing s isk es s ss a nd a ring M easu Is it possible to measure risks? What are methods to remove, If we measure risks, how much can disperse, minimize and shift risks? we? 56 FY2011 Sustainability Report Investors and the Future Risk Management Organization | The Risk Management Committee resolves important matters on risk management such as risk management policies and risk limits. The Risk Management Committee consisting of three outside directors and one inside director held its meeting 12 times in FY2011. The company made public the agendas and resolutions of the meeting on the home page (www.kyobo.co.kr). The Risk Management Council discusses the resolutions of the Risk Management Committee and subjects concerning risk management. The ALM Council is an organization to deliberate major ALM issues such as interest rate risks or secondary reverse margins. The Risk Management Team plans and assesses risk management. Risk management is executed by individual risk management teams. Risk Management Structure and Risk BOD Risk management decision-making & ultimate responsibility Risk Mgt. Committee ALM Council Risk Mgt. Council Comprehensive ALM management Comprehensive risk management Asset Portfolio Daily Management Team Market risk A possibility that a company will incur a loss due to a drop in prices of its stocks or bonds Management Investment Monthly Credit risk A possibility that a company will incur a loss due to the default of an obligation Analysis Team Management A possibility that a company will suffer reverse margins due to an earning rate lower Monthly Interest rate risk than an expected interest rate or a decrease in the value of its net assets due to change Management in interest rates Treasury Team A possibility that a company will incur a loss as the company can pay insurance money on Weeily Liquidity risk time due to a lack of funds or sell off assets disadvantageously to raise funds. Management Insurance Risk A possibility that a company will incur a loss as the company paid insurance money more Monthly Insurance risk Management Team than expected. Management Variable Insurance Product Minimum guarantee A possibility that a company will incur a loss as additional costs take place due to a Monthly Team risk of variable products lack of guarantee reserves when guarantee obligation occurs. Management A possibility that a company will incur a loss due to improper or wrong internal procedures Operational risk and human resources and systems and external affairs Non-Financial Risks Strategic risk A possibility that a company incur a loss as the company did not properly make strategic decisions. A possibility that a company’s corporate value will decrease due to its reputation was Reputational risk tarnished amid the spread of negative public opinions about the company 57 FY2011 Sustainability Report Investors and the Future Risk Management Activities | Risk limit management means an activity to make Risk Management Committee set the amounts of risks that the Company can afford to have compared to its risk capital and the integrated risk management department and individual risk management team maintain a proper risk level. Kyobo Life grasps risk volume through the daily monitoring of market risks and the monthly monitoring of credit, interest rate, insurance, liquidity, guaranteed minimum in variable insurance, strategy, reputation, as well as operational risks. When risk volume reaches a certain level compared to a risk limit, the Company is preemptively responding to change in the environment by taking step-by-step measures such as evading, accepting and alleviating risks. Risk preview is a process for the Risk Management Department to review a risk before making an important decision on the risk from a viewpoint of risk management. The company materialized the process by reflecting the contents of the process in the internal intranet document production procedure. Those in charge of non-financial risks at departments carries out tasks such as the recognition and assessment of operational risks by their departments, mapping out and executing management plans and the education of employees on related contents with the heads of their organizations. The Risk Management Team supports the activities of non-financial risk managers through regular education. The expected risk rate of insurance depends on the basics of insurance. This rate involves accidents in the future. The basics are “the bigger coverage is, the higher the premium is (the principle of equivalence)” and “people with the same risks must gather for insurance (the law of large numbers).” An insurance risk means a possibility that a loss will take Insurance Risk place as paid insurance money is more than insurance money by an expected risk rate. Insurance risk management aims Management at closely following the basics of insurance throughout the whole process of the insurance business. The Company can protect the interest of customers and secure stable profits through insurance risk management. The Company has been implementing insurance risk management from a companywide viewpoint while recognizing the importance of insurance risk management. Insurance Risk Management Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Mortality profit ratio 15.1 19.2 16.4 % Mortality profit ratio (Industry average) 11.0 12.2 10.7 ※Mortaity profit ratio = {(Risk premium – Accident insurance money) / Risk premium} × 100 ※Risk premium: Insurance premiums which an insurance company receives in order to pay insurance money when an accident occurs. ※T he source of the industrial average: The Financial Supervisory Service (The data in FY2011 were based on public notices in December 2011) Insurance Risk Management Points by Insurance Business Process Subscription Retention Payment •Strengthening obligation for •Increasing regular insurance •Reinforcing activities to prevent customers to report their health premiums by preventing policy insurance frauds history and jobs separation •Strengthening post-payment •Securing excellent customers •Improving regular services monitoring 58 FY2011 Sustainability Report Investors and the Future Subscription Stage | This stage blocks those who caused insurance accidents before from buying insurance and limits coverage for customers with high risks by making customers report accurate information for buying insurance to the Company. Life is consolidating insurance risk management in the subscription stage by applying underwriting standards and processes to customers and financial planners according to risk levels and capabilities for comprehensive membership. Retention Stage | This is a stage to help customers understand the value of insurance well and retain insurance. It is also quite meaningful in terms of insurance risk management to promote four major activities to retain policy holders through the Life Long Care Project. 30~32p Payment Stage | This is a stage to make insurance money quickly paid to customers. It is important to prevent insurance money from being paid for improper occasions or when accidents do not occur. In particular, undue payouts of insurance money due to insurance frauds cause financial damages to insurance companies as well as to customers. In addition, such insurance frauds harm society. Kyobo Life is systematically conducting activities to prevent insurance frauds through the SIU (Special Investigation Unit), a department exclusively responsible for insurance fraud prevention and exposure. Prevention of Insurance Frauds (Unit : KRW million) 2011 10,022 2010 11,082 2009 12,917 Internal Audit The Company regularly audits, checks, and evaluates its general management activities, and forms reasonable alternatives in order to minimize its managerial risks and contribute to sound managerial results. The audit activities of Kyobo Life are carried out methodically and periodically under annual audit plan with the approval of the Audit Committee. The Company enhances the efficiency of its audit by selecting the priority audit items with grasping the weak sector including managerial risk of the audited department and the problematic sector and etc. in advance. In addition, we are subject to a regular inspection by financial regulators. Results of Inspections by Financial Regulators Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Fines KRW million 22 2.5 Disciplinary actions Persons 2 4 2 ※Those punished in FY2010 include two retired employees. 59 FY2011 Sustainability Report Investors and the Future Internal Control Internal controls mean all systems, procedures, work and activities by employees with a view to reaching management goals. Kyobo Insurance established as internal controls guidelines, basic items for legal compliance, sound asset management and the protection of policyholders which employees must follow in the course of their job performance. We appointed a compliance officer who monitors the observance of internal control standards and reports the results of investigations into violations to the Audit Committee and manages an internal control system. The compliance officer reinforces the management of internal controls by carrying out tasks such as advanced checks of major tasks in terms of legal compliance, the establishment and revision of the employee code of ethics, legal compliance education for employees and the establishment and enforcement of anti-money laundering policies. The Company appointed a compliance manager at each organization and ordered him or her to assist the head of his or her organization and the compliance officer. As of the end of March 2012, 267 compliance managers were active across the nation. Prevention of Financial Accidents | A financial accident means an act or an accident that gives financial damage to the Company or customers or deranges financial order through illegal and unfair acts. Financial accidents take place in various forms – embezzlement, breach of trust, swindles, peculation and graft. We prevent financial accidents through strong internal control activities such as obeying an approval process, stamping out the unfair collection of insurance premiums, protecting customer information, thoroughly managing payment work and strengthening the management of financial planners and employees, the establishment of standards on the prevention of financial accidents and the strengthening of related education. We take proper measures against those who cause financial accidents in accordance with internal standards. Financial Accidents Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 No. of accidents Accidents 8 3 4 Amount KRW million 128 294 67 Anti-Money Laundering | Money laundering means disguising or hiding the illegal acquisition of assets and the disposal of assets for tax evasion. Anti-money laundering activities aim to prevent financial companies from being used in such money laundering to increase social risks. The Company conducts anti-money laundering activities in the Specific Financial Transaction Reporting Act such as “obligation to identify customers” to identify the identities of customers who deal with and provide the services of Kyobo Life, “suspected transaction reporting” to report any transactions suspected of as money laundering to the Korea Financial Intelligence Unit and “large cash transaction reporting” to report cash transactions over KRW20 million/case to the Korea Financial Intelligence Unit collectively. The compliance officer takes charge of reporting about anti-money laundering activities. We make anti-money laundering activities effective by proving education programs on anti-money laundering once or more times a year. Anti-Money Laundering Education in FY2011 Objects No. of Times No. of Participants Summary ntroduction to anti-money laundering systems, change in laws Those in charge of legal compliance 4 427 and regulations and roles of employees Introduction to anti-money laundering systems, change in laws Tellers at Customer Plazas and those who 10 619 and regulations and checking customers and reporting suspected support FP branches transactions FPs who violated a regulation to check Introduction to anti-money laundering systems, checking 86 2,271 customers customers and punishments against violators Kyobo Life will progress together with the government and the community We will be proactive in leading and participating in community service projects. We will carry out conservation activities in a manner that is reflective of our business. We will grow with our peers through fair competition. Government & Community and the Future Disclosure on Management Approach Kyobo Life will progress together with the government and the community Pledge 8. We will be proactive in leading and participating in community service projects. Pledge 9. We will carry out conservation activities in a manner that is reflective of our business. Pledge 10. We will grow with our peers through fair competition. Progress on the Pledge (KPIs) Social contribution ratio/amount 63p Share of Social Responsibility 70p Energy Consumption 72p ▒Ratio (Unit : %) ▒Amount (Unit : KRW million) Investment(SRI) (Unit : %) Unit : TOE 2.6 2011 7.6 2011 19,480 2011 143 1.9 2010 6.7 2010 19,333 2010 118 2009 5.3 2009 20,221 2.0 2009 110 ※S ocial contribution ratio: financial support on ※S hare of Social Responsibility Investment : (SRI ※TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent) : Energy unit; the community service/net profit (decreased due to an investments / general account assets) × 100 amount of energy generated when one ton of oil is increase of net profit) burned) Results of Materiality Test ※The summary of the materiality test is available on page 15~17. Self-controlled fair trade compliance Eco-friendly social contribution Teenager support activities Social Company 66~67p program Expanding SRI 70p Opinion Leaders’ Interest Business transparency Family love programs Work ethics education Volunteer activities 64~65,71p Promoting Supporting Eco-friendly Business ethics environmental partners Saving energy volunteer work programs for awareness employees Support social, cultural, Supporting premature athletic and artistic babies events Environmental data ● Issues of Principle 8 Dawin Service ● Issues of Principle 9 ● Issues of Principle 10 Impact on the Company 63 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future We will be proactive in leading and participating in community service projects. Kyobo Life has been steadily carrying out social contribution activities which contribute to social contribution issues Promotion of Social connected to the characteristics of the insurance business such as health, a retirement life and educational welfare. Contribution Activities Over the past ten years, the Company has spent KRW11.3 billion on social contribution on average a year. This amount equals 3.0% of its net income. We are planning to steadily reinforce social contribution activities such as increasing funds for social contribution. Support for Social Contribution Activities ● Financial Support for Social Contribution Unit : 100 million won ▒ Community Support Rate Unit : % 150 143 139 118 110 106 101 97 92 69 10.9 4.8 4.4 3.7 3.5 2.6 2.5 1.9 2.0 1.9 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Amounts by Sectors Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Social Welfare 7,029 6,859 9,762 Education 1,995 1,604 1,442 Culture 1,313 1,633 1,528 Million Environment 121 232 487 won Others (Health Care, Farming 543 1,505 1,103 Areas and Etc.) Total 11,001 11,833 14,322 64 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Activities by Kyobo Kyobo Life’s financial planners and employees with a sense of duty to prevent people in trouble due to a lack of money, knowledge and poor health from losing heart are participating in various volunteer activities. 154 voluntary teams conDasomi Volunteers sisting of financial planners and employees formed sisterhood ties with social welfare organizations across the nation and carries out in various community service activities by visiting social welfare centers, daycare centers, local children centers and facilities for senior citizens and the disabled every month. Volunteer Work Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 No. of Registered Volunteer Teams Team 217 251 217 Annual Volunteer Work Hours Hour 65,627 54,958 52,465 No. of Annual Participants Person 13,902 11,787 12,134 Participation Rate % 52.6 48.0 50.1 With an eye toward supporting the self-controlled operation of each volunteer work team, the Company runs education programs for volunteer work leaders every year. Participants are able to augment their capabilities as leaders and seek desirable directions of volunteer work activities through presentations on exemplary volunteer work cases, special lectures and discussions. Education Programs for Volunteer Work Leaders Separation 2009 2010 2011 Date Oct. 15, 2009 Jun. 16 and 17, 2010 May 24 and 25, 2011 Place Small Auditorium of HQ Building Employee Training Center Employee Training Center No. of 65 volunteer work leaders and social 60 volunteer work leaders and social 80 volunteer work leaders and social Participants workers of social welfare centers workers of social welfare centers workers of social welfare centers Developing ability to plan volunteer work Planning desirable volunteer work Theme Power to change society programs programs befitting beneficiaries Understanding beneficiaries, planning Sharing excellent volunteer work cases, Presentations on excellent volunteer work volunteer work programs, managing trouble, Highlights planning volunteer work programs and cases, planning volunteer work programs, network with volunteers and special communication with social workers special lectures and discussions lectures Dasomi Volunteer Service Education of Volunteer Service Leaders 65 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Kyobo-JA Volunteer Economic Education Team | Kyobo Life is conducting knowledge-based volunteer activities by utilizing the financial expertise of financial planners and employees. The Company launched the Kyobo-JA Volunteer Economic Education Team in partnership with JA Korea, a non-profit organization. The team helps children and teenagers understand basic economic and financial principles through education on the market economy and corporate management. These activities not only expand the significance and effects of volunteer work but also Kyobo-JA Volunteer Economic Education Team promote a positive image of the Company by building up emotional bonds with local schools. Activities of Kyobo-JA Volunteer Economic Education Team Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Volunteers persons 108 207 192 Schools schools 14 7 7 Classrooms Classrooms 121 123 130 Students persons 4,235 4,500 4,550 Happy Book Reading | “Happy Book Reading” is a volunteer work program that helps children enjoy reading and form the habit of reading books. Kyobo Life guides children in their reading such as donating books to local children centers and reading books for children and helping them write book reports. Since 2010 the Company has donated a total of 3,100 books to local children centers and a total of 80 employees has read books for 150 children through these book reading activities. Happy Book Reading Dasomi Global Volunteer Work Corps | The Dasomi Global Volunteer Work Corps consisting of 22 financial planners and employees carried out voluntary service activities by building schools to help children to learn for a better future in underdeveloped farming areas in Vietnam from June 13 to 18, 2011. The corps built a school building with two classrooms and toilets and water supply facilities that can seat about 80 students and house for poor farming families in Ben Tee where students had to walk about ten kilometers and which was using a doubleor tripleshift school system. In particular, the value of this project expanded thanks to financial planners who took part in the project instead of choosing to travel abroad, a prize for them in recognition of the Company’s winning the Grand Dasomi Global Volunteer Work Corps Prize at the 2011 Customer Satisfaction Awards. 66 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Teenager Support Kyobo Life supports teenagers, hopes and dreams of our society to help them grow into talented people who can create a better future in various ways. Program Teenager Volunteer Work Camp Pursuing Happiness Together | This program aims to help teenagers improve their understanding of the disabled and instill community spirit in them through community activities with the disabled. Participating teenagers will be able to grow into exemplary citizens via volunteer work for three days during summer vacations. Teenager Volunteer Work Camp Separation 2009 2010 2011 Period Jul. 20 to Aug. 19, 2009 2010. 07 .19 ~08. 19 2011. 07. 20 ~ 08. 12 Gapyeong, Jangbong Island, Jecheon, Gapyeong, Jangbong Island, Jecheon, Gapyeong, Jangbong Island, Jecheon, Place Iksan, Yeosu, Andong and Geoje Island Iksan, Yeosu, Andong and Geoje Island Iksan, Yeosu, Andong and Geoje Island, and etc. and etc. Asan, Yongin and etc. No. of Camps 18 22 21 1,050 (640 teenager volunteer, 410 1,308 (812 teenager volunteer, 496 1,142 (713 teenager volunteer, 429 No. of Participants disabled people) disabled people) disabled people) ”Forest Camp” to make friends with blind people, “Forest & Being One” Highlights “Beautiful Home Stay” where teenagers experience a community life with the disabled. Teenager Volunteer Work Camp Kyobo Life Hope and Love Scholarship Kyobo Life Hope and Love Scholarship | “Kyobo Life Hope and Love Scholarship” gives support to teenaged orphans, teenagers from Group Homes and teenagers who are the heads of their families so that they can continue to study at school, overcoming social prejudices and economic difficulties. Kyobo Life helps them become sincere members of society by running programs such as camps and volunteer work and supporting local communities and alumni associations of scholarship students with a scholarship program for them. Since 2003, we have given scholarships of KRW3,038 million to 215 students. Connect-Chains-of-Love | Employees donate a portion of their salaries and the company matches the same amount of the money to establish and operate a fund of love in accordance with this program. The fund is used for five specialized support projects for children of poor families –providing meals, paying tuition fees, paying medical and psychiatric treatment costs and supporting cultural and athletic activities. From 2000 to March 2012, approximately 1,800 employees took part in the program and raised a fund of KRW2.58 billion. 67 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Financial Education Network for Teenagers | Life took part in the Financial Education Network for Teenagers of the Financial Supervisory Service. Lecturers of its employee training center provided education suiting students on basic financial and economic knowledge, desirable allowance management and credit and rational consumption for students of elementary and middle schools in and near Cheonan where the center is located among schools that applied to the Financial Supervisory Service for the financial education program. From 2010 to 2011, we gave the education to students of nine schools 36 times and elevated their satisfaction by operating an experience program at the center. Nor t heas t A sia E xcur sion for Univer sit y Students | Kyobo Life supports an excursion program for college students to develop their visions as a future driving force by visiting Northeast Asian countries as historic and economic partners and competitors. A total of 950 college students have participated in the annual program to add to their experiences and establish their visions since 2002. Northeast Asia Excursion for University Students Northeast Asia Excursion for University Students Separation 2009 2010 2011 Period Aug. 4 to 13 in 2009 (10 days) Aug. 4 to 11 in 2010 (8 days) Aug. 4 to 11 in 2011 (8 days) Place China China (Inner Mongolia) Tibet, China No. participants 99 77 78 Build Road to Future from Ancient Tea Have Big Dream in Mongolia Empire! Fly Highest and Farthest from Tibet! Catch Phrase Route Connecting West and East Family Love Farming ”Family Love Farming Experience Program” lets participants families with children not only promote strong harmony Experience Program among family members and know the value of agriculture and farming villages and the importance of our agricultural products through various farming experience programs. This program helps farming villages participating in this program develop their income sources. Income of KRW547 million has arisen directly from the program such as program fees over the past three years. The villages also generate additional income by developing other programs on the basis of this program. Family Love Farming Experience Program Family Love Farming Experience Program Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Participating families family 640 711 720 Participating people people 2,529 2,796 2,822 Participating villages village 12 11 16 Times times 68 73 78 68 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Dasomi Support for This program supports premature babies to recover and stay alive and helps the families to jump over birth-related Premature Babies hardships as the only private program to support premature babies. Therefore, Kyobo Life supports premature babies by paying their healthcare costs and running programs for their families through this initiative. The support program is funded by regular donations from Kyobo Life, its financial planners and general citizens’ donations through the Beautiful Foundation, a key partner for this program. This program aided in the healthy growth of 1,415 premature babies by raising funds of KRW4,366 million from September 2004 to March 2012. Dasomi Support for Premature Babies Dasomi Support for Premature Babies Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Participating Financial Planners Persons 5,891 5,947 6,834 100 Support Funds (Donations by financial planners and million 6 6 6 Kyobo Life ) won Supported Children Persons 286 290 146 Development of Kyobo Life is striving to develop social insurance policies for sharing social value. In January 2011, Kyobo Life established a system to give 1% discounts to discount insurance premiums for families with two or more children. This Insurance for Sharing system shows the Company’s effort to contribute to solve a low birthrate problem, one of the major social issues in Social Value Korea. In addition, we indirectly make social contributions through the development and sales of insurance products for socially weak people. Donation Insurance | Donation insurance is a product Summary of Donation Insurance that entrusts the rights of an insurance contract to a group by designating the group as a beneficiary of the death Donor Insured benefit. This policy has merit of donating a large sum of person n tio insurance money to desired organization without other ion ona g D ce legal procedures through the payment of small amounts of Do yin ran Bu Insu nat insurance premiums. Donation Insurance Agreement Civic and religious Kyobo Life groups Paying death benefit Donation Insurance Sales Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Sales Policies 138 114 58 Death benefits 100 million won 20.3 17.8 9.0 69 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Insurance for Children of Low-Income Families | (Nonparticipating) Kyobo Hope and Love Insurance was developed to give the benefits of insurance to children of low-income families by utilizing dormant insurance money. Smile Microcredit Bank (www.mif.or.kr) selects children who will be covered by insurance and reports them to Kyobo Life and 95% of the insurance premiums with idle insurance money from the Dormant Savings Management Foundation. This policy was developed in 2008. A total of 2,780 insurance contracts had been signed and a total of KRW2.67 billion was paid as insurance premiums until March 2012. Summary of (Nonparticipating) Kyobo Hope and Love Insurance MOU Local units Smile Microcredit Bank Taking care of Selecting children Submitting forms to Agreeing to contract Signing insurance and paying insurance children of poor buy insurance contract premiums families Delivering insurance policy Children of poor families Kyobo Life Covering Products Exclusively for the Disabled | No discrimination is given to disabled people’s buying insurance. Kyobo Insurance decides whether or not it will underwrite insurance for the disabled by generally judging various risks in the same manner that the company does for able-bodied people. But, we develop and sell policies exclusively for the disabled by considering the disabled who receive relatively less benefits of insurance. Sales of Products Exclusively for the Disabled Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Sales of Products Exclusively for Policies 10 10 14 the Disabled ※Sales of insurance policies increased as the company began to sell them through its facing channel in the second half of FY2010. Before, they were sold only through the direct channel. Strengthening IndustryKyobo Life is making efforts for the academic development of life insurance. In recognition for such efforts, the IIS (International Insurance Society) has given the “Shin Yong-ho World Insurance Academic Prize” named after the founder Academy Network of Kyobo Life to those who made great contributions to research on the development of the insurance industry since 1997. Since 2005, the Shin Yong-ho Memorial Foundation supported by Kyobo Life has been awarding the Daesan Insurance Grand Prize to individuals and groups that contributed to the advancement of the Korean insurance sector and helped the sector enhance its international competitiveness. The Company is strengthening an industry-academy network by allowing the Korean Insurance Academic Society and the Korea Risk Management Society to use its employee training centers as venues for their academic symposiums. We will provide 550,000 yuan every year until 2013 by signing an MOU on research funds for carrying out a life insurance project with the China Insurance Academic Society Award Ceremony for Shin Yong-ho World Insurance Academic Prize Support for Symposium by Korea Insurance Academic Society 70 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future We will carry out conversation activities in a manner that is reflective of our business . Kyobo Life is expanding socially responsible investment (SRI) suitable for the realization of the goals of asset manageExpanding Socially ment by life insurers and social contributions. Kyobo Life’s SRI began as investment in SOC projects including roads and Responsible ports. Of late, Its SRI has been diversifying into eco-friendly SOC projects including waste-water treatment facilities, Investment waste incineration facilities and new and renewable energy development to which stakeholders such as the government and local communities are paying more attention to. Amount of SRI Unit : 100 Million Won 38,286 30,912 23,258 17,192 10,708 7,611 6,230 5,206 2,004 1,955 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The Company's SRI in proportion to its total assets in FY2011 Environment Investment was 7.6%, an increase of 0.9%p from FY2010. Our environmental investment and its share of SRI in FY2011 are steadily increasing. ▒ Environmental Investment Unit : 100 Million Won Kyobo Life will establish the principles of SRI and build related ● Environmental Investment Unit : % systems and processes in FY2012 in order to practice systematic 6,671 and active SRI. 3,714 17.4 2,100 12.0 9.0 2009 2010 2011 Eco-Friendly Social Kyobo Life champions the principles in the environmental sector which the UN Global Compact provides, a preventive approach to environmental issues and the implementation of measures that expand environmental responsibilities Contribution Activities and the development and spread of environment-friendly technology. Internally, we increase employees’ awareness by reflecting the protection of the environment in the Professional Ethical Action Guidelines for Employees revised in June 2011 and providing employees with education. Externally, we are actively carrying out eco-friendly social contribution activities that utilize the characteristics of the insurance business. 71 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Kyobo Environmental Awards | It is an event that selects and awards those who have largely promoted environmental awareness and contributed to making an eco-friendly society. The organizers select winners by assessing the durability of activities, social meanings and effects and tangible results in the three categories – environmental education, life-friendly culture and ecological alternatives Award Environmental Activities of 2011 Award Recipients Separation Winners Activities Kyobo Environmental Awards •Systemized various areas of environmental education by running various programs such as Environmental Korea Environmental Education ecological experience-based education, nurturing environmental teachers and international Education Center exchanges. •Steadily produced and diffused environmental education materials and contents. Kim Jin-song •Made environment-friendly artwork such as using dumped natural wood instead of lumber. Life-Friendly Culture (Carpenter and art critic) •Sought ways to balance nature and mankind through various exhibitions and books. •Created 22 courses of roads for a walk in four years. The combined length of 22 courses is 357km (About one million walked on the roads in 2010. Ecological Alternative Juju Olle Foundation •Contributed to publicizing the nature, culture and history of Jeju Island by establishing Jeju Olle Academy. Supjarami Activities Participants Unit : persons ”Supjarami,” Experience-Based Ecological Education Project Team | Kyobo Life launched the Kyobo Dasomi Forest Guide Volunteers consisting of retired senior citizens who guide teenagers about forests and give them 2011 20,319 environmental education in 2003. The Company helped retired senior citizens live productive retirement lives by offering them jobs to work as experience-based 2010 13,205 ecological education experts and children develop their ecological sensitivity by offering nature experience programs. ”Supjarami,” is an experience2009 30,391 based ecological education project team based on the Kyobo Dasomi Forest Guide Volunteers. Amount of Financial Support ”Supjarami” was certified as a Social Company Unit : Million Won by the Ministry of Employment and Labor in June 2011 300 2011. ”Supjarami” is the second Social Company founded by Kyobo Life after its Dasomi Foundation, Korea’s first Social Company. 2010 100 2009 200 ”Supjarami,” Experience-Based Ecological Education Project Team Eco-Friendly Dasomi Family Volunteer Activities | Kyobo Life helps participating families recognize the value of families and the importance of environmental protection by running an environment-friendly family volunteer activity program. Eco-Friendly Dasomi Family Volunteer Activities in FY2011 Participating Program Date Place Highlights Financial Support Families Recovering Branch Roads in Bukhan Mountain 15 families Making nameplates for trees, Making Forests Green Mar. 26 Namhansanseong 6 million won (56 people) planting trees and trekking Recovering Branch Roads 15 families (55 Mt. Bukhan National Cleaning Dulle Path in Mt. Bukhan Jun. 11 6 million won in Bukhan Mountain people) Park and experiencing forest ecology 15 families Understanding beach of Ganghwa Protecting Sea Sep. 24 Ganghwa Island 6 million won (61people) Island and monitoring waste at sea Understanding wild animals, Wild Animal Protection 16 families (62 observing red-crested cranes and Nov. 12 to 13 Cheolwon-gun 10 million won Project people) eagles and volunteer work at animal protection center 72 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Energy Conservation With the aim of reducing energy use for heating and cooling, Kyobo Insurance keeps the indoor temperatures of its buildings across the nation including its headquarters building in Gwanghwamun of Seoul under 26℃ in summer and 20℃ Activities in winter. The Company purchases energy-efficient electronic equipment such as energy-efficient computers, monitors and LCDs in an effort to reduce the use of electric power which takes the lion’s share of energy use. All employees are steadily engaging in the Three-Point Energy and Material Saving Movement -turning off unneeded lights and computers and recycling office supplies. Such efforts went rewarded. Our energy use has been steadily decreasing. Energy Consumption Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Gas 2,440 2,406 2,114 Direct Energy Oil 889 887 774 Sub-total 3,329 3,293 2,888 Electric power 16,850 15,998 16,554 TOE Indirect Energy Community heating 41 42 38 Sub-total 16,891 16,040 16,592 Total 20,220 19,333 19,480 Compared to Previous Year -372 -887 +147 ※Community heating was classified into “direct energy” in the previous report. But beginning in this report, it was classified into “direct energy.” CO2 Emissions Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Direct 8,458 8,369 7,339 Indirect tCo2 111,062 105,454 109,104 Total 119,520 113,824 116,443 Kyobo Life remodeled its headquarters building to make it environment-friendlier in 2010. The Company will be able to reduce energy more significantly by finishing the remodeling designs of its buildings in Daejeon and Numun-dong of Gwangju. The remodeling projects are scheduled to begin in 2012. We made the buildings more energy-efficient by improving wall and windows and decrease the unnecessary use of energy by introducing automatic control facilities and a refrigerative system. Eco-friendly and cutting-edge technologies were introduced including changing concrete walls to glasses, air-conditioning system for ventilation in every floor and heat insulation walls inside the building. Moreover, we minimized the use of energy for lighting by introducing a dimming control system and making use of highly efficient fluorescent lights. The two buildings are expected to cut down on energy costs by about 35% and CO2 emissions by about 25%. Kyobo Life Eco-Friendly Remodeling is planning to implement the remodeling of all its buildings to make them eco-friendly. 73 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Managing The life insurance business is even less affected by the threats of and opportunities from climate change, compared to other business. Nonetheless, Kyobo Life is putting forth efforts not only to reduce cost but also to minimize negative Environmental Data environmental impacts through environmental data management. Summary of Environmental Data Energy CO2 (direct and indirect) (direct and indirect) 19,481 TOE 116,443 tCO2 Recycling Waste Water Water 17,850 t 545,169 t Waste 703 t Office Pape 3,819 Box Recycled 281 t ※Data of 53 buildings managed by Kyobo Realco out of 66 buildings which belong to Kyobo Life (But data on office paper, toners and waste were only those of the headquarters building). Use of Water Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Total Use 571,623 544,399 545,169 TON Recycled Amount 22,747 18,117 17,850 Recycling Ratio % 4,0 3,3 3.3 Use of Office Paper and Toner Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Office Paper Box 2,875 3,480 3,819 Toner Toner 3,090 3,656 3,921 ※The use of paper and toners increased due to an increase in human resources and outsourcing services Waste Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Total Amount of Waste 1,596 523 703 TON Amount of Recycled Waste 346 253 281 Recycling Ratio % 21.7 48.4 40.0 ※Waste means general waste from the office buildings of Kyobo Life 74 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future We will grow with our peers through fair competition. Kyobo Life declared self-obedience for fair trade in September 2006 and since then, has run a fair trade compliance Running Fair Trade program. This program means a general operating system through which a company abides by related regulations by Compliance Program building fair trade-related systems. The fair trade compliance officer manages this program. The officer is appointed by the Board of Directors with the CEO’s recommendation. Program Highlights Separation Highlights •Expanding objects for deliberation through expansion of regulations on duties of compliance officer (May 2011) Improving •Reinforcing internal control on product advertisements and product guide materials through systems and establishment of advertisement approval regulations (Oct. 2011) processes •Revising fair trade compliance manual (Jan. 2012) •Establishing process to deal with investigation by Fair Trade Commission (Feb. 2012) •Education by classes: Those in charge of fair trade compliance (once a half year), heads of organizations and newly recruited employees •Anti-collusion education: Managers and employees of key teams such as Product Development Team and Accounting Team Training •Education on prevent violations of law on life insurance advertisements: Those in charge of advertisements •Education in accordance the government’s selection of companies as business groups allowed to execute limited cross-shareholdings: Relevant employees of Kyobo Life and its sister companies •Monitoring industrial meetings to prevent collusions (every month). Monitoring •Monitoring implementation of review of retirement pension advertisements •Checking unfair trade practices among sister companies in advance Fine for Collusion | In December 2011, the Fair Trade Commission levied fines on 16 life insurers for colluding on the expected interest rate and notified interest rate of personal insurance while ordered them to correct them. The commission regarded exchanges of product information that had been customarily done in the life insurance industry from 2001 to June 2006 as collusion. Life insurers under tight regulations of financial regulators have been able to easily exchange information with one another until June 2006 when the commission launched the investigation. Since June 2006, Kyobo Life banned exchanges of information on prices and payment conditions among life insurers that can be regarded as collusion like the applied interest rates and make it obligatory for employees to receive approval from the compliance officer before taking part in meetings in the life insurance industry. Moreover, the Company is endeavoring for fair trade compliance such as declaring self-obedience for fair trade. In the future, we will make our internal control process more sophisticated and steadily reinforce the education of employees on fair trade laws and regulations and the monitoring of their observance of the laws and regulations. Violations of Fair Trade Laws and Regulations (FY2009~FY2011) Item Date Measures Taken Reason Not giving sales codes when FPs leave for another company for a certain Unfair Trade Cases 2010. 2. 25 Warning period of time Colluding on expected and announced interest rates of individual insurance Collusion 2011. 12. 15 Fine of KRW134.7 billion policies 75 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Win-Win Growth with Kyobo Life is geared towards growing together with partners through the establishment of transparent trading practices with its partners. Partners When picking partners, the Company considers items such as their legal compliance, standards on personal information management and efforts for ethical management, for example, the establishment of their codes of ethics and audit reports in addition to prices, qualities and conditions. We help our partners make their cash flows smooth by paying for their products and services in cash. Clean Contract System | Kyobo Life practices a clean contract system that establishes transparent agreements by not demanding or receiving bribes between company members and contractors during contract phases including purchasing, servicing and construction. The clause is reflected in the Company’s standard contract to improve the implementation of the system. We send guidelines on the system to companies that recorded deals amounting to KRW20 million or more in the previous year, twice a year. Clean Communication | In December, 2011, Kyobo Life implemented “clean communication” with managers and employees of 76 partners for the purpose of consolidating its transparent and fair purchase process and seeking win-win growth with partners. The company also held a ceremony for declaring win-win partnership to resolve to carry out transparent and fair purchases along with the importance of purchase policies and information security and a clean contract system. We are planning on steadily conducting communication with partners with the aim of discovering excellent competitive partners and laying the foundation for win-win growth in the future. Clean Communication Kyobo Life is opposed to all types of corruptions Business Ethics such as profiteering and bribes. The Company has Implementation System been laboring to put into practice business ethics including an anti-corruption campaign and declaring its Code of Professional Ethics, a first for a life insurance company in April, 2000. In June 2011, we reinforced the implementation of employees’ work ethics by revising the Code of Professional Ethics which declares our business philosophies on the basis of core goals and value and professional ethical action guidelines based on the code Business Ethics Cartoon 76 FY2011 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Business Ethics Programs for Employees | Kyobo Life is running various business ethics programs for employees with the intention of enhancing their business ethics. The Company encourages senior managers to take the initiative and set an example for other employees through the compliance officer’s communication with executives and regular education of managers by calling or visiting them. All employees are sharing key compliance and ethical issues by running compliance and ethical education programs by organizational units every month. We watch cartoons and animations explaining difficult issues via our intranet and a satellite broadcasting system and repeatedly share them every Monday morning. In FY2011, we developed a cyber course, “Qualifications for Being Kyobo Employees” and educated all employees on professional ethical action guidelines Business Ethics Education Time Per Employee Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Managers 13.5 13.5 16.5 Hour Non-managers 15 18 Kyobo Life is regularly giving service education to security personnel for its buildings. The main points of the education are items that they have to pay attention to including the prevention of human right violations when they deal with guests Education of Security Personnel Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 No. of Security Personnel Persons 242 242 244 Participating rate % 100 100 100 Reporting Core Value Violations | Using a whistle-blowing system, “Reporting Core Value Violations,” employees can notifies illegal or unjust behaviors to the CEO or an independent compliance officer when the employees judge that such behaviors were connected to their bosses or their bosses connive at them. Through this system, the Company is able to prevent various accidents or deal with them earlier. Moreover, this systͥæ is able to stiffen the morale of employees through fair settlement. Gift-Return Center | The Professional Ethical Action Guidelines for Employees of Kyobo stipulates that employees must refuse to accept gifts from external stakeholders and if they received gifts, they must immediately return them to them. When it is difficult for them to send back the gifts in person, they send them to the Gift-Return Center. Then the center returns them to the external stakeholders with polite messages. The gifts are donated to social organizations when the providers refuse to accept them or it is hard to return them. Returned Gifts Gift-Return Center Separation Unit 2009 2010 2011 Returned Gifts Gift 10 10 14 Appendix •Third Party’s Assurance Report •GRI Application Level Check Statement •Index (GRI, ISO26000, BEST) •UN Global Compact •Kybo Life's Code of Professional Ethics •Awards Related to Sustainability Management •A ssociation Memberships for Sustainability Management •Financial Highlights 78 FY2011 Sustainability Report Appendix Third Party’s Assurance Report To the Management of Kyobo Life Insurance Work Undertaken The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter “Auditor”) was engaged by Kyobo •A Review of media reports related to Kyobo Life Insurance Life Insurance to review information specified in its FY2011 Sustainability Report •Data sampling and Evaluating the sources of publicly disclosed information and (hereafter “Report”) to provide an independent third-party assurance on the reported internal parties involved content. On the basis of the above, the Auditor presents the following independent •Verifying the performance data collection systems and processes for each function statement of assurance. •Ensuring the financial data in the Report and Kyobo Life Insurance’s audited financial reports correspond Responsibility and Objective •Assessing response process to material issues •Conducting interviews with each functional manager Kyobo Life Insurance is responsible for all information and claims contained in the •Completing on-site due diligence focusing on the head office(Seoul), Korea from Report regarding the establishment of its sustainability management goals, perforApr. 5, 2012 to Apr. 6, 2012 mance management etc. The responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the findings •Evaluating the Report for the extent of adherence to the GRI/BEST Guidelines from its assurance undertaking to the management of Kyobo Life Insurance. The key objective of the assurance is to check whether there are any material bias or errors Limitations present in the Report; assess whether the underlying data collection system is in proper working order; while undertaking in an overall review of the Company’s proFor the purpose of this assurance, among the range of local and global workplaces cess for identifying issues of material importance to sustainability management as that the Company manages, the Auditor chose to carry out an on-site review of the well as the produced results so that the Auditor may deliver recommendations that Company’s Headquarters in Seoul. The review was based on available and disclosed can help improve the quality of future reporting. data for the relevant reporting period and did not include online data. Financial information validated by a third party auditor-related data was not included within the Assurance Type and Scope scope of this assurance. For the purpose of this assurance, the Report was reviewed against the following Assurance Findings reporting criteria. Based on the assurance scope and criteria outlined above, we provide the following 1) AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008)1 conclusions. The Auditor did not find the Report to contain any material misstate2) BEST Reporting Guidelines2 ments or bias. The reported performance data was also found to be adequately 3) GRI G3 Sustainability Management Reporting Guidelines3 derived and reported upon without distortion based on the Company’s underlying system for data collection and reporting. The material findings from the Auditor are included herein, and a detailed account of the results and follow-up recommendaScope of Assurance tions has been submitted to Kyobo Life Insurance. •Compliance with the three core AA1000S (2008) principles of Inclusivity, Materiality, and Responsiveness [Inclusivity] Are procedures for stakeholder strategy-setting and •GRI-checked GRI reporting level/BEST Guideline reporting level engagement adequate at Kyobo Life Insurance? Assurance Type/ Level The Auditor found Kyobo Life Insurance to recognize the importance of stakeholder •Type I/Moderate participation in the development and implementation of a responsible and strategic •A+/Level4 corporate response toward sustainability management. We confirmed that Kyobo Assurance Criteria Life Insurance has been incorporating stakeholder engagement findings in its deci•T he three AA1000AS (2008) principles and IPS Assurance Manual standards IPS sion making process by carrying out stakeholder-specific satisfaction studies and Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria ™ workshops to assess issues of material importance to its respective stakeholder • GRI G3 Sustainability Management Reporting Guidelines groups while reflecting their varying levels of interest. • Relative to last year, the Company has broadened the scope of its communication 1 channels with various stakeholders while engaging sustainability management AA1000AS is an assurance standard for social and sustainable reporting developed by the U.K.-based Institute of Social and Ethical AccountAbility in November 1999 that experts via workshops to reflect their input and findings in Kyobo Life Insurance’s promotes corporate social responsibility, business ethics and responsible business sustainability management policies and initiatives while also providing an account practices, aiming to improve the quality of social and ethical accounting, auditing of the results in this year’s sustainability report. and reporting. The 2008 amended version entered into effect as of 2010. 2 • The Company has expanded its communication channels via its internal and exterBEST Sustainability Management Guidelines: The BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline was jointly developed by the SM Forum, the Ministry of Knowledge nal stakeholders by carrying out internal business update sessions as well as direct Economy (MKE), the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and the Institute meetings between members of management and Kyobo Life financial planners etc., for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) in 2006 and provides for five levels of reporting coverage and depth (Level 1 ~ 5). to help management and staff better understand the current status of Kyobo Life 3 The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Guideline was jointly Insurance’s business. convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) Going forward, the Auditor suggests broadening the scope of its communication and UNEP in 1997. Building on the G3 version which was launched in Oct. 2006, the channels further to better collect and reflect stakeholder views, while also outlining newly revised G3.1 version was released in Mar. 2011 with an expanded emphasis on human rights, gender, and the local community. G4, the fourth version is set to be case studies showing how the collected input was reflected back into the business introduced in 2013. activities of Kyobo Life Insurance as well as the outcome of other various initiatives. 79 FY2011 Sustainability Report Appendix [Materiality] Does the Report contain information of the highest Trend of the Kyobo Life Insurance Sustainability Report Fulfillment material importance to Kyobo Life Insurance’s stakeholders? Reporting Year 2011 2012 It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude any information of Publications 1st 2nd material importance to the stakeholders of Kyobo Life Insurance in their assessment Level Level 4 Level 4 of material issues specific to the Company. We confirmed materiality testing carried Fulfillmen 91.3% 94.2% out based on stakeholder interests and potential corporate impact, with efforts by ※Assurance findings were converted uniformly into fulfillment ratios as measured against the Company to incorporate the results into its sustainability report after sorting Level 1 through 5 requirements. them into different categories based on the ten principles of sustainability manageRecommendations ment. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. Relative to the prior year, the Auditor found Kyobo Life Insurance’s FY2011 Sus•Relative to last year’s report, the Company defined key materiality issues from an tainability Report commendable on the following counts. The Report 1) provides expanded pool of potential issues, reflecting stakeholders’ level of interest intermateriality assessment findings in an easy to understand graph format; 2) reflects nally and externally while enhancing the level of coverage on issues identified to be the Company’s ongoing commitment toward the systematic implementation of susof material interest to stakeholders. tainability management via its sustainability management deliberation committee; •The Report sorts and presents issues of material importance specific to different and 3) reflects continuous efforts by the Company to manage performance indicators stakeholder groups for clear understanding. to track implementation of its ten sustainability management principles which are For future reporting purposes, the Auditor suggests providing year-on-year data combased upon the Company’s sustainability management framework. paring achieved outcomes against established targets for key material issues, while For future reports, the Auditor suggests the following considerations. better managing any issues found to be weak or lacking. •Make continuous efforts to uncover new issues aligned to the characteristics of the insurance industry [Responsiveness] Does the Report provide an adequate response to •Strengthen management of performance-related information to better respond to issues relevant to the environmental dimension stakeholder demands and areas of interest? •Provide year-on-year trend data on material issues and indicate the extent of the It is the Auditor’s view that Kyobo Life Insurance has been working to be proactive Company’s response in collecting stakeholder requests while providing an active response to stakeholder •Provide a full account of contents required by sustainability management guideline interests and concerns. The following points were found to be particularly commendindicators able. Based on the recommendations contained herein as well as the letter of recommen•T he Company provides a time-series account of its commitments to stakeholder dation submitted separately to members of Kyobo Life Insurance management, the groups based on a Disclosure on Management Approach as part of its continued Auditor recommends building a more systematic and improved platform for sustainresponsiveness toward stakeholders. ability management and reporting in the future. •P rovides a progress report on various sustainability management initiatives to show the extent of the Company’s response toward stakeholder requirements and Independence areas of interest. Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was not involved Going forward, the Auditor suggests providing a more detailed account of key rein the preparation of any part of the Report, and has no commercial affiliation with sponses by the Company regarding key material issues after assessing stakeholder Kyobo Life Insurance that might compromise our independence. requirements and issues of interest. Qualifications of the Auditor [GRI Application Levels] Commissioned by Kyobo Life Insurance as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, The Assurance Provider found the Report to apply to GRI G3 Reporting Framework at the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) was established in 1993 and has since the level of A+. developed into a specialized institution with broad expertise in the areas of business C C⁺ B B⁺ A A⁺ Report on: 1.1 Report on all criteria listed for Level C plus: Same as requirement ethics, CSR, and sustainability management since 2002. The Auditor is composed of Output G3 Profile 2.1 – 2.10 1.2 Disclosures 3.1 – 3.8, 3.10 – 3.12 4.1 – 4.4, 4.14 – 4.15 3.9 – 3.13, 4.5 – 4.13, 4.16 – 4.17 for Level B experts in business management, accounting, and environmental science including Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured professors at Korea’s top universities and practitioners with professional accreditaStandard Disclosure Not Required Management Approach Management Approach G3 Management Disclosures for each Indicator Category Disclosures for each Indicator Category tion and extensive experience in sustainability management. Approach Output Disclosures Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 and Performance Indicators, Performance Indicators, Sector Supplement* Indicator G3 Performance including at least one from at least one from each of with due regard to the Indicators & each of: Economic, Social Economic, Environmental, Materiality Principle by either: Sector Supplement Output and Environmental. Human rights, Labor, Sociaety, a) reporting on the Indicator or Performance Product Responsibility. b) explaining the reason for its Indicators omission. [BEST Fulfillment Levels] The Assurance Provider found the Report to fulfill 94.2% of the reporting requireMay 30, 2012 Jae-Eun, Kim ments necessary to qualify for a Level 4 Report (from among Level 1 ~ 5). President, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies 80 FY2011 Sustainability Report Appendix GRI Application Level Check Statement 81 FY2011 Sustainability Report Appendix Index (GRI, ISO26000, BEST) ● Fully ○ Not ◇ Not Applicable ◐ Paritially GRI Index Description Reported Page ISO 26000 BEST 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. ● 2~3 6.2 A_1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ● 2~3 6.2 A_2 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. ● 4 A_3 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. ● 7 A_4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. ● 4~5 6.2 A_5 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. ● 4 A_7 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to 2.5 the sustainability issues covered in the report. ● 4 A_7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. ● 5 A_8 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). ● 4 A_9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. ● 4 A_10 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. ◇ B_8 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. ● 87 CO8 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. ● Cover B_3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). ● Cover B_8 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● Cover B_6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● Cover B_9 3.5 Process for defining report content. ● 15~17 B_4 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further 3.6 guidance. ● Cover B-1 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). ● Cover B-2 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect 3.8 comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. ◇ A_6 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the 3.9 compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI ● 22,36,50,62 Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ 3.10 acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). ◇ 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. ◇ B_5 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. ● 81~84 B_10 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. ● 78~80 7.5.3 B_7 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as 4.1 setting strategy or organizational oversight. ● 10 6.2 GR1 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. ● 10 6.2 GR3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/ 4.3 or non-executive members. ● 10 6.2 GR2 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. ● 37,41 6.2 GR12 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure 4.5 arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). ● 11 6.2 GR7 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. ● 10~11 6.2 GR13 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy 4.7 on economic, environmental, and social topics. ● 10~11 6.2 GR4 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social 4.8 performance and the status of their implementation. ● 6,86 6.2 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and 4.9 social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of ● 11 6.2 GR5 conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to 4.10 economic, environmental, and social performance. ● 10~11 6.2 GR6 82 FY2011 Sustainability Report Appendix Index (GRI, ISO26000, BEST) ● Fully ○ Not ◇ Not Applicable ◐ Paritially GRI Index Description Reported Page ISO 26000 BEST 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. ● 12 6.2 GR11 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 organization subscribes or endorses. ● 81~86 6.2 GR10 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * 4.13 Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; ● 87 6.2 A_11 or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ● 14 6.2 A_7 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ● 12 6.2 C_1 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ● 14,16 6.2 C_2 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ● 17,22,36,50,62 6.2 C_3 Economic Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 50 EC_DMA Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee 6.8/6.8.3/6.8.7 EC1 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital ● 9 /6.8.9 EC1 providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. ● 73 6.5.5 EC2 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. ● 39 6.4.4/6.8 EC3 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ◇ EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of EC5 operation. ● 39 6.4.4/6.8 EM4 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. ○ 6.6.6/6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 EC4 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant EC7 locations of operation. ○ 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 EC4 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit EC8 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. ● 62~63,70 /6.8.4/6.8.5/6.8.6/ EC6 6.8.7/6.8.9 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. ○ /6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5/ EC7 6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 Environmental Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 62 EV_DMA EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. ● 72~73 EV10 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ● 73 EV11 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ● 72~73 EV7 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. ● 72~73 EV8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. ● 73 EV5 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in 6.5/6.5.4 EN6 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. ◇ EV5 EV5 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ● 72 EV25 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. ● 73 EV9 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ◇ EV20 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ● 73 EV18 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN11 biodiversity value outside protected areas. ◇ EV22 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and EV22 EN12 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. ◇ EV26 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. ◇ 6.5/6.5.6 EV27 EV6 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. ○ EV26 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by EN15 operations, by level of extinction risk. ○ EV28 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ● 72~73 EV12 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ◇ 6.5/6.5.5 EV13 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. ● 72~73 EV4 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. ◇ 6.5/6.5.3 EV14 83 FY2011 Sustainability Report Appendix Index (GRI, ISO26000, BEST) ● Fully ○ Not ◇ Not Applicable ◐ Paritially GRI Index Description Reported Page ISO 26000 BEST EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ◇ EV15 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ◇ EV17 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. ● 73 6.5/6.5.3 EV16 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. ◇ EV21 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel EN24 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. ◇ EV29 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected EN25 by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. ◇ 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 EV19 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. ● 72~73 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6/6.7.5 EV23 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. ◇ 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 EV24 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with EN28 environmental laws and regulations. ● No Occurrence 6.5 EV31 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. ◇ 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 EV30 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. ● 70 6.5 EV1 Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach ● 36 EM_DMA2 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. ● 42~43 6.4/6.4.3 EM1 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. ● 42 EM5 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major LA3 operations. ● 39~41 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 EM20 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ● 41 6.4.5/6.3.10 EM12 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in LA5 collective agreements. ● 41 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5 EM13 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees LA6 that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. ● 41 EM14 6.4/6.4.6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by LA7 region. ○ EM19 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/6.8.3/ LA8 their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. ● 27,40~41 6.8.4/6.8.8 EM18 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ● 40~41 6.4/6.4.6 EM15 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. ● 36 6.4/6.4.7 EM27 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees LA11 and assist them in managing career endings. ● 44~47 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 EM28 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. ● 43,46 6.4/6.4.7 EM29 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, LA13 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. ● 10,42~43 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4/6.4.3 EM2 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/ LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. ● 39 6.4.3/6.4.4 EM17 Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach ● 36 EM_DMA1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that HR1 have undergone human rights screening. ○ 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/6.6.6 PN2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/ HR2 taken. ○ 6.4.3/6.6.6 PN3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are HR3 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ● 43 6.3/6.3.5 EM30 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. ● 43 6.3.10/6.4.3 EM7 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/ Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at HR5 significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. ● No Occurrence 6.3.5/6.3.8/6.3.10/ EM8 6.4.3/6.4.5 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/ HR6 the elimination of child labor. ● 43 6.3.5/6.3.7/6.3.10 EM9 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to HR7 contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. ● 43 EM10 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of HR8 human rights that are relevant to operations. ● 76 6.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/6.6.6 EM31 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. ◇ 6.3.8/6.6.7 CO2 84 FY2011 Sustainability Report Appendix Index (GRI, ISO26000, BEST) ● Fully ○ Not ◇ Not Applicable ◐ Paritially GRI Index Description Reported Page ISO 26000 BEST Society Disclosure on Management Approach ● 62 CO_DMA Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5/ SO1 operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. ● 62~63 6.8.7/6.6.7 CO1 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. ● 58 6.6/6.6.3 CO5 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. ● 59 CO5 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ● 59 CO5 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. ● 69 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 CO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by SO6 country. ◇ CO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their SO7 outcomes. ● 74 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 CS3 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws SO8 and regulations. ● 58 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 CO9 Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach ● 22 CS_DMA Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, PR1 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. ● 26~27 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7 CS4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety /6.7.4/6.7.5 PR2 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. ◇ CS11 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and PR3 services subject to such information requirements. ● 29 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/6.7.5 CS5 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and /6.7.6/6.7.9 PR4 service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. ● No Occurrence CS12 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.7.6 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. ● 22~23 /6.7.8/6.7.9 CS9 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, PR6 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. ● 30 CS13 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.6/6.7.9 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. ● 30 CS14 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. ● No Occurrence 6.7/6.7.7 CS15 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and PR9 use of products and services. ● No Occurrence 6.7/6.7.6 CS12 Financial Service Sector Supplement ● Fully ○ Not ◇ Not Applicable ◐ Paritially GRI Index Description Reported Page FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines. ● 6 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. ● 55~57 FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions. ● 55~58 FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines. ● 64,76 FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities. ● 68 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. ● 4~5 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. ● 68~69 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. ● 70 FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures. ● 58 FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues. ● 70 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. ● 70 FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. ○ FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. ● 33 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. ● 33 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. ● 22,29 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. ● 65, 67 85 FY2011 Sustainability Report Appendix UN Global Compact In September 2010, Kyobo Life joined the UNGC (UN Global Compact) and expressed its will to honor ten principles suggested by the UNGC. This sustainability report contains the Company’s activities to practice the ten principles. Principles Major Activities Page 1.Businesses should support and respect the protection of •Professional Ethical Action Guidelines 43 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human Rights •Education of employees on preventing sexual 43 harassment 2. make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 76 •Education of security personnel 28 •Activities to protect customer information 3.Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and •Activities for win-win labor-management 41 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; relationships 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; •Banning forced labor 43 Labour Standards 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and •Banning child labor 43 6.the eliminate discrimination in respect of employment •Abolishing employment and occupation discrimination 43 and occupation. •Fair evaluation 43 •“Supjarami,” experience-based ecological education 7.Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 71 project team environmental challenges; 71 •Eco-friendly Dasomi family volunteer activities. 8.undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment •Efforts to save energy 72 responsibility; and 9.encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally •Environmental investment of SRI 70 friendly technologies. •Kyobo Life and Environment Awards 71 •Business ethics education 76 10.Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, •Reporting violations of core values 76 Anti-Corruption including extortion and bribery. •Clean contract system 75 •Gift-Return Center 76 86 FY2011 Sustainability Report Appendix Kyobo Life’s Code of Professional Ethics The mission of Kyobo Life is to help all people prepare for any hardship they might encounter in their lives. Since Kyobo Life’s foundation in 1958, this mission has been steadfastly pursued; we have been earning customer trust; and this is our priceless and irreplaceable asset. Our vision is to inherit such a tradition, to put first the interest and benefit of honorable customers, to ceaselessly pursue audacious goals for the development of the Company and ourselves in a creative spirit, and to become a company with the highest retention rate in the Korean life insurance industry. To fully achieve this vision in a manner reflective of high ethical awareness and conduct is no doubt the most for all stakeholders, including customers, financial planners, employees, investors, and the government and community, to prosper together and for the Company to progress perpetually. We, employees at Kyobo Life, solemnly pledge that, even if the vision should seem daunting at times, or an opportunity to make an inappropriate profit should arise, we will always abide by social regulations, practice Kyobo Life’s core objectives and values, and create a win-win situation for all stakeholders by achieving the vision. 87 FY2011 Sustainability Report Appendix Awards Related to Sustainability Management 시기 Summary Kyobo Life won the Prize of the Minister of Knowledge Economy at the 6th Sustainability Management Awards of the Ministry of 2011. 11 Knowledge Economy The Korea Standard Association selected Kyobo Life as the frist-ranked company in the life insurance sector in the 2011 Korean 2011. 10 Sustainability Index for two straight years. 2011. 2 The Ministry of Health & Welfare Prize in recognition of promoting welfare for the handicapped (Nonparticipating) Kyobo 100-Year-Old People Variable Pension Plan won the Grand Prize in the financial and service innovation 2010. 9 category of the 2010 Korea Financial Innovation Awards 2010. 5 Chairman Shin took home the 2010 Korean Entrepreneur Prize 2010. 5 Chairman Shin Chang-Jae received the 19th Mont Blanc Cultural Art Supporter Award 2010. 3 Fortune Korea Magazine selected Kyobo Life as the Number-One Life Insurer in Korea among its 50 Most Respected Korean Firms. 2009. 11 The IRC picked Kyobo Life as the finest life insurer in Asia in 2009. 2009. 11 Kyobo Life received an “S grade” of “Family-Friendly Management” from the Ministry of Social Welfare Association Memberships for Sustainability Management Year of Obtaining Name Major Activities Membership Exchange information to promotes healthy insurance culture and support rational insurance policy Korea Life Insurance Association 1958 formation Korean Insurance Academic Society Researches insurance-related theories, laws and practices 1964 Introduces various insurance systems, holds seminars and exchange information with the International The Institute of Actuaries of Korea 1978 Actuarial Association LOMA Publishes reliable insurance industry data for public sharing 1978 Korea Insurance Development Institute Offers information on fair and rational insurance premium calculation and research on insurance 1990 Financial Information Protection Helps develop financial information safety-related policies and standards 2002 BEST Forum Promotes ethical management and researches on sustainability management 2005 Financial Security Agency Conducts various activities aimed at preventing and countering hacking 2006 Korea Fair Competition Federation Promotes the understanding and practices of fair trade 2006 Korea Risk Management Society Offers information on risk recognition, researching of risk-related losses, and business ties 2006 UN Global Compact Korea Promote the exchange of information about corporate social responsibility 2010 88 FY2011 Sustainability Report Appendix Financial Highlights A balance sheet(Financial Position) (Unit : 100 million) Separation FY2011 FY2010 April.1.2010 Assets 623,608 580,477 543,933 Cash and Deposits 9,557 9,965 12,790 Financial Assets 295,269 254,925 237,261 Loans 141,311 128,878 120,077 Other Assets 58,879 71,502 65,283 Separate Account Assets 118,591 115,207 108,522 Liabilities 572,223 533,748 503,831 Policy Reserve 430,984 396,381 367,748 Other Liabilities 21,134 20,555 25,802 Separate Account Liabilities 120,104 116,811 110,280 Equity 51,385 46,729 40,102 Capital stock 1,025 1,025 1,025 Capital surplus. etc 4,229 4,229 4,229 Accumulated other comprehensive income 8,310 8,849 7,882 Retained earnings 37,821 32,626 26,966 Liabilities and Equity 623,608 580,477 543,933 Income Statement(Separate Statements of Comprehensive Income) (Unit : 100 million) Separation FY2011 FY2010 Change Operating Revenues 106,200 109,140 -2,940 Premium income 68,153 68,784 -631 Investment income. etc 38,047 40,356 -2,309 Operating Expenses 99,408 102,257 -2,849 Provision for policy reserves 34,541 28,254 6,287 Claims paid 57,728 62,349 -4,621 Other Expenses 7,139 11,654 -4,515 Operating Income 6,792 6,883 -91 Net gain on investments in associates and 365 1,243 -878 subsidiaries Income before Income Tax 7,157 8,126 -969 Income tax expense 1,702 2,057 -355 Net income 5,455 6,069 -614 Inquiries This Report was published in English and Korean. More detailed information regarding the contents of this Report is available at the IR section of the Company’s website (www.kyobo.co.kr). For more information, please contact. Sustainability Management Support Team, Kyobo Life InsuranceCo,.Ltd. 1, Jongno-1Ga, Jongno-Gu, Seoul, Korea, Zip Code: 110-714 Tel: 82-2-721-2530~4 Fax: 82-2-721-3172 e-mail: CSR@kyobo.com This report is printed on paper certified as sustainable by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSCTM) using soy ink. *FSCTM: The mark is awarded to products made of wood produced through responsible forestry. Kyobo Life Insurance Co,.Ltd 1, Jongno-1Ga, Jongno-Gu, Seoul 110-714 Korea Tel : 82-1588-1001 www.kyobo.co.kr
