Communication on Progress of Foncière des Régions 2012 2012 Communication on Progress Paris, July 12, 2012 Foncière des Régions renewed commitment to the 10 Principles of the Global Compact By adhering to the United Nations Global Compact on October 19, 2011, we had confirmed our willingness to promote, within the company, with our customers and with our suppliers, the 10 principles relating to the protection of the environment, the fight against corruption, respect for Human Rights and the improvement of working conditions. For several years, our Sustainable Development policy has occupied a central position in the company’s strategy. It is structured around 4 main pillars: Green Building, Social, Societal and Governance. Our adherence to the Global Compact has allowed us to enter a new phase and to provide ourselves with fresh perspectives by stimulating, within our sphere of influence, dialogue and initiatives to promote the Charter. Our Communication on Progress (COP) demonstrates our concrete actions that are contributing to an approach of continuous development in all aspects of CSR. As Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of Foncière des Régions, it is with a strengthened ambition that I renew, in this year of RIO+20, our commitment to respect the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Christophe Kullmann Chief Executive Officer 2 Principles of the Global Main Actions 2011 Results Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Foncière des Régions operates in France (with interests in Italy and Germany), a country that adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. Due to the nature of its businesses, Foncière des Régions has not identified any risks of non-respect with Human Rights, but has decided to adopt a preventive approach with its suppliers. Businesses are encouraged Respect for fundamental Human Rights to: Foncière des Régions undertakes to apply the laws, Principle 1 conventions and regulations in force in the countries in Support and respect the which it operates by adhering to the principles of the protection of internationally Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the proclaimed Human Rights in International Labour Organisation (ILO). their sphere of influence. Principle 2 A policy in support of suppliers 2011 results: Make sure that they are not Foncière des Régions ensures that it shall not become 5.2% complicit in Human Rights complicit in Human Rights violations. of suppliers, abuses. A responsible purchasing policy has been initiated since representing 80% of 2010 and it was in 2011 that the tools were finalised. spending, were The suppliers are thus encouraged to engage with Foncière audited on CSR des Régions by signing its Responsible Purchasing criteria (including Human Rights). Charter, to which are appended the 10 principles of the Global Compact and the fundamental conventions of the (GRI: HR2) International Labour Organisation This approach reflects the willingness of Foncière des Régions to increase the influence of the Global Compact. 3 Principles of the Global Main Actions 2011 Results Compact LABOUR LAW Foncière des Régions operates in France (with interests in Germany and Italy). Labour codes are guarantors of respect for workers and these States have ratified the International Conventions including n° 87 on freedom of association and the protection of the right to organise and n° 98 on the right to organise and collective bargaining. Principle 3 Social dialogue 2011 results: In 2011 the social dialogue was fast-paced and intense, Signing of an Businesses should uphold the involving all of the staff representatives. For example, a agreement on freedom of association and the working group with various elected officials (staff Professional Equality effective recognition of the and Diversity. delegates, trade union delegates, the Health, Safety and right to collective bargaining. Working Conditions Committee (HSWCC)) was created 100% of our by the Human Resources Department to identify and employees are anticipate action plans concerning harassment and covered by a violence at work. collective agreement (GRI: LA4) Principle 4 2011 results: With regard to these principles, Foncière des Régions The Responsible The elimination of all forms of considers that it has no direct or indirect risk, since its suppliers are subject to French law. Purchasing Charter forced or compulsory labour. was signed by 70% of our key suppliers1 Principle 5 These principles are also included in the company’s responsible purchasing policy. The effective abolition of child The key suppliers agree to comply with the 8 fundamental labour conventions of the ILO. Diversity and equal opportunities Foncière des Régions Principle 6  A ‘Professional Equality and Diversity’ agreement was favours the inclusion of The elimination of signed with the social partners on December 2011 and it young people; in 2011 discrimination in respect of covers 3 themes proposed by the law: recruitment, 17 apprenticeship employment and occupation remuneration and reconciling work life and personal life. From these 3 themes, various ambitious and innovative contracts were signed. commitments with concrete and measurable action plans stand out. An equality commission was formed to monitor this agreement and analyse the results of its Training in antiimplementation. discrimination  Acceptance of persons with disabilities into the world of practices for all HR business. staff and staff  The Group has been a signatory to the Diversity Charter representatives. since 2010 and carries out an annual review. 0 incident of  Senior agreement to promote recruitment and support at discrimination (GRI: the end of an employee’s career. HR4) 1 The key suppliers are those representing 80% of the total purchase amount. 4 Principles of the Global Main Actions 2011 Results Compact ENVIRONMENT Considering its business lines (building development, holding and valuation of assets), Foncière des Régions has placed the control and reduction of its environmental impact at the heart of its business strategy. This strategy is part of an action plan for the pool of properties it manages and for its own facilities. The eco-performance criteria of buildings and sustainable building are present at each stage of the development of our operations. Foncière des Régions’ environmental policy is structured around 2 main objectives: Sustainable Building: hold 50% of green buildings by the end of 2015. Eco-performance: reduce energy consumption by 25% by the end of 2015. Businesses should: Control the health and environmental risks of all 2011 results: our assets No fine for nonPrinciple 7  Monitoring and management of all environmental risks compliance with the Support a precautionary (especially asbestos, soil contamination, facilities classified laws and regulations approach to environmental for the protection of the environment, floods, etc.) concerning the challenges  Impact study prior to any project environment (GRI: EN28)  Participation in research and development studies on air quality in offices  Interactive management of asbestos risk Measure and reduce the environmental footprint of 2011 results: Principle 8 the property pool (energy, CO2, waste, water) Undertake initiatives to  Signing of environmental leases with our tenants and +200 green leases promote greater implementation of a regular SD Committee with the tenants. signed environmental responsibility  Completion of energy mapping of our properties pool (2 new portfolios examined in 2011).  Voluntary construction work policy 15 to 20% of the work budgets for the  Responsible Purchasing Policy existing pool are Reduce the footprint of our operations devoted to more  Creation of the first balance sheet for greenhouse gases in efficient equipment 2011 (relating to 2010 consumption). and materials.  Selective collection of paper and cardboard  Reduction of consumption in our organisation thanks to: Repairs to the boiler room and air conditioning at the head office at 30 Avenue Kléber, Paris; Presence of automatic lighting, replacement of light bulbs Assessment of greenhouse gas with LEDs, etc. emissions :  Employee awareness: each month, campaign on an ecofriendly practice, information meetings with an expert (Green 2.75 teqCO2 on Meetings), etc. average per employee 5 Principle 9 Involvement in R&D studies 2011 results: Encourage the development  Completion of energy mapping of the pool with the 100% of ‘green’ and diffusion of Centre Technique et Scientifique du Bâtiment development environmentally-friendly  Life-cycle assessment of buildings in development. technologies. Consideration of environmental impacts at all stages: 20.2% of ‘green’ from the production of materials to decommissioning. buildings  Feasibility study for the deployment of a metrology (certified/approved) tool which will enable energy and water consumption on 12.31.2011. to be monitored and reported. Principles of the Global Main Actions 2011 Results Compact FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Foncière des Régions undertakes to fight against all forms of corruption. Principle 10 Foncière des Régions’ Ethics Charter No incidents of corruption (GRI: Businesses should work Implemented in 2011, the Charter is for all employees. The SO4) against corruption in all its fundamental principles of this Charter include in particular: forms, including extortion compliance with laws and regulations and bribery. compliance with rules concerning insider dealing An ethics charter prevention of conflicts of interest communicated to all employees online fight against money laundering, the financing of terrorism and tax evasion on the FDR website. fight against corruption Risk Management The risks of fraud, corruption, money laundering and the Anti-money financing of terrorism are governed by adequate procedures laundering distributed to all employees. They are the subject of procedure regular audits by the Audit and Internal Control implemented department. 6
