Maersk Line Sustainability Progress Report 2010 Contents Sustainability Progress Report 2010 3 Contents Introduction Climate & environment About Maersk Line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Taking environmental leadership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Company performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 2010 environmental performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 About the Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Our challenges and risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 A Word from the CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Our people A world in transition Employee engagement and mobilisation . . . . . . . . . 50 A world in transition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Health, Safety and Security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 Our global reach and impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 2010 health & safety performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 Energy-efficient but room for improvement . . . . . . . 16 Stakeholder engagement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Customer attitudes on sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Social responsibility A new strategy for leadership in sustainability . . . . 29 A note to our customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Our Corporate Responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 2010 Corporate Responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 Donations by Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70 Roadmap for a more sustainable Maersk Line . . . . . 72 Triple-E Looking to UN Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73 New groundbreaking product in the pipeline . . . . . . 34 maersk LINE Kapitel Sustainability Progress Report 2010 4 Maersk Line is consistently recognised for leadership in providing reliable and responsible transport solutions. maersk LINE About Maersk Line Sustainability Progress Report 2010 5 About Maersk Line Kowloon Gudrun Blue whale Triple-E Emma Batam Maersk Line is one of the world’s and responsible transport solutions. approximately 3.3% of CO2 leading container shipping We use innovation such as ‘slow emissions worldwide. There is companies, serving customers steaming’ to set new records in clearly room for improvement. all around the globe. We employ on-time delivery and fuel efficiency. around 20,600 office staff We are also working to make the We work to reduce Maersk Line’s and 5,600 seafarers. Our fleet container shipping industry more impact significantly, improving and comprises more than 500 container transparent and far easier to do innovating our way towards lower ships corresponding to more than business with. Our goal is to ensure CO2 emissions, cleaner water and 1,900,000 TEU annually, ensuring that transporting goods is as easy air, and more responsible lifecycle cost-efficient, reliable sea-based as ordering a book online. management of our vessels. container transport worldwide. Energy efficient transport We will use our position, leadership Maersk Line is a division of the A.P. Apart from being safe, reliable ambition and the support of our Moller Maersk Group, which has and affordable, container shipping customers and suppliers to make more than 108,000 employees and is by far the world’s most energy container shipping much more operations in over 130 countries. efficient means of transporting energy efficient, now and in the goods over long distances. That future. Redefining leadership said, the world’s fleet of container Maersk Line is consistently recognised vessels is also a large source of for our leadership in providing reliable greenhouse gases, contributing 1 [incl. chartered] (*Twenty-foot equivalent unit) maersk LINE Company performance Sustainability Progress Report 2010 6 container business* incl. maersk line and safmarine Social performance * Container business Our employees includes Maersk 2007 2008 2009 2010 Line, Safmarine, Number of full time employees (FTE) 36,454 a 33,575 a 29,877 29,330 MCC Transport and Gender (female representation) % – – 35 37 other container Employee engagement % 66b 63b 66b 71 related activities. Performance appraisals % – – 51 73 c – = Not available Safety a Including FTEs Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) frequency – 1.09 1.14 0.83 from Maersk ConFatalities number 0 5 0 1 tainer Industry. b Only Maersk Line data included. c Excludes seafarers. Environmental performance d In 2007 only Energy consumption Maersk Line ships reported environ2007d 2008 2009 2010 mental data. Fuel oil 1,000 tonnes 12,288 11,582 10,392 9,792 e Waste total is Diesel 1,000 tonnes – 105 173 119 the sum of the Natural gas 1,000 tonnes – 0 296 257 waste reported to Electricity 1,000 MWh – 110 154 202 be recycled and sent to landfill Energy consumption GJ – – 436,369,714 408,849,970 and incineration. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Reported waste GHG emissions 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 38,553 36,384 34,235 32,112 figures for ships Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1 GHG Protocol) have been estimated based on CO2 1,000 tonnes 38,266 36,139 33,732 31,588 type of waste and CH4 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 68 53 259 257 discharged port. N2O 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 219 153 163 153 f Figure reflects HFC 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq n/a n/a 0 0 total revenue for PFC 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq n/a n/a 0 0 container business SF6 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq n/a n/a 0 0 which in 2008 included ­Maersk Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2 GHG Protocol) Line, Safmarine, CO2 1,000 tonnes – 39 81 114 Container Inland CH4 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq – – 0 0 Services and N2O 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq – – 0 0 Maersk Container Other air emissions Industry. g Revenue restated SOx 1,000 tonnes 583 602 425 397 due to change in NOx 1,000 tonnes 958 859 847 793 reporting activities. VOCs 1,000 tonnes 0 15 16 14 Particulate matters 1,000 tonnes 41 28 78 74 Other resource consumption Steel consumption 1,000 tonnes – – 0 0 Waste total e 1,000 tonnes – – 248 287 – recycled (composting, reused, recycled) 1,000 tonnes – – 108 169 – solid (landfill, on-site storage, incineration) 1,000 tonnes – – 140 117 – hazardous (controlled deposit) 1,000 tonnes – – 0 1 Water consumption 1,000 m3 – – 288 329 – surface water 1,000 m3 – – 16 22 – ground water 1,000 m3 – – 60 64 – rain water 1,000 m3 – – 0 0 – municipal water supplies/water utilities 1,000 m3 – – 212 243 Spills m3 – – 3 2 Economic performance 2007 2008 2009 2010 Revenue USD million – 26,846 f 18,288g 24,022 Electricity cost USD million – – 26 31 maersk LINE About Maersk Line sustainability Progress report 2010 7 About the report This report is the first sustainability manner . In this way, the report is a • P . 36-47 discuss our progress progress report from maersk Line . It means for us to drive change within and challenges in the elaborates on the performance and a number of industry-specific areas, environmental area topics discussed in the maersk Line and to rally support for goals we share • P . 48-59 discuss our progress section of the a .P . moller maersk with many stakeholders . and challenges related to our sustainability report 2010 . people, such as their health, some sections are opinionated, aiming safety and security Our main goal with this report is to to create more dialogue, debate and • P . 60-73 conclude the report by increase transparency and engage action – basically to mobilise some of communicating our corporate our stakeholders in our sustainability our key stakeholders . responsibility as a container “Our first sustainability progress report highlights an important development: Sustainability is becoming more measurable and quantifiable. We are setting the Soren Stig Nielsen Head of sustainability, maersk Line stage for benchmarking.” journey . The report discusses the The progress report has the following transportation company and progress we made in 2010, the structure: restate our social commitments challenges we encountered, and some of the dilemmas we face in • P . 12-27 discuss our role and Feedback and response general as we integrate sustainability impact in a changing world, issues We are eager to hear the opinions of into our business . within shipping, and our approach all our stakeholders . Your feedback to stakeholder engagement is most welcome and can be shared The report hopefully addresses our • P . 29-33 give information about via our website maerskline .com or by stakeholders in a very direct and open our strategy and promises email to soren .nielsen@maersk .com . maersk LINe A word from the CEO Sustainability Progress Report 2010 8 A word from the CEO Dear Stakeholders, emissions. That places a heavy For Maersk Line, sustainability is responsibility on our shoulders, a business approach that strives I am pleased to present you with and it is a responsibility we take to achieve the best possible Maersk Line’s first Sustainability seriously. At Maersk Line, we have a outcome for our business, the Progress Report. The report aims unique opportunity to take the lead people whose lives we touch, to engage you in a dialogue about in the shipping industry. and the natural environment the global challenges facing us we depend on. We believe our today, the measures we are taking Successful turnaround business interests are inseparable to address them, and our obligation We are releasing this report from sustainable development, to keep improving our social and following a historic year for Maersk and that measuring, managing environmental performance. Line – a year when we delivered an and reporting on our progress extraordinary return to profitability. and challenges help us promote One of the biggest challenges we Although the container transport organisational accountability, face in the world today is a growing market rebounded, and freight improve our company’s performance population, and the impact that rates returned to a reasonable level, and create tangible value for our is going to have on our planet. the real factor behind our success business, customers and key International trade will continue to is the progress we have made on stakeholders. grow which is needed for the health accelerating the transformation of of the global economy. We believe our company. Maersk Line is today As part of the A.P. Moller Maersk in the growth of the container more agile and more responsive to Group, we are a signatory to the UN shipping industry, and in the growth customer needs – and much better Global Compact and a participant in of our company. But we must grow prepared to face the challenges of Global Compact LEAD. This commits responsibly and continue to improve the future. us to reporting on the progress our environmental performance. we make on the ten universallyIt is not only a top priority for us, After this turnaround there accepted principles in the areas of but also for our customers who has perhaps never been a human rights, labour standards, the depend on us in their supply chain, better moment to emphasise environment, and anti-corruption. and for a growing number of the importance of sustainable It gives us support to achieve consumers who increasingly base development. With our 2010–2015 higher levels of performance, their purchasing decisions on this Sustainability Strategy in place, and provides us with a valuable type of information. we are now working to integrate opportunity to support a worldwide sustainability into our corporate drive to address the social and Today, shipping still accounts for mindset, daily operation and overall environmental challenges facing a large share of the world’s total decision making. the world today. maersk LINE “After an extraordinary return to profit in 2010 there has perhaps never been a better moment to emphasise the importance of growth and sustainable development” Eivind Kolding CEO, Maersk Line A world in transition Sustainability Progress Report 2010 12 A world in transition The shipping industry is entering new waters. In our strategy for the future we must consider mega-trends such as hyper-transparency, regulated carbon and resource constraints, rise of rights and local governance, and socio-economic and demographic shifts. maersk LINE A world in transition Sustainability Progress Report 2010 13 Maersk Line is part of a world in regulation will follow, as the risks we The areas where we feel we can transition. By 2050, the global face affect people around the world make a positive difference include population is projected to reach 9 and will need to be dealt with by the the impact of our industry on climate billion2. An increase of production international community as a whole. change; the rights and working and wealth in developing countries conditions of the people within our has produced a growing middle class, Maersk Line’s business is to ensure supply chains; the practices and accompanied by a growing demand the mobility of goods. In today’s norms of countries and partners for goods, resources and energy. world and imaginable future we do business with. Broad societal These demographic changes are also scenarios, we play an important role problems, such as corruption, leading to shifts in trade patterns. in facilitating trade between the are central issues that we need world’s populations and economies. to address actively. Along with these shifting socioTrade has historically created economic patterns, new and development and economic growth. Part of company strategy more diffuse risks are emerging. It will continue to do so, but given Our main challenge today is to more Supranational actors and the sophistication of globalisation strategically, structurally and formally “In our strategy we consider mega-trends such as hypertransparency, resource constraints and socio-economic shifts.” organisations present threats such today, both the positive and the integrate broader societal concerns as terrorism and piracy, which in negative impacts of world trade are into our business agenda. Our first return demand more international now more real and complex. step in this direction was taken last collaboration. year, as we formed our new vision Engaging in a broader agenda and strategy for sustainability. Climate change is another good Maersk Line is deeply embedded Sustainability is now a more integral example of a global threat with in the world’s infrastructure. We and interlinked part of our overall effects that do not respect national recognise the reach and potential company strategy. Our focus is now borders, and that nations and impact a company like ours has, on implementation to make sure regions cannot solve alone. Beyond and we want to take a greater sustainability is integrated into all of calls for international cooperation, leadership role on a broader agenda our operations, functional areas and these threats will also be met – one that helps solve societal performance management. with demands for control and issues directly or indirectly related transparency. And international to our business. 2 (UN 2008) maersk LINE Our global reach and impact Sustainability Progress Report 2010 14 Our global reach and impact The international container shipping industry has a large economic footprint. The industry transports more than one-third of the value of global trade, and provides more than 4.2 million jobs. Seaborne trade has grown with the world economy, and the largest shipping lines transport more than 3% of the globe’s gross national product3. Suppliers Customers Investors Public sector Consumers Employees Environment maersk LINE Our global reach and impact Sustainability Progress Report 2010 15 Large economic footprint Because shipping routes play a large role in regional growth and the development of today’s supply chains, our company’s economic reach is significant. Our activities generate jobs, wealth and payment of taxes both directly and indirectly, and enable trade and production, helping drive economic growth. Maersk Container Business The impact of our activities on society Our impact is complex and cash outflow 2010 and the environment is however international multifaceted and involve a wide range Challenges arise when assessing of direct and indirect stakeholders. our impact more holistically, either 5% When assessing our impact we look that of the complete vessel lifecycle, at our environmental footprint, the or the impact within the value health, safety, security and labour chain and on society at large. Case 1% conditions of our people, the impact of our operations at sea, and our in point, considering the average lifetime age of our vessels is 25 impact on society as trade enabler. years what’s the impact of ship Assessing the full impact also implies design, construction and recycling on looking at the full spectrum of our local communities near ship yards? business: the complete lifecycle In this sense, our impact is complex of thousands of containers and and international, and assessing our more than 500 vessels from design indirect impact on society beyond to recycling, and the daily vessel that of our environmental footprint 7% operation from port to port. is particularly challenging. 87% We have a clear picture of the impact of the daily vessel operation We’ll be the first to admit that we have a long way to go in on factors such as job creation, understanding the full socioeconomic cash flow to suppliers, the public impact of our business. As a step sector and shareholders; health, forward in this journey, we are now Suppliers safety, security and engagement of in the process of assessing the Employees our people; and our environmental social footprint of ensuring access Investments footprint. We collect data on these to markets for underprivileged Public sector (taxes) activities regularly and can therefore producers or regions. assess and communicate this performance. 3 World Shipping Council, 2009; IMO, 2009 maersk LINE Energy-efficient but room for improvement Sustainability Progress Report 2010 16 Energy-efficient but room for improvement The shipping industry emits approximately 3.3% of CO2 emissions worldwide. The issue of CO2 continues to pose the greatest set of risks and opportunities for global container shipping. Maersk Line emitted 31,6 million shipping is by far the most energytransport. The Emma Maersk, tonnes of CO2 in 2010. This is a efficient way to transport goods one of our E-class vessels, can considerable amount and underlines over long distances. Operating a carry up to 15,500 full 20-foot the potential for improvement. ship does not require much energy containers from port to port. compared to flying an airplane, for The future Triple E class will add Compared to other means of example. And the large capacity of another 16% to this capacity transport, however, container our ships enables efficient cargo (see p. 34). Carbon impact from transport (range) CO2 (in grams) emitted per metric tonne of freight per km of transportation Airplane or Aircraft (air cargo) 500-950 Modern Truck 60-150 Modern Train 30-150 Modern ship (sea freight) 10-40 Minimum emission Maximum emission The Low-Carbon Leaders Project, developed under the umbrella of the UN Global Compact’s Caring for Climate Initiative and in cooperation with WWF. maersk LINE Energy-efficient but room for improvement Sustainability Progress Report 2010 17 A simple comparison highlights the car to a shop produces the same Europe. And when cargo is moved energy efficiency of shipping: Driving amount of CO2 emissions as shipping by ship instead of air, emissions are approximately 1 km in a passenger a pair of shoes from China to Northern usually reduced by 90% or more. Example: One pair of shoes 100 gram CO2 1800 gram CO2 Hong Kong Rotterdam Store Home 18,600 km 20 km 18 times the emissions for 0,1% of the distance made by a small and efficient car Case in point: flowers As an example, the transport of cut The more shipping grows at the flowers could be converted from expense of road transport and air to shipping if flower traders air freight, the more society can would be open to adjusting their reduce CO2 emissions. A recent businesses to somewhat longer report resulting from the Lowdelivery times. Carbon Leaders Project5 has outlined the potential for such Normally, flowers would have to be “modal switches”, and the report transported by air to stay fresh, specifically recommends that but we can now do the same by policymakers broaden their current precisely controlling temperatures narrow focus on reducing “food and other atmospheric conditions in miles” and instead discuss how to our advanced reefer containers. promote modal switches to efficient forms of transport. maersk LINE Energy-efficient but room for improvement Sustainability Progress Report 2010 18 Local production or production that food is produced where it can where it makes most sense? be most efficiently – in terms of From air to sea Some argue that it would be better both CO2 emissions and costs. – the case of seafood for the environment to stop global trade altogether and produce goods The Low Carbon Leaders report5 Modern low-energy temperaturelocally instead. recommends that policymakers controlled containers can transport shift their focus from reducing most types of food by sea that would While this argument sounds transport, to providing services normally be transported by air. reasonable, it can actually be society needs with the lowest counterproductive in addressing possible CO2 emissions. For In 2009 – for the first time in history climate change. As of today, example, society needs food – Maersk Line transported live seafood logistics and transport emissions and will need more if the world’s in cooled containers from the East Coast account for only 5–15% of product population reaches the estimated of the US to Spain using technology lifecycle emissions, so focusing 9 billion by 2050. provided by Aqualife, thereby enabling primarily on these emissions will our customers to reduce their CO2 not be sufficient. In addressing CO2 5 The report ‘Transformative Solution footprint from transportation by Leadership’ and the specific case for ‘Smart emissions, the whole lifecycle of a Goods Transport’ is a result of the Low-Carbon approximately 90% compared to product should be considered, and Leaders Project, which is developed under the the conventional air freight. umbrella of the Caring for Climate Programme shipping can in fact help ensure in corporation with WWF. maersk LINE Energy-efficient but room for improvement Sustainability Progress Report 2010 19 The report argues that since there Energy efficient food producers around the world, is more solar inflow and better refrigerated containers and we see considerable potential conditions for plant growth around as part of the solution for further progress in this area. the Equator, we should increase food Increasing food production around production in these regions, and Equator would create some very With this in mind, we see container then move the food to the point of interesting opportunities for shipping as part of the solution in a consumption in a low-carbon fashion. developing economies to produce world transitioning to a low carbon What matters is therefore not the food for the rest of the planet. With economy. distance travelled by any particular our energy-efficient refrigerated good, but the total CO2 emitted containers, we are already today during production and transport. providing transport services for “What matters is not the distance the food has travelled but the total CO2 emitted from production and transport of the products.” Jacob Sterling Head of Climate & Environment, Maersk Line maersk LINE Stakeholder engagement Sustainability Progress Report 2010 21 Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement plays a critical part in our journey to become more sustainable. To navigate safely towards a more sustainable future, we need the valuable opinions, concerns, insights and constructive feedback our stakeholders provide. Taking an active role in the Stakeholder engagement is very world around us and engaging dynamic, and many of our present The Climate Box stakeholders through a process partnerships have evolved on a of dialogue, mutual commitment project-by-project basis. With and trust has helped us in many greater ease of communication, different ways as we work to information sharing and new meet shared challenges and reach platforms for interaction such as common goals. social media, we see networks evolving naturally between Maersk Building coalitions Line, our employees and stakeholder of shared interests interests groups. Even though not To engage our stakeholders in our In recent years, the importance always strategically founded, these, sustainability work, a special container of the relationships we have with sometimes even individual, networks – the Climate Box – invites people stakeholders has become increasingly can be extremely valuable in driving onboard to discuss climate change and clear to us. We are moving towards a company performance. corporate responsibility. The Climate Box, more network-based understanding built with the help of experts from the of company-stakeholder relations – Working on feedback Copenhagen-based Experimentarium, is with an emphasis on relationships mechanisms constantly on the move. It joins in on the and coalitions based on shared With some stakeholder groups – 2010-2011 VELUX 5 Oceans race which interests. We believe this is such as employees, key clients and promotes sustainability and rewards especially beneficial in the area suppliers – we will engage more skippers for fuel efficiency. of sustainability. closely, proactively and strategically. maersk LINE Stakeholder engagement Sustainability Progress Report 2010 23 We will provide forums or platforms that invite open, transparent as the UN Global Compact and the for their input to our sustainability feedback on our performance – new LEAD initiative. This initiative strategy and performance, but also information that can guide us as supports leading UN Global work together in partnerships to we improve. Compact participants in their improve business aspects of mutual efforts to achieve higher levels interest. With other stakeholders – Stakeholder engagement as of sustainability performance. such as trade unions, academia and part of A.P. Moller Maersk NGOs – we will engage on specific As part of A.P. Moller Maersk, issues. We believe that longMaersk Line benefits from term success lies in establishing participating in important structured feedback mechanisms stakeholder partnerships such Building relationships between people and interest groups Consumers Customers Employees Suppliers Trade Associations Universities Authorities Local Communities Citizens NGOs Media Competitors Investors Environment Maersk Line is part of a complex reality that is dynamic and ever-changing. Relationships between Maersk Line people and interest groups are constantly evolving. Even individual networks can be valuable in driving company performance. maersk LINE Stakeholder engagement Sustainability Progress Report 2010 24 Partnerships that The group’s members include climate change and new weather take sustainability companies such as IKEA, Nike, patterns; oil shortages and carbon Walmart (according to company's taxes; changing markets and to the next level own website), Coca Cola, cargoes; labour standards and skills Nordstrom, Starbucks, Electrolux, shortages; marine governance and A number of key partnerships Johnson & Johnson, John Wiley & piracy; new ship designs and other has helped us drive sustainability Sons, Li & Fung, Polo Ralph Lauren, technological developments. performance and will remain Phillips-Van Heusen and Shell. strategic platforms for continuous Maersk Line has been a member — Look up the forum at improvement. since 2003, and other member www.forumforthefuture.org carriers include APL, CMA-CGM, Cosco, Hapaq-Lloyd, K-Line, HMM, Safmarine, NYK Line, OOCL, Yang Ming and Hamburg Süd. — You can read about CCWG at www.bsr.org Benchmarking CO2 performance with the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) Teaming up with the Carbon War CCWG is a business-to-business Room to improve performance forum where both shipping transparency customers and the vast majority During COP15, Maersk Line teamed of the largest container carriers up with the Carbon War Room are represented. CCWG is hosted (CWR) to make our CO2 emissions by the international sustainability performance more transparent and expert group Business for Social Bringing the industry together enable customers to make business Responsibility (BSR) a very with the Sustainable Shipping choices based on environmental important partner of ours as Initiative performance. we developed our sustainability Maersk Line also works with Forum strategy. for the Future and WWF as part of The Carbon War Room’s new the Sustainable Shipping Initiative, website, which describes the CO2 The objective of the group is “to launched with Maersk Line as performance of each Maersk Linepromote more sustainable product a founding member. It studies owned vessel, is a first step in transportation”. Standardised challenges and opportunities over providing this kind of transparency, methodologies for measuring the next 30 years to ensure robust, and we expect much greater environmental performance are profitable international trade with transparency on environmental proposed, discussed and agreed a strong record of social and performance in the near future. to among the members, enabling environmental responsibility. benchmarking among carriers and — You can find Maersk Line’s 2010 contributing to alignment across The group’s members will explore CO2 performance data for every the container shipping industry. how best to react to trends that vessel at www.shippingefficiency.org will affect the industry, including: and at the back this report. maersk LINE Flying the flags of energy efficiency Europe has had the A-G energy efficiency rating for refrigerators, cars and other goods for quite some time. With Maersk Line joining the Carbon War Room, container vessels have now been added to the list. Customer attitudes on sustainability Sustainability Progress Report 2010 26 Customer attitudes on sustainability As we developed our new sustainability strategy, we decided to place our customers at the centre of our extensive stakeholder engagement activities. This has given us a fairly good idea of how our customers perceive our sustainability efforts and the value they place on these. Last year, our six-month-long strategy process included interviews Sustainability in sourcing decisions with 14 key client executives and a customer perception survey that gathered input from more than 300 customers. According to this feedback, customers identify enviYES, On all the key suppliers 41% ronmental performance as one of Maersk Line’s key future differentiaYES Only on ad-hoc basis 22% tors, supported by behaving responsibly towards our key stakeholders, NO But we are planning to 22% including our employees, suppliers, local communities and society at NO Not at all 15% large. We learned that 41% of Maersk FRom Customer Perception survey 2010 Line’s customers consider sustainability when selecting a supplier, that 22% consider it on an ad-hoc basis, and that an additional 22% This feedback is good news for our basis for our Sustainability Strategy plan on doing so in the near future. company, and helped provide the 2010–2015. maersk LINE Customer attitudes on sustainability Sustainability Progress Report 2010 27 Paul Polman CEO, Unilever “Operating sustainably delivers clear benefits. Already it is fuelling our innovations pipeline, helping to generate cost savings and enabling us to work on joint programmes with our customers and other partners. To realise our vision, we must address our impact right across the value chain. We will need to work closely with our suppliers, consumers and many other stakeholders.” maersk LINE A new strategy for leadership Sustainability Progress Report 2010 29 A new strategy for leadership In 2010, Maersk Line adopted a new five-year sustainability strategy. The new strategy forms one of the three pillars of our company’s broader vision and strategy for becoming the undisputed leader of the container shipping industry. We believe that having an integrated market-focused sustainability strategy will be necessary if we are to achieve our business goals. The process to get there approach to ensure that ownership “Maersk Line will be Our strategy was developed in of the strategy would be distributed partnership with Business for Social throughout our organisation. Maersk known as the industry Responsibility (BSR) and our senior Line’s top management signed off on management and our customers, with the strategy in March 2010 – marking leader based on more than 300 customers providing the start of our journey to integrate our efforts to drive input along the way. We chose the sustainability into all relevant business market and our customers as our processes across the company. superior sustainability starting point, making sure to align our efforts with our value proposition Maersk Line’s performance across and differentiation strategy. We also sustainability vision and global supply chains, conducted internal workshops with promise to stakeholders our senior management and more Our strategy is guided by an benefiting customers, than 60 employees representing overall vision that defines the longemployees and our various business functions and term direction for Maersk Line’s geographical regions. We took this sustainability efforts: society at large” maersk LINE A new strategy for leadership Sustainability Progress Report 2010 30 Maersk Line’s sustainability vision Our three stakeholder promises: 3 entails a clear ambition to become recognised as the undisputed leader 1 within the shipping industry. A leadership position implies that we “ Mobilise our use our size, influence and company values to continue to drive positive “ Become organisation” change throughout the industry. first choice for The vision identifies global supply by integrating sustainability into chains as the “battlefield” for our customers” our core business processes and efforts, as opposed to solely focusing performance management on in-house activities and operations. It also reflects our unique position through demonstrated best-in-class Tangible objectives will within the supply chains of some performance show the way forward of the world’s largest companies We have identified five key strategic – and our potential to jointly drive focus areas for our sustainability 2 positive change both upstream and efforts in the coming 3–5 years: downstream in the transportation • Environment chain. This implies that our efforts  • Health & Safety strive to create value for our • Security customers, our employees and “Raise the bar ” • Corporate Responsibility the society in which we operate. • Business Ethics. In line with our vision, we have across the industry by changing the For each focus area, tangible objecformulated three core promises container shipping industry for good tives and targets will guide our work to our stakeholders. – and for the better on the ground over the next few years. maersk LINE A new strategy for leadership Sustainability Progress Report 2010 31 “With our sustainability strategy in place, we are now mobilising our organisation towards a more sustainable future, one in which our customers choose Maersk Line because we make them more efficient and their global supply chains more sustainable.“ Søren Stig Nielsen, Head of Sustainability, Maersk Line maersk LINE We are convinced we can serve you best as a partner offering sustainable transport solutions for your business Hanne B. Sørensen Chief Commercial Officer, Maersk Line A new strategy for leadership Sustainability Progress Report 2010 33 A note to our customers Dear Maersk Line Customer, In recent years, our customers have helped our industry progress towards more energy-efficient cargo transportation. As an example, we learned last year that 42% of our customers systematically use ‘sustainability’ as a key sourcing criterion, balanced with cost, service and other commercial parameters, when selecting their supplier. It is important for us to give you the data you need to benchmark our environmental performance. As a key client of Maersk Line you can already track your shipment’s CO2 emissions, independently verified, and compare it to the industry average. We will continue to drive transparency in the industry, anticipating that a growing number of consumers will base their purchasing decisions on this type of information. I would like to thank you for a great and considerably more sustainable 2010. We look forward to serving you throughout the rest of 2011 and beyond. Yours sincerely Hanne B. Sørensen Chief Commercial Officer, Maersk Line maersk LINE A new strategy for leadership Sustainability Progress Report 2010 34 Hull design Capacity Engine Waste Heat Recovery system 50% less CO2 per moved container Triple-E: New groundbreaking product in the pipeline In 2013, Maersk Line will launch the first Triple-E class container vessel. Throughout 2010 Maersk Line so far, Emma Maersk). We expect the benefit of our customers, to worked to design and negotiate the delivery of the first ship in 2013, grow our market share and take contract to build 10 of the largest to be used for transport between advantage of the predicted Asia to and most CO2 efficient container Asia and Europe. The vessel order Europe (westbound) growth. ships ever. The capacity of the ship reflects Maersk Line’s ambition to will be 18,000 TEU (more than 16 % continuously develop competitive We believe the new Triple-E greater than the largest ship built and attractive shipping services to product will be groundbreaking. maersk LINE A new strategy for leadership Sustainability Progress Report 2010 35 Energy efficiency The Triple-E is designed and The hull is designed and optimised optimised for lower speeds. The Triple-E for lower speeds. The Triple-E unique hull design, energy-efficient vessel will appear more bulky than engine and system that uses exhaust previous container vessels, such gas to produce extra energy to help as Emma Maersk, which were PS-Class propel the ship, make the Triple-E designed for higher speeds. This unmatched in energy efficiency. allows the Triple-E to hold and transport more containers. Economy of scale The Triple-E breaks the world record in container ship capacity scale by more than 16%, without requiring more engine power. This 111 million pairs of sneakers design takes economy of scale to a new level. 18,000 Environmentally improved 20-foot containers These vessels reduce CO2 emissions by more than 50% per container moved, compared to industry average on the Asia-Europe trade. — Follow the story of Triple-E at www.maerskline.com/triple-e maersk LINE Climate & environment Sustainability Progress Report 2010 36 Climate & environment Sustainability Progress Report 2010 37 Climate & environment Climate change is a real, man-made phenomenon, and even though container shipping is the most energy-efficient means of transporting goods over long distances, our industry’s environmental footprint does contribute to climate change. Climate & environment Sustainability Progress Report 2010 38 Maersk Line target: 25% relative CO2 reduction by 2020 Taking environmental For other challenges, the return Drive towards zero SOx will be indirect or take longer leadership Our second objective is to drive to realise. Nevertheless, all our our own operations as well as efforts to drive environmental the shipping industry as a whole We recognise the risks associated leadership benefit our company’s towards zero SOx emissions with climate change, and we are performance and make a stronger to improve the air quality for dedicated to reducing our carbon case for sustainable growth and communities around ports. While footprint by developing and success. tough regulation is planned, a implementing more sustainable focus on driving the industry solutions. We are part of a global Our environmental ambition will towards zero SOx and advancing problem, but also part of its demand innovation, stakeholder current regulation schemes will solution. Our new sustainability engagement and mobilisation of demonstrate our commitment. strategy will not only significantly employees at all levels. reduce our own environmental Protecting marine impact, it will drive important Low carbon leadership environments change in the industry as a whole. Our first objective is to make Our third objective is to be Maersk Line the global leader in recognised as a responsible The thrust of our sustainability low-carbon shipping. Through a inhabitant of the world’s oceans strategy involves environmental focus on continuous improvements, and a key protector of oceanic leadership. To lead, we need to investments and innovation, we health and the marine environment. deal decisively with the biggest will take costs out of our business This objective has two dimensions: challenges, including fuel model and benefit our bottom to reduce harmful impacts of our consumption, greenhouse gasses, line while reducing our customers’ major business operations at sea; sulphur oxide emissions and waste carbon footprint. At the same time, and to leverage our assets, skills water management. For some we will work with regulators to raise and unique global position to create challenges, we can expect an the bar for the industry and create transparency regarding the state of immediate and directly measurable a level playing field, resulting in the world’s oceans in collaboration return on our investment of time, greater costs for less-sustainable with customers and key research energy and resources. competitors. partners. maersk LINE To lead, we need to deal decisevely with the biggest challenges such as CO2, SOx and waste water management Climate & environment Sustainability Progress Report 2010 40 2010 environmental 2010 progress on our 2015 commitments performance: progress Commitment – 2015 Progress in 2010 and challenges Low carbon leadership CO2 emissions were reduced by 4.6% • 25% reduction in relative CO2 An extensive suite of projects helped emissions from owner and chartered 4,1% improvement in customer satisfaction vessels from 2007 to 2020 score on “Compared to other carriers Maersk us reduce our CO2 emissions in • Preferred carrier for low-carbon Line makes a genuine effort to protect the 2010 by 4.6% and drive down SOx transportation environment” emissions. As these initiatives mature • A level playing field on carbon in the shipping industry At public forums such as Cancun COP 16, in 2011 and beyond, their impact will World Shipping Council, Danish Shipowner’s grow. We will discuss them in more Association and in the media in general, we detail in this chapter including the continued to publicly push the IMO and the challenges we faced in 2010. UN’s Climate Change Convention (UNFCCC) to apply CO2 regulations to the shipping industry CO2 verification to drive Drive to zero Sox We undertook 2 voluntary fuel switches in • Development of technologies, innovation Houston and Hong Kong environmental competition and voluntary action that can reduce In general, Maersk Line would like to SOx beyond regulatory requirements see shipping companies compete more on their environmental Protecting marine environments We continued pushing for better port • Protect oceanic health and marine performance on waste disposal through performance. To push for this, we environment the means of a rating scheme. Our top are trying to make it possible for our 100 ports of call have been rated according customers to benchmark shipping to their efforts to guarantee safe waste disposal lines – not only on traditional issues such as price and transit time, but also on environmental and sociallyresponsible performance. Industry standardisation and verification of CO2 data is a prerequisite in order to enable fair, reliable measurements of CO2 performance and to enable CO2 benchmarking with competition. In 2008, as a member of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG), Maersk Line took part in work to develop a standardised methodology for calculating CO2 emissions from container vessels. In October, 2010, Maersk Line became the first shipping line to receive independent verification of CO2 emissions data vessel by vessel. This now enables us to provide our customers with credible CO2 emissions data. maersk LINE Climate & environment Sustainability Progress Report 2010 41 Transparency and benchmarking Slowing down for fuel expected to result in a significant In 2010, we started including CO2 efficiency and reliability investment programme. emissions in our customers’ monthly A few years ago, we innovated scorecards. Now customers can see a method for container ships at Maersk Maritime Technology the CO2 footprint of their shipments much slower speeds than originally has been working on a structured with Maersk Line, and compare this thought possible without damaging approach to ensuring consistent, to the industry average: their engines. The method is known cost-effective screening of as “slow steaming” and defined relevant retrofitting solutions, as operating a vessel below 60% including available technologies of maximum engine load. Slow and initiatives. Customer Scorecard steaming was implemented across snapshot the Maersk Line fleet, and the learnings were shared with the entire industry. Today, around On time delivery half the global fleet of container vessels are slow steaming. This is good for the environment The case for because the slower the speed, slow steaming the lower the CO2 emissions. Maersk Line introduced slow steaming as part of a cost-savings response to the massive downturn Maersk Line in business in 2008–2009. While Industry average the shipping industry has recovered since then, slow steaming is here to stay. Paradoxically, slow steaming When speed is reduced by 20%, fuel Your CO2 footprint helps us further improve our on-time consumption is reduced by 40% per km. deliveries, as lower average speeds To compensate for the lower average give us the flexibility to speed up if speed, 1–2 extra vessels are added something unforeseen happens and to ensure the same service frequency still arrive on time. Slow steaming (e.g., one port call per week). is now applied strategically to our business model to guarantee Savings: We estimate that over 11/2 the highest reliability and on-time year the introduction of slow steaming delivery within the industry. has reduced the relative CO2 emissions by 7%. Maersk Line Carrier average Retrofitting the fleet Our Technology Retrofit project Reliability: Maersk Line’s score was was initiated in 2010. This project 70.2% on-time performance for the analyses how our vessels can be period October–December 2010 (Q4), retrofitted with new technologies with the closest competitor at 67.7%. An example of how we are putting our to improve fuel efficiency and Maersk Line has ranked highest verified CO2 emissions data to good use is environmental performance. amongst the top 20 shipping lines our new CO2 Scorecard for key customers. This tool makes it possible for shippers to Every vessel and class in our fleet for 11 quarters. track their CO2 emissions with Maersk Line will be screened with selected (Source: Drewry Report 2010). and compare it to the industry average. technologies, and the project is maersk LINE We work to improve the air quality around ports by switching to cleaner fuels at berth Climate & environment Sustainability Progress Report 2010 43 Testing of alternative fuel Cradle-to-cradle methodology will help us eliminate Today, heavy fuel oil (HFO) is The current container design is waste, increase the recycling the main source of energy for made of steel with a number potential of our containers, and powering our ships, and our of coating layers to make the ensure the health and safety of the business is highly dependent container sustain the wear and tear people involved in all the stages in on a secure supply of low-cost of daily use. The mechanical and the life of a container, from when HFO. This makes us sensitive environmental stress calls for some the container is produced, until it to oil market dynamics, and in very special paints, which can cause is broken down and the materials recent years we have experienced environmental and health issues if are made available for reuse in new rising and much more volatile not handled in the proper way when products. HFO prices. All fossil fuels result manufactured and scrapped. in emissions of CO2 when burned, The design of containers has Besides optimising existing and HFO also produces significant remained almost unchanged over containers, we aim to engage in a emissions of SOx and particulate the last 30 years. The time is now process to develop new container matter, which contribute to health right to begin an optimisation designs, taking advantage of new problems. and innovation process to meet stronger and lighter materials in the demand for more sustainable the market. We are truly excited We have tested a first-generation containers. about the prospects of cradle-to‘biofuel’ (based on rapeseed) cradle thinking as applied to making on the container ship Maersk With this in mind, Maersk Line is sustainable containers, and we Kalmar. Sustainable (secondcurrently engaging in a partnership believe this type of innovation will and third-generation) biofuels with the organisation EPEA, keep us at the edge of positive have been identified by Maersk which specialises in cradle-toenvironmental, social and economic Line as a potential fuel for the cradle methodology. Applying this performance. future that can help reduce CO2 and SOx emissions from shipping in the longer term. We are conducting various activities to test and explore this potential. A dilemma for us is to carefully consider what fuels to use as the Applying cradle-to-cradle methodology to container recycling source of energy for powering our Materials for construction ships in the mediumto long-term 1 future. Technologies will be part of the solution, but alternative fuels will probably play a role as well. End of life 6 2 Worksite assembling Different alternatives to HFO – such as liquefied natural gas, maritime gas oil and biofuels – all have different pros and cons in terms of cost, availability, sustainability, infrastructure, engine compatibility, Disassembly 5 3 Operation and so on. And some of these technologies are still at a very 4 early stage, making predictions Maintenance difficult. maersk LINE Climate & environment Sustainability Progress Report 2010 44 Switching to cleaner fuels nautical miles from the port and are quality. Our process is to quantify the A key priority is to engage in reimbursed for all fuel costs. In Hong cost of fuel switching and to assess voluntary fuel switches – switching Kong, we switch at berth at our own the potential benefits for customers, to low sulphur fuel before reaching cost. regulators, and so on. We advocate the port. This is a practice that for a level playing field and do so by significantly reduces SOx emissions We are currently identifying relevant encouraging other shipping lines to in populated coastal areas. In 2010, ports for engaging in more voluntary switch fuel as well, local regulators we initiated voluntary fuel switching fuel switching, especially where there to make fuel switching mandatory, programmes in Houston and Hong is a local interest among customers and ports and authorities to develop Kong. In Houston, we switch 24 and regulators in improving air incentive schemes. SOx cuts Since March 2006 Maersk Line has demonstrated the effectiveness of a fuel switch in over 1,600 port calls on the US and Canadian west coasts. The positive and immediate impact is a 95% reduction of sulphur oxides (SOx), 86% reduction of fine particles and 6% reduction of nitrogen oxides – improving air quality to benefit the coastal population. “We will take leadership in the shipping industry so The International Maritime Organization that low-CO2 and ­low(IMO) has approved an emissions control area within 200 nautical miles of the sulphur transportation coast of North America. Starting August 2012, vessels will be required to use becomes our competitive low-sulphur fuels in this area. By 2020, according to the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) this could help advantage prevent 14,000 premature deaths and save USD 110 billion in medical expenses. Morten Engelstoft Chief Operating Officer, Maersk Line maersk LINE Climate & environment Sustainability Progress Report 2010 45 Depending on supplier on waste handling by means of performance a transparent rating scheme. The discharge of waste from vessels Today our top 100 ports of call are Top port in the ocean has a major impact on the environment. Maersk Line does rated according to their efforts to guarantee safe waste disposal. performers not allow the discharge of waste in on waste handling in 2010 the ocean except for organic waste. The exercise of rating ports on This means Maersk Line vessels waste-handling is in its early stage • ALGECIRAS discharge the waste they carry on and is the first and important step • ANTWERP board in port. towards creating transparency • CHIWAN in this area. The current process • DA CHAN BAY The way waste is handled is a self-assessment filled in by • FELIXSTOWE • FOS SUR MER subsequently is of great importance the waste-handling vendors in • GENOA to our goal of being an environmental the ports, a follow-up check by • GIBRALTAR leader and to protect our reputation. Maersk Line, sometimes on site, • GOTHENBURG The process described in a new and the consequent rating exercise. • KOPER standard operating procedure will We are working on obtaining a • NANSHA • Niteroi support the work being developed more systematic and thorough • PIRAEUS under the sludge and garbage approach to our port ratings and • ROTTERDAM process providing vessels with the subsequent feedback to ports, • SHEKOU guidance regarding the way waste and would welcome opportunities • SYDNEY is handled in the ports. to have our ratings verified by • TAURANGA an independent third party. We • XIAMEN • YANTIAN Rating ports on their waste encourage a partnership approach • ZEEBRUGGE handling performance between port and carrier to lift In 2007, we initiated a project to performance and enable best push for better port performance practices. maersk LINE Climate & environment Sustainability Progress Report 2010 46 Reaching our CO2 reduction goals will to a large extent depend on our ability to reform the way we work together with the owners in daily operation. Besides reaching our environmental goals, Maersk Line would benefit financially from the fuel cost reductions associated with this. Improving the efficiency of chartered vessels helps reduce cost and CO2 significantly. A level playing field to drive industry performance Neither shipping nor aviation is part of the Kyoto Protocol, and the inclusion of shipping in a new global agreement of climate change was on the agenda at COP15 as well as Our challenges towards leadership now makes COP16. We believe that shipping good sense, and will benefit our should be covered by an international and risks customers now and going forward, agreement on climate change. as sustainability further matures in A market-driven approach has the industry. Maersk Line has vigorously boundaries supported the idea that the IMO Having a market-focused Depending on others (International Maritime Organization) sustainability strategy also entails Another challenge is to drive should take the lead in developing a number of challenges. It means performance forward on the supplier CO2 regulations for shipping. that the pace of change is largely side. This end of the supply chain is driven by customer demand. While even further away from consumers, Even though the agreement we can “over perform” compared and may not face the same degree reached at COP16 in Cancun in to customer demands with the goal of customer scrutiny and demand. December 2010 did not mention of creating more demand, we still The challenge is especially great shipping, there is now some depend on the positive feedback of regarding chartered vessels. Maersk renewed hope that the negotiations our clients. Line operates a fleet of around on shipping in the IMO will move 500 container ships, but we only forward at a faster pace. However, the extra investments we own half of them. The difference in make upfront to help us secure an ownership structure derives from We think it is important because environmental leadership position our need to have a flexible fleet, but there is significant potential for are mitigated by cost savings and it is clear there is a difference on improving efficiency in shipping, and efficiency improvement along the fuel efficiency between owned and because – in the absence of global way. And these investments make chartered vessels. CO2 regulations for shipping – the good business sense, especially sector risks being seen as a laggard looking at longer-term trends. The Decisions regarding the even though it has real potential to trends we see in sustainability are implementation of new technology facilitate the development of a lowhere to stay, and we believe they on chartered vessels must be taken carbon economy through transport will grow in importance. Working in partnership with the ship owners. services. maersk LINE Climate & environment Sustainability Progress Report 2010 47 Because of this, we still strongly climate change for shipping that increase the cost of operating a urge the countries participating is equal for all shipping companies shipping line, but as long as the in meetings at the IMO and the regardless of the flag they fly – for agreement is designed to ensure a UN’s Climate Change Convention example, in the form of a carbon level playing field for all, we would (UNFCCC) to overcome the barriers fee on purchases of bunker fuel. welcome it. and forge a global agreement on Such a deal would almost surely 2015 commitments and initiatives Commitment — 2015 2011-2015 key initiatives Low carbon leadership Retrofitting the fleet • 25% reduction in relative CO2 emissions from owned and chartered Develop an investment plan to retrofit the entire fleet with new vessels from 2007 to 2020 innovative technology to reduce CO2 emissions • Preferred carrier for low-carbon transportation • A level playing field on carbon in the shipping industry Fuel efficiency of chartered vessels Engage with charter owners to ensure full alignment between owned and chartered vessels on fuel efficiency Explore alternative fuels Explore 2nd generation biofuel and fuels cells/liquefied natural gas (LNG), to reduce CO2 emissions and secure steady and cost-effective future fuel supply Energy efficient ship design Build ‘next generation’ container ship designs for improved energy efficiency Global carbon regulation Engage in voluntary initiatives to drive progressive global regulation of CO2 emissions from shipping Drive to zero SOx SOx technology and innovation • Development of technologies that can reduce SOx beyond Develop and test scrubber technologies that can clean exhaust gasses regulatory requirements for SOx emissions beyond IMO requirements • Work for cleaner air at ports • Be a visible driving force in reducing health impacts of the Voluntary fuel switches total shipping industry Implement voluntary fuel switch programmes with minimum 10 relevant ports by 2015 Raise the regulatory bar on SOx Build partnerships with customers, ports and other stakeholders to push for strict regulation on sulphur Protecting marine environments Safe waste disposal • Implement energy-efficient, chemical-free ballast water technology Rank our top 100 ports on environmental performance and across 100% of owned vessels by 2015 continuously improve rating process, feedback to ports and partnership • All waste from owned and chartered vessels to be disposed of approach safely in ports by 2015 • Enable marine research into the state of the sea by means of our Marine stewardship assets and global presence Engage in strategic partnerships with research institutions, customers and IT solution providers to enable valuable marine research and ensure high transparency on the state of the world’s oceans maersk LINE Our people Sustainability Progress Report 2010 48 Our people Sustainability Progress Report 2010 49 Our people Achieving our leadership position will be a performance journey that is ultimately driven by our people with sustainability becoming integrated into all aspects of the business. Our people Sustainability Progress Report 2010 50 Employee engagement At Maersk Line, employee Every year we measure employee engagement is very important engagement at Maersk Line. Our and mobilisation not only in terms of integrating Employee Engagement Survey Our people are our most important sustainability, but for our company’s assesses employee attitudes asset, and we depend on them for performance in the broadest sense. and perspectives, as well as the success at all levels. We employ Strongly motivated people do more overall work climate across the 20,600 office staff and 5,600 to provide their customers with organisation. To make Maersk seafarers across our eight excellent service, and are better Line an even better place to work, regions. placed to make the right decisions we depend on our employees to in difficult situations and with regard openly express their views through to the future of our company. the survey, and to get involved in Employees by region North America North Europe North Asia 7% 12% 12% Male 1,015 Male 1,781 Male 915 Female 716 Female 1,457 Female 2,232 West Central Asia 23% Male 4,494 Female 1,556 Africa Latin America 4% 5% Male 723 Female 428 5,634 seafarers* Male 777 Female 512 Mediterranean Asia-Pacific 5% 32% Male 765 Male 6,163 *5,634 seafarers included in the regional numbers and male/female split. Female 605 Female 1,929 maersk LINE Our people Sustainability Progress Report 2010 51 Voice of employees 83% feel Maersk Line is making a genuine effort to protect the environment. subsequent action plans to address to be competitive in the future we are now ready to take the next the issues raised in the survey. (compared to 81% in 2009 and step in 2011 – that of mobilising the external top 25 benchmark of our employees to raise the bar Feedback from employees 71%); and 84% see Maersk Line as on sustainability. Integrating Last year, 96% of our employees a cost-conscious organisation. sustainability into performance globally provided their feedback In addition, 83% agree that the management goes a long way, but on engagement factors such as company is making a genuine mobilisation will also come from work satisfaction. In 2010, efforts effort to protect the environment management articulating and to improve engagement paid off (compared to 77% in 2009), and promoting the path forward, from with an employee engagement 83% answered “yes” when asked awareness, from training and score of 71% (percentage of whether “my company is committed cross-functional cooperation. employees responding in favour to employee safety” (an increase of four selected engagement from 78% in 2009). This feedback indicators), a major improvement reflects the company’s efforts to on the previous year’s 66%. Top strategically drive sustainability quartile engagement in comparable forward and the fact that our Voice of employees 83% industries lies at 76%, so there is employees recognise and appreciate still room for improvement. these efforts. On the issues relating directly to agree Maersk Line is our company strategy, 87% of our 2011 – the year of mobilisation committed to employee safety employees agree that Maersk Line With lots of engaged employees is making the necessary changes involved in sustainability matters, maersk LINE Our people Sustainability Progress Report 2010 52 Health, Safety Safety Excellence at Sea and we believe this investment The most material risks in relation to be imperative in also reducing and Security to our Health & Safety performance employee absence and sickness. continue to be workplace accidents This implies mandatory health We operate on open seas, often and incidents at sea. Our 2010standards, global health checks and in adverse weather conditions. 2015 ‘Safety Excellence at Sea’ campaigns to promote a healthier We are involved in the loading and objective ensures continued work and life style. offloading of heavy containers by focus and investment in reducing heavy machinery. And we face the accidents. The clear aim of this inherent challenges of piracy and objective is to drive towards zero 2010 health & safety other security risks. accidents. performance: progress Because of the nature of our industry, A Healthy Workplace for All and challenges our activities involve some potentially A healthy workplace for employees dangerous working conditions. at sea and land is a prerequisite We continue our drive towards zero Health, safety and security are thus for safe, efficient and long-term accidents at Maersk Line, and good crucial aspects of our company sustainable operations. We seamanship, safety procedures, risk focus, and will always remain a key want to add more weight to the management and experience have priority in our business and strategy. health agenda in our company, taken us a long way. However our maersk LINE Our people Sustainability Progress Report 2010 53 safety performance remains by and working with Total Recordable vessel benchmarking to help reduce large unchanged since 2003. Cases (TRC), which include Medical accidents and improve our safety In 2010, the Lost Time Incident Treatment Cases (MTC), Restricted culture in general. The table below Frequency (LTIF) onboard vessels Work Accidents (RWA), Lost Time shows the reported injuries for each was 1.3 and the corresponding TRCF Accidents (LTA) and First Aid field of activity. It is evident that (Total Recordable Cases Frequency) Cases (FAC). By looking at the mooring/unmooring activities, cargo was at 4.0. Sadly, during 2010 full spectrum of accidents, even operation, crane operations and the Maersk Line experienced a fatality at in our monthly safety reviews, use of power tools are high injury sea. This is of great concern to us. we expect this transparency and and risk areas. Our investigations are still ongoing with the discussions focusing on causes and learnings. With a consistent performance in Injuries by activity in 2010 LTIF over the last few years, our key challenge has been to make those Activity Total LTA RWA FAC MTC further improvements that would Equipment Overhaul – Major 2 1 0 0 1 take our safety performance to the Insulation/Fire Proofing 3 1 1 1 0 next level. Shore leave 3 0 2 1 0 We currently benchmark our Working aloft (at heights) 3 1 0 2 0 Anchor handling 4 1 1 2 0 performance against our yearly Small Craft Operations 4 2 0 2 0 targets and overall drive towards Falling Object 5 2 0 1 2 zero injuries, but we would like to Towing 6 1 1 4 0 have a better understanding of Tank Cleaning 7 2 1 3 1 how our performance measures Equipment Overhaul – Minor 10 0 2 5 3 up against that of comparable Unknown 12 3 2 7 0 industries. A current issue within the General Movement 13 0 3 10 0 shipping industry is that shipping lines do not consistently disclose Bunker transfer operation 14 0 3 11 0 Enclosed space activities 16 2 5 8 1 safety performance. Definitions vary, Gangway/pilot operations 18 3 5 10 0 and we lack industry agreement in Welding/burning 24 3 6 15 0 this area. We welcome the Boston Safety drill, training 27 4 8 15 0 Consulting Group’s Container Benchmarking Initiative, and will Maintenance Minor 31 3 5 19 4 Painting/Blasting 32 2 10 19 1 continue to push for defined Crane Operations 34 7 7 20 0 benchmarking for our industry. Use Of Power Tools 65 10 17 35 3 We also encourage a partnership Mooring/Unmooring 67 18 21 27 1 approach to safety in our industry. In Operation 67 22 45 0 0 safety matters, shipping lines could Off-duty activities 83 13 25 41 4 gain much by learning from each Cargo Operations 94 15 27 52 0 other. Domestic 100 15 31 54 0 Manual Handling 114 25 21 64 4 Other 390 68 123 196 3 Injuries and high-risk activities Maintenance – Major 741 141 251 347 2 We monitor our safety performance carefully. In 2010 we started Totals 1989 365 623 971 30 maersk LINE Our people Sustainability Progress Report 2010 54 Making mooring safer that had occurred when ships were accounted for 25% of all accidents During 2010, we paid special entering or leaving the terminals. The in 2010. To reduce incident numbers attention to the mooring part of our scope of this attention covered all and drive mindset and behaviour operations, as it was identified as owned vessels. Focus areas included change in this area of less-serious one of the biggest risk areas and a overall planning, communication with but very frequent accidents, we potential curtailer of our 2010 safety the bridge, always knowing where implemented a new “Slips, Trips and performance. colleagues operate, and a mindset Falls” programme throughout the focus to avoid complacency and organisation. Crews were trained in Mooring – the operation of securing continuously improve. how to address the common daily a vessel to a fixed quay or berth risks, via simple, practical, efficient by means of mooring lines and/or Minimising human error precautions such as better cleaning cables – is an integral part of our A number of interrelated factors to avoid slippery areas, and proper operations, and can cause serious have been linked to the frequency lightning and warning signs onboard accidents including fatalities when of our accidents, with human error vessels. not performed safely. Mooring being a key issue. The level of requires careful communication and human error linked to injuries has to Our safety campaigns and awareness cooperation between the vessel crew be seen in the light of the complexity programmes are directly connected and onshore mooring team. They need of our operations due to increasingly to our “Safety Ambassador” to know the hazards associated with technical equipment. We currently programme, which covers formal the time, location, prevailing weather face a need for more training of training for our masters. The purpose and tidal conditions at the berth. seafarers, but also of other closely of this integration is to enhance interlinked stakeholders. Crew the understanding and application Our 2010 “Safer Mooring” campaign members injured by slipping, tripping of our safety tools and leadership drew attention to specific accidents or falling onboard, for example, requirements. maersk LINE Our people Sustainability Progress Report 2010 55 Taking safety performance chain. We need a better to the next level understanding of the potential The number of workplace injuries impact our decisions and behaviour has declined for years due to in the office have on working A safer rescue better equipment and safety conditions for our seafarers – policies. However, we now see and on our safety awareness in In 2010, Maersk Line decided to equip 22 safety performance stagnating. general. To accomplish this, we new vessels with the innovative lifeboat We are determined to continue are launching a Safe Transport release mechanism designed by Nadiro strengthening our safety culture to training programme in the first A/S. The system significantly reduces the drive performance to the next level, quarter of 2011 for all office staff probability of accidents when lowering and we strengthened our safety in equipment management, fleet lifeboats into the water by making not organisation towards the end of management, inland operations and only the live evacuations safer, but also 2010. marine operations. the preparatory safety drills. A key concern in 2011 is routine The next level violations. An example is a violation is about behaviour of UK rest hour rules, and a While some injuries are still related subsequent fine handed down to equipment and system failures by a UK court in October 2010. or mal-design, we see the biggest Individual crew members on a potential for improvement in Maersk Line vessel did not get the addressing behaviour. Our ambition rest time required by law. Already is to make safety something people Thankfully, disasters are not a before being fined, Maersk Line had consider in everything they do – common occurrence; however, taking kicked off an analysis of rest hours, something intuitive. To reach the this preventative stance is important which will lead to an informational highest level of maturity, we need ensuring the safety of vessel crews at campaign in 2011. to foster a culture where people sea. Deliveries of the new vessels carrying embrace this way of thinking, and the Nadiro systems are expected to start Routine violations are unacceptable where safe behaviour is part of the during first quarter 2011. to us. In 2011, we will focus sharply cultural norm. on preventing routine violations through corrective training and reiteration of company policies. As an example, we will apply live shipboard audits to measure onboard safety culture. Also under scrutiny are ways to improve leading key performance indicators on safety onboard vessels as well as onshore. “We want to make safety something Expanding safety training and awareness to a larger people consider in everything they do stakeholder group In 2011 specifically, part of our – something intuitive. safety work will involve looking outside our core operations at Sachin Matwankar anyone involved in the transport Head of Marine Standards, Maersk Line maersk LINE Our people Sustainability Progress Report 2010 56 Protecting employees • On 21 October the container ship The main reason for the reduced against pirates Safmarine Zambezi was attacked number of attacks is the effect of a Piracy is a key concern at Maersk by pirates in the Gulf of Aden. naval presence in the Gulf of Aden. Line. In 2010 we experienced two The attack was averted. The total number of piracy attacks attacks on Maersk Line vessels, • On 27 October Maersk Karachi, a has not decreased – in fact, their both averted through the use of the container ship, was attacked by number has increased yet again, the security measures applied by our pirates also in the Gulf of Aden. geographical scope of the risk zone vessel crew. This compared to three Once again, anti-piracy measures is widening. attacks in 2009. averted the attack. Piracy attacks 2010 • Attack • Attempted attacks (MaRisk 2010) Another development is the waters, the South China Sea, kidnap, but not taking the entire increase in numbers of armed the Philippines, Indonesia, and ship. We have strengthened our robberies at sea, occurring South and Central America. These security procedures to adapt to this most commonly in West African involve boarding a ship to rob or development. maersk LINE Our people Sustainability Progress Report 2010 57 Physical threats such as piracy and times. Together, the partnership – have now been implemented in even terrorist attacks, driven by accounts for a quarter of all transits several countries, including the U.S., basic disparities and socio-political through the Gulf of Aden, and the Canada and China. instabilities, are poised to increase members constitute the three largest and will pose increased security container shipping companies in The degree of governmental concerns for our staff and business. the world. Our cooperative work outreach to the industry differs Mitigating risks and engaging with includes exchanging information on from country to country, and customers regarding supply chain safety measures, piracy policies and the effectiveness of these security and contingency planning is procedures, as well as coordinating programmes in heightening supply of critical importance. our efforts to ensure that the fight chain security differs accordingly. against piracy is always on the Advance manifest rules were set Preferred maritime agenda for relevant authorities and for implementation in the EU on security partner stakeholders. January 1st, 2011, but while these Our goal of becoming the preferred rules have been in development for maritime security partner depends Cargo related security several years, they suffer from a more on partnerships than standMaersk Line supports meaningful number of weaknesses. There is a alone initiatives. In 2010 we teamed cargo-related security programmes notable lack of preparedness on the up with two competing shipping developed by governments part of some national governments, companies, CMA CGM and MSC, to in cooperation with industry and sensible security requirements ensure that our anti-piracy measures representatives. Advanced manifest for detailing relationships between follow current best practices at all rules – also known as 24-hour rules cargo owners are also lacking. maersk LINE Our people Sustainability Progress Report 2010 58 We continue to believe that the via the collection of advanced clear shipments should follow the most balanced and practicable information from relevant sources same risk-management approach, way to efficiently manage a large(carrier, shipper, etc), combined and not be broadly applied to all scale endeavour like international with tactical intelligence available to containers as part of a “catch all” containerised trade is via a layered, government authorities. In our view, solution. risk-management approach that any expansion should follow this identifies “high risk” shipments roadmap. The use of technology to 2015 commitments and initiatives Commitment — 2015 2011-2015 key initiatives Safety Excellence at Sea Reduce routine violations • Drive towards zero accidents Corrective training and reiteration of company policies • A year-on-year 15% reduction of Total Recordable Cases (TRC) to prevent routine violations Training of seafarers and office staff New safety training for seafarers and office staff in equipment management, fleet management, inland operations and marine operations Reduce asset damage at sea Develop overview of root causes of accidents to assets (containers and vessels) at sea, and initiate mitigation efforts A healthy workplace for all Mandatory health standards • Reduce employee absence and sickness Roll out new mandatory health standards and conduct local occupational health checks and campaigns Minimise the risk of security incidents Responsiveness and prevention • Enhanced security awareness and responsiveness Improve Maersk Security Programme and Ship Security Planning • Zero piracy attacks, and zero deficiencies in external audits of ship security plans maersk LINE Social responsibility Sustainability Progress Report 2010 60 Social responsibility Sustainability Progress Report 2010 61 Corporate responsibility For Maersk Line, corporate responsibility means preventing the negative and maximising the positive impacts of our business on our employees, communities, the environment in which we operate, and society at large Social responsibility Sustainability Progress Report 2010 63 Our Corporate Responsibility programme leverages what we do well, maximising the positive impacts of our business Our Corporate on people. We want to ensure business in an “ethical and lawful Responsibility that our employees are treated manner”, as outlined in Maersk’s with respect and dignity across Principles of Conduct. This implies For Maersk Line, corporate cultural and individual differences. working against all forms of global responsibility means preventing We are committed to creating a corruption, including bribery and the negative and maximising the working environment free from facilitation payments, embedding positive impacts of our business on discrimination and harassment, ethical principles into our business our employees, communities, the and one in which diversity is practices, and being open and environment in which we operate, encouraged. The investments we honest about our performance and and society at large. undertake to continuously improve positions. workplace standards solidifies our To achieve this, we are working reputation as a socially responsible Responsible supply to improve the way we govern company and an attractive chain practices our business, our culture and workplace. Finally, we aim to promote behaviour, the way we engage with responsible business behaviour stakeholders, and our accountability A good global citizen throughout our supply chain – and transparency. Social We want to contribute to the based on the idea that the closer a responsibility is linked to all aspects communities we operate in. We’re third party is, the greater influence of our business. working to maximise the value we have, and the more we’re of our community and society obliged to promote our social As part of our Sustainability engagement efforts, and to focus and environmental practices. This Strategy, we have defined where on programmes that leverage means setting, communicating and we want to be in 2015, which our core business strengths enforcing sustainability standards standards we want to focus on, and and capabilities to benefit lessfor suppliers, with special attention who to engage. Key stakeholders developed regions – even when a to key supply chain partners that as part of this strategy are our short-term commercial business operate on behalf of Maersk Line, employees and the communities we case is less obvious. such as chartered vessels or jointoperate in. venture partners. Responsible business practices A good place to work Our third objective concerns Our Social Responsibility centres our commitment to conducting maersk LINE Social responsibility Sustainability Progress Report 2010 64 2010 Corporate All these global Maersk corruption training programme for responsibility: progress programmes will be rolled out all employees. in 2011 via policies, training, and challenges supporting systems and reporting In addition to training, we are procedures. promoting more rigorous reporting In 2010, our corporate procedures that will help us achieve responsibility work mainly Preparing employees to fight greater transparency in general. involved business governance, corruption This will ensure we focus on areas compliance and risk management. Corruption is recognised to be where our employees are facing the Most of our efforts in 2010 one of the world’s greatest greatest pressures. were directed at creating global challenges. It is a major hindrance programmes that would address to sustainable development, for Global labour standards areas where we can improve our societies as well as corporations. The newly established “Maersk practices and reduce risks: global Coinciding with the United Nations Global Labour Principles” will help labour principles, anti-corruption Global Compact’s 8th International Maersk Line ensure that every and responsible procurement. Anti-Corruption Day on 9 December employee is treated according to the 2010, we launched our new antisame high standards. The principles maersk LINE Social responsibility Sustainability Progress Report 2010 65 “Corrupt practices represent a high risk to our reputation and are damaging to Peter Rønnest Andersen innovation and basic Chief Financial Officer Maersk Line competitiveness.” (see the Maersk Sustainability to enhance transparency and yards in South Korea and three Report 2010) support our efforts consistency in the standards we yards in China. to provide good and fair labour use for selecting and working conditions, and can also give us a with suppliers. Responsible Both sets of audits provided a competitive edge when seeking to purchasing makes good business chance for us to explore how we attract and retain talent. They are sense, especially in today’s world, can support our key suppliers in guided by internationally recognised where everything is connected. improving their performance on instruments, and underpin Maersk’s Understanding the impact of our sustainability issues and were commitment to the UN Global sourcing decisions matters, and part of a pilot for our Responsible Compact. responsible procurement is an Procurement programme which will opportunity to act as catalysts for be rolled out in 2011. Responsible procurement positive change around us. Social responsibility also means For the South Korean yards it was setting standards within the wider Auditing ship yards in Asia concluded that both have acceptable industry and supply chain. As part of On the back-drop of workplace Health and Safety programmes an overall Maersk initiative, all new safety issues raised by Danish in place, but improvements suppliers and suppliers renewing media in 2010, Maersk decided to in performance were needed. contracts will be invited to join conduct audits of several ship yards Subsequently, a corrective action plan a new responsible procurement used by Maersk in South Korea and has been shared with both yards. programme. Our 2011 objective is China. Further, Maersk Line has encouraged to embed the Maersk Responsible both yards to commit to the UN Procurement programme in our All audits were conducted by a Global Compact. global operations with 50% of recognised third party auditor and our operational spend covered. with representatives from Maersk. In China, the yard audits were The programme is intended The audits were conducted at two performed in December of 2010. maersk LINE Social responsibility Sustainability Progress Report 2010 68 These audits also provided us with Our ships in Maersk Line are an opportunity to develop ideas recycled through Maersk Ship Exploring the for how to work on improvement Recycling at the Changjiang Ship social & economic footprint projects in the future and if an Recycling Yard in Jiangyin near of Indian bananas audit against our future Third Shanghai. The yard covers an area party code of conduct is feasible. of 1,500,000 square meters. The Since 2007, Maersk Line has been We are currently in the process of facility is ISO 14001 and OHSMS involved in establishing a small export of analysing the results and preparing 18001 certified and lives up to bananas out of India. Compared to the suggestions for future activities. stringent international standards global banana trade, much of which is for health and safety and the organised on larger plantations, India’s Good risk management systems and environment. banana production activities are domigeneral management performance nated by small and medium-sized farmare often linked, so improvement In 2010, Maersk Line recycled ers, whom Indian officials believe will be in one area will lead to overall three ships in our ownership in a vital in driving the industry forward. improvements in quality, innovation responsible way. It takes a diversity and learning as well as better health of talents to recycle a ship. In and safety records. Maersk has an addition to hiring local labour, senior opportunity – through our size longmanagers and senior maritime established relationships – to help officers to inspect the ship and improve sustainability performance in monitor the process, the Maersk our supply chain. This is an approach Ship Recycling team supervises which is beneficial both to us and our the recycling process locally and To fully understand the potential for the partners. continuously works to improve our Indian banana trade, we are mapping the recycling programme. current situation, as well as the barriers 3 vessels recycled in 2010 and possibilities for developing a model An estimated 60% to 80% of As part of the A.P. Moller Maersk that, in addition to being competitive on the world’s out-of-service ships Group’s Ship Recycling Policy we price and quality, will be able to improve are dismantled where labour is will only select recycling facilities the livelihoods of India’s banana producinexpensive and regulations are not which have competently trained ing communities. With an annual output enforced. Hazardous methods of management and staff and high of 17 million tonnes, India is the world’s dismantling the ships are socially standards for health and safety and largest producer of bananas, accounting irresponsible and environmentally environment in place. for approximately 26% of global producunsustainable. tion. However, the country’s international Our policy also implies banana exports are negligible. These practices are not accepted encouraging the development by the A.P. Moller Maersk Group of responsible container and In January 2011, a small team of reas stated in a Group Policy on Ship ship recycling facilities. We are searchers from Maersk Line met with Recycling. Our ships are built with also actively participating in the wholesalers, merchant exporters, balife cycle considerations in mind. international legislation process nana farmers, government officials and Thus, when the ships have reached for responsible ship recycling, agricultural experts in India to collect the end of their operating life, our and support the adoption of data and perspectives. The knowledge ambition is to safely recycle them. the Hong Kong International we gather should help us to determine The process of ship recycling offers Convention for the Safe and what it will take to put India on the map an opportunity to reuse significant Environmentally Sound Recycling as a smart choice for sourcing bananas. parts of the ship and its equipment. of Ships. maersk LINE Social responsibility Sustainability Progress Report 2010 69 “Social responsibility creates value by leveraging what we do well and pursuing social issues we understand. This approach will benefit both Helene Regnell Head of Corporate Responsibility our company and society. Maersk Line 2015 commitments and initiatives Commitment — 2015 2011key initiatives A good place to work Global Labour Principles Ensure employees are treated with respect and dignity in all aspects Embed the Maersk global labour principles in our global operations of our global operations and regardless of cultural and individual differences Promote diversity Promote key diversity principles throughout our global organisation A good global citizen Donations by Design Maximise the positive impact of our social investments by leveraging Drive a strategic approach to donations to maximise the impact our core business strengths and capabilities of our future efforts Document our societal footprint and impact, and accelerate our Understanding our social footprint contribution to the UN’s Millennium Development Goals Qualify and quantify the societal impact of our global shipping operations Enabling inclusive trade Explore inclusive trade programmes and partnerships in support of the Millennium Development Goals Responsible business practices Anti-Corruption Work against all forms of global corruption, including bribery and Embed the Maersk Anti-Corruption programme in our global operations facilitation payments (Target: 75% of all employees trained) Ensure adequate levels of governance, transparency and risk The commodities we carry management in our core business operations Identify high-risk commodities to ensure legal compliance and adequate risk management measures Responsible supply chain practices Responsible Procurement Promote responsible business behaviour throughout our supply chain Embed the Maersk Responsible Procurement programme in our global operations (Target: 50% of operational spend covered) maersk LINE Donations by design Sustainability Progress Report 2010 70 Donations by Design – A strategic approach for maximum societal impact Maersk Line has always played an important part in the communities where we do business, not only via our core business activities, but also by way of monetary or in-kind donations to various causes. A recent example is the donation expertise is often a challenge. But We also see a need to establish a of containers worth some USD we also found that public-private more coherent global direction for 500,000 to Advance Aid, a UKpartnerships are hard to establish deciding what causes we should registered charity that produces under these circumstances. engage in, and where we can have 90,000 emergency kits at the biggest impact. companies in Africa and distributes To overcome this challenge, we these throughout Africa for use in joined a partnership with Logistics To address this, the Maersk Line emergencies. Emergency Teams (LET), a unit sustainability project “Donations by under the World Economic Forum, in Design” spent 2010 taking stock In 2010 we got involved in disaster 2010. The collaborative partnership of our company’s current approach relief efforts in Pakistan and Haiti, was tested during the flooding that to donations and outlining a new working with our customers, UN struck Pakistan in the autumn. strategic framework to help guide entities and other Maersk business our future investments. units to put our assets, expertise LET consists of four of the world’s and capability to work for the people leading logistics and transport In 2011, our main focus will be of these countries. companies and supports the to implement the framework into humanitarian community by our business operations, which During the Haiti earthquake we providing access to a global network will include establishing a global realised that our company could play of transport and logistics expertise. donation guideline and governance a key role during a disaster, where As the newest member of LET, structure, while formalising our transport and a lack of logistics Maersk joins UPS, TNT and Agility. commitment to disaster relief. maersk LINE Roadmap for a more sustainable Maersk Line Sustainability Progress Report 2010 72 Roadmap for a more sustainable Maersk Line Roadmap for a more sustainable Maersk Line 2010 2011 2012 2013 Community impact study Diversity programme Enabling Supply chain Vision 2015 Commodity inclusive trade due diligence — Responsible governance advocacy Sustainability ambition Labour standards Cluster security Donations by design audits Corporate Security Responsibility Responsible Anti-corruption partnerships Triple-E procurement Global health Customer security programmes solutions SOx technology Counterfeit policy Marine research Alternative fuels STEP-change Security awareness and science programmes & communication Formalise internal Retrofitting Mistake proofing Security Network the fleet Customer solutions & Security concepts Voluntary fuel Cost analysis of Fuel efficiency switches asset damage standards for Industry chartered vessels Improve Safety standardisation organisation Ballast water of CO2 data treatment plant Slow-steaming policy Safe waste disposal Environment in ports Health & Safety A number of strategic objectives will guide our work on the ground over the next few years. We pledge to continuously report on the progress we make on each objective. A more sustainable future This entails a focus on continuous new and more sustainable practices To achieve our ambition for the improvement in everything we do. and products for our customers. future, strong performance across We will optimise existing practices, all sustainability areas is required. invest in innovation and introduce maersk LINE Looking to UN Global Compact Sustainability Progress Report 2010 73 Looking to UN Global Compact Only shortly after we had launched Maersk Line’s 2010-2015 Sustainability Strategy, the UN Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership came out. The Blueprint could not have been released at a better time for us. By now, thousands of companies Sustainability Leadership to guide around the world have established companies towards higher levels of sustainability commitments and performance. The Blueprint confronts policies. We see sustainability these aspects and is rooted in the everywhere. realities of the coming era. Nobody questions the notion that we We found the Blueprint Corporate should all become more sustainable; Action Plan very helpful in assessing that’s a given when we look around our performance. It helps us reflect us. The biggest dilemmas we on the many important components currently face within the arena of of making this a successful journey. sustainability are determining the scope (do we tackle issues beyond With the commitment of leadership, our control or business context?), performance reviews of A. P. the governance (how to apply it most Moller Maersk, the engagement strategically and effectively?) and with stakeholders and increased the aspects of communication (how transparency and disclosure as and by which parameters should evidenced by this report, we have we communicate our commitment, a solid foundation for advancing progress and challenges?). our performance and becoming a more sustainable company. The UN Global Compact Office has developed a Blueprint for Corporate maersk LINE Kapitel Sustainability Progress Report 2010 76 Maersk Line emissions per vessel IMO number Vessel name Capacity TEU Size Class Main Trade Lane Ownership 2009 CO2 2010 CO2 Relative CO2 emissions emissions emissions (g/TEU/Km) (g/TEU/Km) TEU/Km Improvement to 2009 8904123 Maersk Malacca 4573 3500-5000 Intra-Americas (Caribbean) Own 93,6 55,2 0,41 9168219 Maersk Phuket 2902 2000-3500 Asia--Africa Own 105,3 78,6 0,25 9192478 Nora Maersk 2320 2000-3500 Asia--Africa Own 97,7 74,7 0,24 9189495 Nedlloyd Mercator 5468 5000-8000 Intra-Asia Own 70,1 53,6 0,23 9332688 Maersk Roubaix 1118 <2000 North America--South America (EC/WC) Own 150,2 115,0 0,23 9348651 Maersk Kwangyang 6200 5000-8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 73,0 56,2 0,23 9219795 Carsten Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 66,8 51,8 0,22 9193276 Grasmere Maersk 4658 3500-5000 Asia--Oceania Own 77,7 60,3 0,22 9198587 Cornelius Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 62,0 48,1 0,22 9219800 Chastine Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 63,3 50,1 0,21 9251638 Olivia Maersk 3267 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 96,0 76,0 0,21 9189354 Nedlloyd Hudson 5468 5000-8000 Intra-Asia Own 75,8 60,0 0,21 9189366 Nedlloyd Barentsz 5468 5000-8000 Intra-Asia Own 74,9 59,9 0,20 9333022 Maersk Kinloss 6200 5000-8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 66,8 53,7 0,20 9190731 Laura Maersk 4258 3500-5000 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 79,1 63,9 0,19 9333008 Maersk Kelso 6200 5000-8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 65,1 52,6 0,19 9332999 Maersk Kendal 6200 5000-8000 Asia--North America WC Own 72,1 58,8 0,18 9315252 Maersk Semakau 6478 5000-8000 Asia--North Europe Own 78,8 64,3 0,18 9168207 Maersk Palermo 2902 2000-3500 North Europe--North America EC (incl. Gulf) Own 77,2 63,2 0,18 9245770 Clementine Maersk 8648 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 60,2 49,4 0,18 8904111 Maersk Merlion 4796 3500-5000 Intra-Americas (Caribbean) Own 73,4 60,3 0,18 9214903 Caroline Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 58,9 48,4 0,18 9334686 Maersk Tukang 8112 >8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 65,3 53,7 0,18 9214898 A. P. Moeller 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 62,7 51,5 0,18 9190755 Leda Maersk 4258 3500-5000 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 82,8 68,1 0,18 9320233 Gjertrud Maersk 9074 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 52,4 43,1 0,18 9189342 Nedlloyd Tasman 5468 5000-8000 Intra-Asia Own 77,9 64,1 0,18 9192454 Nicolai Maersk 2320 2000-3500 Asia--Africa Own 90,9 75,2 0,17 9245768 Columbine Maersk 8648 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 57,6 47,7 0,17 9348649 Maersk Kowloon 6200 5000-8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 69,9 57,8 0,17 9215165 Jeppesen Maersk 3003 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 94,9 78,5 0,17 9215189 Johannes Maersk 3003 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 91,0 75,5 0,17 9189500 Nedlloyd Drake 5468 5000-8000 Intra-Asia Own 71,7 59,6 0,17 9192442 Nele Maersk 2320 2000-3500 Asia--Africa Own 99,4 82,7 0,17 9245744 Charlotte Maersk 8194 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 61,6 51,3 0,17 9333010 Maersk Kensington 6200 5000-8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 65,0 54,4 0,16 8819990 Thies Maersk 1367 <2000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 122,5 102,6 0,16 9302891 Gunvor Maersk 9074 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 54,2 45,5 0,16 9064396 Claes Maersk 1734 <2000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 96,3 81,0 0,16 9332975 Maersk Kuantan 6200 5000-8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 72,5 61,0 0,16 8819988 Tove Maersk 1367 <2000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 119,4 100,6 0,16 9332511 Maersk Tanjong 8112 >8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 66,2 55,9 0,15 9302877 Gudrun Maersk 9074 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 54,6 46,2 0,15 9315202 Maersk Sentosa 6478 5000-8000 Asia--North Europe Own 79,5 67,5 0,15 9146479 Sofie Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 63,5 54,0 0,15 9190767 Lexa Maersk 4258 3500-5000 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 76,6 65,1 0,15 9315214 Maersk Serangoon 6478 5000-8000 Asia--North Europe Own 78,4 66,8 0,15 9352016 Maersk Salalah 8379 >8000 Asia--North America WC Own 60,6 51,9 0,14 9168192 Maersk Penang 2890 2000-3500 North Europe--North America EC (incl. Gulf) Own 81,6 70,0 0,14 9260469 Albert Maersk 8272 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 57,0 49,0 0,14 9215177 Jens Maersk 3003 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 99,6 85,5 0,14 9321500 Eleonora Maersk 15550 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 40,9 35,2 0,14 9342528 Maersk Algol 9034 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 61,6 53,0 0,14 9192466 Nicoline Maersk 2320 2000-3500 Asia--Africa Own 81,3 70,0 0,14 9120853 Susan Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 56,6 48,7 0,14 9260421 Anna Maersk 8272 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 58,2 50,2 0,14 9260457 Adrian Maersk 8272 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 59,6 51,5 0,14 9348156 Maersk Inverness 3460 2000-3500 Asia--Africa Own 62,8 54,4 0,13 9260445 Arthur Maersk 8272 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 58,2 50,5 0,13 9394894 Maersk Bratan 3078 2000-3500 North America--Oceania Own 71,2 61,8 0,13 9164237 Alexander Maersk 1068 <2000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 116,8 101,4 0,13 9235555 Maersk Gironde 4544 3500-5000 Asia--Oceania Own 79,0 68,7 0,13 9251626 Oluf Maersk 3267 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 89,5 77,9 0,13 9168221 Maersk Patras 2890 2000-3500 North Europe--North America EC (incl. Gulf) Own 82,4 71,8 0,13 9321536 Elly Maersk 15550 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 37,6 32,9 0,12 9190781 Luna Maersk 4258 3500-5000 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 80,4 70,4 0,12 9321524 Ebba Maersk 15550 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 39,8 34,9 0,12 9245756 Cornelia Maersk 8650 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 59,0 51,8 0,12 9215323 Maersk Kithira 6802 5000-8000 Europe (North & Med)--Middle East/India Own 74,5 65,5 0,12 9251614 Olga Maersk 3267 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 88,1 77,8 0,12 9064401 Cecilie Maersk 1734 <2000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 105,6 93,3 0,12 9164275 Maersk Avon 1068 <2000 Intra-Asia Own 114,7 102,0 0,11 9352042 Maersk Stockholm 8379 >8000 Asia--North America WC Own 57,8 51,4 0,11 9321495 Estelle Maersk 15550 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 39,6 35,3 0,11 9352004 Maersk Stepnica 8379 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 60,4 53,8 0,11 9342504 Maersk Antares 9034 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 55,8 49,8 0,11 maersk LINE Kapitel Sustainability Progress Report 2010 77 9315197 Maersk Seletar 6478 5000-8000 Asia--North Europe Own 75,0 67,0 0,11 9190779 Lica Maersk 4258 3500-5000 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 83,3 74,4 0,11 9294379 Lars Maersk 4258 3500-5000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 87,9 78,6 0,11 9320245 Gerd Maersk 9074 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 54,1 48,4 0,11 9342499 Maersk Altair 9034 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 55,6 49,8 0,10 9352028 Maersk Savannah 8379 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 58,2 52,4 0,10 9190743 Laust Maersk 4258 3500-5000 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 73,5 66,3 0,10 9166778 Svend Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 58,2 52,5 0,10 9166780 Soroe Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 48,4 43,7 0,10 9359038 Mette Maersk 9038 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 50,7 45,9 0,09 9166792 Skagen Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 59,8 54,2 0,09 9321483 Emma Maersk 15550 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 38,9 35,3 0,09 9332676 Maersk Regensburg 1118 <2000 Intra-Asia Own 136,7 124,0 0,09 9315238 Maersk Sebarok 6478 5000-8000 Asia--North Europe Own 71,1 64,6 0,09 9321548 Edith Maersk 15550 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 38,6 35,2 0,09 9175793 Maersk Aberdeen 1068 <2000 Other Own 127,2 116,3 0,09 9146455 Sine Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 61,8 56,5 0,09 9320257 Georg Maersk 9074 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 56,0 51,3 0,08 9198575 Clifford Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 55,1 50,5 0,08 9220897 Nysted Maersk 2320 2000-3500 Asia--Africa Own 88,6 81,5 0,08 9260433 Arnold Maersk 8272 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 55,7 51,3 0,08 9168180 Maersk Pembroke 2902 2000-3500 North Europe--North America EC (incl. Gulf) Own 66,6 61,6 0,07 9334674 Maersk Taurus 8112 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 60,9 56,4 0,07 9315240 Maersk Senang 6478 5000-8000 Asia--North Europe Own 75,6 70,1 0,07 9064267 Thomas Maersk 1597 <2000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 97,4 90,5 0,07 9120865 Sally Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 61,7 57,3 0,07 9175781 Maersk Antwerp 1068 <2000 Other Own 114,1 106,0 0,07 9235567 Maersk Gairloch 4544 3500-5000 Asia--Oceania Own 79,2 73,6 0,07 9321512 Evelyn Maersk 15550 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 38,4 35,8 0,07 9352030 Maersk Salina 8379 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 58,8 54,9 0,07 9321550 Eugen Maersk 15550 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 38,1 35,6 0,07 9162215 Maersk Karachi 6690 5000-8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 67,6 63,2 0,06 9334662 Maersk Taikung 8112 >8000 Asia--North America WC Own 60,7 56,9 0,06 9359052 Mathilde Maersk 9038 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 47,6 44,6 0,06 8819976 Thuroe Maersk 1367 <2000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 96,9 90,9 0,06 9359040 Marit Maersk 9038 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 46,7 43,8 0,06 9146467 Svendborg Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 57,6 54,2 0,06 9215191 Josephine Maersk 3003 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 82,4 77,5 0,06 9260419 Axel Maersk 8272 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 54,0 50,8 0,06 9359002 Margrethe Maersk 9038 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 46,9 44,3 0,06 9332705 Maersk Radford 1118 <2000 Other Own 142,2 134,3 0,06 9332987 Maersk Kushiro 6200 5000-8000 Europe (North & Med)--Middle East/India Own 76,3 72,2 0,05 9235579 Maersk Garonne 4544 3500-5000 Asia--Oceania Own 70,9 67,2 0,05 9215311 Maersk Kampala 6802 5000-8000 Europe (North & Med)--Middle East/India Own 72,7 69,0 0,05 9211494 Maersk Kyrenia 6802 5000-8000 Asia--Mediterranean Own 69,1 65,7 0,05 9064279 Tinglev Maersk 1597 <2000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 95,3 90,8 0,05 9315226 Maersk Sembawang 6478 5000-8000 Asia--North Europe Own 68,3 65,5 0,04 9342516 Maersk Alfirk 9034 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 53,6 51,5 0,04 9359026 Maren Maersk 9038 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 48,2 46,4 0,04 9211482 Maersk Klaipeda 6802 5000-8000 Europe (North & Med)--Middle East/India Own 74,6 72,0 0,03 9153862 Maersk Kalmar 6690 5000-8000 Europe (North & Med)--Middle East/India Own 71,0 68,6 0,03 9153850 Maersk Kiel 6690 5000-8000 Europe (North & Med)--Middle East/India Own 71,9 69,4 0,03 9359014 Marchen Maersk 9038 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 50,4 48,7 0,03 9348170 Maersk Innoshima 3460 2000-3500 Asia--Africa Own 59,0 57,3 0,03 9007817 Maersk Vermont 2023 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Middle East/India Own 87,2 85,3 0,02 9356139 Maersk Norfolk 2474 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 71,7 70,4 0,02 9007831 Maersk Maine 2023 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Middle East/India Own 80,4 79,4 0,01 9356127 Maersk Newport 2478 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 75,0 74,1 0,01 9235543 Maersk Gateshead 4544 3500-5000 Asia--Oceania Own 69,7 69,5 0,00 9175779 Maersk Arun 1068 <2000 Other Own 107,8 108,0 0,00 9220885 Nexoe Maersk 2320 2000-3500 Asia--Africa Own 99,6 99,8 0,00 9355343 Maersk Bulan 3078 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 78,2 78,5 0,00 9162227 Maersk Kimi 6690 5000-8000 Europe (North & Med)--Middle East/India Own 70,1 70,6 -0,01 9302889 Grete Maersk 9074 >8000 Asia--North America EC Own 53,8 54,5 -0,01 8820004 Troense Maersk 1417 <2000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 98,3 99,8 -0,01 9120841 Sovereign Maersk 8160 >8000 Asia--North Europe Own 53,1 53,9 -0,01 9348168 Maersk Izmir 3460 2000-3500 Asia--Africa Own 55,0 55,8 -0,02 9064384 Taasinge Maersk 1839 <2000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 88,1 89,6 -0,02 9164225 Maersk Ahram 1068 <2000 Other Own 165,5 169,3 -0,02 8820016 Clara Maersk 1545 <2000 Europe (North & Med)--Africa Own 84,4 86,6 -0,03 9175808 Maersk Atlantic 1068 <2000 Intra-Asia Own 107,1 110,5 -0,03 9394870 Maersk Bali 3078 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 72,5 74,8 -0,03 9164249 Maersk Arizona 1068 <2000 Intra-Asia Own 115,6 119,5 -0,03 9355331 Maersk Batam 3078 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 71,1 74,2 -0,04 8715869 Marie Maersk 4814 3500-5000 Asia--North America EC Own 78,1 81,6 -0,05 9355288 Maersk Binran 3075 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 69,7 73,7 -0,06 9332690 Maersk Ronneby 1118 <2000 Intra-Asia Own 111,7 118,3 -0,06 9163556 Maersk Erimo 742 <2000 Intra-Americas (Caribbean) Own 102,2 122,7 -0,07 9392925 Maersk Buton 3078 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 72,8 78,6 -0,07 9106481 Nedlloyd de Liefde 1160 <2000 Intra-Americas (Caribbean) Own 102,0 110,1 -0,07 9394882 Maersk Bogor 3075 2000-3500 Europe (North & Med)--Latin America/South America Own 67,2 72,2 -0,07 maersk LINE Colophon We value your feedback If you have any questions, comments or suggestions about this report or our performance, we welcome your feedback. You can send your comments to: Maersk Line Esplanaden 50 1098 Copenhagen K Denmark Attn: Sustainability Email: soren.nielsen@maersk.com Telephone: +45 3363 3363 Print This publication is printed by Frederiksberg Bogtrykkeri A/S Editor Louise Kjaergaard Design and layout e-Types & India Printed in Denmark 2011
