Communication on Progress Year: 2011 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress Statement on continued support Hrvatska poštanska banka Communication on Progress report for 2011 is its fourth consecutive report since the bank accepted to maintain and adjust its operations with UNDP Global Compact principles and to report in a manner similar to many companies worldwide. In the past year, the bank strengthened its internal forces that are the main carrier and generator of projects directing the bank towards responsible and sustainable operations. In order for them to be initiated, economic conditions that support and encourage sustainability in the country would have to strengthen, but also, the bank needs to work on the expansion of these principles in order to secure favorable position in the challenging and competitive environment. Hrvatska poštanska banka holds a special place on Croatian market because its majority owner is the state. This fact encourages the management board to constantly search for new opportunities to win a better market position – through the development of well-tailored and accessible products and services, development of business networks, keeping up with technology and its application in everyday client work. The bank continued to improve its business results and recorded net profit which increased by 73 percent compared to the previous year, but also with improvement of business indicators. In this way, the bank prepared a good basis for further development in all major segments of the operations. We believe that it will continue to bring substantial benefit and realize sustainable development for its owners, clients and employees in years to come. Čedo Maletić, President of the Management Board Hrvatska poštanska banka 2 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress Business environment and business challenges Hrvatska poštanska banka (HPB) realized a good business result in 2011 despite difficult and challenging economic environment. The exhaustive crisis cycle which doesn't abate yet has had a negative impact on standard and overall climate among the citizens but also on performance of the companies and on investments. According to the available data, the actual GDP in Croatia remains at the level of previous year. However, the recovery in 2012 is still uncertain. The IMF experts predict a GDP contraction of 0.8 percent while the expectations of national institutions are even more pessimistic and envisage drop in the range of 1.0 to 2.0 per cent. At the same time the newly, December 2011 elected Government announces ambitious investments in several economy segments, such as infrastructure and energy and they expect GDP to growth by 0.8 percent. The banking system also saw the consequences of the lack of significant spenditure growth and drop of demand for loans as well as the deterioration of general economic conditions. It has become evident through decrease of interest rates which resulted in fewer incomes. Although the banking system remains stable and clients' trust is preserved, it is obvious that the quality of loan portfolio in the banks drops i.e. the non performing loans stake in the balance sheets is increasing. At the end of 2011 the non performing loans stake of the companies (B and C risk categories) almost reach 20 percent. The situation is the worst in the SME segment which has been hit by the crisis really badly. Still, the demand for new loans exists from both, companies and the state while retail sector stagnates despite a good credit offer. Comparing with the average of the banking system in Croatia, Hrvatska poštanska banka recorded better performance indicators and improved its market share, which grew from 3.72 (in 2010) to 4.03 at the end of 2011. Therefore, the gross credit portfolio of the bank increased by 9.3 percent in comparison to the previous year while the deposits grew by 15.2 percent and within it, the retail term deposits grew by 20.6 percent. The mentioned rise of both loans and deposits resulted in net income from interest growth which is in HPB by 24.1 percent higher than in 2010, despite the interest rate dropping trend in the bank and in the market. 3 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress The bank's special position, being the biggest state owned bank as well as the fact that the majority of deposits are held in national currency – kuna, caused the bank’s decision to be the first to offer the market long-term housing loans in kuna in the second half of the year. This move made this kind of loan rising in the bank’s balance sheet by 47.6 percent. This way the bank gave its answer to the market which suffered from strong euro volatility and euro is the currency in which the majority of loan portfolio in Croatia is denominated. Further on, a part of housing loan portfolio of Croatian citizens within the banking system is lined up with Swiss franc which was rising significantly against kuna and euro. Hrvatska poštanska banka is a responsible partner to its clients, to the owner and the community in which it does business. The bank carefully builds trustful relationships with clients and within wider society based on long-term values. The bank's employees are active in various projects and they volunteer in the community. Hrvatska poštanska banka has also been recognized among younger citizens – students and they have for the second year in row award the bank with „Golden Index“, a reward for its investments in the students’ associations and projects. 4 I. HUMAN RIGHTS 1. PRINCIPLE COMPANIES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS WITHIN THEIR FIELD OF THEIR INFLUENCE 2. PRINCIPLE COMPANIES SHOULD MAKE SURE THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHT ABUSE 5 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress Implementation activities During 2011 and with regard to the principles of responsibility related to human rights protection, HPB implemented activities in the field of information safety, education and care for employees. Information safety During 2011 three projects have been launched and successfully completed. Those projects enabled establishing of the process of information safety risk management, monitoring and analysis of operative and system records, business continuity and documentation adjustment management which included GAP analysis of existing documentation of information system. Information safety risk assessment makes the cornerstone of the information system risk management which the bank is obligated to continually implement in order to timely identify and deal with risks in the information system which could threat bank’s business operations. By implementing this process, the bank has closed the circle that encompasses the activities of information safety risk assessment, the implementation of measures for information safety risk reduction to acceptable level and has ensured monitoring and maintaining of the acceptable level of information safety risk level. In order to assure accuracy, currency and completeness of bank’s information system documentation, in accordance with applicable regulations and particularly in accordance with regulations of the Decision on the adequate information system management (Narodne novine No. 62/2011), as well as technical standards, norms and recommendations, rules and good professional practices, the bank has launched the project of review and adjustment of information system documentation. Bank’s adjustment of information system documentation has been implemented through following activities: Review of the existing documentation (GAP analysis) Amendments of the existing documentation New documentation creation HPB has launched a system for collecting, processing, storage and distribution of reports related to the safety status of information systems. Moreover, HPB is regularly monitoring, analyzing and reporting about problems in the bank’s information system. In this way, bank is operating proactively in preventing activities which might threaten functioning of the bank’s information system or cause other damaging financial or reputational event. 6 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress The bank has improved reporting and cooperation with the IT Sector regarding the security issues and changes in the bank’s information system. SV Group has conducted vulnerability testing of the bank’s network (pen tests) and Infigo Ltd has tested PMX Brokerage application. The bank has also developed and improved the control system of equipment and information system’ services, and provided on-line reporting on the availability of resources and bank’s information system situation. The system of notifying, alerting and reporting has been designed and adjusted to the needs of IT and business systems of the bank. Also, HPB has decided to develop and implement continuity management system to adequately manage and respond to unwanted events which cause disruptions in bank operations. The project of establishing a business continuity system was implemented in several phases during the second half of 2011 with following activities: 1. Identification of critical business process, critical parts of IT systems, the interdependence of business process and IT services, the time within which it is necessary to recover critical business processes and critical IT services (RTO) and the allowable loss of business information (RPO) 2. Choosing the adequate business recovery strategy 3. Development and testing of business continuity plans The following documents have been developed: the Politics of business continuity, the Analysis of business, the Strategy of business continuity, the Plans for business continuity for all critical bank’s processes, the Main plan of business continuity, the Crisis communication plan, the IT operations recovery plan and the Damage estimation plan. Furthermore, the continuous risk assessment implementation, ISMS documentation maintaining and improvement of the monitoring system and collection of operative records and control of bank’s information system has been assured. With constant involvement in bank’s projects and by providing safety reviews, information safety is attempting to timely point out and incorporate its requirements into IT infrastructure, as well as in business processes. 7 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress Education and care for employees Professional and educated employees are the source of HPB’s competitive power on the market. HPB is supporting and promoting lifelong learning and is making possible for all employees to acquire necessary knowledge for their work. HPB supports learning and development in the workplace and away from it through professional counseling, workshops, seminars, conferences, graduate studies and specializations, and language and computer courses. In addition, with the help from internal trainers, the bank is continually educating new and existing employees for specific workplaces. During 2011 and due to opening new branches and expanding its business network, HPB continually implemented education of new and existing employees of the Citizens operations sector (for all working places in branch office: cashier, personal banker, shift manager and branch manager) according to the Business plan. The program defined internal trainers from individual organization units which implemented education according to the time plan. During 2011 educations for sales skills improvement and for clients’ communication improvement with were implemented for employees of the Citizens operations sector and for Economy operations sector (sales personnel). In cooperation with Algebra, two workshops about project management were implemented for bank’s employees who were either project managers or members of project teams. Along with the theoretical work in project management, employees had participated in education for MS Project tool which is the basic tool for project management. Moreover, throughout the year there had been five education modules implemented in financial analysis for 61 employees of the Economy operations sector (which makes 79 percent of the total number of employees of this sector). In 2011, HPB continued to organize and implement education programs for new employees – trainees, in order to familiarize them with bank’s business activities more thoroughly and to prepare them for their future work. After the completion of the educational program, all trainees are invited to take the trainees exam based on which their working status is determined. On demand and according to the needs of specific organization units and in collaboration with competent organization units, specialized internal educations were organized (for example: Excel basic and advanced use, money laundering prevention, personal banking, communication skills, work in Finacle). 8 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress In accordance with the Ordinance on professional perfection, employees of the bank attended open type professional educations (for example: HIBO, HGK, RRiF, TEB, NAPS, Potecon, Algebra etc.) Internal education and trainings during 2011 – total of 695 attendants of internal trainings: Number of Title attendants 1. Excel 27 2. Sale skills, reclamations and complaints cashiers 163 3. Margin loans insurance instruments 5 4. Education of new employees 39 5. New application system for management of operating risks 60 6. Money laundering prevention 208 7. HPB Invest funds 171 8. Collection of loan receivables from physical persons 22 9 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress E-learning E-learning system is installed in the bank as a tool for definition, organization and management of E-learning education programs. The Department of procurement and human resources is responsible to carry out all necessary activities related to system implementation, defining and testing of new functionalities, educational content development, educations implementations, employees testing and reporting about all activities implemented in the system use. Following educational packages have been installed: Cashier, Finacle and Safety at work. Work on project „Implementation of performance management system“ The project is setting out conditions for objectified, transparent performance management and employees’ career. For that purpose, new workplace structure in each organization unit has been defined, as well as specific job descriptions, new systematization and workplaces evaluation that have to be adopted as soon as possible. Furthermore, according to the new micro-organizational structure, workplaces descriptions and competences’ system, a career model has been developed. Within the following project activities new system will be developed, as well as new monitoring and performance evaluation practice. Implementation of student and pupils’ practice education Investing in education and development of young people are the values that are embedded in the daily bank’s operations. During 2011, HPB continued receiving working applications from students and pupils to perform mandatory professional practice. The practice was conducted in collaboration with organization units, and after the completed practice, the Department of procurement and human resources would issue a certificate on completed professional practice. This way, the bank is directly helping students to gain their first working experiences in financial business which offers them new opportunities for later employment in the bank. At the first “Zlatni indeks” awards held in 2011 and elected by seven student associations of the University of Zagreb, HPB was awarded in three categories: Investment in student associations and projects, Practices and Grand Prix. The award for investments in student associations is related to all financial investments such as donations, sponsorships and strategic partnerships in which HPB participated in 2010. The award for practices is 10 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress related to conducting professional practices in the bank, regardless of the duration and task performance (in 2010, HPB hired nine persons – students from the following faculties: The Faculty of Economics and Business in Zagreb, the Faculty of Mining, Geology and Petroleum Engineering in Zagreb, Faculty of Textile Technology in Zagreb, the University of Applied Health Studies in Zagreb and the Faculty of Economics in Split). Attendances at professional fairs During 2011, the bank participated in ZSEM’s “Student Future Day” in order to promote the bank as a potential and quality employer. Employees’ data During 2011, 59 new employees joint the bank. The total number of bank’s employees on December 31, 2011 was 1012. 11 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress Structure of employees on December 31, 2011: 1) Based on type of employment Temporary employment Permanent employment Total 89 * 982 1071 * From 89 temporary employed, 16 are trainees. 2) Based on age and gender structure Age Total Women Men 19-24 33 26 7 25-29 209 147 62 30-34 255 164 91 35-39 202 142 60 40-44 125 94 31 45-49 88 60 28 50-54 95 69 26 55-59 43 34 9 60-64 21 11 10 65 i više 0 0 0 Ukupno: 1071 747 324 Average age of bank's employees on December 31, 2011 was 37.4. 3) Based on gender structure of managers: men (72), women (85). Additional care for bank’s employees HPB Sport HPB assures its employees to do sport and recreational activities within the Society for sport and recreation – HPB Sport. Also, they can participate in bank’s games, which are organized by the bank. HPB Sport Society is registered as a nonprofit association, financed through donations and membership fees. The Society had 312 members at the end of 2011, including HPB and Group members. The Society is primarily oriented on sport and recreation; however the culture and humanitarian work are not neglected. Recreation is organized and 12 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress implemented in ten following cities: Dubrovnik, Osijek, Pula, Split, Šibenik, Varaždin, Vinkovci, Zadar and Zagreb. Besides recreation, HPB Sport is organizing team buildings of certain organization units of the bank. The members of HPB Sport are regular participants of: a) sport activities • „Sport meetings of banks and FINA“ – 10 medals in different disciplines in 2011 • Koala basketball league – 5th place along with the “fair play” award • Financial football league – 9th place Newsletter “Moja HPBanka” is the bank’s newsletter in electronic format which is being issued four times a year. The newsletter is intended for employees and is reporting about all important events within HPB Group, interviews, employees’ humanitarian actions, financial market trends, updates about new employees, promotions for employees and casual topics. The goal of the newsletter is to improve vertical and horizontal communication within the bank and to allow employees to get to know their colleagues from all over Croatia. Internal web portal “HPB Intra” is an internal web portal and the official communication channel available to all employees of HPB Group. It regularly publishes all bank’s acts and decisions, as well as other news and information relevant to the quality work of employees. In addition, the intranet is a place where employees can find all important information and instructions related to the bank’s business and professional growth. Also, via intranet, employees can access websites of the Union and HPB Sport Society. Relations with clients “Entrepreneurs and banks – together on the way to success” stands for the name of the joint project of Croatian Employers Association (CEA) and Croatian Banks Association (CBA). This workshop sought to facilitate communication and to educate and inform attendees about establishing a business relationship with the bank, especially credit. Workshops were intended for employees and owners of small and medium-sized business, those with little or no experience in dealing with banks and to entrepreneurs-beginners. During 2011, HPB, as a member of CBA, was actively involved in the working group along 13 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress with other member banks, donating the time of its employees for preparation and implementation of workshops. Financial literacy workshops are presenting an additional activity of HPB in the segment of corporate social responsibility. Contribution to the community As the largest state owned bank, HPB has a special responsibility to contribute to the community through donations and sponsorships and to support projects on the local and national level. HPB is regularly cooperating with educational, sport, culture and health institutions. During 2011, HPB invested through donations in charity, health, sport, culture, education and supported several conferences. Charity and health: The Association of Parents of Children with Special Needs (PUŽ); restoration of the Children’s city at Marjan in the organization of the Public institution for management of park-forest Marjan, help to Home of St.Joseph in Vugrovac in the organization of Zagreb Archdiocesan Caritas Sport: Sport society special sports “Luč”, Croatian Trotting Association, Football club “Kijevo” Culture: Vinkovci falls: project „The bridge between people“ in organization of the Croatian culture society “Napredak”; construction of the national Monument of Croatian victory “Oluja 95” in organization of the City of Knin; humanitarian Christmas gala concert in organization of the City of Bjelovar Education and conferences: National foundation for support to pupils and students’ standard, V. Gymnasium; “Croatian money market” conference in organization of Tržište novca; “Challenges of Europe” conference in organization of the Faculty of Economy in Split, the Center for Education Juraj Bonači; scholarships for four students from Vukovar in organization of the City of Vukovar through “Solidarity for Vukovar” action During 2011, HPB invested through sponsorships in sport, culture, entertainment, education and supported conferences. HPB is sponsoring a wide spectrum of sport disciplines; football, basketball, rowing, skiing, sailing and automotive sport. • Sport: Siniša and Nikša Skelin, Football club “Cibalia” from Vinkovci, Football club “Graničar” from Županja, Automotive society Kvarner, Ski club 14 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress “Medveščak”, Women’s basketball club Gospić, Basketball club “Brod-Svjetlost”, Basketball club “Kaštela”, sailing project “With wind through the silence” for the hearing impaired persons in organization of the Skippers association of the Adriatic • Culture: Špancirfest 2011 in Varaždin, Christmas fair in organization of the City of Makarska, concert “Drniš rock chronology” in organization of the “Zvonimir” association, a CD released for the occasion of the visit of Pope Benedikt XVI to Croatia in organization of EPH media • Education and conferences; Top Scholarship for Top Students in organization of NCL Media Group, contest and exhibition “Tradition and modernity – Folk tales and customs” in organization of Association of visual arts teachers; the conference The Regional Finance and Investment Conference for Southeast Europe in Dubrovnik in organization of Euromoney conferences. In addition to sponsorships and donations, the bank’s products and services and their availability through cooperation with the Croatian Post, HPB became closer and more accessible to citizens and business partners throughout Croatia, as well as to special groups of citizens, such as pregnant women, young people and students and pensioners. Future goals The bank plans to implement a system for information safety education management, so this topic would become even more familiar to employees and so that the system’s vulnerability is reduced. For 2012, project of Classification of information is being planned. The bank is obligated to implement detailed classification of information according to the level of their sensitivity with regard to possible consequences of their violation of the confidentiality, integrity and availability at the level of all organization units, mark the information or resource of information system which contain information in accordance with the classification level and in accordance with these apply measures to classified information protection. With the successful completion of the project of Implementation of classification of information process, the bank will be adjusted with the Decision on the appropriate information system management of the Croatian National Bank. Activities during this project are following: Activities during this project are the following: Determination of classification classes, classification of information, Definition of classification procedure, protection and preservation of information, Development of the rulebook, procedures and work 15 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress instructions on the classification, protection and preservation of information, Application of protection procedures and classified information preservation, Reducing the risk of disclosure, temporary or permanent loss, misuse or unauthorized information modification. During 2012, the bank intends to organize and start education of all levels of managers due to strengthening managing competencies and accomplishing better efficiency in employees managing and work processes. By the end of February 2012, bank plans to complete the demanding education of sales skills improvement for employees from the Citizens operations sector and from the Economy operations sector. Within the project “Implementation of performance management system”, the bank will continue its activities in 2012 according to the project plan. 16 II. WORK CONDITIONS 3. PRINCIPLE COMPANIES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 4. PRINCIPLE COMPANIES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR 5. PRINCIPLE COMPANIES SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR 6. PRINCIPLE COMPANIES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION 17 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress Implementation activities During 2011, HPB regularly implemented all activities related to occupational health and fire protection for those who were not previously educated accordingly with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and EU guidelines. Occupational health education was implemented within the E-learning education which is available to all employees at their workplaces. It is adjusted to bank’s business, containing warnings about possible hazards and measures for hazards eliminations. In accordance to legal regulations, the revision of occupational health hazards estimations was developed, which makes it the overarching document of the bank concerning the area of safety. Furthermore, all other measures and legal obligations related to employees’ safety, fire protection and occupational health were implemented. During 2011, HPB provided all employees with additional health insurance with Croatian insurance company. Continuous workplace quality improvement with ergonomics and occupational health measures. In accordance to hazards estimations revision, reduction of possible hazards at workplaces and implementation of preventive actions. Future goals By the end of 2012, internal bank’s acts will be adjusted with amendments of legal regulations in the field of occupational health and fire protection. Via E-learing, train all employees in the field of occupational health, warn them about possible hazards which might arise from work process and introduce with occupational health measures in order to reduce number of injuries at work. Further improvement and protection safety with implementation of quality education in order to improve overall working conditions with the lowest stress level and possibilities of employees’ injuries. 18 III. ENVIRONMENT 7. PRINCIPLE COMPANIES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES 8. PRINCIPLE COMPANIES SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMETNAL RESPONSIBILITY 9. PRINCIPLE COMPANIES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES 19 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress Implementation activities Electronic waste is disposed in accordance with the legal regulations and contracts with suppliers – the price of that service is included in the price of IT equipment. Once the old IT equipment is out of use, the bank invites responsible company to dispose waste to ecologic landfill. HPB orders the most contemporary and most energy efficient IT equipment. All new computers are all-in-one (all components are integrated in the same housing which will later on, create less electronic waste. HPB intensively uses virtual servers (virtualization) – on the physical server several logical servers are installed (1:20 ratio) which reduces energy consumption for charging and cooling. It is estimated that the bank saves around 350,000 kWh per year. With the development of electronic banking, informatisation and automatisation of office work, HPB is continuously reducing paper consumption and printing needs. With document scanning and Documentum – Document Management System implementation the bank reduced printing needs and paper documentation. Besides mentioned, HPB started the project of archiving and documentation classification which aims to documents digitalization and in long-term, completely switching to electronic documentation. HPB has launched an initiative to introduce “Green office” to increase the efficiency of resource use, to reduce the negative environmental impact and to reduce costs associated with energy consumption and office supplies procurement HPB started the “Page+” project of printing management which will result with reduced amount of printing and use of toners, paper and electric energy Working on project of archiving and documentation classification which aims to documentation digitalization and in long-term, completely switching to electronic documentation Future goals Rationalization and integration of technology platforms which will lead to reduction of different technologies while the needs for physical/virtual surroundings will be implemented during the third quartile of 2012. Integration of long-distance learning system with SharePoint platform and implementation of digital educational contents to ease educational programs for all bank’s employees will be implemented by the second quartile of 2012. 20 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress Implementation of integrated system of unified communication Lync, which includes instant messaging and availability of audio, video and web conferences, along with telephony and voicemail to allow easier communication at all levels. Implementation is estimated for third of fourth quartile. In 2012, HPB plans to implement “Green office”, adopt Green office policy and form a team for introducing, monitoring and implementing of Green office measures in order to reduce its carbon footprint and introduce good practices in offices and branch offices, as well as to educate employees about their impact on environment. 21 IV. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. PRINCIPLE COMPANIES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY 22 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress Implementation activities Implementation of anti-corruption program In accordance with the Anti-corruption Program for state majority owned legal entities for 2010-2012 period, which was adopted by the Croatian Government in late November, 2009, HPB formulated the Action plan for implementation of Anti-corruption Program in HPB for 2010-2012 period. In the mentioned Action plan, HPB defined 25 activities according to specific goals and measures. Specific target groups, deadlines and procedure authorities were set for each activity. Planned activities are being continuously implemented, and the main focus of their implementation is on: Services improvement, with emphasis to empowering responsibilities for successful tasks realization and promotion of integrity and transparency Fulfillment of tasks in a proper, ethical, economic, efficient and effective way Business operations organized in accordance with laws, regulations, policies, plans and methods Further improvement of property and other resources protection from the loss originated from poor management, unjustified spending or because of malfunctions and frauds Financial reports and business results monitoring in due time Fight against money laundering and terrorism financing During 2011, as obligated to implement measures and activities proscribed by the Act on Money Laundering Combat and Terrorism Financing, the bank implemented following activities: • Consistent implementation of measures and activities which are in accordance with law and regulations • Systematic work on development and improvement of IT system in the field of detecting and preventing money laundering and terrorism financing • Organization and implementation of numerous educations which included more than quarter of employees in the bank (new employees, employees working on business relationship establishment and executing transactions in branches and subsidiaries, foreign payments, investment banking, internal revision and backoffice). Topic included in education were following: legislative framework, due 23 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress diligence, risk assessment and risk registers, business relations monitoring, the application of embargo lists, suspicious, complex and unusual transactions, the obligations on keeping records and documentation retention period. Prevention of market abuse and manipulation As an authorized participant on the capital market, the bank adjusted its business regulations in 2009 with the Ordinance on prevention of market abuse and market manipulation. The Ordinance is used to detect and prevent procedures and actions that can have character of abuse and market manipulation in procedure of providing investment services or performing investment activities. In addition to the provisions of the internal act of the bank, relevant persons of the Investment banking sector, in the performance of investment activities are applying generally accepted principles and standards which are related to the knowledge of clients, their personal interests and activities as an investor to which investment banking services are being offered to. In that regard, Investment banking sector was, using its experience and knowledge of relevant regulations, monitoring the situations in which certain transactions and/or operations of clients, especially if they included use with privileged information, might have a feature of market manipulation or its misuse. During 2011, relevant persons did not record any instances of attempts of financial instruments trade which might be based on privileged information, market manipulation or its misuse. In 2011 and in accordance with the positive regulations, the bank continued to implement registers in which all kinds of privileged information is noted, as well as people who have privileged information in connection with the transactions in financial instruments. With continuous and timely keeping of these registers the risk of possible trade which might be based on privileged information or market manipulation and misuse is significantly reduced. In 2012, the bank will continue implementing practices of transparent behavior and business. As a provider of financial instruments, the bank will (in situations determined by the law) notify HANFA about privileged information which is related to the bank, in order to avoid situations of abuse or market manipulation. Future goals Continuing of Anti-corruption program implementation in order to strengthen efficiency, integrity, ethics and business transparency. 24 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress Further development and improvement of money laundering prevention and terrorists financing system and internal control system in the area of risk assessment processes related to money laundering and terrorists financing. Continuing of educating employees in the field of anti-corruption and prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing, in order to ensure compliance with laws, regulations and regulators’ guidelines. Introduction of new program for detecting and preventing money laundering and terrorist financing in order to facilitate and accelerate the detection of suspicious transactions and persons, to simplify the analytical work and improve communication of responsible persons within the bank. 25 HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA, dioničko društvo Communication on Progress Basic data: Hrvatska poštanska banka Address: Jurišićeva 4, HR-10000 Zagreb, Croatia Contacts: Ivana Koludrović; Renata Lacković Phone: +385 (1) 4804 935; 4805 057 Fax: +385 (1) 4810 773 E-mail: ivana.koludrovic@hpb.hr; renata.lackovic@hpb.hr Web: www.hpb.hr 26
