COMPANY / CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SAS 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report An enduring commitment to employees, environment and communities The SAS 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report was developed using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines. This year’s report is based on the calendar year from Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2010, just as our previous three reports are based on the calendar year. All data and information pertains to SAS Institute Inc., the US-based parent company for SAS, unless otherwise stated. The report is self-declared at application level C. Content covers our commitment and performance related to governance, employees, environment, and education and community. This year, we have exported some CSR-related content to the static pages of our website while featuring information related only to 2010 in the CSR report itself. As in last year’s report, we used SAS for Sustainability Management to provide the facts and figures regarding ® our environmental footprint. All content has been reviewed by executive leaders and other internal stakeholders. SAS welcomes your comments and questions regarding this report and our corporate responsibility efforts. For questions about this report or its contents, please email globalreporting@sas.com. From the CEO The economic experience of the past few years has tested the fortitude of business leaders. In the midst of this crisis, what has strengthened is an understanding that a sustainable business strategy is compatible with profitability. Resource efficiency, innovation of products and services, employee engagement, and improved compliance are all hallmarks of sustainable strategies and of business success. At SAS, our employees are the lifeline of our success. This year, we ranked No. 1 on the Fortune Best Companies to Work For list in the US. We are continuing our investments in energy-efficient buildings and renewable energy portfolios. In 2010, we more than doubled the capacity of the solar farms at our Cary, NC, headquarters from 1 megawatt to 2.2 megawatts. The combined electricity generation produces enough power for more than 325 average-size homes. The Cary campus also has solar thermal hot water systems, regenerative drive elevators, water and waste conservation projects, active employee engagement efforts, and two newly completed sustainably constructed buildings designed to attain high-level LEED certification. Realizing we operate in a global community, we have continued our commitment to collaborate and participate in various international and national initiatives. This year, SAS joined the Partnership Against Corruption Initiative to fight bribery and corruption, and Change the Equation, a national initiative with the goal of increasing literacy in science, technology, engineering and math. Next year, SAS will join the UN Global Compact and the World Economic Forum Workplace Wellness Alliance, a consortium dedicated to measuring the link between employee wellness, engagement and productivity. This 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report reflects our approach and performance on our broader economic, social and environmental risks to enable all stakeholders to assess our achievements. We will continue to measure our performance while striving for innovation and improvements in our operations. Jim Goodnight, CEO of SAS Governance and Management Solid management, performance and compliance for a sustainable enterprise Overview Corporate responsibility is an integral aspect of our business. While there is no specific department for corporate responsibility, the Executive Sustainability Council has been operating for three years and a Corporate Social Responsibility Task Force was created in 2009. These teams work closely with all aspects of the business engaging with various departments, including Facilities, IT, Community Relations, Corporate Communications, Human Resources and Legal, to ensure policies and efforts on social and environmental issues are considered in the overall operations. To learn how CSR is governed, view the Legal Form and SAS governance structure. View SAS’ financial performance for 2010. 2010 Highlights Performance Initiative 2010 Goals 2011 Goals Highlights Compliance Maintain “zero Achieved goal. Continue “zero tolerance tolerance – zero fines” – zero fines” for for noncompliance with noncompliance environmental, anticorruption, trade and privacy laws. Ethics and Increase compliance Implemented automated Introduce two new Compliance – course training and reminder system for courses and prepare to Training completion rates. courses. translate future courses into seven different Achieved improved languages in order to completion rates. expand training. Enlisted a second training vendor to expand available training assets. Anti-Corruption “Zero tolerance – zero Achieved goal through Introduce enhanced due fines” for antiintroduction of pilot diligence screening corruption for US and program to enhance due program to full international diligence screening for international business operations. subcontractors and operations. partners in international operations and Complete initial establishing US corruption risk lobbying, gift and background review of campaign contribution existing suppliers looking law compliance process. at indictment, conviction, financial and media records to look for news 2010 Highlights Performance Initiative 2010 Goals 2011 Goals Highlights of prior corruption or propensity for future corruption, and document and act on our findings accordingly. Fair Trade Zero government fines SAS processed and Maintain our zero Laws, for exports of controlled exported 17,680 government fines record. International software, meaning SAS software orders and Peace Accords, delivered its software received no government Revise our internal Antionly to permitted fines. processes to allow realAggression destinations and users, time, or near-real-time, Laws and and zero fines for SAS successfully updates to our external Sanctions, and responses to requests executed an anti-boycott Export Commodity Anti-Boycott for proposal from law compliance program Classification Number Laws countries at risk of for all its offices in chart to allow our requesting participation countries where there is customers to more in prohibited boycotts a risk that customers quickly determine the of US allies. may seek to involve SAS ECCNs of the products in boycotts prohibited by licensed from SAS for the US government. easy application to their SAS properly reported own export compliance all boycott requests programs. This will help received and declined to SAS’ customers to more participate in any easily comply with export prohibited boycotts. controls on software use and delivery across international borders. Privacy Advance awareness of Achieved goal through: Update SAS Solutions Protection SAS privacy and OnDemand Business Laws security practices Creating new SAS Customer Privacy Policy (internal and external Solutions OnDemand to align with new data audiences). Develop Business Customer retention requirements. new mechanisms to Privacy Policy. communicate these Provide privacy training policies and practices. Developed privacy and policy upgrade awareness training assessment for select course for all employees offices as needed. worldwide. Conduct annual inTrained all SAS person privacy training of Solutions OnDemand SAS Solutions personnel in the proper OnDemand personnel. safeguarding of hosted content. Stakeholder Engagement We engage with a wide range of stakeholders across all parts of our operations. More detailed information about our relationships with many stakeholder groups can be found throughout this report. They include:  Customers  Communities  Employees  Regulators and government  Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)  Industry organizations We also belong to numerous membership organizations focused on a wide range of corporate responsibility issues. Highlights from 2010 Stakeholder Types of Examples from 2010 Group Engagement Communities Employee volunteering SAS employees volunteered a total of 22,700 hours netting $86,500 for charity. Grants Donations Training Customers Webcasts In 2010, SAS reinvested 24 percent of revenues into research and development activities in Users groups meetings response to users' feedback. Training courses In December 2010, SAS conducted a Customer Satisfaction Survey to measure customer Focus Groups satisfaction and loyalty, which are at their highest levels since the study began in 2002. Surveys Feedback forms Employees SAS Wide Web 700 blogs Webcasts 3 CEO Executive Webcasts recorded. Webzines 14 Global communication update emails sent. Blogs 7 Global communications council meetings held. 37 Global communications phone conferences conducted. 197,580 Hits to the US SAS Family site. Highlights from 2010 Stakeholder Types of Examples from 2010 Group Engagement Regulators and Regular meetings and Joined the World Economic Forum’s Partnership Government briefings. Against Corruption Initiative. Membership in trade associations and business organizations. Industry White papers and 130 white papers produced in 2010 Organizations articles. Participated in World Economic Forum, Interviews, meetings Business Roundtable, The Business Council, and briefings. and the International Business Advisory Council in 2010 Business Meetings Partners and Suppliers Webcasts Representation on boards Ethics and Compliance At SAS, we have worked hard to create a corporate culture based on trust between our employees and the company. We also employ the highest ethical standards in our dealings with customers, suppliers and competitors. As a result, we have a reputation of being a great place to work and a great company to do business with. The SAS Code of Business Ethics outlines the responsibilities each employee of SAS and its subsidiaries has to comply with all laws, rules and regulations of the countries in which we do business to ensure legal and ethical behavior. At SAS, we strive to employ the highest ethical standards, demonstrating honesty, fairness and accountability in every decision and action. Fair Trade and Anti-Aggression Laws SAS supports the national security policies of the United States and the governments of other countries in which we do business by its commitment to comply with each country’s applicable laws regulating the export and importation of encryption by maintaining policies and procedures to identify and classify encryption software products. Governments restrict the export of encryption and regulate exports of software generally in order to maintain international peace, discourage international aggression and encourage free trade among peaceful, lawabiding nations and their citizens. Our policies and procedures result in timely export classifications, thus reducing our risk of an export violation, while minimizing delays in our product release cycles. SAS further supports national security objectives by providing timely Export Control Classification Numbers (ECCNs) to our customers to facilitate their compliance with export and import regulations. Further, SAS complies with US laws restricting US companies from participating in boycotts of countries allied with the US. SAS employees are responsible for immediately communicating any concerns regarding suspected unethical or illegal conduct to supervisors, to the Human Resources department or to the General Counsel. SAS will not take retaliatory action against people who report suspected violations in good faith. All reports of misconduct will be investigated as appropriate. In order to maintain our high ethical standing, employee compliance and ethics training is provided on a regular basis on issues such as anti-bribery, corruption, data protection, privacy and respect in the workplace. In 2010, SAS produced an internal animated online video training course on encryption export regulations and released it to headquarters development personnel. Encryption is highly regulated and has been an important factor in many past wars, so governments want corporations to cooperate in their encryption exports to prevent encryption from falling into the hands of persons who would use it do harm. SAS used a succinct animated format to convey the message to developers that they can help SAS with encryption export law compliance, and how they can do that. SAS acquired two new entities and brought their people and operations into compliance with SAS’ Human Resources and Ethics and Compliance policies and programs. SAS followed a thorough process to review all potential compliance issues and communicated with government officials to ensure any past issues were properly addressed. New employees were provided all applicable ethics and compliance training. We received zero fines for noncompliance. Anti-Corruption SAS strives to maintain compliance with the US and international anti-corruption laws at the local, state and federal level in all its operations. SAS operates at a “zero tolerance – zero fines” level in its compliance with anti-corruption laws, while maintaining an efficient compliance system that allows for robust corporate growth. SAS engages with other business partners and stakeholders around the world to encourage a global community culture that works to end corruption. This year, SAS joined the World Economic Forum’s Partnership Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) to fight bribery and corruption. PACI is based on chief executive officer (CEO) commitments to the PACI Principles for Countering Bribery, which call for the adoption of a zero-tolerance policy on corruption and the implementation of an anti-corruption program guiding the behavior of employees, agents, suppliers, contractors and joint venture partners. SAS also implemented new enhanced contract language requiring anti-corruption law compliance by all subcontractors and partners. This language requires subcontractors and partners to verify they are not part of any government and are not engaging in undue influence on any governmental entities. In relation to suppliers, we introduced a pilot program of enhanced due diligence screening for subcontractors and partners as well as an ongoing screening and monitoring process for suppliers to protect against anticorruption risks. Privacy Privacy has become part of mainstream business culture as companies respond to emerging state, federal and international privacy and data protection legislation; rapid changes in technology and security; and growing consumer and employee concern about the collection, storage, use and sharing of personal information. Corporatewide privacy compliance is managed by the SAS Legal Department. SAS' Privacy Statement is global and applies not only to SAS US, but to foreign subsidiaries and other business units. SAS strives to maintain compliance with the US and international privacy and information security laws at the local, state and federal level in all its operations. SAS tries to operate at a “zero tolerance – zero fines” level in its compliance with privacy and information security laws, while maintaining an efficient compliance system that allows for robust corporate growth. SAS engages with other business partners and stakeholders around the world to encourage a global community culture that works to end privacy abuse and information security breaches. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 2010 Report 2010 Highlights Indicator Description Reference Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the From the CEO organization Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Governance > Structure 2.2 Primary brands, products and services Products & Solutions 2.3 Operational structure Governance > Structure 2.4 Location of headquarters Governance > Structure 2.5 Number of countries where organization operates Governance > Structure 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Governance > Structure 2.7 Markets served Products & Solutions About SAS 2.8 Scale of organization About SAS 2.9 Significant changes during reporting period About This Report 2.10 Awards received during reporting period Awards Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period About This Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report About This Report 3.3 Reporting cycle About This Report 3.4 Contact person About This Report 3.5 Process for defining content About This Report 3.6 Boundary of the report About This Report 3.7 Limitations on scope or boundary About This Report 3.8 Basis for reporting on entities that can significantly affect About This Report comparability 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations About This Report 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports About This Report 2010 Highlights Indicator Description Reference 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods About This Report 3.12 Standard disclosure tables About This Report Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure Governance > Structure 4.14 Stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Stakeholder whom to engage Engagement Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed About Us > Corporate Statistics Environmental and Performance Indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Environment > Energy EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Environment > Energy EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Environment > Energy improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energyEnvironment > Energy based products and services EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Environment > Energy reductions achieved Environment > Green buildings EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environment > Water EN10 Percentage and volume of water recycled and reused Environment > Water EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Environment > Energy weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Environment > Energy reductions achieved EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environment > Waste EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmentalimpacts of products and Environment > Waste services EN28 Fines and sanctions for noncompliance with environmental Environment laws and regulations Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators 2010 Highlights Indicator Description Reference LA1 Workforce by employee type, employee contract and region Employees LA2 Number and rate of employee turnover by age group, Employee > Hiring & gender and region Retaining staff LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not SAS Family > Benefits provided to temporary or part-time employees LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and Employees > Health absenteeism, work-related fatalities by region and Safety LA11 Programs for skills management SAS Family LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Employee > Skills and career development reviews Development Society Performance Indicators SO4 Actions taken for incidents of corruption Governance > AntiCorruption SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Governance > anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Overview SO8 Fines or sanctions for non-compliance with laws Governance > Overview Education Philanthropy Improving lives through learning Overview 2010 Highlights Performance Initiative 2010 Goals 2011 Goals Highlights Support for Provide 21st century Engaged Education Continue support for K-12 technology, Committee of the NC programs that help schools Education expertise, Chamber in defining and integrate technology and professional lobbying for strategic more engaging curriculum development and education priorities. Joined materials into the instructional Change the Equation classroom. Collaborate with materials to prepare national initiative with the NC Virtual Public School to students for college, goal of increasing literacy provide math expertise, career and success. in science, technology, product development staff engineering and math and technology support for Actively engage the (STEM). the development of an global corporate online Algebra I course community in Engaged with five school based on the new Common 2010 Highlights Performance Initiative 2010 Goals 2011 Goals Highlights prioritizing support districts in Triangle High Core Math Standards. for strategic Five Algebra Readiness Expand SAS® Curriculum education efforts Initiative with the goal of Pathways® offerings to that will strengthen increasing the number of middle schools. Engage the education students who are prepared employees in campaign to system and increase to be successful in algebra increase teacher access to the number of in middle school. SAS Curriculum Pathways students entering at no cost to educators. careers in science, Hosted the first annual technology, Algebra Readiness Summit Collaborate with Change engineering and for 400 math educators on the Equation national math. SAS campus. initiative to define metrics for evaluating and Actively engage with Continued support, sustaining viable STEM governmental professional development initiatives. Publish and organizations and and technology for the NC disseminate best practices, agencies whose 1:1 Learning Technology rubrics and guidelines for goal is to improve Initiative. implementing successful education, career1:1 technology initiatives readiness and eExpanded the number of based on research and learning. schools with access to evaluation from the NC 1:1 SAS Curriculum ® Learning Technology Pathways 91 percent, from Initiative. ® 5,658 to 10,819 schools. Host the second annual Donated $386,000 worth of Algebra Readiness Summit laptops to high schools; featuring nationally $1,202,213 cash donations recognized experts in math and $166,000 in surplus instruction. equipment/hardware. Continue to provide support Served on boards of the for research-based afterNational Board for school programs that Professional Teaching increase student Standards, NC e-Learning achievement. Commission, JOBS Commission, NC Science Festival and other agencies. Support for Provide technologyProvided instructional Continue support for Higher based teaching materials, software, hosted programs that provide SAS Education materials to prepare applications and guest software, databases and college and lecturers at no cost to educators for mathematics, university students universities and community computer science and for technology colleges in North Carolina statistics students at the 2010 Highlights Performance Initiative 2010 Goals 2011 Goals Highlights careers. and elsewhere. college, university and graduate school levels. Provide technology Continued support of the to improve Institute for Advanced Continue support for full administration and Analytics at North Carolina and partial scholarships and student enrollment State University. summer employment and retention. opportunities for talented Sponsored 10 scholarships university students. at three Research Triangle Park area universities to Provide SAS Analytics at no support top students in cost to qualified US higher computer science and education researchers statistics. through SAS OnDemand for Education. Developed sustainability solution for higher education. Employee Continue the Provided incentive and Promote employee Volunteerism successful awareness programs that volunteerism in schools by Employee Volunteer encouraged employees to donating funds based on a Fund that volunteer 22,700 hours of minimum number of coordinates their time, largely focused volunteer hours per employee volunteer on education programs employee. efforts and SAS netting $86,500 for schools charitable through the Employee Promote employee contributions to Volunteer Fund. educational philanthropy by education. Continue matching donations to an active program of Partnered with the classroom projects donations to Umstead Hotel in cleaning highlighted in educational causes. up Umstead State Park DonorsChoose.org. outside SAS’ headquarters. Continue partnership with Matched employee local businesses to donations made through better our DonorsChoose.org. community. Partner with EarthShare to provide employees with volunteerism opportunities for environmental causes. Education At SAS we believe that education is the engine of economic growth. As a high-tech company, SAS depends on a strong educational system for its long-term success. By supporting efforts that prepare more graduates for college, work and success in the 21st century, SAS continues to play a vital role in the global community. SAS maintains a keen focus on education initiatives in the statewide community of our world headquarters in North Carolina. The company also participates in select international efforts to improve education, particularly in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). This philosophy of thinking globally while acting regionally generates support for strategic education initiatives that benefit the worldwide community. While SAS supports dozens of projects and initiatives, here are a few highlights from this year: Algebra Readiness/Triangle High Five Triangle High Five started as a partnership known as High Five in 2003 with one of the main goals to support the development and sustainability of Professional Learning Communities within the Triangle Region and across the state. Its vision is that all students will graduate with a high school diploma, well prepared to pursue higher education and a career of their choice. In 2009, SAS launched the Algebra Readiness Initiative (ARI) with the goal to increase the number of students who are prepared to be successful in middle school Algebra I. To further this goal, in 2010, SAS facilitated a summit. Recognizing the increased need for professional development for instructional leaders and math teachers, the districts planned an Algebra Readiness Summit on Aug. 12, 2010, hosted on the SAS campus. School teams consisted of 400 math teachers and principals who heard nationally recognized presenters discussing critical topics and research-based instructional strategies related to algebra readiness. Space was provided for more than 25 concurrent training sessions/talks. Plans are underway for a 2nd Annual Algebra Readiness Summit in August 2011. Change the Equation SAS CEO Jim Goodnight joined 110 other CEOs in supporting Change the Equation, a nonprofit, nonpartisan CEO-led initiative to solve America’s innovation problem. The initiative aims to improve science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education for every child, with a particular focus on girls and students of color, who have long been underrepresented in STEM fields. Change the Equation works toward three goals:  Great Teaching. Improve STEM teaching at all grade levels, with a larger and more diverse cadre of highly capable and inspirational STEM teachers.  Inspired Learners. Inspire student appreciation and excitement for STEM programs and careers to increase success and achievement in school and opportunities for a collegiate education, especially among underrepresented populations.  A Committed Nation. Achieve a sustained commitment to improving STEM education from business leaders, government officials, STEM educators and other stakeholders through innovation, communication, collaboration and data-based decision making. Through its network of more than 110 CEOs, Change the Equation pledges to create widespread literacy in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) as an investment in our nation that empowers us all. More information on www.changetheequation.org. North Carolina 1:1 Learning Technology Initiative (NCLTI) In 2007, SAS was a founding partner in the NCLTI, a public-private partnership providing laptops, professional development and critical support to schools in rural areas of the state. These schools benefit directly from the availability of the online content in SAS Curriculum Pathways, which provides an excellent starting point for teachers as they learn to infuse technology into their instruction. SAS also provides SAS Curriculum Pathways professional development for any NCLTI site. The NCLTI program is designed to address:  Equity, providing all students access to 21st century teaching, learning, and technology.  Engagement, involving students in active learning and thereby improving student achievement and reducing dropout rates.  Economic development, providing all students with workplace skills such as communication, problem solving and collaboration, along with content expertise, to make each region of the state more attractive to businesses. The final outcome of this pilot program is a series of tools and resources – a Framework for Planning – describing a comprehensive and systematic approach to planning learning technology initiatives. This framework puts forth a blueprint for building capacity to support large-scale technology-enabled learning efforts. The framework outlines a set of tools that assist schools and district teams as they plan. DonorsChoose.org SAS employees support specific education areas in their community through DonorsChoose.org, a national nonprofit organization that connects employees with classrooms in need. The site enables public school teachers to submit “wish lists” for materials that will help their students learn. SAS began matching funds in December 2008. In 2010, SAS matched 62 employee contributions of nearly $20,000, which provided almost $40,000 toward resources for the classroom. North Carolina Science Festival Launched in 2010, the North Carolina Science Festival is a statewide, multi-day celebration showcasing science and technology. As the first statewide science festival in the US, the NC Science Festival included a series of events across North Carolina and highlighted the educational, cultural and financial impact of science in the state. Through hands-on activities, science talks, lab tours, nature experiences, exhibits and performances, the Festival engaged a wide range of public audiences while inspiring the next generation of scientists. SAS was a major sponsor of this event and will continue to support the next one in 2012. Community Engagement While most of SAS’ community engagement is education based, we also engage on the environmental level, encourage volunteering in all areas and support humanitarian efforts. Donations 2010 Highlights Donations Amount Cash including community grants: $1,202,213 In-kind donations: Software, hardware and services $4,030,038 Value in-kind of training for students and educators $7,057,085 Surplus equipment/furniture/hardware: $166,000 Total $12,455,336 Volunteering In 2010, SAS employees volunteered more than 22,700 hours largely focused on education programs, netting $86,500 for schools through the Employee Volunteer Fund. The fund is a special volunteer program that provides a cash contribution to education-based nonprofit organizations where an employee has provided at least 50 hours of volunteer support in three out of four quarters over a 12-month period. SAS and The Umstead Hotel & Spa employees teamed up to support public television by volunteering their time taking pledges during the annual fundraising drive. “SAS Night” was the most successful night during the drive, yielding $129,200 (SAS provided $60,000 in support) with 47 volunteers. Empowering Others SAS technology is used in various ways to benefit communities and assist in humanitarian efforts. This year, SAS helped create a system for managing disaster relief and relief distribution in Pakistan after the devastating floods. SAS helped the International Organization for Migration (IOM) apply analytics to enhance efforts to help millions left homeless by the worst floods in Pakistan's history. The system helped IOM better manage and share data with partner agencies in providing emergency shelter. The public-private partnership between SAS and IOM will in the future explore additional uses of analytics and develop tools to aid in humanitarian disaster response worldwide. SAS technology was also used for Women’s Microfinance Initiative (WMI). WMI extends interest-bearing loans of $50 to $250 to women in eastern Uganda, helping them finance their own enterprises to generate revenue to support their families. In 24 months since its launch in 2008, WMI has issued more than 700 loans to Ugandan women. A team of WMI student volunteers employs JMP (SAS technology) to visually depict data so that foundations ® and corporations that want to support the initiative can easily understand the organization’s successes and the loan recipients’ challenges. Philanthropy SAS-Supported Programs SAS support is directed toward sustainable programs that help teens succeed in the classroom and graduate from high school. In particular, SAS supports programs that focus on the integration of technology that will strengthen the education system and increase the number of students entering careers in science, technology, engineering and math. Programs must also show that their efforts have a long-term impact and affect significant numbers of people, without discrimination. Examples include:  Change the Equation, a program with a network of more than 110 CEOs that pledge to create widespread literacy in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) as an investment in the US.  Communities in Schools, the nation's largest dropout prevention organization.  Common Core Standards, an effort to define common curriculum standards for all states.  DonorsChoose.org, the eBay of online charitable giving, is a national nonprofit that connects employees with classrooms in need. Each year, SAS matches employee contributions to the cause.  In-Kind Donations for nonprofit organizations that need computer equipment or software. SAS gives hundreds of thousands of dollars in surplus computer hardware, office equipment and other tangible items to community groups that can benefit from the donation.  National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, a program that advances the quality of teaching and learning by developing professional standards.  NC Center for International Understanding, a program to ensure that North Carolina is the most globally engaged state in the nation.  NC Science Festival, a statewide showcase of science activities.  North Carolina State University, a leading land-grant institution globally recognized for its leadership in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.  Triangle High Five Partnership, committed to seeing that students graduate from high school ready for higher education and careers of their choice.  Triangle Leadership Academy, a joint venture between public school districts in the Triangle area and local education funds representing community and business interests.  Wake County Public Schools, the largest school district in North Carolina and the 18th largest in the nation.  Wake Education Partnership, an independent nonprofit organization that mobilizes business and community involvement in Wake County schools.  Wake Technical Community College, a two-year, public institution serving Raleigh, NC, and surrounding Wake County.  YMCA of the Triangle, with 15 facilities to meet community needs through programs that promote good health, strong families and solid communities. Volunteerism SAS employees give generously through thousands of hours volunteered at programs such as the Employee Volunteer Fund, in which SAS provides cash contributions to education-based nonprofit organizations where employees volunteer. Other community organizations and programs where SAS employees contribute include North Carolina Food Bank, Communities In Schools, North Carolina Division of Parks and Recreation, SAS EcoAdvocates Volunteer Program, UNC Public Television and the Shepherd's Table Soup Kitchen, where SAS cafes also donate leftover food through the Inter-Faith Food Shuttle (part of Feeding America). Donation Process for Education-Related Initiatives SAS support focuses on strategic initiatives in the region surrounding SAS global headquarters that increase interest and achievement in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). SAS-supported programs meet the following criteria:  Have nonprofit tax exemption status under Internal Revenue Service code 501(c)(3).  Have a responsible board of directors serving without compensation.  Show financial stability as evidenced by annual financial statements.  Employ ethical methods of publicity, promotion and solicitation of funds.  Raise funds without payment of commissions, street solicitations or mailing of unordered tickets.  Operate from a detailed annual budget.  Request funds for programs or operations with a minimal portion applied to overhead.  Use the in-kind donation to benefit organizational members or constituents. The SAS Community Relations program does not consider funding or in-kind donations for the following:  Sponsorship of professional athletic or amateur sports teams or individuals.  Single events such as walk-a-thons, fundraisers, workshops, seminars, etc.  Religious causes.  Political parties, candidates or issues.  Organizations that are in any way exclusive.  Trips, tours.  Independent film/video productions.  Requests from individuals. Employees A workplace culture built on trust, flexibility and values  Overview  Hiring & Retaining Staff  Diversity & Equal Opportunity  Skills Development  Health & Safety Overview SAS employees are the lifeline of our success. By investing in our employees, we are investing in the long-term future of the company. The SAS culture and approach is based on trust, flexibility and values. Through a healthy work environment, opportunities for development and robust benefits, SAS provides employees with work-life balance. We have been recognized for encouraging creativity and innovation, while balancing work and life. We believe happy, healthy employees are productive employees, and we work hard to create an environment that fosters the integration of our company values with employee needs. As a result of this commitment, SAS ranked No. 1 on the Fortune Best Companies to Work For list in America. Learn more about SAS culture and employee benefits. 2010 Highlights Initiative 2010 Goals Performance Highlights 2011 Goals Talent Build global leadership Developed leadership Enhance current Management development competency model used as leadership essentials framework. platform for all SAS program targeted to leadership development midand senior-level Roll out senior programs. Delivered high-potential leaders leadership Management Fundamentals in US. development training. classes in US, Canada and Asia Pacific. Delivered Build standardized Deliver management Leadership Essentials core and leadership fundamental training classes in US. Built the competencies for all globally. Global Career Framework global SAS Infrastructure. employees. Create career paths for high incumbent global Increased number of Deliver Management positions. employee development Fundamentals training plans for high-potential for US; Europe, Middle Create and educate employees; increasing East and Africa; and managers on talent bench strength. Asia Pacific. identification process. Expand the rollout of the Global Career Framework to Worldwide Marketing, Research and Development, Information Systems Division, and 2010 Highlights Initiative 2010 Goals Performance Highlights 2011 Goals Technical Support. Organizational Obtain the following Achieved usage rates of the Achieve 100 percent Development usage rates by region online performance usage of online of online performance management system: performance management system: management system US – 80 percent US – 100 percent worldwide. Europe, Middle East Europe, Middle East and and Asia – 50 percent Asia – 60 percent Asia Pacific – 40 Asia Pacific – Expanded to percent India, R&D centers, Malaysia and Thailand Employee Increase employee Created four country mirror Launch an internal Engagement awareness and sites (total 15); social network site interaction through with the aim of having introducing mirror sites 68 percent of employees 25 percent of all and conducting feel connected globally (55 employees registered surveys. percent in 2009). within the first 90 days. Increase interaction 6 executive and leadership and visibility of SAS webcasts; 85 percent of Conduct further executives through employees feel executives surveys on corporate webcasts communicate openly. connectivity to global and surveys. colleagues and 700 internal blogs (596 in leadership Increase two-way 2009); 4,200 employees communication. communication and from 49 countries subscribe engagement through to Inside News – an Commemorate SAS’ raising blog increase of more than 25 35th anniversary with participation by 10 percent over 2009. employees around the percent and readership world through by 20 percent; boosting celebrations, internal news Webcasts and subscription rates by employee-generated 20 percent. memorabilia. Involve employees in news generation by launching “Report It” feature for intranet site and encouraging 50 submissions in the first year. In 2010, SAS employed 11,489 people worldwide – 5,804 in US and 5,685 internationally. US staff headcount summary – 2010 Description of Employee Numbers Type Full-time employees 5,680 Part-time employees 124 Gender Hiring and Retaining Staff Our hiring policy is based on Equal Employment Opportunity for all applicants without regard to age, race, color, gender, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, citizenship, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, medical condition, veteran status, pregnancy or any other protected class as defined by federal, state or local law. SAS’ success as a company and reputation as a best-in-class workplace help us attract the best and the brightest candidates. We focus on hiring talented individuals with the right knowledge, skills and cultural fit who have the same spirit of innovation and creativity and who thrive on challenging work. The culture at SAS is linked directly to its values and core competencies. This leads to dedicated, loyal employees who develop leading-edge solutions for customers. In 2010, SAS received more than 56,000 resumes and filled more than 700 positions. SAS recruiters develop position-related, competency-based questions and culture-fit questions that are based on the company’s values. Teamwork and collaboration are part of our daily life at SAS. In order to ensure a good fit with the team, candidates also participate in team interviews. This often gives candidates an even better picture of the corporate culture and offers a glimpse into life as a SAS employee. To ensure that employees take full advantage of their work experiences, SAS offers skills development, employee support, direct contact with managers, directors and the CEO as well as feedback surveys. As a result of our policies, we have a low staff turnover: US Turnover summary – 2010 US Staff Turnover 2010 2009 2008 Type Turnover number 144 112 200 Turnover percentage 3% 2% 4% By age group Gen Y (19-31) 14 17 26 Gen X (32-44) 63 45 84 Boomers (45-63) 54 40 77 Matures (64 and up) 13 10 13 By gender Female 54 53 99 Male 90 59 101 Note: The numbers differ from last year’s report, as we changed our methodology and data sources for calculating turnover and have updated the previous years in this table to be consistent with this year’s calculations. Diversity and Equal Opportunity As with applicants, it is the policy of SAS to provide Equal Employment Opportunity for all employees without regard to age, race, color, gender, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, citizenship, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, medical condition, veteran status, pregnancy or any other protected class as defined by federal, state or local law. SAS is committed to providing a professional and safe work environment where everyone is treated with dignity and respect. SAS does not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any kind, including sexual harassment, by managers, employees or any third parties. SAS strictly prohibits discriminatory practices, including sexual harassment. Harassment, whether verbal, written, physical or environmental, is unacceptable and will not be tolerated, whether it occurs in the workplace or at outside company or client-sponsored activities. Internal diversity initiatives Embracing global cultures: Established in 1995, SAS International Connection (SASIC) originated from a group of innovative SAS employees who collected their international talents to promote the various cultures represented at SAS, as well as serve as a cultural resource. SASIC is a group of SAS employees dedicated to fostering, supporting and promoting international issues at SAS. Its members strive to share their knowledge and expertise with fellow SAS employees and customers. SASIC provides international knowledge and expertise in a wide variety of areas, including languages and customs, etiquette and ethnicity. Its members work to foster mutual concern and understanding among people of different cultural backgrounds. In addition, each year SASIC organizes various interesting, educational and fun events to promote and educate its members about different cultures, languages, customs and more from around the world, such as:  Monthly luncheons at Triangle restaurants that offer various international or ethnic dishes.  Movies and videos.  Picnics.  Trips.  Holiday luncheons, where members bring dishes and/or wear traditional garments from their native country.  Foreign language groups that meet regularly to learn and practice.  Theme luncheons to discuss topics covering diverse customs, traditions and cultures in different countries. Any complaint brought forward will be investigated and resolved appropriately. All employees are obligated to report all perceived incidents of harassment or discrimination, regardless of the position of the alleged offender. In 2010, there were zero reports or incidents of harassment or discrimination. SAS draws strength from the unique talents and abilities of a diverse workforce and commits to creating a safe environment where the best workers do their best work. It is SAS policy to foster an environment characterized by respect for lifestyle, cultural and ethnic differences. This policy is put into action through a variety of internal initiatives, community outreach programs and scholarship opportunities. SAS values diversity, not because it is legally required, but because it makes good business sense. The best products and services come from a workplace where varying viewpoints are welcomed and encouraged. The Women’s Initiative Network (WIN), launched in January 2010, is a community of SAS employees who empower, encourage and inspire women to pursue excellence in their careers and fulfillment in their personal lives. The mission of WIN is to foster a global community across SAS to:  Develop leadership capabilities among women workers.  Expand and strengthen internal and external professional networks and affiliation.  Showcase SAS thought leaders and expose participants to external visionaries.  Contribute to community efforts to attract young women to careers in science and technology. By sharing time, expertise and passion with those beyond the walls of SAS, they act as ambassadors for the corporation and for careers in science and technology. The Cary headquarters location has a membership of approximately 60 members, and the online membership, which includes regional and global participation, is more than 400 members. The group’s activities have included:  Lunch-n-learns with SAS leaders: Agile Career Development and What Does Innovation Look Like?  Industry thought leader events: “How to Perform Like a Rock Star” by Orna Drawas.  Networking events: Building Relationships Across SAS – an event in SAS’ new state of the art building to network with both SAS peers and executives.  Community events – partnering with The Science House at North Carolina State University to promote science and math to middle school and high school female students; group participation in the Race for the Cure. Training and employment for individuals with autism: SAS food service operations employs six autistic employees.  F.A.S.T. (Food And Service Training): Students from Wake Tech and Wake County Schools. These students receive credit for their Occupational Course of Study for graduation. Fifty-five students from nine schools participated in 2010.  SUCCEED: Adult students with developmental disabilities from the Compensatory Education Program through Wake Tech. These students need work experience that will help them find a full-time job. SAS employed eight students in 2010.  TEACCH (Treatment and Education of Autistic and Communication related handicapped Children) is an employment supported program through the University of North Carolina to help individuals with autism. SAS employed seven employees in this program in 2010. In 2008, SAS initiated the R3 program, which exemplifies our commitment to “Recognize, Recruit and Retain” women and minorities in various professional arenas. Affirmative outreach has proven to be an invaluable tool in creating an inclusive environment and helps us prepare the future workforce. In additional to developing core technical skills, we hope to provide our students with the richest experience possible and also provide personal and professional development. Students work with mentors and are able to work on challenging projects that provide the knowledge and skills needed to be successful in a global marketplace. The goal of the program is to create a career pathway leading to employment with SAS for the successful student. Students in the R3 program receive not only core skills training, but professional development and mentorship as well. In May 2010, the program had 17 returning students and four new students. Skills Development Ongoing training and professional development enables employees to succeed at their current jobs and to branch out and apply their talents in new ways. SAS has a variety of organizations dedicated to training employees in various areas, such as:  Leadership development.  Sales training.  Technical training.  Interpersonal development. Offerings include instructor-led classroom training, self-directed e-learning, Live Web training, coaching and other employee-focused offerings. These options help employees meet their work-related challenges and career-progression goals and prepare for future organizational needs. The company also offers ethics courses to help employees understand applicable rules and regulations to preserve the company's integrity, reputation, and the trust and confidence of customers, suppliers, business partners and the public. Other professional development opportunities are less structured, such as words@SAS, a recurring series of SAS Wide Web (intranet) articles focused on how to improve terminology management at SAS. 61 percent of fulland part-time employees took some type of professional training. Of the full-time employees who took training, the average time spent in training was 23 hours. Part-time employees who took training spent an average of nine hours in training. Counting all employees, the average number of hours of training per employee is 14 for full-time and five for part-time. The total professional training hours for 2010 was over 82,000. Training Highlights Training Breakdown Classroom 87% Webcast and video 8% E-learning 4% Reading material 1% SAS takes a three-tier approach to developing our leaders – both current and emerging. In 2010, there were 30 offerings with 992 participants. Management Fundamentals Program (MFP) This program is designed for our new managers or those managers who would like to refresh themselves on the basics of management. MFP is a blended learning and development opportunity that provides managers with the critical knowledge and abilities essential to handle the normal day-to-day function of being a people manager. Employees practice new behaviors and skills, establish and build peer relationships while constructing a new mindset for being, and developing as, a manager. The result is an improved ability to navigate across the business toward cross-functional and more strategic goals. The Leadership Challenge (TLC) This program is for our general SAS leadership population. TLC is a two-day experiential workshop focusing on how SAS leaders motivate others to want to get extraordinary things done. Our goal is to teach leaders about five practices to transform values into actions, visions into realities, obstacles into innovations, separateness into solidarity, and risks into rewards. Leadership and Energy for Performance (LE4P) This program is targeted to higher-level leaders and teaches leaders how to enhance/manage their physical, emotional, mental and purposeful energy to more effectively lead themselves and others. This 90-day program begins with five days of facilitated coursework, discussion, feedback and introspection combining two researchbased programs: the Corporate Athlete Course and The Leadership Challenge. The reminder of the 90 days is spent in biweekly classes, seminars, participant-led discussion groups and/or exercise classes in order to focus on expanding and managing personal energy and increasing the frequency of specific leadership behaviors. Our goal is to provide our leaders with a habit-forming model that can be used for repeatable results, continuous personal growth and consistent leadership enhancement. SAS Global Career Framework In 2010, SAS began the development and implementation of a comprehensive career development program called the SAS Global Career Framework. The framework was created in response to employees’ desire to have greater visibility to career paths and opportunities for development. It provides a structured approach to career development. The Global Career Framework is comprised of three components:  Infrastructure provides the basic foundation – transparency in the levels of jobs at SAS and consistency internationally and across business units. Central to the infrastructure are career ladders, which help employees understand what job opportunities exist within the company and what path is necessary for them to take in order to get there.  Assessment provides support to SAS managers in understanding their organizations’ current skills and competencies, as well as how individuals and their organization are performing. It can also help highlight gaps and help managers better understand how to meet the current and future needs of business.  Development provides the tools and resources that support managers in developing skills and competencies in individuals and teams. SAS provides user-friendly tools that employees and managers can use to chart career aspirations. Health and Safety The health and safety of our employees is paramount to our success. SAS seeks to provide a safe workplace environment for its employees. It complies with all applicable federal, state and local laws regarding safe work practices and working environment. The Security and Safety departments investigate any incidents that pose a danger to company employees or third parties and take measures to reduce or eliminate these hazards. The Risk Management Department provides additional training and resources to help identify and prevent similar incidents from causing injury or damage to individuals or property and also seeks reimbursement for loss or damage whenever possible. To prevent work-related injuries, SAS educates employees about how to fit the tools and equipment at each work site to the needs of the employee. Ergonomic staff (through the Risk Management Department) are trained to make individual work site analyses and provide specific suggestions for improving an employee’s work environment. Health Care Center staff are equipped to evaluate and treat specific complaints whether or not they are workrelated. The Safe Work Skills Program addresses labor-intensive employee groups in the workplace (i.e., employees who frequently lift and bend as a requirement of their jobs). Annual attendance is required and includes an educational class on safe lifting, a healthy-back class where these skills are practiced safely in the actual work areas, and an ergo-safety site survey with subsequent meetings between employees and management to surface concerns. Injuries/Lost Days 2010 2009 Employee numbers 5,804 5,566 Compensation claims 18 = .003 percent 33 = .006 percent Lost working days 407 314 In 2010, US operations had 18 workers’ compensation claims following injury-related incidences. The rate of compensation claims was 18 out of 5,804 US employees, or .003 percent. Among those claims, eight resulted in a total of 407 lost days Surveys SAS conducted two surveys, one gauging employees’ feelings on internal communications resulting in 85 percent of those surveyed agreeing that executives communicate openly. This is up from 69 percent from 2009. The second survey, related to several questions around employee satisfaction in areas such as trust, camaraderie and respect. Scores were 91 percent and above in all areas, contributing to SAS being No. 1 on the Fortune Best Companies to Work For list in the US. SAS joins WEF Workplace Wellness Alliance At the end of 2010, SAS announced its intention to join the World Economic Forum (WEF) Workplace Wellness Alliance, a consortium of global CEOs dedicated to measuring the link between employee wellness, engagement and productivity. The Alliance will standardize a set of common metrics and launch an online knowledge-sharing platform. It will enable employees to achieve their full potential while making optimum contributions to business growth and success. SAS is a long-standing WEF partner, and SAS CEO Jim Goodnight an active contributor to WEF debates. Environment Stewardship for today, preservation for tomorrow Overview 2010 Solar Farms Renewable Energy Generation SAS strives to be a leader in environmental sustainability. From U.S. headquarters to our offices around the world, SAS is committed to making a difference. This year saw the installation of new solar arrays, completion of a new cloud computing facility designed to responsibly expand computing capacity and achieve high-level Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification from the US Green Building Council, and continued efforts to manage water consumption, waste and energy efficiency intelligently. Highlights from 2010 at Cary, NC world headquarters included:  Activation of Solar Farm II, a 1.2 megawatt addition to our solar farms.  Installation of building rooftop solar thermal hot water system.  Completion of reclaimed water line from the local utility to data center cooling towers.  Almost doubling the amount of operational waste diverted from landfills.  Diverting 81 percent of new construction and major renovation waste from landfills.  Registration of three buildings striving for LEED certification.  Addition of numerous environmentally-friendly and energy efficient technologies in new and existing buildings. In addition to employing various sustainability measures at the Cary world headquarters and global operations, SAS takes pride in supporting environmental education and awareness efforts. We regularly engage employees and the communities where we operate with active dialogue about the environment. In 2010, SAS supported numerous environmental speaking engagements, visits to the SAS solar farms, companywide Earth Day celebrations, featured articles posted on the internal green website, published white papers and webcasts. By engaging with customers, employees, industry leaders and world leaders, SAS seeks to extend the reach of our sustainability initiatives. SAS did not receive any sanctions or fines in 2010 for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations in the United States. Green Buildings This year, SAS completed a new 38,660-square-foot cloud computing facility at our Cary, NC world headquarters. The building was designed with highly efficient mechanical and electrical systems, including a cooling system that will use reclaimed water and water-side economizers that allow for heat removal without utilizing the building chillers. Over the past decade, the challenge of delivering timely information in support of enterprise analytics has increased exponentially. The deployment of additional computing and storage solutions, combined with IT globalization at corporate headquarters, has increased demand for energy and data center space. Existing facilities were reaching capacity and could not be efficiently expanded to maintain the high-level support expected by our customers. The solution was to design and construct a dedicated computing facility, emphasizing efficiency, flexibility and sustainability. Collaboration with industry-recognized engineering experts has put us on a successful path to achieve LEED certification. Cary headquarters highlights from 2010 included:  Expected energy consumption reduction of 32.8 percent.  When fully utilized, annual savings of 6.8 million kilowatt hours are anticipated.  Expected 30 percent water reduction from high-efficiency mechanical systems and 40.2 percent reduction in ancillary use from low-flow technologies.  20.9 percent of the building’s materials have been manufactured from recycled content.  Flywheel system eliminates battery replacement and yields lower cost of ownership compared to UPS battery systems.  Construction of facility achieved 75.2 percent waste diversion from landfill.  Old-growth trees adjacent to building were saved by making use of soil nailing system that allowed embankment cuts without excessive disruption to environment.  Annual energy savings are equivalent to a reduction of 3,600 CO2e tonnes. The new data center provides opportunities to use robust measurements to make proactive IT selection decisions – minimizing IT inefficiencies. With the completion of the new facility, we were able to retire an older, less efficient data center and utilize this space to meet demand for additional employee offices. We were also able to consolidate IT equipment in other locations and ultimately retire 20 percent of our IT assets. The construction of a new office building, also designed to achieve LEED certification, will house an Executive Briefing Center to be completed in early 2011. This building is designed to help conserve water and energy, by employing features such as a rainwater capture system that provides water for restrooms, thermal slab floor cooling, radiant floor heating, regenerative drive elevators and solar-generated hot water and electricity. With approximately 280,000 square feet, this building will house 690 offices, two auditoria, meeting rooms and a fullservice cafeteria. Through December, 82 percent of construction waste was diverted from landfill and recycled. We replaced the roof on our largest building at Cary, NC world headquarters (386,225 square feet) with a white reflective membrane. White rooftops reflect sunlight, which reduces heat transfer to the building and minimizes cooling load. The new roof has greater insulation, which will help to reduce energy consumption for the building. The roof replacement generated 4.92 tons of debris, of which 79 percent was recycled. SAS is also embracing LEED guidelines for remodeling and retrofit of existing buildings. Since LEED design is currently recognized only in the US and Canada, SAS offices in other countries are working to incorporate country-specific best practices and pursue equivalent certifications for new construction projects and maintenance of existing buildings. 2010 Highlights 2010 Goals Performance Highlights 2011 Goals Continue to apply LEED best Completed construction of 38,660-square Achieve LEED New practices on construction of foot cloud computing facility: Construction Building C and cloud  Construction of facility achieved 75 percent certification for computing facility in 2010. waste diversion from landfill. cloud computing facility. Achieve LEED certification  Expected energy consumption reduction of for the two new SAS 32.8 percent. Achieve LEED New buildings, under construction,  Expected 30 percent water reduction from Construction by 2011. high-efficiency mechanical systems and certification 40.2 percent reduction in ancillary use from Building C. Maintain Q1 2011 completion low-flow technologies. date for environmentally 20.9 percent of the building’s materials friendly constructed office have been manufactured from recycled building. content. Continued on-target construction schedule for 280,000-square-foot office building, which will provide employee offices, cafeteria and Executive Briefing Center space. To date, 82 percent of waste from Building C has been diverted from landfill. Review the Strategic US SAS continues to proactively maintain, Headquarters Plan annually repair and retrofit existing facilities to best and continue to incorporate practice guidelines recommended by the LEED principals to US Green Building Council. (See goals for operational procedures existing building LEED certifications) Baseline at least one existing SAS completed evaluation of existing Register five owned building for consideration of building at US headquarters and is facilities for EBOM LEED certification. pursuing LEED Existing Building: certification. Operations and Maintenance (EBOM) Register existing building for certification. Register two nonLEED Existing Building: US offices for Operations and Maintenance Registered existing building for EBOM EBOM certification. (EBOM) certification certification. Water SAS' 900-acre campus in Cary used 117,763 cubic meters of municipal water and approximately 51,292 cubic meters of ground water from 15 wells in 2010. For 13 other owned facilities worldwide, SAS used 53,381 cubic meters of municipal water in 2010. 2010 Highlights 2010 Goals Performance Highlights 2011 Goals Implement a Strategic Renovated nine restrooms in Renovate 12 restrooms in major Campus Plan major office buildings at Cary office buildings at Cary headquarters directive for campus headquarters with lowwith low-flow technologies. retrofitting existing flow technologies. bathrooms with lowflow plumbing. Install plumbing Completed installation of Supplant 5 million gallons of potable infrastructure to reclaimed water line to cloud water to cloud computing facility connect water utility’s computing facility. The building cooling towers with reclaimed water. reclaimed water line will eventually use up to 20 million to at least one gallons of reclaimed water in its Connect reclaimed water line to building in 2010. cooling towers annually. additional building on campus. Projected annual usage of 11 million gallons. Implement a Completed installation of Report water capture and building rainwater capture rainwater capture system for use for system. system for one office office building at SAS world building at SAS world headquarters. headquarters. Replace two antiquated building cooling towers with higher-efficiency models designed to use less water and accept reclaimed water as alternative. Water Consumption, Cubic Meters Source 2009 2010 Variance Percent US Ground Water 39,600 51,292 11,692 30% US Municipal Water 142,471 151,438 8,967 6% US Reclaimed Water 62 175 113 182% Global Offices 71,866 83,525 11,659 16% Municipal Water Global Rainwater 954 1,003 49 5% 2010 Highlights 2010 Goals Performance Highlights 2011 Goals Capture & Reuse Global Surface 151 151 0 0% Water Totals 255,104 287,585 32,481 13% Increased consumption in 2010 attributed to:  Added 38,660-square feet of building space to Cary headquarters.  SAS added office space following the acquisitions of MEMEX and VSTI.  Construction of new building and establishing new landscaping.  Added 165 new employees at Cary headquarters.  Expanded cooling needs for increased data center capacity in new and existing facilities. Major water conservation initiatives began or expanded in 2010 included:  Completion of reclaimed water line from the local utility to the new data center in Cary’s Building D. The building will eventually use up to 20 million gallons of reclaimed water in its cooling towers annually. When the water line is connected to the cooling towers at Building R, another 11 million gallons of reclaimed water will be put to use.  Renovated nine bathrooms with low-flow plumbing technologies.  Installed rainwater capture system in new building at Cary campus headquarters. The system uses two 20,000gallon cisterns to collect rainwater from the building roof. Rainwater capture is UV disinfected and used to supply non-potable water to the low-flow bathroom flushing fixtures. Using reclaimed water and rain water reduces our impact on local reservoirs and minimizes the amount of energy needed by the water utility to treat waste water to potable quality. Energy and Emissions SAS continues to be innovative in energy efficiency. This year, we installed thermal slab floor cooling and radiant floor heating in the new Executive Briefing Center, which will open in 2011. Thermal slab floor cooling uses water cooled in off-peak hours by building chillers to help maximize air conditioning efficiencies. The cooled water runs through pipes in concrete slabs to help cool the building during the day and minimize electricity use when rates are highest. The radiant flood heating system is situated in a building with large atrium space to maintain heat near occupants at the floor and reduce heat loss through the roof. This system maintains occupant comfort and minimizes heating required in open areas. SAS continues to implement LEED guidelines and best practices in the pursuit of formal certification for new and existing buildings, as well as leased and owned office renovations. SAS has expanded use of energyefficient lighting technologies such as LED, fluorescent and metal halides. This year also saw the completion of our second solar farm on the company’s campus. Solar Farm II – situated on approximately seven acres adjacent to the first five-acre farm – has a 1.2-MW capacity and will produce an estimated 1.9 million kWh each year. It comprises 5,236 ground-mounted photovoltaic (PV) panels. The system incorporates a RayTracker tracking system that rotates the assembly for maximum sun exposure, increasing energy capture by up to 25 percent over fixed systems and reducing acreage requirements. No trees were cut down to build the farm, and we eliminated the need for concrete support by driving steel posts into compacted soil. To maintain the grass under the panels, sheep inhabit the 12 acres to keep them manicured and fertilized. 2010 Highlights 2010 Goals Performance Highlights 2011 Goals Install an additional Activated a 1.2-megawatt capacity Install an additional 1.0 1.2 megawatts of solar array at world headquarters (Solar megawatt of solar photovoltaic solar photovoltaic Farm II/August 2010) that produces an capacity to the existing solar capacity to the additional 1.9 million kilowatt-hours farm. existing solar farm. (kWh) of renewable energy. Combined with the 2009 Solar Farm 1, the arrays generate more than 3.6 million kWh annually. Install at least one Began installation of rooftop Complete installation and solar photovoltaic photovoltaic (PV) system for one office activation of solar PV rooftop system on an office building on Cary headquarters. system. building rooftop. Installation completed early 2011. Install solar PV system on one additional building rooftop at Cary headquarters. Install solar thermal hot water system for one additional campus building. Install at least two electric vehicle charging stations. Purchase plug-in electric vehicles for fleet operations in 2012. Deploy custom energy scorecards and dashboards to all globally owned offices. Decommission approximately 7,000 square feet of older, less efficient data center space and consolidate services in cloud computing facility. Region 2009 2010 Variance 2010 Contribution Asia Pacific 32,436 30,777 -5% 6% Canada 7,720 7,808 1% 2% EMEA 97,424 104,931 8% 21% Latin America 3,083 3,083 0% 1% US Data Center 89,397 94,995 6% 19% United States, 234,167 264,685 13% 52% excludes Data Center All Regions 464,228 506,280 In 2010, SAS consumed 150,457 GJ of energy, compared to 127,632 GJ in 2009 for direct fuels used in support of global fleet and building operations. Electricity efficiency – SAS headquarters 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Kilowatt Hours (kWh) 61,238,828 57,890,219 55,652,476 53,408,077 50,877,744 Revenue (US $Billion) $2.43 $2.31 $2.26 $2.15 $1.90 kWh Growth 4.0 4.0 4.2 5.0 2.7 percent percent percent percent percent Efficiency: $ Earned Per 1 39.7 39.9 40.61 40.26 37.34 kWh Efficiency: kWh Consumed 0.025 0.025 0.025 0.025 0.027 Per $1 Earned Managing Greenhouse Gas Emissions SAS completed the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain questionnaire related to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory and related climate change management in response to customer requests. SAS' overall score was 65 out of 100, up from 56 last year and well above the average of 45. Global Emissions Summary, CO2e T 2009 2010 2010 Source Variance Contributions Contributions Contribution Scope Scope Scope Scope Scope Scope 2009 2010 1 2 1 2 1 2 Asia Pacific 1 6,528 1 6,162 17% 6% 6,529 6,163 Canada 122 286 99 314 19% -10% 408 413 EMEA 2,745 5,527 3,017 6,037 -10% -9% 8,272 9,055 Latin America 0 177 0 177 0% 0% 177 177 US Data Center 0 15,548 0 15,722 0% -1% 15,548 15,722 United States, 5,525 19,899 7,187 21,676 -30% -9% 25,424 28,864 excludes data center Totals 8,394 47,963 10,305 50,088 -23% -4% 56,357 60,392 Waste 2010 Highlights 2010 Goals Performance Highlights 2011 Goals Continue working to establish Established program to track Expand program to measure a waste management waste and recycling volumes for globally owned offices. baseline. Cary headquarters. Expand the Eco Advocate SAS expanded the Eco Expand participation to US program to incorporate a Advocate program to include regional and global offices. sponsored volunteer volunteer options outside of philanthropy program. SAS business. Set reduction targets and Continued to establish and Increase volume of materials report on performance for expand material volumes diverted from landfill by 10 SAS headquarters. included in baseline for waste percent. management program. Conduct intensive recycling effort at Cary headquarters to “clean house” prior to opening of new building. Add two new initiatives to increase recycling options for Eco Advocates. Develop reporting to measure waste by building. As in 2009 and detailed below, SAS continued investment in Waste Management Program initiatives to reduce waste and encourage recycling at its facilities. Overall volumes for recycling increased in 2010 due to an increased focus on the treatment of operational and construction waste, a campus-wide cleanup to prepare for the 2011 opening of Building C, increased participation from the Eco Advocate employee volunteer program, and employee awareness campaigns.  41 percent of total waste volume at campus headquarters was recycled in 2010, up from 22 percent in 2009. 100 percent of e-waste achieved materials increased by over 200,000 lbs. Cardoard recycling increased by 567,000 lbs. Recycling of books and paper increased by 250 percent from 2009.  81 percent of waste volume for new construction and major renovation projects at Cary headquarters was diverted from landfill Construction totals for Building D – 75 percent recycled. Construction totals for Building C – 82 percent recycled. Completed replacement of office building roof renovation project with white reflective membrane. Rooftop replacement generated 4.92 tons of debris, 79 percent of which was recycled. Waste Disposal Type and Percent Percent 2010-2009 Percent Disposal 2009 lbs 2010 lbs of Total of Total Variance Variance Method Operational 461,422 22% 1,321,434 41% 860,012 186% waste recycled Operational 1,538,880 74% 1,818,981 57% 280,101 18% waste sent to landfill Waste mulched 80,950 4% 56,370 2% -24,580 -30% & composted While procurement and environmental education are not material issues this year for SAS, we have continued efforts to determine a baseline for eco-friendly procurement and aim to increase volume of green material procurement by 10 percent. SAS takes pride in its education and awareness efforts on environmental issues. We engaged in a yearlong campaign of education and communication through speaking engagements, visits to the SAS solar farms, a companywide event for Earth Day, featured articles posted on the internal green website, published white papers and webcasts.
