Annual Report 2011 Schiphol Group Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 1 Contents 18 Doing business in a complex environment p. 32 SWOT p. 34 Strategic objectives Facts and figures 4 p. 2011 Highlights 7 38 Our performance in 2011 p. Foreword 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 10 Report of the Management Board 16 p. 38 Financial performance p. 65 Environment Doing business in a complex environment 18 SWOT 32 p. 44 Competitive position p. 71 Accessibility Strategic objectives 34 p. 49 Operating capacity p. 71 Safety and security Our performance in 2011 38 p. 56 Socio-economic capacity p. 74 Human Resources Outlook 79 p. 57 Commercial development Corporate Governance & Compliance 88 80 Aviation p. Corporate Governance 90 The Board and Management 92 82 Consumer Products & Services p. Remuneration report 96 Risk management 100 84 Real Estate p. Shareholder information 106 Organisation of Corporate Responsibility 107 86 Alliances & Participations p. Operational and socio-economic statements 108 Financial Statements 134 2 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 3 Facts and figures Financial figures Revenue Operating result EUR million EUR million 2011 1,278 2011 304 Traffic volume 2010 1,180 2010 297 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven Airport combined EBITDA RONA after tax EUR million (in %) 2011 53,522 2011 1,523,806 2011 453,613 2011 512 2011 5.7 Passengers Cargo volume Air transport movements 2010 483 2010 5.9 x 1,000 2010 48,324 in tonnes 2010 1,512,256 2010 415,883 2009 46,246 2009 1,286,372 2009 418,742 2008 50,074 2008 1,567,727 2008 457,074 Earnings per share Dividend per share 2007 50,432 2007 1,610,282 2007 465,686 in EUR in EUR 2011 1,045 2011 524 Key figures 2010 908 2010 409 2011 2009 710 2009 347 EUR million unless stated otherwise 2010 % 2008 1,083 2008 371 2007 1,844 2007 543 Results Revenue 1,278 1,180 8.3 Result on sale of investment property 1 Fair value gains on investment property –1 22 – 974 Operating expenses Operating result 304 – 906 297 7.5 2.5 Business area information Result before tax 249 239 4.3 Results attributable to shareholders (net result) 194 169 15.1 Revenue Operating result Investments EUR million (in %) EUR million (in %) EUR million (in %) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 208 186 11.4 EBITDA 1) 512 483 6.0 8 7 11 16 Capital expenditure (investments in property, plant and equipment) 263 248 6.2 11 13 Cash flow from operating activities 387 351 10.5 57 Proposed dividend 97 76 27.9 11 1,278 24 304 263 Ratios 24 RONA after tax 2) 5.7% 5.9% 49 69 Return on equity (ROE) 3) 6.2% 5.6% Aviation Consumer Products & Services Real Estate Alliances & Participations Leverage 4) 37.9% 37.2% FFO/total debt 5) 18.5% 17.0% FFO interest coverage ratio 6) 4.5 3.8 Earnings per share 7) 1,045 908 Aviation Consumer Products & Services RONA after tax (in %) RONA after tax (in %) Business volume (in numbers) 2011 1.8 2011 44.9 Air transport movements 8) 453,613 415,883 9.1 Passenger movements (x 1,000) 8) 53,522 48,324 10.8 2010 1.7 2010 41.5 Cargo volume (x 1,000 tonnes) 8) 1,524 1,512 0.8 Average workforce in full-time equivalents 2,115 2,328 – 9.1 Real Estate Alliances & Participations 1) Operating result plus depreciation, amortisation and impairment 5) Funds from operations (cash flow from operating activities before changes RONA after tax (in %) RONA after tax (in %) 2) Operating result after tax plus share in results of associates and interest income / in working capital) / interest-bearing debt (average non-current assets minus deferred tax assets) 6) Funds from operations plus gross interest expense / gross interest expense 2011 3.5 2011 8.0 3) Net result attributable to shareholders / average total equity 7) Based on net result attributable to shareholders. 4) Leverage: interest-bearing debt / (total equity + interest-bearing debt) 8) Schiphol Group: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, Rotterdam The Hague Airport 2010 4.8 2010 8.0 and Eindhoven Airport 4 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 5 Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue EUR 734 million Aviation (+7.2% vs ‘10) EUR 734 million (+7.2% EUR 734vsmillion ‘10) The business area Aviation operates at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Operating ‘10) result EUR 734vsmillion (+7.2% It provides services and facilities to airlines, passengers and handling (+7.2% vs ‘10) Operating result agents. The Netherlands Competition Authority (NMa) regulates Operating result the charges levied. Operating EUR 49 million result (+9.1% vs ‘10) EUR 49 million Sources of revenue: Airport charges (aircraft, passenger and security (+9.1% vs ‘10) EUR 49 million EUR 49 million (+9.1% vs ‘10) charges) and concession fees (paid by oil companies for the right to (+9.1% vs ‘10) provide aircraft refuelling services). Revenue Revenue Consumer Products & Services Revenue Revenue EUR 340 million (+13.6% vs ‘10) The activities of the business area Consumer Products & Services EUR 340 million comprise developing, granting and managing concessions for shops, (+13.6% EUR vs ‘10) 340 million Operating vs ‘10) result EUR 340 million (+13.6% catering outlets, services and entertainment, operating shops and (+13.6% vs ‘10) car parks, and marketing advertising opportunities at Amsterdam Operating result Operating result Airport Schiphol. In addition, through the Privium programme and EUR 148 million result Operating the VIP centre, we offer services to the category known as ‘premium (+11.3% vs ‘10) EUR 148 million passengers’. (+11.3% EUR vs ‘10) 148 million EUR 148 million (+11.3% vs ‘10) (+11.3% vs ‘10) Sources of revenue: Retail sales, concession fees, parking fees, rentals, advertising & media and other fees, and management fees. Revenue 2011 Highlights Revenue Revenue Real Estate Revenue EUR 172 million (-1.0% vs ‘10) The business area Real Estate develops, manages, operates and invests EUR 172 million (-1.0% EUR 172vsmillion ‘10) in property at and around domestic and foreign airports. The property Operating ‘10) result EUR 172vsmillion (-1.0% portfolio consists of operational and commercial property, of which (-1.0% vs ‘10) Passenger numbers at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol grew by 10% in 2011, reaching Operating result the majority is located at and around Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Operating result a record of nearly 50 million, as the number of destinations rose from 301 to 313. EUR 72 million result Operating (-25.2% vs ‘10) As we are now approaching the limits of the capacity in the terminal, of piers and of Sources of revenue: The major source of revenue is the development EUR 72 million aircraft stands, intensive discussions have been held with the airlines and governmental and leasing of buildings and property. In addition, revenue is generated (-25.2% EUR vs ‘10) 72 million parties over the past year to determine the modifications and expansions at Mainport EUR 72 million (-25.2% vs ‘10) through the lease of land and the sale of property and buildings. (-25.2% vs ‘10) Schiphol necessary to safeguard its international position. It is in line with these discussions that the joint 2025 Master Plan is being drawn up: an investment programme for the creation of additional operating capacity necessary to solve current problem areas and to improve the quality of the airport and its processes. Revenue Alliances & Participations Revenue Despite the economic uncertainty and the continued decline of consumer The business area Alliances & Participations consists of Schiphol Group’s Revenue confidence in 2011, our commercial activities have contributed significantly to Revenue EUR 164 million interests in airports abroad, domestic airports and other activities, (+11.6% vs ‘10) our total result. including Schiphol Telematics and Utilities. EUR 164 million (+11.6% EUR vs ‘10) 164 million Operating vs ‘10) result EUR 164 million (+11.6% Whereas the Dutch real estate sector is facing decreased revenues and increasing Sources of revenue: The airports abroad contribute to revenue through (+11.6% vs ‘10) vacancy rates, our rental levels have remained stable and the occupancy level of Operating result management, performance and intellectual property fees. Furthermore, Operating result our portfolio has risen to nearly 90%. they contribute to the net result with a share of the result from Operating EUR 35 million result (+55.8% vs ‘10) associates, dividend and interest income. The domestic airports EUR 35 million Our three regional airports and our international associates have performed well. contribute to revenue for the most part through airport charges (+55.8% EUR vs ‘10) 35 million EUR 35 million (+55.8% vs ‘10) and parking charges. Schiphol Telematics supplies telecom services to (+55.8% vs ‘10) Robust financial performance has once again enabled us to accommodate our financing companies. The Utility activities generate revenue from the transport needs for the next 18 months, as well as significantly reduce refinancing risks. of electricity and gas and from the supply of water. 6 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 7 Foreword Foreword 2011 was a good year for Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Our network of destinations expanded, mainly thanks to Improving efficiency and providing the sector with Nevertheless, 2012 will not be marked by stagnation. Thanks to the airlines flying to and from Amsterdam the efforts of Air France-KLM and its SkyTeam partners. added value will ensure our competitive position. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is now at an important With 313 direct connections (301 in 2010), Amsterdam This requires offering competitive rates. Following crossroad. We must safeguard the capacity and quality Airport Schiphol, we welcomed close to 50 million Airport Schiphol is one of Europe’s market leaders. the statutory consultations with the airlines, our rates of our airport in the long term in order to facilitate passengers. This represents the highest number of for 2012 will increase to a level that will safeguard future growth and continue to serve airlines with passengers in our 95-year history. In 2011, passenger Amsterdam is now directly connected with eight our competitive position. This increase is mainly related optimal efficiency in the next ten to fifteen years. passenger destinations in China and Taiwan. to the 70MB baggage system becoming operational. Under current conditions, capacity is already strained numbers grew by 10%. As a result, Amsterdam Airport The Netherlands also has direct connections with The rates rose by 0.6% in 2011. during peak periods. If Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Schiphol was able to strengthen its European other rapidly growing economies such as Brazil, fails to act, other hubs in Europe and the Gulf states market position. a development that clearly strengthens our national Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is committed to maximising will eat into our market share, and the Netherlands economic position. Direct connections with important the sustainability of its business operations. The interests will lose connections. Schiphol must be prepared for economic centres generate up to twenty times more of people, planet and profit are closely intertwined. the future. We intend to further strengthen the quality trade in comparison with indirect connections. New Amsterdam Airport Schiphol has integrated manageand capacity of our terminals and piers by implementing destinations added to our network in 2011 include ment in order to serve these threefold interests in a an investment programme in consultation with Xiamen, Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Aires, all flown coherent manner. This results in the use of integrated our partners. by SkyTeam. reporting methods, as reflected in this Annual Report. Financing the necessary investments will require a Thanks in part to transavia.com and easyJet, Efficient use of energy, responsible water use, waste great deal of careful planning. We must ensure that our European network also grew from 162 to recycling and sustainable construction are embedded investments remain affordable to our customers. 169 destinations. in our business operations. The completion of TransPort At the same time, we need to secure our financial has given us one of the most sustainable office buildings robustness and retain our A rating. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is Europe’s fourth largest in the Netherlands. airport in terms of passenger numbers and third largest We have no doubt that growth will resume in time and in terms of cargo volumes. However, our ambition is to In the wake of a successful 2011, the new year will be when that time comes, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol be and remain Europe’s preferred airport, rather than its characterised by some major challenges. Economic must be ready to welcome more passengers and process largest. We want to ensure that passengers, airlines and prospects are gloomy. This will affect both our customers greater cargo volumes. Schiphol is committed to a strong businesses regard Amsterdam Airport Schiphol as their and our own business. After six months of modest aviation sector, in terms of both quality and capacity. preferred option. This will require effective cooperation, growth, cargo volumes started to decline in the second Now and in the future. Together with the airlines and both within our own organisation and with our various half of 2011, especially on flights to and from Asia. other partners we shall make this goal a reality. external partners. We can only build a strong Mainport This is an important indicator of things to come. if we work together. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Jos Nijhuis collaborates closely with airlines and air traffic control We should not expect growth figures for 2012 to match President & CEO to achieve these objectives through various methods, those of 2011. Cargo volumes are expected to decline, such as Collaborative Decision-Making, which involves and passenger numbers will see modest growth. the sharing of operational information and continual optimisation of aircraft handling processes. 8 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 9 Report of the Supervisory Board Report of Board has consulted its stakeholders in drawing up the investment programme and examining its financial consequences. • T hrough its Audit Committee, the Supervisory Board discussed Schiphol Group’s internal and external risk management systems as well as the major risks facing the Supervisory Board Evaluation of the Aviation Act Realisation of the various components of the planned the Group. The Supervisory Board endorses and supports the internal risk management system as described on page 101 of this Annual Report. investment programme requires that Schiphol Group • Corporate Responsibility is an integral part of maintains its independent and robust financial position. Schiphol’s strategy. Consequently, Corporate Events in 2011 From a financial perspective, the airport charges play Schiphol Group would like to be in a position to carry Responsibility was again an important item on the an important role. As in previous years, the airport out long-term investments, but these investments can Supervisory Board’s agenda for 2011. Major emphasis The position of Schiphol Group in the long term was charges had the full attention of the Supervisory Board. only be funded if the organisation’s operations are was placed on the concrete objectives and the one of the key concerns of the Supervisory Board in The Management Board thoroughly prepared the two sufficiently profitable. The structure and content of reporting on relevant social aspects of business 2011. In this report, the Supervisory Board explains consultation procedures conducted in 2011 and discussed the Aviation Act, together with the related airport practice. The Supervisory Board is highly positive of how it exercised its supervision and supported the the proposals in detail with the Supervisory Board. charges framework, is the key to retaining this position. how Schiphol Group has positioned itself as a learning Management Board in an advisory role. The report These discussions included putting into service a large The Act is currently being evaluated and the organisation as regards the concept of Corporate also examines the major issues that attracted the portion of 70 MB, the baggage system that has become Management Board informs the Supervisory Board of Responsibility, as was evidenced by the cooperation Board’s involvement this year. indispensible for our transfer operation. the discussions taking place with stakeholders on with PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. in possible amendments to the Act. The Supervisory Board verifying the information in the annual report relating Strategic agenda and airport charges Master planning endorses the viewpoint of the Management Board to Corporate Responsibility as well as in its efforts In 2010 and 2011, Schiphol Group and KLM jointly In 2011, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol celebrated the that any future legislative amendments should not to establish a socially conscious corporate culture. commissioned a survey that examined, among other arrival of its one billionth passenger. The airport also compromise the healthy and independent position • To conclude, the Supervisory Board had several things, the market conditions in which both parties set a new record in the total number of passengers of Schiphol Group. meetings with the Management Board regarding operate. The results of the survey show that Schiphol passing through Schiphol on an annual basis. In order the relationship with the various Schiphol Group not only continues to benefit from having a good to safeguard Schiphol’s competitive position in the Other subjects shareholders. The subjects of these meetings cooperative relationship with its largest and most future – and hence that of the Dutch economy – the • In 2011 the Supervisory Board discussed and approved included the remuneration policy of the Management important customer, Air France-KLM and its partners, Management Board is working on an investment the 2012 budget and discussed the 2012-2016 Board and the participations policy of the Ministry but also from having a competitive network of programme, the 2025 Master Plan. The aim of this plan business plan. of Finance. destinations. The Supervisory Board took extensive is not only to create additional capacity, but also to • Strategy days were held in April and October during note of the results of the survey. Moreover, a delegation improve the quality of the airport and its processes. which the Supervisory Board and the Management Financial reporting from the Supervisory Board sat on a monitoring At a number of meetings held throughout 2011, the Board discussed Schiphol Group in a broader context Each month, the Supervisory Board received reports committee whose purpose was to discuss the survey Supervisory Board was informed in detail regarding the as well as relevant long-term developments. During from the Management Board that compared actual with KLM. The Supervisory Board applauds the fact concepts of the 2025 Master Plan, which will again be a a three-day trip to New York and Atlanta in April, the results with the 2011 corporate budget, the latest that, inspired by the survey, the Management Board major focus of attention in 2012. The Supervisory Board Supervisory Board learned about the developments estimate for 2011 and the figures for 2010. These collaborated with KLM to develop a strategic agenda supports the principle of capacity expansion and is positaking place at JFK IAT and about hub operations at reports were also discussed during joint meetings for the long term. tive regarding the manner in which the Management Atlanta International Airport. of both Boards. Subjects discussed in this context In addition to the preparation of the 2025 Master included the development of the company’s operating Plan, strategic subjects discussed in 2011 included the and commercial results and costs, the strong growth long-term strategy for Airside Retail at Amsterdam in traffic and transport figures and its impact on the Annual Report Airport Schiphol, talent and leadership development, budget, the development of profitability, and the The Supervisory Board is pleased to present the Annual Report accompanied by the financial statements for 2011. and the cooperative partnership with Aéroports funding and cash flow position. The Annual Report was drawn up by the Management Board. PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. have de Paris (HubLink). audited the financial statements and issued an unqualified audit opinion, which can be found on pages 245-246 of • The Supervisory Board also discussed and approved In 2011, a funding plan was drawn up to safeguard this report. The Audit Committee discussed the financial statements extensively with the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Schiphol Group’s revised international strategy. the company’s financing for the present and the and the external auditor. The Supervisory Board subsequently discussed the Annual Report with the Management The Supervisory Board supports the Management future, with a particular focus on timely and staggered Board in the presence of the external auditor. These discussions have convinced the Supervisory Board that this Board in its ambition to enter into cooperative refinancing. To this end, a new bond was issued in 2011 Annual Report meets all relevant rules and transparency requirements and that it provides a sound basis for our alliances with other airports, such as the partnerships with which a portion of two existing loans was Board’s supervisory accountability. with Aéroports de Paris and JFK IAT. Furthermore, repurchased, so that the term of the debt could be the Supervisory Board encourages cooperation with extended at more favourable conditions. 2011 also saw The Supervisory Board approves the financial statements and concurs with the Management Board’s proposal airports in growth markets, such as the partnership the renewal of the Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) to distribute a dividend of EUR 97 million on the issued share capital. After an addition to the revaluation reserve with Incheon Airport (South Korea). The Supervisory programme and approval by the Supervisory Board of amounting to EUR 1.8 million and a release from the other statutory reserves of EUR 2.9 million, the remaining Board also extensively discussed the possibilities of the renewal and expansion of the existing revolving portion of EUR 98.1 million will be added to the retained earnings. The financial statements will be put before the investing in Brazil, based on the assumption that any credit facility for a duration of five years. General Meeting of Shareholders for adoption on 18 April 2012. The Supervisory Board proposes that the business case proposed must be profitable for Schiphol Management Board be granted discharge in respect of the management carried out by them, that the Supervisory Group in the medium term. The Management Board In 2011, we looked closely at the effect of the trend Board be granted discharge for the supervision exercised and that the financial statements be adopted. also discussed these possibilities with the shareholders. in results, the balance sheet ratios and the financial position on the company’s creditworthiness. 10 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 11 Report of the Supervisory Board the terminal, airside and the Amsterdam Airport The Supervisory Board wishes to sincerely thank the Schiphol Fire Service. The continuing education of the Management Board and Schiphol Group’s employees entire Supervisory Board in 2011 included a working for their manifest commitment in 2011, both in airport visit to operations at JFK IAT and Atlanta International operations and in other areas of the company. Airport and a presentation given by Mr Riemens (LVNL) on the developments surrounding the regulation of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, 16 February 2012 Dutch and European air traffic control. The Supervisory Board With the exception of Mr Graff (who is also CEO of Anthony Ruys (Chairman) Aéroports de Paris), all members of the Supervisory Trude Maas de Brouwer (Vice-Chairperson) Board are independent within the meaning of the Jan Brouwer Corporate Governance Code. Mr Graff is a French Frans Cremers national while the other members are Dutch citizens. Pierre Graff Further personal details on each member of the Herman Hazewinkel Supervisory Board can be found on pages 92-93 Margot Scheltema of this Annual Report. Willem Stevens Evaluation In 2010 the Supervisory Board, assisted by external Meetings of the Supervisory Board consultants, performed an extensive evaluation of committees the Board and its individual members. Following the evaluation, an action list was drawn up for implemenAudit Committee ting the results. In 2011 this list was discussed in both The Audit Committee met four times in 2011. The Audit the central meetings of the Supervisory Board and Committee spoke at great length with the Management the committee meetings, and a number of its points Board and the external auditor about the 2010 financial were handled. By discussing the various actions, statements, the 2010 Annual Report, the 2011 interim the Supervisory Board was also able to evaluate report, the associated press releases and the 2011 its own performance in 2011 as well as that of the internal and external audit plan. The funding plan for In 2011 Schiphol improved its market share and offered 313 direct destinations flown by 103 airlines. committees. Part of these discussions was held in a 2010 and 2011 was discussed and approved by the closed meeting of the Board. In 2011, the Supervisory Supervisory Board. The Audit Committee examined the Board continued the constructive dialogue that began follow-up of recommendations issued by Ernst & Young in 2010 and again focused strongly on improving the LLP accountants in its report written in response to the quality of its meeting procedures. One of the points letter from Stichting Sobi. The policies on insur­ance and The Supervisory Board is pleased to note that in 2011 Internal affairs of the Supervisory Board on the action list was to shorten the maximum term taxes were also discussed. Finally, the Audit Committee we were able to retain the credit ratings awarded by of appointment of members of the Supervisory Board. devoted special attention to risk management and Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. Composition On 18 April 2011, the General Meeting of Shareholders pensions. In February and December 2011, the Audit As at the end of 2010, the Supervisory Board temporarily resolved to shorten that term from twelve to eight years. Committee held discussions with the external auditor There were no transactions during the year involving consisted of seven members. At the General Meeting of (PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.) conflicts of interest on the part of Management Board Shareholders held on 18 April 2011, Mr Brouwer was Meetings to which the members of the Board of Management members, Supervisory Board members, shareholders appointed to the Supervisory Board for four years. The Supervisory Board met six times in 2011. One of and/or internal auditors were not party. and/or the external auditor that were of material In selecting Mr Brouwer, the Supervisory Board sought those meetings comprised a three-day strategy session significance to the company and/or the relevant to complement its expertise matrix with a retail and in New York and Atlanta. The Management Board was Selection and Appointments Committee Management Board members, Supervisory Board marketing specialist. During the same meeting, always present at the meetings of the Supervisory Board. In May 2012 Mr Verboom will step down as CFO at the members, shareholders and/or external auditor. Mr Cremers was reappointed for a second term of four Both prior and subsequent to these meetings, the age of 62. In 2011, the Selection and Appointments years. The Supervisory Board based its nomination of Supervisory Board held private consultations. Sixteen Committee (including the chairman of the Audit Central Works Council Mr Cremers on his valuable contribution to the Board meetings were held by the different committees. Committee) prepared the selection of a successive In 2011, the Supervisory Board, Management Board in general and to the Audit Committee in particular. CFO over the course of three meetings. A profile has and Central Works Council (CWC) held discussions on the In the case of both decisions, the CWC was afforded an In addition to these meetings, the Chairman and other been drawn up and a number of candidates have reorganisation that commenced in 2009. The members opportunity to exercise its rights under the Works members of the Supervisory Board discussed issues been interviewed. During its meeting in April 2012, of the Supervisory Board attended all consultative Council Right to Speak Act. Following his appointment, with the Management Board on numerous occasions. the Supervisory Board intends to appoint the successful meetings between the management and the CWC. Mr Brouwer participated in the orientation programme The members of the Supervisory Board also liaised candidate to the post effective 1 May 2012. The Supervisory Board found all of these meetings to provided to new members of the Supervisory Board. with stakeholders from both within and outside The Selection and Appointments Committee has be constructive and informative. This programme includes a number of informative Schiphol Group on a number of occasions, of which also launched the procedure for filling the vacancy discussions with various persons at Schiphol. Mr Brouwer the above monitoring committee is a prime example. created with the departure of Mr Stevens taking effect was also given a tour of the various operational on the date of the General Meeting of Shareholders components of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, including on 18 April 2012. 12 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 13 Report of the Supervisory Board The committee liaises with the CWC regarding both positions. Finally, in 2011 the Selection and 6. Corporate Responsibility 5. Finance / accountancy / 11. Expertise on Amsterdam 10. Corporate governance Appointments Committee discussed succession planning with respect to the Management Board 9. Political and social 1. EU / Globalisation 4. Retail / e-Business 7. Marketing / Sales 8. Human resource and Schiphol Group’s Management Team. risk management and region Remuneration Committee 2. Aviation 3. Property management climate Schiphol The Remuneration Committee met four times in 2011. A detailed report of the activities of the Remuneration Committee and a further explanation of the remuneraSupervisory Year of birth Date of first tion policy are provided in the Remuneration Report on Board and nationality appointment page 96 of this Annual Report. A. Ruys 1947 (Chairman) Dutch 2006 • • • • Public Affairs & Corporate T. Maas de Brouwer 1946 Responsibility Committee (Vice-Chairperson) Dutch 2001 • • • • The Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee J. Brouwer 1955 met three times in 2011. The committee evaluated the Dutch 2011 • • • • newly introduced audit of Corporate Responsibility F. Cremers 1952 reporting in the Annual Report by an external auditor, Dutch 2006 • • • • and discussed the cultural change at Schiphol that is to 1947 firmly anchor Corporate Responsibility in all business P. Graff French 2009 • • • • units. In this connection, the members of the committee 1949 participated in the CR workshops organised for Schiphol H. Hazewinkel Dutch 2009 • • • • Group employees. In addition, the committee devoted 1954 attention to communication with stakeholders and to M. Scheltema Dutch 2010 • • • • the relationship with the Ministry of Finance and other 1938 state shareholdings. W. Stevens Dutch 2002 • • • • Meetings Number Composition Supervisory Board 6 The Supervisory Board’s appointments policy aims to Audit Committee 4 safeguard the complementary nature of its members, Remuneration Committee 4 especially as regards the knowledge areas listed in the Selection & Appointments Committee 5 Supervisory Board Profile (Appendix A to the Supervisory Board Regulations) that are relevant to Schiphol Group. Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee 3 The overview below indicates the knowledge areas represented by each Supervisory Director. The division Total 22 of knowledge areas as set out below will factor into the fulfilment of any new vacancies that arise. T. Maas de Brouwer J. Brouwer F. Cremers H. Hazewinkel M. Scheltema W. Stevens Audit Selection & Public Affairs & Corporate Supervisory Board Committee Remuneration Committee Appointments Committee Responsibility Committee A. Ruys P. Graff Supervisory Board attendance at Supervisory A. Ruys (Chairman) • (c) Board meetings in 2011 T. Maas de Brouwer (Vice-Chairperson) • • • (c) J. Brouwer Supervisory Board 6 6 3 (of 4) 4 4 6 6 5 F. Cremers • (c) • Audit Committee N/A N/A N/A 4 1 4 N/A 4 P. Graff • Remuneration Committee N/A 3 N/A 3 N/A 3 N/A N/A H. Hazewinkel • • (c) Selection & Appointments Committee 5 5 N/A 5 N/A N/A N/A 5 M. Scheltema • Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee N/A 3 N/A N/A N/A N/A 3 3 W. Stevens • • • (c) = Chairman Total 11 17 3 16 5 13 9 17 14 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 15 Schiphol Group Report of the Management Board 2011 16 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 17 Doing business in a complex environment Doing business in a complex environment Schiphol Group is an airport business, with Amsterdam Airport Schiphol as our main asset. We wish to create sustainable value for our stakeholders, who represent a diverse range of interests. Our core values of reliability, efficiency, hospitality, inspiration and sustainability play a central role in how we conduct our business. Schiphol Group is an airport operator, focusing in particular on AirportCities. A prime example of an AirportCity is Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, Europe’s fourth-largest airport in terms of passengers and third-largest in terms of cargo. Our mission is to link the Netherlands to important cities The way we do this is what makes Schiphol a successful another. One cannot exist without the other, authorities, handling agents, security companies, and regions in the world via the Mainport Schiphol. hub, now with 313 destinations and nearly 50 million and vice versa. customs and the Dutch Border Police (Koninklijke It is the aim of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol to be and passengers per year. Marechaussee). remain Europe’s preferred airport: the airport that is We also control three regional airports in the valued for its quality, capacity and extensive network We operate Schiphol as an AirportCity: a dynamic Netherlands – Rotterdam The Hague Airport, Eindhoven In our business operations and when making of destinations. We wish to serve airlines, handlers, environment providing its users with all the services they Airport and Lelystad Airport – all three of which have investments, we look for the added value for the entire passengers and businesses as efficiently as possible, need, 24 hours a day. Three business areas contribute to their own market strategy. By facilitating non-Mainport chain. This involves striking a constant balance between with a well-equipped airport and modern facilities. the formation of the AirportCity concept, with Aviation flights, they also ensure that we can grow. cost and quality. having the pivotal role. Aviation provides services to and Our investments in the baggage system, for example, facilitates airlines, passengers and handling agents. Our international focus is on better facilitating the have led to increased reliability and capacity within The Consumer Products & Services business area airlines that serve Schiphol by seeking to collaborate the handling process. Working conditions have also Mission (formerly Consumers) offers passengers a wide variety with the foreign airports important to them. This benefited as a result: the use of robots enables handling Connecting the Netherlands of products and services that facilitate worry-free and strengthens their competitive position, and as a result agents to organise their work differently, to ensure to important cities and comfortable travel. Lastly, Real Estate is responsible for ours as well. We collaborate closely with Aéroports ongoing compliance with stricter OH&S legislation. regions in the world spatial planning at and around Schiphol, issuing ground de Paris (with an 8% interest) and with Terminal 4 at leases and developing offices, new business premises JFK International Airport in New York, where our The introduction of the Self-Service Drop-Off Points and cargo buildings. participating interest is now 100%. We also have has enabled cost savings and increased check-in interests in Australia, Italy, Hong Kong, Austria, capacity within the current infrastructure. The main task of the aviation activities is to ensure Aruba and Sweden. In security services, too, we strive for an optimum passenger and cargo flows, as well as attracting balance between quality and efficiency. This involves businesses to Schiphol. The non-aviation activities Our business operations depend on the airlines, determining how many staff must be hired to reduce (Consumer Products & Services and Real Estate) in particular on our hub carrier Air France-KLM and processing and waiting times, and to prevent delays strengthen the bond with passengers, cargo handlers SkyTeam in terms of destinations. In addition, we also and missed connections. and businesses. Aviation and non-aviation activities are depend on air traffic control, the slot coordinator, a continuation of, complement and enhance one national, provincial and municipal government 18 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 19 Doing business in a complex environment security activities. Airport charges are regulated: they Business model At Schiphol we fulfill multiple roles • Alders Platform are specified in the Aviation Act and are meant to In our capacity as airport operator we are responsible • Schiphol Regional Consultative Committee (CROS) reflect a cost-related and transparent pricing schedule. for the safety and reliability of the infrastructure • Schiphol Safety Platform The only costs that may be passed on to airport users are (runways, terminal complex, road system, airport • Schiphol Security and Public Safety Platform (BVPS) those directly related to primary airport operations and Aviation buildings). • Contractors’ Job Health and Safety Platform infrastructure, which is subject to a return ceiling equal • Knowledge and Development Centre to the average cost of capital of the airport activities. As the owner of the airport grounds, we are responsible • Knowledge and Information Agenda Platform On this basis, and following extensive consul­tations with for all environmental issues throughout the airport site • National Knowledge for Climate Programme airlines, Schiphol then sets the rates under the superviAirportCity (local air quality, energy supply, water quality • theGROUNDS sion of the Netherlands Competition Authority (NMa). and waste). • Health & Safety consultation If the actual revenue turns out to be higher or lower • Schiphol Quality of Life Foundation (Stichting than the permitted level (usually because volumes do As both a granter of concessions to handlers and Leefomgeving) not match forecasts), the difference is incorporated into Real Estate shop-owners and a buildings proprietor, we provide • The Stichting Mainport en Groen landscaping project the rates for the subsequent period. In addition to these Consumer Products & Services other parties the opportunity to carry out • Schiphol Governance Forum regulated activities, we also run commercial activities activities at Schiphol (subject to our guidelines) • Mainport Schiphol Haarlemmermeer Structural in areas such as the granting of concessions, retail, that support and enhance the Mainport function. Concept catering, renting/leasing, parking, media and property Amsterdam Airport Schiphol management. These services make a substantial As a property owner, we issue land on which third Stakeholder dialogues contribution to our financial results, and help ensure Regional airports parties can build. We are regularly engaged in longWe organise regular dialogue sessions with various that the entire business remains financially healthy. term, large-scale construction and other projects on stakeholder groups to ensure that our Corporate International the airport grounds. We often act as a commissioning Responsibility objectives and activities are properly Cost management is an integral part of our business party, either with or without partners. in line with the expectations of our stakeholders, model. Keeping a constant finger on the pulse means and to explain why we make certain decisions. In 2011 we get results. Benchmark studies have shown that Schiphol is an attractive location for businesses, Stakeholder consultation we held three stakeholder dialogues, two of which operating costs per passenger at Schiphol are the lowest with a large variety of high-quality real estate options We discuss matters regularly with our stakeholders were in conjunction with KLM. These dialogues of the four major European hubs, whereas quality is developed in the form of offices, commercial premises during stakeholder consultations. We believe generated a wealth of interesting information, rated highly by passengers and airlines alike. and logistics buildings. More than five hundred different that collaboration, innovation and sharing views offering some productive channels for intensifying companies with a link to aviation have offices on the through consultation and dialogue with the sector, future collaboration. Our range of shopping, catering and other services airport grounds, providing employment for nearly the government and the local community are the best has proven to be a significant factor in passengers’ 62,000 people. There is a positive affect of 170,000 jobs ways to seek solutions for complex issues. Examples of decision to travel via Schiphol. We capitalise on this in the region. these activities include: by developing specialist shopping and hospitality concepts that cater to the needs of customers, including comfortable spaces to work or relax. Schiphol Group is structured and run as a company that Our business combines enterprising business with a socio-economic function – a necessity for continued successful operation Our business is divided into four interconnected business in the competitive aviation sector. Given our high areas: Aviation, Consumer Products & Services, Real Amsterdam Airport Schiphol level of investments and the fact that we must arrange Estate and Alliances & Participations. Our revenue financing ourselves, maintaining access to the capital consists primarily of airport charges, retail sales, 313 direct destinations market is crucial. It is for this reason that we must concession fees, rents and leases, property development, remain financially robust in order to safeguard our parking fees and revenues from our international 49.8 million passengers, 1.5 million tonnes of cargo ‘A’ rating. At the same time, we also wish to contribute activities. to the Netherlands’ strength and appeal; this healthy 420,250 air transport movements and socially motivated attitude also makes the Our aviation activities are subject to regulated pricing business attractive to talented employees. with a ceiling on the return. This is not the case with our 170,000 jobs in the region, 62,000 people are employed at the Schiphol location non-aviation activities; the yield from these activities is In 2011, our net revenue reached EUR 1,278 million, higher and offers opportunities for generating economic 650,000 m2 terminal area, five main runways on 2,787 hectares the net result EUR 194 million, the proposed dividend profit. Together, this is known as the ‘dual-till’ system. per share EUR 524, and the return on equity (ROE) 6.2%. 3.9 billion euro total value of fixed assets We are satisfied with these results, although this ROE Airlines pay fees every time an aircraft takes off or lands, is below the 8% yield requirement imposed by the and for every departing passenger they pay a passenger 500 companies located at Schiphol Dutch State as the majority shareholder. service charge and a security service charge. These charges serve to cover the costs of primary airport 26 billion euro contribution of aviation sector to the Dutch Gross National Product operations and infrastructure, including the extensive 20 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 21 Doing business in a complex environment EUR 400 million for the aviation sector The operational and capital costs of the Aviation business area increased by an annual average of 4.4% between 2007 and 2011 (from EUR 696 million to EUR 829 million), as part of which security costs increased by an annual 5.8% on average, mainly due to the costs related to additional security measures. This increase in costs is in line with the average at other European hubs, whereas the absolute cost per passenger at Schiphol is lower by comparison. Over the past five years, Schiphol has not always passed on the average 4.4% increase in costs as was permitted under the statutory regulations. Given the challenging market conditions in the aviation sector, we decided not to pass on increased costs in full, but instead to opt for a gradual development in charges. In total, this represented a loss in airport charges of around EUR 150 million over the 2007-2011 period. Because the accounting policies for determining the result laid down in the Aviation Act differ from IFRS and the regulated capital costs are not in line with the market, it is not possible to pass on all of our costs in the airport charges. It is for this reason that, in addition to the EUR 150 million, around an additional EUR 200 million in Aviation costs were not covered during the 2007-2011 period (excluding the effect of capital costs). As a boost to the Mainport and expansion of the destination network, recent years have seen the roll-out of the Airline Reward Programme with a total value of EUR 50 million. This resulted in airline-sector benefits totalling EUR 400 million. Operating result in accordance with dual-till regulation Cumulative difference in operating result as of 2007 is EUR 200 million less due to not applying IFRS and EUR 150 million less due to lower charges than permitted (EUR million) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total 2007-2011 Maximum permitted operating result in accordance 466 373 235 388 391 with dual-till IFRS Non permitted operating Total difference result in accordance of EUR 200 million 45 46 48 33 293 in 5 years with Aviation Act Maximum permitted operating result in accordance 421 327 187 355 362 with dual-till Aviation Act Total undercoverage Undercoverage of EUR 150 million Schiphol1 1 33 58 58 2 in 5 years Actual operating result Schiphol Group 420 294 187 297 304 1) Amounts excluding Airline Reward Programmes (EUR 50 million for total period). 2) Including settlement 2009, which is not included in the charges. 3) Amount included in consultation figures. The actual adjustment in accordance with the Aviation Act is formally set in the 2011 Regulatory Accounts, which will be published 31 May 2012 at the latest. 22 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 23 Doing business in a complex environment Schiphol Group invests between 20% and 30% of its LHR CDG turnover annually (around EUR 250-300 million per FRA year), the majority of which goes into the further deveAMS lopment of airport infrastructure. We have never had to MUC call on our shareholders for assistance in meeting our MAD financing needs; we are self-supporting, and call on the JFK Istanbul capital market where necessary to finance our long term investments. A robust financial position, a solid track record in terms Atlanta of financial results and a consistent, well-balanced Dubai financing policy are indispensible in this regard. We take great care to ensure that refinancing and interest risks are limited as much as possible and we minimise our currency risks by taking out loans in euros where possible. Since 2008 we have also been endeavouring to address our financing needs 12-18 months in advance so as to avoid being at the mercy of volatile financial markets. Our robust financial position is also reflected in our World-wide playing-field with competitors A rating at Standard & Poor’s, and by an A1 rating at and important SkyTeam hubs Moody’s. These ratings enhance our access to the capital market and enable us to take on debt at attractive conditions, even in times of global financial/economic crisis and considerable unrest in the financial markets. Dubai and Istanbul. We also need to match them in We also have a number of financing arrangements at terms of airport punctuality, baggage handling and our disposal, such as the long-term loan facilities of the comfort. Competition from ‘secondary’ airports is also European Investment Bank and backup facilities from increasing, and we are seeing airports such as those other major banks. in Munich, Düsseldorf, Copenhagen and Brussels becoming more and more prominent. The fully refurbished Lounge 3 offers passengers an inspiring mix of international brands, typically In total we have a debt capital of EUR 1,934 million Investments in our infrastructure are essential in order Dutch products, a wide range of catering establishments and, centrally located, the ‘house of tulips’. representing 33.8% of our balance sheet total, at an to maintain and strengthen our position as a hub. average interest rate of 5.6%. The terms of existing We must continually ensure that airlines and their loans are distributed across time as evenly as possible. passengers (including transfer passengers) are facilitated in the best possible way at our airport. Approximately with Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, Paris-Charles de making attractive offers and communicating them 30% of passengers have little choice but to travel from Gaulle, JFK International Airport and Delta Airlines’ effectively, we are trying to introduce greater Competitive position or via Schiphol; the other 70% do have a choice. This is homebase – Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International differentiation into our range. This means no longer why we devote constant attention to competitive rates, Airport – serving as the alliance’s most important offering all products under the See Buy Fly label, By far, most of our day-to-day activities take place in quality improvements and added value within the chain, hubs. At the same time, this enables us to improve but increasing the assortment through the addition and around Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Our primary aspects that are intended to encourage airlines to fly our competitive position vis-à-vis other airports and of leading brand-name stores and other distinctive objective is therefore to maintain and strengthen the from Schiphol more often, making the airport even further strengthen the position of Mainport Schiphol. retail formulas. competitive position of Schiphol as a Mainport. more attractive to passengers. In terms of parking, we have noticed a great deal of The driving force behind the financial results of an Airlines and their alliances at other European hubs, new competition from providers of parking products in airport is provided by passengers, cargo and the network To streamline our performance as a major hub and to high-quality terminals, the development of hubs outside the immediate vicinity of the airport. of destinations. Airlines themselves are in the best improve our competitive position, frequent consultaEurope, network expansion and fleet modernisation position to influence these three parameters directly. tions are held with airlines to discuss the improvement of the home carriers affiliated with these hubs all Together, Schiphol and the Zuidas area still occupy the As an airport, we offer efficient operations and and development of new products and services. Regular exert pressure on Schiphol’s competitive position. top of the Amsterdam office segment. To retain and high-quality services, at competitive rates. competitive analyses are also carried out across our The introduction of an Emissions Trading System in strengthen this position, the quality of the general range of activities. We also have the Airline Reward Europe will also increase the likelihood that traffic facilities at the Schiphol location must be improved. Schiphol’s domestic market is relatively small, and our Programme incentive, which encourages airlines to flows will start to migrate away from Europe. home carrier has to rely on transfer traffic. Over 40% expand on existing routes and create new ones. of all passengers at Schiphol airport are transfer Another of our aims is to better facilitate our customers Schiphol is also faced with major challenges in its retail Operating capacity passengers. This means that our visit costs (all costs by seeking to collaborate with the foreign airports most activities, one example of which is the pressing need incurred by airlines during a stay at an airport) must be important to them, a process in which the expansive to respond to the rapid growth of online shopping. The airport’s existing runway system has the physical able to compete with those of our biggest European global network of Air France-KLM and its SkyTeam An important aspect influencing our competitive capacity to handle around 600,000 air transport hub-competitors Heathrow, Paris-Charles de Gaulle and plays a key role. The SkyTeam alliance is the largest position is how travellers perceive the value for money movements a year. Based on current forecasts, this Frankfurt, as well as those of emerging hubs such as transatlantic joint venture in the aviation sector, offered by our products and services. In addition to capacity is more than enough to meet transport 24 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 25 Doing business in a complex environment Socio-economic capacity Commercial development Both our complex environment (which involves a wide Comfortable, worry-free travel starts at the airport, range of diverging interests) and the myriad of laws which is why we are always searching for ways to cater and regulations governing our operations are what to the needs of departing and transit passengers. determine the limits within which our airport can It all starts with parking at Schiphol, where there are expand. Our ‘Licence to grow’ is bound to certain parking options to suit all travellers. agreements, such as those made as part of the Alders The terminal itself has a wide range of shops and Platform. Schiphol airport is permitted to expand to catering establishments, and the airport has proven to 580,000 air transport movements by 2020. Of this total, be a veritable shopping and leisure paradise for both 70,000 non-Mainport (e.g. holiday) flights are supposed transfer passengers and passengers starting their journey to depart from Eindhoven and Lelystad Airports, at Schiphol. We try to enhance this feeling year after forming a significant strategic reserve capacity. year, making continuous adjustments to the terminal The government has notified the Lower House to accommodate the wishes of travellers. accordingly in the Aviation Policy Document. Our Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven It is partly for this reason that we have been consistently Airport each have their own catchment area. able to respond effectively to the changing needs of customers, keeping turnover per passenger at a Our complex environment demands close collaboration reasonably stable level. We are very much aware of with multiple parties at a range of different levels the challenges we must face: these relate not only to within the aviation sector, with government authorities growth in online shopping, but also to new legislation and local and other stakeholders. We participate in that can affect airport retail activities, such as the various consultative bodies, such as the Schiphol possible ‘one-bag rule’ stipulating that passengers Regional Consultative Committee (CROS), the Schiphol may only carry one item of hand baggage, including Governance Forum (BFS) and the Alders Platform. their purchases. A possible ban on the sale of tobacco As a special service to local residents and in conjunction and stricter requirements on the sale of alcohol could with Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL), we have also negatively affect our results in the future. set up the Local Community Contact Centre Schiphol The Fokker 100 on the Panorama Terrace offers visitors an inside look into the history of aviation. (Bas) to keep local residents informed of the impact of Schiphol is one of the most attractive business locations air traffic at Schiphol. Residents can also contact the in the country, and is home to many companies that centre with questions or complaints. operate internationally. We follow developments in the real estate market closely, enabling us to continue Amsterdam Airport Schiphol shares in the responsibility to offer an attractive business location for diverse demands up to 2020/25. Currently, the number of air create the conditions for one-stop security, eliminating for ensuring sufficient airspace capacity. Airlines request groups of customers, with a relatively high occupancy transport movements is just over 420,000 per year the need for transfer passengers to be screened more slots, after which the independent slot coordinator rate as a result. We own the land at and around the carrying nearly 50 million passengers. than once. This improves services for passengers and determines how the capacity will be distributed. airport, and a large number of the buildings are ours as Pier and terminal capacity must be expanded if we wish streamlines the flow of traffic, thereby also increasing Airspace capacity is limited by space reservations, well. We manage the land ourselves, which affords flexito grow to accommodate 70 million passengers. Growth the capacity of the terminal. fixed flight paths and a strict enforcement system bility and always allows us to meet the needs of our is a prerequisite for remaining competitive and for for noise. Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) aviation activities. The buildings that we own (offices, continuing to facilitate our extensive network of In recent years EUR 710 million has been invested in a regulates air traffic by issuing clearances and instructions commercial spaces, sections of the terminal) are leased. connections and fulfilling an important role in aviation new baggage system, resulting in increased capacity, to pilots, giving due consideration to both airspace However, some parties also develop property themselves. worldwide. In conjunction with airlines, we are quality and reliability of baggage handling. The full capacity and the physical capacity of Schiphol. Schiphol Real Estate allocates land to these parties under investigating how the airport infrastructure needs extent of the additional baggage capacity at Schiphol ground lease conditions. to be adapted and expanded in order to safeguard will be available from late 2012, when all baggage halls Strict limits apply to the noise produced by aircraft at the competitive position of Mainport Schiphol. will be linked together by a new, almost fully automated Schiphol. These limits are the result of complex, national Schiphol airport is the third-largest cargo airport in An important first step will involve changes to security baggage system. and international laws on which we exercise almost no Europe (1.5 million tonnes in 2011) and has connections in the non-Schengen area of the terminal. We intend influence, laws that impose limitations on the conduct to every major economic centre in the world through to have the security checks performed centrally, before In our business we need to give due consideration to of our business. a balanced combination of direct full-freighter flights passengers and staff enter the lounges and piers. This is natural phenomena that can affect operations. To arm The breach of standards can lead to sanctions, and combined passenger/cargo flights. only possible if we separate departing and arriving ourselves against such events, we have corporate emerwith negative financial and operational consequences. The airport offers excellent cargo transport facilities, passengers. Without this separation, costs will dramatigency plans and continually train our operational staff Schiphol is committed to the use of quieter aircraft including four storage centres for perishable goods, cally increase as the result of future regulations and to be ready to take effective action in such situations. and to limiting night-time operations, in order to an animal hotel and a large network of Europe’s best security requirements. Additional corridors and levels make the most efficient possible use of the available logistics service providers. Over 150 logistics companies in certain piers will also create the extra space in the noise capacity. use Schiphol as a basis for their logistics activities, existing terminal that we need to accommodate and over half of all Asian, American and European the expected growth in passenger numbers. It will also distribution centres are located in the Netherlands. 26 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 27 Doing business in a complex environment Environment Surface water Safety and security Security is made up of 7 activities A plan has been developed to improve the quality of We want to be a leader in environmental innovations. the surface water in and around the airport grounds Safety and security have top priority at Schiphol. Passengers & Hand baggage 1 Schengen To this end, we partnered with the Delft University in a sustainable manner by 2015. Measures for keeping We collaborate closely with a range of government Centralised control (lanes) of of Technology, Wageningen University, Imtech and aircraft free of ice, and for keeping snow and ice off bodies to ensure compliance with the latest safety passengers and hand baggage the Netherlands Organisation for Applied Scientific taxiways, runways and aprons, affect the quality of and security regulations. The European Union stipulates for Schengen destinations Research (TNO) in 2010 to establish innovation platform the surface water. The de-icing agents used are laws and regulations with which European airports theGROUNDS. It is our intention to achieve a sustainable biodegradable, and thus extract oxygen from the and airlines are obliged to comply. energy and water management programme, as well water. This can result in fish mortality. In 2007 we Prevention of accidents and other calamities is of Passengers & Hand baggage 2 non-Schengen as to improve air quality. The various waste streams at initiated an intensive programme aimed at improving paramount importance. Schiphol is at the ready 24 hours Decentralised control at the gates of the Schiphol site are being recycled more often, using the quality of our surface water. a day to take effective action should an emergency passengers and hand baggage for improved techniques. We supply the drinking water, situation arise. Employees in specific posts receive non-Schengen destinations while at the same time pursuing an economic water Air quality operational safety training with regard to fire risks, usage policy. Air quality in areas surrounding the airport is to be the environment, emergencies, safety and security. improved by connecting more aircraft stands to Fixed Hold Baggage Screening (HBS) 3 Screening of hold baggage before CO2 Electrical Ground Power (FEGP) facilities and to Safety it is loaded into the baggage holds Schiphol’s objective concerning CO2 emissions is pre-conditioned air for climate control in the aircraft Specific focus areas include: of aircraft twofold. Firstly, we aim for our activities at Schiphol cabins, eliminating the need for diesel units. • safety on main runways; to be CO2-neutral by 2012. Secondly, by 2020 the • preventing bird strikes; CO2 emissions of all Schiphol-based activities must • traffic safety on airport grounds; be reduced to 70% of the 1990 levels. Accessibility • safety (including fire safety) in the terminal; Screening & Area Security 4 Screening of staff, objects they carry • external safety (for the areas surrounding Schiphol); and vehicles at Schiphol The main sources of CO2 production at Schiphol are After destinations and ticket prices, accessibility is the • safe working conditions; and energy consumption (heating, cooling, lighting) and most important factor in passengers’ choice of airport. • prevention of infectious diseases. mobility (fleet, commuting). We are helping to reduce It is also a crucial factor for companies, suppliers and the greenhouse effect by decreasing our energy and employees. Security fuel usage, through the more efficient use of energy Airport security (in terms of ensuring compliance Crew & Surveillance 5 Flight crew screening & airside and by applying sustainable energy sources and fuels. We do not directly influence the accessibility of the with regulations and preventing vandalism, criminal surveillance A significant aim is to reduce the number of vehicle airport ourselves – here too, we rely on other parties. activities and acts of terrorism) mainly involves taking kilometres driven to and from the airport. Four out In consultation with the Dutch government, ProRail and anticipatory measures. of every ten passengers come to Schiphol by train. the Dutch Railways are responsible for the construction Dropping off and picking up passengers by car is and use of rail connections in the Netherlands, and Increasing security requirements may lead to drastic discouraged as much as possible, and travellers are manage the train station at Schiphol as well as the many operational changes (such as separation of passenger Public & Company security encouraged to opt for private or public transport for rail connections to and from the airport. Schiphol is flows), additional investments (e.g. in security scans) 6 Landside surveillance the simple reason that this involves fewer vehicle the Netherlands’ fifth major train station, with direct and accumulating costs. (e.g. Schiphol Plaza) movements than when they are picked up and dropped connections to all major cities both in the Netherlands off. Schiphol employees are also encouraged to use and neighbouring countries. The airport is also For the implementation of security tasks, we work public transport. Given that electrically powered transconnected to the Thalys and Fyra high-speed railway together with external security companies. Schiphol portation is expected to grow, reaching one million lines. The Schiphol Sternet bus system operates at and Group and various government bodies monitor the High-Risk Flights (HRF) electric cars by 2025, policy development for recharging around the airport, with a high frequency of buses and execution of these tasks by means of random checks. 7 Profiling of passengers on high-risk stations will be a priority. a dense network of routes and stops. The airport is also flights, extra monitoring and control activities (including hold well-connected to the regional transport network. baggage) and supervision during Generating sustainable energy Security costs the execution of high-risk flights Over the coming years, we will introduce various The government is responsible for the road network EUR million measures to make our energy consumption more leading to the airport; we take care of the roads on sustainable: the Schiphol site itself. We constantly encourage the 300 • 8%-10% by storing the winter cold in ground water government to continue to invest in the creation of 250 layers, in order to supply climate systems in buildings faster connections to and from Schiphol, and have 200 and computing centres with cooling; benefited greatly from the government’s decisive 150 • 7%-8% by producing a combination of electrical actions on this front in recent years. 100 energy and useable heat from biomass, which is 50 converted to biogas in biomass plants; 0 • 4%-5% by installing solar panels on the roofs of 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 office buildings, the terminal and cargo warehouses; Security plays an important part in the rise of aviation costs and the associated • solar panels can also be installed in the runway area airport charges. This graph demonstrates the increase in costs (in millions of to further boost sustainable energy production. EUR) as the result of new, stricter security measures. 28 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 29 Doing business in a complex environment Human Resources Schiphol Fund The Schiphol Fund was established in 1994 with the Schiphol Group has around 2,100 employees. Major objective of supporting the airport’s involvement within focal points within our personnel policy include the the surrounding community. Schiphol makes an annual development of talent, diversity, succession planning donation to the fund, which in turn grants funding four and an active position within the labour market. In the times a year to non-profit institutions for general public year 2009 we initiated a reorganisation which resulted advancement that are active in the fields of welfare, in a reduction in staff and the outsourcing of non-core culture or sport. Starting in 2012, the fund aims to activities. promote physical activity. We aim to be an effective and flexible organisation, with a results-oriented culture. Schiphol College The New Style of Working, introduced in 2010, envisages The Schiphol College Foundation, in partnership with a company culture in which employees are able to work the Amsterdam regional training centre (ROC), is a on the basis of results-based agreements, where possible network organisation that forges links between without time or location constraints. Whenever possible businesses, education and the job market. The aim (much work is location-based, and we also run contiis to create more employment opportunities in the nuous 24/7 services) our employees can negotiate the aviation branch by providing work experience places, length of their own working week, as well as which senior secondary vocational education programmes, hours they work and where. Every year employees are work placements and vocational training programmes, entitled to purchase or sell a number of leave days, with a focus on the logistics, security and facilities and save for a sabbatical of up to four months. sectors of the aviation industry. With our Schiphol Traineeship, we hope to train the Charity partnerships next generation of flexible, young and change-oriented Every three years, Schiphol Group enters into a managers. We also aim to include more women in the partnership with an international charity focusing upper levels of company management. This is why we on the needs of children. Our staff organise collection have signed the national ‘Talent to the Top’ charter, activities themselves, and the proceeds from the in which we promise to ensure that our senior managecollection points in the terminal are also donated ment will include 30% women by the end of 2014. to the charity. Up until 31 December 2011 we worked with SOS Children’s Villages. On 1 January 2012 we Our employee remuneration package is established entered into a three-year partnership with UNICEF. in consultation with the unions, in our own collective agreement. The package contains primary (salary and supplements) and secondary (pension and leave) remuneration components, including additional facilities such as training. Safe working conditions Our working conditions policy centres on assuring the safety, health, vitality and deployability of all employees. At the same time, we bear responsibility for the safety of third parties, passengers and visitors at and around the airport. How this policy is effectuated is described in the Safety and Working Conditions Plan for 2009-2012 (Veiligheidsen Arbobeleidsplan 2009-2012). Community involvement We engage in a variety of activities related to community involvement, focusing on employment opportunities for young people and projects in the surrounding area. 30 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 31 SWOT SWOT Strengths Amsterdam Airport Schiphol facilitates a relatively large Opportunities Further expansion of the network and frequencies network of connections and is the headquarters of KLM, presents good growth opportunities. Increased transport the supplier of a strong transfer product. Schiphol has and traffic from emerging economies and the positioearned its good international reputation through a high ning of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol as the gateway Strengths Opportunities degree of operational reliability and available capacity between China, Europe and South America are driving • Large network of connections and frequencies • Expansion of destinations network and frequencies during peak times, in combination with modern airport the continued growth of the destinations network. • Home carrier with a strong transfer product • Traffic and transport from emerging economies facilities, an approach that is at once both innovative A further SkyTeam expansion can create growth • Modern and well-equipped airport • Positioning as gateway between China, Europe and pragmatic, and an inspiring passenger environment. opportunities, as new alliance partners can add new • Reliable operations with high peak capacity and South America destinations to the Mainport Schiphol network as well • International reputation and image • Strengthening function as a cargo hub The well-developed non-aviation activities make as generate growth at other airports where Schiphol • Well-developed non-aviation activities • New investments in capacity and quality Schiphol more attractive to passengers, and contribute Group has interests. • Attractive employer • Expansion of SkyTeam alliance to a dynamic AirportCity as well as to Schiphol Group’s Improving hospitality and user-friendliness, partly in • Robust financial position • Integration of sustainability aspects in all airport financial results and the future security of our business. respect of new groups of airport users, can help to processes The wide range of non-aviation activities also aids the further strengthen our international position. • Improvement of fast connections to and from the diversification of business risks. Enhancing the role of the cargo hub also contributes airport (motorways, high-speed rail links) to the growth of the Mainport function. • Partnerships within the chain Schiphol Group is seen as an attractive employer, Schiphol is and remains a force that drives sustainable an important factor in recruiting and retaining innovation within the aviation industry, which helps qualified, talented and highly motivated employees. us to embed Corporate Responsibility to an even greater extent within all airport processes. Fast rail connections (such as the high-speed railway link) also Weaknesses enhance Schiphol’s position as a multi-modal hub in a sustainable manner. Most of Schiphol Group’s activities take place in the Weaknesses Threats Netherlands, and virtually all at a single location. • Limited international diversification • Legislative and regulatory changes and changes This makes Amsterdam Airport Schiphol considerably Threats • Considerable dependency on home carrier in airport regulation dependent on its home carrier and a highly competitive and competitive transfer market • Geographic shift of trade and transport flows transfer market, considering its relatively small domestic Changes to legislation can have a major influence • Small domestic market and limited catchment area • Accessibility of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol market and limited catchment area of 33 million people on Schiphol. Amendments to laws and regulations, • No constant utilisation of runways; huge demand • Huge investment in capacity and quality made by within a 200 kilometer radius of the airport. such as the economic airport regulations as set out in for peak capacity competing airports (Heathrow, Frankfurt and the Aviation Act, could lead to a permanent drop in • Complex system for the use of runways and Paris-Charles de Gaulle) Schiphol has a maximum peak capacity of 110 take-offs the profitability of regulated airport activities, resulting airspace capacity • Changing attitudes towards flying and landings per hour, but because demand is focused in a negative investment incentive. Another threat is • Increasing security requirements around seven peak times during the day, usage levels posed by the geographic shift of traffic and trade routes, • Economic headwind and low consumer confidence fluctuate considerably. Increased demand for available which may partially be the result of major capacity and peak capacity means that Schiphol must continue to quality investments in competing European hub airports invest and expand. (e.g. Heathrow, Frankfurt and Paris-Charles de Gaulle), or of investments in the Middle East (Emirates – Dubai) Compared with other airports, Schiphol has a relatively and Turkey (Turkish Airlines – Istanbul Airport). large, complex and expensive runway system with five Other significant threats for Schiphol include the longmain runways, which cannot all be used at the same term economic downturn with low consumer confidence time. While this does ensure a high level of reliability and increased pressure on consumer spending. and continuity, particularly during poor weather Demographic developments and changing attitudes to conditions or highly changeable wind directions, the fact air travel can also have a negative influence on demand. is that the air space is limited by space reservations, fixed Environmental taxes and levies, such as a ticket tax or flight paths and a strict enforcement system to combat the Emissions Trading System in Europe, could disrupt noise nuisance. the balance of the global level playing field. Lastly, terrorist threats can result in additional security requirements and therefore higher costs for the airport and its users. 32 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 33 Strategic objectives Strategic objectives Schiphol Group’s strategic objectives are to further support the socio-economic function of the airport and strengthen its competitive position, while ensuring that the company pursues a financially sound and future-proof policy that results in sustainable value creation for all stakeholders. As an international airport that hosts a leading hub carrier, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol pioneered the successful AirportCity concept. Strategic objectives for 2011 Achieved? Strategic objectives for 2011 achieved directorship’ programme and reducing the bureaucracy within the organisation. The latter is a subject that Respond to expected future market developments by, on the one hand, drawing up a selectivity policy that is The table on the left presents an overview of the continues to demand our attention. in line with the Aviation Policy Document, the Alders Platform agreements and agreements from underlying /a objectives for 2011, and the extent to which they covenants and, on the other, by making the required investments in the capacity and quality of the Mainport. have been achieved. Guarantee future capacity for the development of the Mainport. /a Strategic objectives for 2012 In terms of guaranteeing future capacity for Mainport Implement a rate structure that supports Amsterdam Airport Schiphol’s strategy and will be supported by its major stakeholders. a development, Schiphol Group made significant progress Schiphol Group has formulated the following strategic in 2011. But we certainly have not reached our objectives for 2012: M  aintain and strengthen the competitive position of Mainport Schiphol in the O&D market objectives yet. We continue to engage in dialogues with • Preparation of an integrated Master Plan in which and the air cargo market. a our customers and other stakeholders, in which the Corporate Responsibility is firmly rooted, drawn up Strive for a regulatory system that is based on a multi-year model, reinforces the current dual-till system following three aspects are essential: support base, in consultation with the most important stakeholders. and offers greater flexibility in implementing a rate structure that will structurally improve our /a competitive rates, and the financial feasibility of the Development of a financing plan and identification competitive position and financial performance. necessary investments in future capacity and quality. of the financial consequences for Schiphol Group and airlines; Complete the reorganisation and outsourcing projects started in 2009. /a In terms of the reorganisation, all projects were • Evaluation of the Aviation Act: Strive for a regulatory Continue the “I...Schiphol!” programme to further stimulate the cultural and behavioural changes initiated within the organisation. /a completed with the exception of the outsourcing system that better supports long-term investment of the Badge Center and Airport Medical Services. programmes and enables gradual pricing developDetail a comprehensive Passenger Journey strategy to eliminate dissatisfiers, anticipate future These two business units were a subject of discussion ment. This regulatory system should strengthen the requirements and developments, and improve passengers’ perception of our price/quality ratio. a with the employee representation bodies in 2011. current dual-till system and allow for the possibility Achieve the objectives formulated in 2010 in the areas of safety, environment, people and society. a of a retail or other incentive system for airlines; The “I...Schiphol!” corporate cultural programme • Competitive price/quality ratio through improved Intensify the international cooperation with Aéroports de Paris (HubLink) and with the parties involved in the development of Terminal 4 at JFK International Airport in New York. a attracted considerable attention in 2011. For example, cost control and a better insight into factors that we successfully rolled out ‘the New Style of Working’. determine cost; A great deal of effort went into the ‘professional project 34 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 35 Strategic objectives • E ffecting revenue growth in the areas of retail and catering by tailoring the range of available products and product presentation more effectively to changing passenger needs; • Anticipating changing conditions in the real estate market through the optimisation of our property portfolio and further improvement of services to tenants; • Strengthening the cargo market position through a range of measures, including expansion of the network of cargo destinations; • Stakeholder management: safeguarding our ‘Licence to operate’ and ‘Licence to grow’ by further identifying and fulfilling our socio-economic responsibilities and communicating on this subject more effectively; • Continuation of the reorganisation project in order to achieve the envisaged organisation in terms of scope and competencies within a timeframe of three to five years. Structured action will also be taken in response to the results of the latest employee commitment survey; • Further integration of Corporate Responsibility and risk management into the planning & control cycle and day-to-day operations by simplifying processes and raising awareness among employees. 36 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 37 Our performance in 2011 Our performance in 2011 We welcomed a record number of passengers in 2011 together with the airlines. The network of international destinations expanded and so did our European market share. Punctuality levels increased, and of all passengers 93% rated Schiphol as a ‘good’ or even ‘excellent’ airport. These satisfactory developments are reflected in our financial results. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is a major contributor to the Dutch economy. It serves as one of the home bases for Air France-KLM and its SkyTeam partners. Financial performance air transport movements (+8.8%) and higher passenger Eindhoven Airport and Rotterdam The Hague Airport Revenues from leases rose slightly by EUR 2 million numbers (+10.0%). At EUR 705 million (EUR 655 million contributed to this increase. (1.4%) from EUR 143 million to EUR 145 million. Revenue in 2010), airport charges at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol This rise can largely be attributed to the lease of space Our net revenue rose by EUR 98 million from accounted for the largest part of total revenue. Over Primarily because passenger numbers exceeded the in the Amsterdam Airport Schiphol terminal by both EUR 1,180 million in 2010 to EUR 1,278 million in 2011. one third of these airport charges, EUR 247 million figures applied during consultation on the charges, Consumer Products & Services and Real Estate. (2010: EUR 235 million), was related to Security. the Aviation result is an estimated EUR 15.1 million Net revenue from airport charges rose by EUR 56 million The three regional airports also saw a rise in their net higher than expected. Given the current market Thanks to the rise in the number of passengers at (8.1%) from EUR 689 million in 2010 to EUR 745 million revenues from airport charges, which amounted to a conditions, Schiphol has decided to pay out this amount Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and the chocolate retail in 2011. EUR 50 million of this increase was generated by total of EUR 6 million. In particular, the rise in both to the airlines in the short term in proportion to their activities acquired as of 1 November 2010, net revenue Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and was the result of more passenger numbers and air transport movements at share in the revenues generated from airport charges from retail sales in 2011 rose sharply by EUR 20 million in 2011. (34.5%), from EUR 58 million to EUR 78 million. EUR million 2011 2010 % The rise in revenue from concessions by EUR 7 million (5.8%) from EUR 120 million to EUR 127 million is largely Net revenue from parking charges rose by EUR 9 million (10.8%) from EUR 83 million in 2010 to EUR 92 million attributable to the Consumer Products & Services busiin 2011. EUR 6 million of this increase was generated Airport charges 745 689 8.1 ness area. As expected, the renovations to Departure by Amsterdam Airport Schiphol while EUR 2 million Concessions 127 120 5.8 Lounge 3 in the first half of 2011 led to a fall in the was generated by the regional airports. The rise at Property leases 145 143 1.4 average spend per passenger in this period, but this Amsterdam Airport Schiphol of 9.4% lagged somewhat Retail sales 78 58 34.5 figure largely recovered in the second half of 2011. behind the rise in passenger numbers owing to Car parking fees 92 83 10.8 Concession income from catering was also higher in increasing competition resulting in a lower average Advertising 19 16 18.8 the second half of 2011 than in 2010. spend per passenger. Third-party services and activities 18 23 – 21.7 The concession fees relating to aircraft refuelling Other income 54 48 12.5 services, recognised in the Aviation business area, Net revenue from advertising rose by EUR 3 million amounted to EUR 12 million (2010: EUR 12 million) (18.8%). 2011 was an excellent year for advertising Net revenue 1,278 1,180 8.3 in 2011. and media income. Revenue from services and activities 38 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 39 Our performance in 2011 on behalf of third parties fell by EUR 5 million (21.7%). • E UR 13 million (1.4%) related to security (with a Fewer services were provided to tenants in 2011. 10% rise in passenger numbers); • a EUR 6 million decrease (-0.7%) associated with Other income from property employee benefits. Employee benefits declined by The value of our property portfolio (property and land) EUR 19 million due to the reduction of the number of fell by EUR 1 million in 2011 (+ EUR 22 million in 2010). FTEs. This development was partially offset by a CLA The amount in 2010 included a non-recurring increase of indexation, individual pay rises, expansion of the EUR 26 million in the land portfolio, as a consequence of profit-sharing scheme and a rise in employer’s pension a more sophisticated appraisal method to bring it more contributions (EUR 13 million); in line with methods more commonly used by indepen• EUR 19 million (2.1%) related to the increase in dent appraisers. Despite difficult market conditions the the number of outsourcing contracts as part of the current buildings portfolio saw only a very small fair reorganisation that was initiated in 2009 and which value loss. This can be attributed to higher occupancy also resulted in a drop in the number of FTEs; levels and stable rent levels at the Schiphol location. • EUR 2 million (0.3%) spent on various studies, incluLand values remained virtually unchanged. Write-downs ding a study conducted as part of the evaluation of were made in land positions, however, due to changes the Aviation Act and a study conducted by internatiin revenue potential and additional infrastructure costs. onal strategy consultants into the effects of a previously proposed rate structure change at the Mainport; Operating expenses • EUR 2 million (0.3%) related to smaller one-off items. The operating expenses rose by 7.5% (-2.3% in 2010) from EUR 906 million in 2010 to EUR 974 million in 2011. Operating result The EUR 68 million increase (7.5%) consists of: The operating result went up by 2.5% (58.6% in 2010), • EUR 18 million (2.0%) directly related to the rise in from EUR 297 million in 2010 to EUR 304 million in 2011. revenues: an increase in the cost price of retail sales Excluding fair value gains on the property portfolio, (EUR 9 million) and commercial costs (EUR 9 million), the operating result increased by 10.9% (20.8% in 2010), partly in support of expansion of the number of destifrom EUR 275 million in 2010 to EUR 305 million in 2011. nations and frequencies (via the Airline Reward The cloud of volcanic ash and extreme wintry weather Programme); negatively impacted the 2010 operating result by • EUR 20 million (2.2%) in capacity and quality-related EUR 20 million. expenses: higher depreciation (70 MB, Lounge 3); Financial income and expenses Corporate income tax EUR million 2011 2010 % The net financial expense fell by EUR 24 million to Corporate income tax paid in 2011 amounted to EUR EUR 91 million in 2011. This fall was largely caused by 51 million (EUR 67 million in 2010). The effective tax the repurchase in 2010 of bonds issued under the Euro burden for 2011 was 21%, which is lower than the Cost of subcontracted work and other external costs 580 522 11.1 Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme for a nominal effective tax burden for 2010 (28%) and the nominal Employee benefits 177 184 – 3.4 amount of EUR 150 million, which generated a noncorporate income tax rate (25%). The fall in effective tax Depreciation and amortisation 206 186 10.9 recurring financial expense of EUR 19 million. Without burden is partly due to a relatively low effective tax rate Impairments 1 1 194.4 this effect there was a fall of EUR 5 million. on the share in results of associates compared with 2010. Reorganisation 9 – 100.0 The effective tax burden on the one-off results from our Other operating expenses 9 4 107.9 Share in results of associates stake in JFK IAT LLC was almost 46% in 2010. In addition, The share in results of associates amounted to EUR there was a EUR 5 million tax charge in 2010 caused by a Operating expenses 974 906 7.5 36 million in 2011 (EUR 57 million in 2010). In 2010 write-down of deferred tax liabilities in connection with there was a non-recurring share in results of EUR 28 the adjustment of the nominal tax rate from 25.5% to million (before tax) caused by the increase of our stake 25% as at 1 January 2011. Finally, a total non-recurring EUR million 2011 2010 % in JFK IAT LLC. When adjusted to take this into account, the share in results of associates rose by EUR 7 million in tax gain of EUR 2 million was included in 2011, due in part to the carry-over of losses, for which no deferred 2011. This can be attributed primarily to the result from tax liabilities had as yet been included and in relation Aviation 49 45 9.1 our share in Aéroports de Paris S.A. (ADP) that increased to the option to set off tax levied at source. Consumer Products & Services 148 133 11.3 by EUR 5 million. Our share in the results of Brisbane Real Estate 72 96 – 25.1 Airport Corporation Holdings Limited (BACH) rose by Net result Alliances & Participations 35 22 55.8 EUR 3 million. The result for 2011 attributable to the shareholders (net result) is EUR 194 million (EUR 169 million in 2010). Operating result 304 297 2.5 The net result, adjusted for dividend purposes and 40 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 41 Our performance in 2011 excluding fair value gains on our property portfolio, The cash flow from financing activities was Rating A 40-year lease agreement with regard to the P1 car is EUR 195 million (EUR 152 million in 2010). The return EUR 28 million negative in 2011 (compared with Standard & Poor’s long-term rating is ‘A flat’ with park and the associated walkway was repaid before on equity (ROE) amounted to 6.2% in 2011 (5.6% in EUR 321 million negative in 2010). In 2010, Schiphol a stable outlook and remains unchanged compared maturity for an amount of EUR 54 million, and other 2010); RONA after tax amounted to 5.7% (5.9% in 2010). repurchased EMTN bonds (nominal amount EUR with 2010. Moody’s long-term rating of A1 with a stable loans and lease liabilities amounting to EUR 63 million Excluding fair value gains on the property portfolio, 150 million) for an amount of EUR 169 million in outlook was maintained as well. A good and stable were repaid. RONA after tax amounted to 5.7% in the year under total, while no new long-term loans were taken out. rating enables us to raise debt on favourable terms review (5.3% in 2010). A dividend of EUR 76 million was distributed in 2011 even under difficult market conditions. One of the aims of our financing policy is to reduce (EUR 65 million in 2010). the refinancing risk. The remaining terms to maturity Cash flow developments Balance sheet developments of the loans issued under the EMTN programme range The cash flow from operating activities rose by EUR In 2011, the net cash flow totalled EUR 109 million Schiphol Group’s balance sheet total rose by 3.9% to from 18 months to 26 years. Our interest-rate risk 36 million in 2011, from EUR 351 million to EUR 387 (EUR 220 million negative in 2010). The net amount of EUR 5,723 million at year-end 2011 (EUR 5,506 million management policy favours fixed-interest loans, million. This is due primarily to a EUR 40 million increase cash at bank/in hand rose from EUR 304 million at the at year-end 2010). Fixed assets went up by 2.0% to achieved either by contracting loans at fixed interest in the cash flow from operations and a EUR 20 million end of 2010 to EUR 413 million at year-end 2011. EUR 5,102 million, due in particular to an increase in rates or by making use of standard interest rate fall in net interest paid. An additional EUR 24 million fixed assets, investment property and associates. derivatives. was paid in corporate income tax and working capital Ratios fell by EUR 7 million less than in 2010. We use several financial ratios as part of our financing Shareholders’ equity increased by EUR 65 million to In 2011, interest costs averaged 5.6%, slightly less than policy. The credit rating agencies, in particular, look at EUR 3,175 million, primarily because of the addition the 5.8% average rate in 2010. The cash flow from investment activities in 2011 (EUR the extent to which a company is able to generate of the net result of EUR 194 million to the retained 251 million) remained virtually unchanged compared sufficient cash to service its total debt burden and to earnings, which was offset by negative movements with 2010 (EUR 250 million). In 2011, investments in cover its interest liabilities. In this connection, the most in the other reserves of EUR 56 million and the fixed assets totalled EUR 263 million (2010: EUR 248 important financing ratios are the ‘FFO/total debt’ and distribution of EUR 76 million in dividend in 2011. million). The main investment projects in 2011 were: ‘FFO/interest coverage ratio’. The manner in which we • EUR 69 million for the 70 MB baggage programme; calculate these ratios differs from that of the credit Financing • EUR 45 million for major maintenance work; rating agencies, as a result of which the outcomes are The total amount of outstanding loans and lease • EUR 23 million for ICT; not entirely the same. An account of our own detailed liabilities increased by EUR 89 million in 2011, from • EUR 10 million for business continuity and fire safety; calculation of these ratios can be found on page 165 of EUR 1,846 million to EUR 1,934 million. • EUR 9 million for the renovation of Lounges 3 and 4; the financial statements. • EUR 9 million for the development of office space at On 28 April 2011, Schiphol Nederland B.V. successfully Rotterdam The Hague Airport; FFO – funds from operations – is the cash flow from placed a new bond issue for an amount of EUR 438 • EUR 5 million for the GA Terminal Schiphol-East; operating activities adjusted for working capital. million with a maturity of 10 years. The bonds have a • EUR 5 million for cargo hangar D at Malpensa, Italy. In 2011, FFO rose from EUR 314 million to EUR coupon rate of 4.43% and have been placed with a 359 million. This increase relates primarily to an increase broad group of institutional investors within Europe. With EUR 182 million (EUR 164 million in 2010), the in operating result, adjusted amongst other things for The proceeds from the bond issue were used to finance Aviation business area accounted for the largest share depreciation, amortisation and movements in provisions the purchase of EUR 403 million in existing bonds. of overall investments in fixed assets. The Real Estate (EUR 48 million), and a EUR 20 million fall in net interest By repurchasing a portion of two existing bonds issues business area is the next largest investor with EUR 35 paid. An additional EUR 24 million was paid in corporate with maturities up to 2013 and 2014, the term of Schiphol million (EUR 52 million in 2010), followed by Consumer income tax in 2011 compared with 2010. Group’s debt has effectively been extended while taking Products & Services with EUR 29 million (EUR 26 million advantage of favourable market conditions. The buybacks in 2010) and Alliances & Participations with EUR The FFO/total debt ratio in 2011 was 18.5%, an increase in 2010 and in the first half of 2011 have reduced the Capital structure 17 million (EUR 6 million in 2010). relative to the 2010 figure of 17.0%. Total debt is repayment obligations for the two existing bond issues in EUR million (in %) the year-end balance of all interest-bearing borrowings 2013 and 2014 to approximately EUR 545 million. In April The net cash flow from operating and investing activities and amounted to EUR 1,934 million as at 31 December and May 2011, three financing instruments were acquired 2011 38 1,934 3,175 – the free cash flow – amounted to EUR 137 million in 2011 (EUR 1,846 million as at 31 December 2010). for approximately this amount (two forward-starting 2010 37 1,846 3,109 2011, as opposed to EUR 101 million in 2010. The FFO interest coverage ratio in 2011 was 4.5x, interest rate swaps and one Namensschuld-verschreibung) 2009 41 an improvement in comparison with the 2010 figure which essentially fixed the interest rates at which the 2,026 2,975 of 3.8x. outstanding loans can be refinanced in 2013 and 2014. Shareholders’ equity Interest-bearing debt Investments in fixed assets and % = Leverage cash flow from operating activities EUR million In addition to these two ratios, we look at the leverage In addition, Schiphol Group made a number of with­ (ratio of interest-bearing debt to total equity plus drawals from the 20-year EUR 350 million EIB facility 2011 263 387 interest-bearing debt). The leverage results from the totalling EUR 180 million. Schiphol Group has also Loan maturity profile 2010 248 financing policy pursued and remains important inasextended its credit facility of EUR 175 million with EUR million 351 much as the Aviation Act uses an assumed leverage of its core group of banks until 2016. No with­drawals from 2009 215 40% to calculate the weighted average cost of capital this facility have yet been made. Airport Real Estate 2012 108 327 (WACC) for the regulated activities of the Aviation busiBasisfonds C.V. (61.15% ownership) also refinanced its 2012/2016 800 Investments Cash flow ness area. At the end of the year under review, Schiphol loans by taking out a new loan of EUR 195 million for a > 2016 1,026 Group’s leverage stood at 37.9% (37.2% in 2010). period of 4.5 years. 42 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 43 Our performance in 2011 Competitive position Passenger growth per continent Europe’s fourth-largest passenger airport. London Passengers per continent (in %) (in %) Heathrow still leads the top ten, followed by Paris Growth in terms of passengers, Charles de Gaulle and Frankfurt. Amsterdam Airport 3 Europe 13.6 4 Europe cargo and network Schiphol’s market share in the catchment area increased 5 North America North America 3.6 to 30%. The number of business passengers almost Asia 8 Record number of passengers at Schiphol returned to the level of peak year 2007. Africa In 2011 the total number of passenger (including Asia 3.0 South America transit passengers) grew by 10.0% (3.8% in 2010) to The hub carrier segment, primarily consisting of 11 49.8 m 68 Middle East Africa – 6.4 49.8 million. The number of O&D passengers (passengers Air France-KLM and its partners, showed the largest departing from or travelling to Amsterdam Airport Central and 7.3 absolute growth, and transported more than 31.3 Schiphol as their final destination) rose by 11.8% South America million passengers in 2011; an increase of more than Middle East 16.2 (7% in 2010) to a total of almost 29.5 million. 2.5 million and up 8.5% in comparison with 2010 (+2.0% The number of transfer passengers rose by 7.7% Passengers in millions 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 in 2010). The number of available seats rose by 5%, (-0.6% in 2010) to almost 20.2 million. 2011 partly due to the reintroduction of the seventh wave Rotterdam The Hague Airport also saw a rise in With the exception of a few foggy days in November, 2010 (peak moment) of KLM flights. In addition to this passenger volumes and recorded growth of 15.9% which led to the rerouting of transfer passengers and increase in capacity, the average occupancy rate for hub (+0.5% in 2010), from 0.97 million passengers to flight cancellations, weather conditions did not disrupt carrier aircraft rose by 2.4 percentage points to 81.1%. 1.12 million in 2011. operations to any significant degree in 2011. largest increase in absolute passenger numbers (almost 100,000 passengers). The largest growth in percentage terms was shown by Cargo feels the economic chill Europe, the continent with the largest passenger the low-cost airlines which, after Air France-KLM and Cargo transport continued to show reasonable growth volume, showed the largest growth by far. The strongest Two new destinations were added in Central and its partners, represent the largest airline segment at in the first half of 2011. However, it came to a standstill growth was in the number of passengers travelling to/ South America: Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Aires. Schiphol. In 2011, the number of passengers transported mid-way through 2011 when cargo started to suffer the from the United Kingdom. easyJet, British Airways and by low-cost airlines grew by over 1.3 million to a total effects of the flagging economy and a fall in volumes. KLM significantly increased the number of flights to The average overall occupancy rate for passenger of over 6.6 million; this represents a growth of 24.7% Cargo transport showed only very modest growth of several UK airports. There was also a notable rise in the aircraft reached a new record in 2011 at 79.3%. (16.3% in 2010). The low-cost airlines offered 19.5% 0.8% over 2011 as a whole (17.6% in 2010), with a number of flights to Spain, partly due to Vueling. The previous record in 2010 stood at 77.1%. more seats than they did in 2010. The average occupancy total of 1,523,800 tonnes. This growth can be entirely rate for a low-cost carrier seat rose by 3.3 percentage attributed to the use of full freighters: the amount of The growth in passenger volumes to North America was We welcomed the one billionth passenger on points to 80.3%. transport with aircraft carrying only cargo increased by largely attributable to flights to Atlanta and to the new 19 October 2011, which marked a milestone in the 2.3% (23.8% in 2010), from 862,200 tonnes in 2010 to destination of Miami. history of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Regional airports 882,400 tonnes in 2011. Cargo transport with aircraft Passenger numbers at Eindhoven Airport rose by 23.3% used to transport both passengers and cargo declined The Middle East, the smallest continent in terms of Of the top ten European airports in 2011, Schiphol’s in 2011 (25.2% in 2010) from 2.14 million to 2.64 million. by 1.3% in 2011 (+10.2% in 2010); from 650,000 tonnes passenger numbers, showed the largest relative growth market share grew by 0.3% to 10.9%. This means that This was largely thanks to the strong growth of low to 641,000 tonnes. for the second year in a row. Tel Aviv accounted for the we have once again overtaken Madrid and became cost airlines. 96.0 (+0.1%) 33.9 (+13.6%) 609.6 (-7.1%) 4.2 (+3.0%) 5.5 (+3.6%) 283.0 (+11.6%) 1.5 (+16.2%) 176.0 (+11.3%) 2.6 (-6.4%) 184.9 (+3.1%) 2.1 (+7.3%) 174.2 (+3.0 %) Passenger volume Cargo volume and growth per continent and growth per continent Millions of passengers (growth versus 2010) x 1,000 tonnes (growth versus 2010) 44 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 45 Our performance in 2011 Cargo per continent (in %) Air transport movements 2011 6 Ranking Ranking Airline Total Compared to Asia 2011 2010 2010 in % 11 North America Africa Middle East 1 (1) KLM 208,232 9.6 40 2 (2) transavia.com 26,803 2.4 South America 12 1.5 m Europe 3 (3) easyJet 23,514 25.9 tonnes 4 (4) Air France 14,772 31.2 5 (5) Lufthansa 11,091 7.9 12 6 (5) Delta Airlines 10,926 6.3 7 (7) British Airways 10,540 17.5 19 8 (9) Arke Fly 7,147 36.3 9 (13) Alitalia 5,771 50.5 10 (10) SAS 5,206 14.5 Cargo transport to and from Asia fell by 7.1% (+17.1% 11 (8) Martinair 5,003 – 14.2 in 2010) to 610,000 tonnes. In addition to declining 12 (11) Aer Lingus 4,936 10.1 European demand for Asian goods, we were also 13 (14) Vueling 4,869 38.9 affected by the aftermath of the Japanese earthquake 14 (16) Swiss 2,913 – 6.0 in early 2011. The increase in cargo volumes for North 15 (19) Austrian 2,740 1.9 America – by 11.6% (20.9% in 2010) to 283,000 tonnes – 16 (15) THY 2,712 – 13.4 is partly due to the new flights introduced by airlines 17 (17) Iberia 2,710 – 5.0 such as Airbridge, Qatar and Centurion. The Middle East 18 (21) Flybe 2,684 5.3 saw an increase of 11.3% (33.1% in 2010) to 176,000 19 (18) BMI baby 2,678 – 1.7 tonnes, representing the fastest absolute growth. 20 (22) TAP Portugal 2,428 0.2 This is largely thanks to newcomers Saudi Arabian 21 (24) Czech Airlines 2,342 9.4 Airlines and Etihad Airways. The Arab Spring had a 22 (23) Corendon 1,969 – 9.9 negative impact on cargo volumes to and from Africa. 23 (25) Singapore 1,864 – 3.3 There was a negligible increase in cargo transport 24 (26) LOT 1,848 4.2 to Central and South America, Schiphol’s smallest 25 (31) China Southern 1,808 30.3 intercontinental cargo region. 26 (27) Continental 1,754 – 0.3 27 (28) RAM 1,693 2.9 Our market share remained unchanged at 13.9%, 28 (30) Aeroflot 1,455 2.0 and we thus retained our position as Europe’s third29 (38) Cathay 1,404 20.2 largest cargo airport in 2011. The two leading airports, 30 (20) Malev 1,400 – 45.4 Frankfurt (-0.7%) and Paris Charles de Gaulle (-1.0%), both lost market share. Other airlines 45,037 – 9.3 A more extensive network and more airlines Total 420,249 8.8 In 2011, 103 carriers connected Amsterdam Airport Schiphol to 313 scheduled flight destinations. Passengers could choose from 285 destinations (eleven more than last year) offered by a total of 80 airlines. The number Flybe launched a service to Inverness, BMI baby added of destinations that are only served by full freighters flights to Belfast City and KLM introduced flights to rose by one to 28. We welcomed six new airlines in 2011, Aalborg. Alitalia also added flights to Turin, Balavia and including one full-freighter airline. Minsk. The number of intercontinental destinations increased Martinair stopped providing passenger services after by five reaching a total of 121. Our home carrier KLM 53 years. As of November 2011, the company will added flights to destinations including Xiamen, Buenos continue its cargo operations under the KLM banner. Aires and Rio de Janeiro. Arkefly launched a new service to Puerto Vallarta. China Southern Airlines added a In 2011, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol welcomed various direct flight to Guangzhou. new airlines, including Air Europa, Sky Work and Corendon Dutch Airlines. The number of European scheduled flight destinations rose by six to 164. Sky Work Airlines added Bern. 46 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 47 Our performance in 2011 Compared Passengers (excl. transit-direct)* 2011 to 2010 in % Air transport movements international strategy consultants to study the effects of 2011 x 1,000 Passenger transport (excl. transit-direct)* Compared to x 1,000 2010 in% these adjustments on the Mainport and the destinations Schiphol network. Based on the results of the study and in the 11 London Heathrow London Heathrow LHR LHR 69,391 69,391 ++ 5.5 5.5 The number of commercial air transport movements interests of the Mainport, it has been decided to 22 Paris-Charles de Gaulle Paris Ch. de Gaulle CDG CDG 60,908 60,908 ++ 4.9 4.9 rose by 8.8% in 2011 (-1.3% in 2010), from 386,316 to maintain the current pricing structure for the most part. ++ 420,249. The number of air transport movements carried However, take-off and landing charges are now more 33 FrankfurtFrankfurt FRA FRA 56,293 56,293 6.8 6.8 out by passenger aircraft increased by 9.1% (-1.8% in clearly differentiated on the basis of noise levels. 44 Amsterdam Amsterdam AMS AMS 49,681 49,681 ++ 10.1 10.1 2010), from 370,711 to 404,321. This increase is mainly In addition, the rates for training flights and flights 55 Madrid Madrid MAD MAD 49,547 49,547 –– 0.5 0.5 due to the reintroduction of the seventh wave (peak around Schiphol airport have been increased. 66 Munich Munich MUC MUC 37,604 37,604 ++ 8.8 8.8 moment) of KLM flights. Evaluation of the Aviation Act RomeFiumicino 77 Rome Fiumicino FCO FCO 37,405 37,405 ++ 4.0 4.0 The total number of available seats rose by 6.9% to a The Aviation Act stipulates that, within four years after 88 Barcelona Barcelona BCN BCN 34,333 34,333 ++ 17.7 17.7 total of almost 63 million. The fact that this increase does entering into force, the Ministers of Infrastructure and LondonGatwick 99 London Gatwick LGW LGW 33,630 33,630 ++ 7.3 7.3 not match the increase in the number of air transport the Environment and of Economic Affairs, Agriculture 10 Paris Orly ORY ++ 7.7 movements is attributable to the use – on average – of and Innovation must present a report to parliament 10 Paris-Orly ORY 27,137 27,137 7.7 smaller aircraft. This resulted in a fall in the average on the effectiveness and the effects of the economic *) *) Top 10 passenger Top 10 airportsininEurope passenger airports Europe seating capacity from more than 158 to just under 153 in regulation of the aviation activities at Schiphol. It is for 2011, as well as a reduction in the average maximum this reason that a comprehensive evaluation of the Act take-off weight (MTOW) from 94.2 tonnes to 92.8 tonnes. was started in 2009, led by the Ministry of Infrastructure Compared Cargo volume* 2011 to 2010 in % and the Environment. 2011 x 1,000 tonnes Cargo transport* Compared to The number of air transport movements carried out by In 2011, at the Ministry’s request, we performed an x 1,000 ton 2010 in% cargo aircraft rose by 2.1% in 2011 (+14.9% in 2010) to analysis of the effects and possible risks of various forms 11 FrankfurtFrankfurt FRA FRA 2,133 2,133 –– 3.0 3.0 a total of 15,928 movements. The average maximum of regulation. The conclusion was that the continuity take-off weight of these aircraft fell from 331.0 tonnes of the Mainport would benefit most from the current Paris-Charles 22 Paris de Gaulle Ch. de Gaulle CDG CDG 2,088 2,088 –– 4.1 4.1 in 2010 to 328.3 tonnes in 2011. Again, the average size dual-till system, supplemented with a ‘retail incentive’. 33 Amsterdam Amsterdam AMS AMS 1,524 1,524 ++ 0.8 0.8 of cargo aircraft used was smaller. This incentive for airlines (funded from the profits 44 London Heathrow London Heathrow LHR LHR 1,484 1,484 ++ 0.8 0.8 generated by our non-aviation activities) must neither 55 Leipzig Leipzig LEJ LEJ 760760 ++ 14.7 14.7 Regional airports undermine our current (A) credit rating nor negatively The number of air transport movements at Eindhoven affect the minimum yield requirement of 8% imposed 66 Cologne Cologne CGN CGN 726726 ++ 12.8 12.8 Airport rose by 21.5%, from 16,650 to 20,227. The by the Dutch State as a majority shareholder. 77 Liège Liège LGG LGG 674674 ++ 5.5 5.5 number of destinations increased from 32 to 36 in 2011. 88 Luxemburg Luxembourg LUX LUX 657657 –– 6.9 6.9 Rotterdam The Hague Airport also saw an increase in Operating capacity 99 Brussels Brussels BRU BRU 475475 –– 0.2 0.2 the number of air transport movements from 12,917 10 10 Milan MilanMalpensa Malpensa MXP MXP 440440 ++ 4.2 4.2 to 13,137 (up 1.7%) and passengers had a choice of Our operations in 2011 35 destinations; eight more than in 2010. *) *) Top Top 10 10 cargo airports cargo airports in in Europe Europe Differentiating characteristics of our service The total number of air transport movements at Lelystad Our joint efforts (in collaboration with airlines and Compared Airport fell by 2.1%, from 125,675 to 123,035. Instruction governmental parties) to resolve bottlenecks in our Air transport movements* 2011 to 2010 in % flights accounted for more than 68% of air traffic and day-to-day operations and shorten waiting times yielded Air transport movements* 2011 Compared to x 1,000 x 1,000 2010 in% business jets for roughly 1%. results in 2011. Passenger satisfaction with regard to waiting times for passport and security checks improved. 11 Paris Paris-Charles de Gaulle Ch. de Gaulle CDG CDG 507507 ++ 3.0 3.0 Airport charges 22 FrankfurtFrankfurt FRA FRA 481481 ++ 5.0 5.0 In 2010 we ultimately received more in airport charges Amsterdam Airport Schiphol has been leading the 33 London Heathrow London Heathrow LHR LHR 476476 ++ 6.0 6.0 than anticipated during the consul­tations. This excess European market for years when it comes to the amount of EUR 45 million has been set off with the passenger experience. In 2011, Amsterdam Airport 44 Madrid Madrid MAD MAD 429429 – – 1.0 1.0 airlines in the charges for 2011. Schiphol again won a number of important awards. 55 Amsterdam Amsterdam AMS AMS 420 420 ++ 8.8 8.8 British business passengers voted Amsterdam Airport 66 Munich Munich MUC MUC 388388 ++ 5.5 5.5 Effective 1 April 2012, airport charges will rise by an Schiphol winner of the Business Traveller Award in 77 Rome RomeFiumicino Fiumicino FCO FCO 324324 ++ 0.2 0.2 average of 4%. Airport charges were not raised in 2010, the category ‘Best Airport in Europe‘ for the 22nd time, and in 2011 they increased by an average of 0.6%. while the airport also earned the title ‘ACI Europe 88 Barcelona Barcelona BCN BCN 303303 ++ 9.1 9.1 Best Airport Award’ in the ‘over 25 million passengers’ 99 Zurich Zurich ZRH ZRH 258258 ++ 4.7 4.7 Pricing structure category. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol was voted ‘Best 10 Copenhagen 10 Copenhagen CPH CPH 254254 ++ 3.3 3.3 Extensive negotiations took place with the aviation airport in Western Europe’ at the Passenger Terminal sector in 2010 and 2011 concerning possible adjustments Expo, and received the ‘Airport Marketing Award *) *) Top Top 10 airports inin 10 airports Europe Europe in air air transport intransport movements movements to the pricing structure. KLM and Schiphol commissioned Western Europe’ at Routes Europe. We subsequently 48 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 49 Our performance in 2011 to or via Amsterdam Airport Schiphol in one month. and their ground handling processes can be integrated On 29 July 2011 we welcomed 178,000 passengers, into the European Air Traffic Management network. making this the busiest day in our history (8.8% more Thanks to CDM, all parties have simultaneous access passengers than on the busiest day in 2010). to the same operational information, allowing for the optimal deployment of equipment, people and Various measures have been taken in order to effectively infrastructure (aircraft, handling facilities and gates). accommodate these large numbers. For example, the CDM is also essential in ensuring more effective use of security capacity for Departure Lounge 1 was expanded European flight plan network capacity. and additional operational measures were implemented in order to distribute peak loads over the various In 2011, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, Air Traffic Control departure lounges. the Netherlands (LVNL) and Air France-KLM successfully implemented CDM at a local level. The other airlines Winter operations and handling agents at the airport are connected to The winter of 2011 was relatively mild. The snowfall the CDM Portal via the Central Information System and frost in December 2010 did not continue into 2011, Schiphol (CISS). and the final months of 2011 were also mild. Although there were no relevant snow days in 2011, we did Schiphol-East remove 35,000 tonnes of snow which had fallen in General Aviation handles approximately 4,500 business December 2010. jet aircraft annually at Schiphol-East. For the past several decades, General Aviation was located in Building 106, Various operational improvement measures had already which was in urgent need of replacement. In order to been implemented during the severe winter of 2010, ensure that we can continue to meet market and quality in order to improve coordination between the parties demands in the business jet segment, a new General involved. In follow-up to these measures, a plan for the Aviation Terminal was completed in the summer of 2011. management and implementation of winter operations The terminal is 6,000 m2 in size and multifunctional: was prepared in 2011 in collaboration with the relevant it contains a terminal, handling area, offices and a sector parties. 2011 also saw investments in infrastrucparking garage. ture and equipment for snow and ice control, such as There are five specialised ground handling companies at Schiphol, including KLM Ground Services, sweeping equipment, small equipment and spreaders/ Main contracting Aviapartner The Netherlands, Servisair Amsterdam, Menzies Aviation (Netherlands) and Blue Handling. sprayers. In order to manage and maintain our resources at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol with optimal efficiency, Punctuality we have opted to play a coordinating role and outsource In 2011, the number of passenger flights rose by 9.1%. aspects such as new construction projects, management received the ‘Highly Commended Award Europe’ becoming increasingly busy over the past few years, This increase did not however have a negative impact and maintenance. This offers greater flexibility and at the World Routes in early 2012. to a point where it now matches the summer holiday on punctuality. Arrival punctuality rose from 81.7% to allows us to focus on our customers. The European Schiphol also received awards in the area of air cargo. period in terms of passenger volumes. 85.1% in 2011. The number of passenger flights departendering of these activities has yielded six main The readers of Air Cargo World (ACW) honoured ting on time rose from 72.8% in 2010 to 78.8% in 2011. contractors. Working with a small number of parties Amsterdam Airport Schiphol with an ‘Air Cargo Although our terminal was designed to handle peakyields obvious advantages. A select group of permanent Excellence Award’ (ACE Award). hour capacity, busy periods offer a smaller margin for ‘Strike Force’ improves cooperation with Air France-KLM parties can ultimately acquire a greater knowledge of disruptions caused, for example, by adverse weather Effective cooperation with our home carrier Air the airport and its complex processes, allowing us to Other airports continue to regard Amsterdam Airport conditions, cancellations or delays, all of which can France-KLM is vital in order to optimise the operational meet the wishes of our customers more quickly and Schiphol as ‘best in class’ in the areas of quality and additionally burden peak-hour capacity. We have process. To this end, a special ‘Strike Force’ was efficiently. This will also help ensure better safety passenger experience. However, international benchimplemented various measures in order to prepare for established in 2011 to assess joint objectives, priorities standards. Combining new construction projects with marks show that our competitors have been making such circumstances. For example, renovations that could and cost savings. Our joint efforts and control processes management and maintenance allows us to strike a inroads in this area thanks to substantial investments in impact the passenger process are not allowed during are expected to result in better streamlining of the careful balance between performance, risks and costs capacity and quality. Additional efforts and investments holiday periods. Each year, we also draw up a special passenger process. This inter-organisational cooperation over the entire lifespan of the resources involved. will therefore be necessary if we are to remain ‘Europe’s plan in collaboration with the various operational has yielded a large number of useful initiatives, allowing preferred airport’. departments and KLM Ground Services, outlining which us to further improve efficiency while also achieving Efficiency benchmark immediate measures are to be taken in the event of cost savings. The cost per Work Load Unit (WLU) is the most Summer operations operational disruptions. important efficiency benchmark. One WLU equals The daily number of passengers to fly via Amsterdam Collaborative Decision-Making (CDM) 1 passenger or 100 kilograms of cargo. In 2011, Airport Schiphol is largely determined by the seasons In 2011, the growth of passenger numbers exceeded our Implementation of the Collaborative Decision-Making Amsterdam Airport Schiphol’s cost per WLU was and holiday periods. Traditionally, we experience our expectations. As in previous years, July was the busiest (CDM) programme at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol was almost the same as in 2010 (EUR 10.55) at EUR 10.54. busiest peak times during the May holiday period, while month with almost 5.2 million passengers, 8.9% more accelerated in 2011. CDM allows for the processing the summer holiday period is characterised by continuous than in July 2010. This was a record number: never and identification of (scheduled) flight times to be high volumes. The autumn holiday season has been before have so many passengers travelled from, standardised at the European level. As a result, airports 50 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 51 Our performance in 2011 Measures to address capacity Cost efficiency: costs per WLU and quality constraints EUR WLU (millions) 12.00 70 Expansion of self-service at check-in 10.00 60 and baggage drop-off points We are continously working to improve quality and the 8.00 50 passenger experience for our passengers and airlines. 6.00 40 This involves faster check-in procedures, shorter waiting 4.00 30 times, more efficient baggage handing, and continual innovation and optimisation of the integrated passenger 2.00 20 process through our Redesign Passenger Process 0.00 10 programme. 2011 2010 2009 2008 General check-in kiosks Security 3.37 3.47 3.78 3.20 Depreciation 2.35 2.25 2.27 1.88 Following the conclusion of a successful pilot project Other costs 4.82 4.83 5.09 4.20 with check-in kiosks for passengers of most airlines Number of WLU (millions) at WTC and Plaza, we have decided to install 90 check-in kiosks for general use in the terminal. Self-Service Drop-Off Points system that connects the four baggage handling Over the past few years, we have been working in areas. The end result is an integrated, flexible and collaboration with Air France-KLM and Bagdrop B.V. reliable baggage handling system. The Backbone is to further develop Self-Service Drop-Off Points (SSDOP). the final element of the first phase of the 70 MB Six of these newest SSDOPs were installed in Departure programme and is expected to be completed in Hall 2 in August. Another six baggage drop-offs became the last quarter of 2012. operational in January 2012. These facilities are exclusiThe many 70 MB construction activities represent a vely available to passengers of Air France-KLM and complex operation that continues alongside the normal its SkyTeam partners. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol 24/7 baggage handling process. Thanks to intensive and Air France-KLM are among the first to implement preparation and effective cooperation with all parties The baggage basements house 21 kilometres of conveyors and a five-kilometre rail system. SSDOPs on a larger scale. involved, the scheduled phases and completion targets Schiphol has the most advanced baggage system in the world. Other airlines have also shown interest in the new have been met this past year without any noteworthy system. In March 2012, ArkeFly will put three such disruptions. SSDOPs into operation in Departure Hall 3, with easyJet commissioning two points. The irregularity rate (IR rate), i.e. the percentage of Adjustments to gates Gate comfort In addition to achieving cost savings for the airlines, suitcases that fail to arrive with the passenger at the With aircraft becoming larger and requiring more space, Our Gates Master Plan is aimed at raising the quality these SSDOPs also increase overall capacity in the destination airport, dropped from 2.5% in 2010 to the demand for aircraft stand capacity is changing. standard of gates to a level that more accurately departure halls, allowing us to offer a more passenger2.0% in 2011. The number of passengers per aircraft is also rising, reflects our ambition of being Europe’s Preferred friendly and efficient infrastructure. The SSDOPs, creating a need for more space and facilities inside Airport. Piers and gates will be redesigned in order to which can be used simultaneously by multiple airlines Security capacity expansion the pier at the gates. improve waiting comfort. The Gates Master Plan has (in clusters), will be further expanded in consultation The number of passengers departing to Schengen 2011 saw the start of efforts to adapt a large number already been implemented at Pier C and part of Pier B. with the airlines. destinations grew substantially in 2011. Security control of gates at Pier D for larger types of medium-range facilities were duly expanded with the addition of two aircraft. This will require far-reaching adjustments to Renovation of Pier C aprons Realisation of 70 MB for advanced baggage handling new lanes. Another three lanes will be added in 2012, aprons, kerosene facilities, passenger bridges and In August 2011, renovation work started on the oldest For years, we have been investing hundreds of millions allowing us to offer additional capacity at peak times facilities at the gates. Work will be carried out in phases pier, Pier C. The aprons around the pier had reached of euros in the 70 MB (70 Million Bags) programme so that passengers can be moved to the lounge in order to maintain optimal capacity and is scheduled the end of their technical lifespan. Like our other piers, in order to expand and renew our baggage handling more quickly. for completion in 2014. Pier C will be fitted with a modern fuel hydrant system system. Work in 2011 centred around completion where kerosene is supplied through pipes. of the South Baggage Hall and construction of Passengers travelling to non-Schengen destinations have We are also preparing to welcome the Airbus A380, the Backbone. their security check at the gate. In 2011 we began the the world’s largest passenger aircraft. In addition to Runway maintenance Boasting an innovative and unique baggage handling installation of a security filter on a section of Pier D. adjustments to the landing area, two gates will be In 2011, major maintenance work was carried out on concept, South Baggage Hall is the world’s most stateThis filter will allow us to concentrate gate security fitted with additional seating and security facilities. Runway 04-22 and Runway 06-24. The work did not of-the-art baggage hall, where fully-automated robots for seven gates at a single point. This will provide Two carrousels for arriving baggage will also be linked cause any noteworthy disruption to normal operations. handle baggage and load the baggage carts and passengers with greater waiting and seating comfort together to create a single carrousel, so that the large contain­ers. Together with our suppliers, we have won and allow for security staff to be deployed more number of passengers will be able to retrieve to their several innovation awards in recognition of our efforts. efficiently, thus saving costs. This security control filter baggage quickly. The Backbone is an advanced baggage transport has been in use since January 2012. 52 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 53 Our performance in 2011 Master Plan for structural solutions Priorities for medium-term developments If we are to secure our Mainport function for the future Also for the medium-term, it is important that we set and continue to play a key role in global aviation, we the right priorities. The initial emphasis should be on the will have to expand our capacity. As things now stand, resolution of quality bottlenecks, by improving aspects the capacity of our terminal, piers and aircraft stands is that have an important effect on general passenger already strained during peak periods. This will become satisfaction and areas in which we score lower than increasingly common with further growth in the years to reference airports. The emphasis is on waiting times for come. It will also put growing pressure on the quality security and passport checks, waiting comfort at the perception of passengers. At the same time, competing gates and walking distances. 1 hubs in Europe and the Gulf states are more visibly We will therefore be further expanding our security presenting themselves in the market. With major capacity over the coming years. In the short term, we investments in capacity and quality, these hubs pose will be expanding facilities at security checks for an increasingly serious threat to Mainport Schiphol’s Schengen passengers in Departure Hall 1. In the competitive position. medium-term, we aim to improve quality in the nonWe cannot let this challenge go unanswered and Schengen area by centralising the security process in are currently working with our partners to develop the departure halls rather than conducting checks at a Master Plan for capacity expansion and the structural the gates. In addition to achieving cost savings and improvement of terminal and pier quality. This is efficiency improvements, this will also ensure necessary if we are to resolve the current constraints, compliance with future rules and regulations. meet the growing demand for capacity and respond to These measures will require major renovations in the future needs of our customers. However, these order to ensure that checked departing passengers measures will also be essential in fending off growing do not mix with arriving passengers that are still international competition. The 2025 Master Plan is to be checked. expected to be completed in mid-2012. We can then begin preparing for its implementation. Where possible, border passage will be automated. 2 This will allow us to achieve greater and permanent 5 capacity with fewer employees. The No-Q project is an alliance with the government and Dutch Border Police (Koninklijke Marechaussee) aimed at developing automated border crossing procedures with automatic 4 6 border gates and electronic passports based on facial recognition. 3 Aircraft stands Connected 93 Disconnected 102 Total 195 Runways Name Location Length Width 1 Polder Runway 18R 36L 3,800 metres 60 metres 2 Zwanenburg Runway 18C 36C 3,300 metres 45 metres 3 Kaag Runway 06 24 3,500 metres 45 metres 4 Aalsmeer Runway 18L 36R 3,400 metres 45 metres 5 Buitenveldert Runway 09 27 3,453 metres 45 metres 6 Schiphol East Runway 04 22 2,014 metres 45 metres 54 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 55 Our performance in 2011 Socio-economic capacity by 2015, this regional airport may be given scope for a further 15,000 extra air transport movements. The Lower Experiment with new noise standards House adopted the recommendation by a clear majority In August of 2010, the Alders Platform presented in February 2011. Political approval has therefore been a recommendation to the Dutch government with granted for phased growth to, ultimately, a 10.8 km² regard to new noise standards. The Cabinet and Lower noise allowance from 2016, eventually making growth House adopted this recommendation, and a two-year to 4.5 million passengers per year possible. The parties experiment was subsequently launched on 1 November have also agreed on an intermediate solution for 2010. The new noise standards are based around the meeting market demand in the years 2011 and 2012. principle that runways causing the least amount of disturbance to the surrounding area should be used Provision of information as often as possible, whereby the protection offered to Over the course of the 2011 operating year, 5,419 people the surrounding area is at least the same as under the experienced noise nuisance and submitted complaints current system. An interim review will be conducted about aircraft noise to the Local Community Contact of the first year of the experiment in early 2012 to Centre Schiphol (Bas). This figure is 0.6% higher in determine whether the structure of this new system comparison with 2010. In order to gain insight into meets expectations. the nature of these reports, Bas distinguishes between specific reports, period reports and other reports. Noise capacity In 2011, the total group of complainants filed 88,768 During the experiment with the new noise standards, specific reports, 40,843 period of time reports and 3,255 the present system with limit values at noise enforcereports in the category ‘other’. Of the complainants, ment points will remain in force. 0.5% are known as ‘structural complainants’ who are Under the current enforcement system, the level of responsible for 57.3% of all reports. For this reason Bas noise impact in the area around Schiphol is calculated mainly focuses on the other group of complainants, on the basis of enforcement points. An enforcement also referred to as the focus group. point is a point subject to a maximum permitted The 5,394 people in this focus group filed 32.4% more noise limit value set by the government. There are specific reports and 26.6% more period reports. 35 enforcement points for the 24-hour period and Amongst other factors, complaints were due to the a further 25 enforcement points for the night-time major maintenance work on Runway 06-24 in September period (11:00 p.m. to 07:00 a.m.). and part of October, and the experiments with new take-off procedures. Due to major maintenance and The 2011 operating year (1 November 2010 to also to exceptional weather conditions, less preferable 1 November 2011) ended without any breaches runways such as Runway 09-27 were used more of aircraft noise limits at enforcement points. frequently. the Aviation Act. Where traffic permits, the night-time Noisy aircraft are becoming increasingly uncommon In the 2011 operating year major maintenance was regime will be extended from 6:00 a.m. to 6:30 a.m. at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, due to our discouragecarried out on Runway 18L-36R and Runway 06-24. Two modules were added to the Bas website in 2011. Another measure is that aircraft should avoid using ment policy. The number of flights flown by the Both runways were consequently unavailable for a The ‘Air Traffic InSight’ module provides information the motor to brake, safety permitting, after 09:30 p.m. noisiest types of aircraft amounted to approximately number of weeks. Air traffic was handled at other about the locations, speeds and altitudes of aircraft (as they do during the night-time). 0.2% of the total number of flights at Amsterdam runways, causing a redistribution of noise impact in the flying around the airport, as well as their destinations Airport Schiphol. surrounding area which, in the absence of provisions, and places of origin. This information is based on radar Two noise reduction experiments launched in 2010 could potentially lead to breaches of noise limits at one and flight plan data obtained from Air Traffic Control were continued in 2011. The first experiment consists or more enforcement points. Amsterdam Airport the Netherlands (LVNL) and is therefore more accurate of expanding the use of the permanent turning radius Commercial development Schiphol therefore asked the Ministry of Infrastructure and comprehensive than the information on other by most KLM aircraft types and those of other airlines. and the Environment to determine temporary limit websites that show air transport movements around The Schiphol Regional Consultative Committee (CROS) Retail vision values. This request was granted. Schiphol was also Schiphol. The ‘Living near Schiphol’ module provides has since approved this measure, and the permanent Like many other businesses, Schiphol is experiencing issued an exemption for night-time use of Runway local residents and anyone who has plans to move to turning radius technique will be definitively introduced both opportunities and threats in the retail market, 09-27, as an alternative take-off runway during major Schiphol’s environs with information about how the in 2012. The second experiment concerns changed such as the rapid growth of online shopping. There are maintenance on Runway 06-24. airport is used. For example, visitors can find out the departure routes from Runway 18C-36C, which means also more specific opportunities and threats, such as average frequency and altitude of aircraft travelling that aircraft fly at an equal distance between the possible implementation of the ‘one-bag rule’ which Regional airports from and to Schiphol over a specific location in the Zwanenburg and Badhoevedorp. stipulates that passengers may only carry on one item In June 2010, the Alders Regional Platform presented airport’s environs over the past few years. of hand baggage, including airport purchases. a recommendation to the Ministry of Infrastructure Progress has been made with regard to ground noise In response, we developed a new Retail vision in 2011. and the Environment, proposing that Eindhoven Airport Noise reduction measures in Hoofddorp-Noord thanks to the construction of Implementation began in July with the opening of the could grow by an additional 10,000 air transport Noise reduction measures were implemented around ground ridges designed to reduce noise levels. new, fully-renovated Departure Lounge 3. Important movements in addition to the current maximum capacity Amsterdam Airport Schiphol in 2011. The possibility We anticipate that these ridges will reduce ground facets of this new vision include improved convenience of 21,175. Provided that various conditions are fulfilled of extending the night-time regime was laid down in noise by 10 decibels. concepts on the one hand and, on the other, 56 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 57 Our performance in 2011 liquor, tobacco and confectionary stores, we have Average spend per passenger in Retail Airside fell by Consumer Products & Services at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol International opted for a more differentiated product range. 1.8% from EUR 15.84 in 2010 to EUR 15.55 in 2011. This can be largely attributed to the renovation of Advertising Premium Consumers The renovation of Departure Lounge 3 also resulted in Departure Lounge 3. The average spend per passenger Concessions Retail Sales Parking a more diverse and high-quality range of catering rose again following completion of the renovation & Media Services international outlets. Important additions include a Starbucks outlet, works in the second half of 2011. an East Bar & Bites targeting Asian passengers, Bread! There are major differences between the various offering organic bread and the Italian PizzaPastaPannini categories in terms of developments in spend per restaurant. The successful Café Amsterdam was passenger. The Electronics and Books & Magazines expanded into a larger Grand Café Amsterdam, categories showed the greatest decline. Contrary to now offering a special range of champagnes and the prevailing trend, spend per passenger in the Tobacco premium wines. category remained relatively strong. However, In response to the growing popularity of wellness at we cannot rule out a decline in this category in future. Activities for which Sales of liquor, Car parking Advertising at and Services for premium Management Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, a third XpresSpa location We still see opportunities for further growth in the a concession is tobacco and for ­passengers, around the airport passengers: ­contracts at airports was opened at the airport in Departure Lounge 3. Chocolate and Fashion categories. ­granted to third chocolate in the visitors and staff. VIP centre and in other countries ­parties. Schiphol shopping area behind Over 36,000 the Privium service Group receives a passport control parking spaces. programme Airport Park We also improved our convenience concepts as a part ­percentage of the Products include: revenue ­(concession VIP Valet Parking, 2011 saw the opening of the world’s first Airport Park. of our new Retail vision on retail over the course of margin) and/or rent Smart Parking and This waiting area provides passengers with a relaxing, 2011. For example, 2011 saw the expansion of our online Excellence Parking green and park-like indoor and outdoor environment. product range and the reintroduction of our service The sense of being in a park is intensified by projections allowing passengers to pick up orders upon their of butterflies and the sounds of wildlife and cyclists. return to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. A number of small shops and a Park Café that serves Retail Airside Plaza Catering Other organic and other products have been integrated into Schiphol Airport Retail (SAR) sales rose by 34.5% in 2011. the park. The Airport Park is designed to provide This is attributable in part to the growth in passenger passengers with a pleasant experience, so that they volumes, but also to the acquisition of the chocolate will rate their waiting time as quality time. concession from the Nuance Group on 1 November 2010. The Airport Park also features some wonderful Passengers spent 4.9% more on liquor in 2011. Tobacco examples of sustainable innovation. For example, sales also exceeded expectations, while the chocolate the revolving door leading to the outdoor terrace revenue per passenger underperformed. generates energy and the lighting concept is based on energy-efficient lighting with daylight tubes Retail at Schiphol Plaza bringing in natural daylight. 2011 was a better year for the Schiphol Plaza retail Shopping area beyond Shopping area before A wide range of bar Various services passport control intended passport control intended and restaurant facilities including car hire, outlets than 2010. Most of the newly created vacancies for passengers only. for passengers, visitors located both before and airport lounges, banks, BC Corridor were filled. Saint Tropez, Vila & Pieces and WE kids 76 shops with a total and staff. 38 outlets with after passport control; casinos, schiphol.nl, area of more than a total area of more than 81 outlets with a total telecoms and the Departure Lounge 1 was expanded to feature a leisure were added to the range of retail outlets. 12,300 m2 5,300 m2 area of more than Rijksmuseum Annex area in the BC Corridor, a connecting passageway The Fokker 100 on the Panorama Terrace proved to be 18,700 m2 between Pier B and Pier C. The area is home to the first a major attraction. This old KLM Fokker aircraft is freely Rituals Spa store and a JuicyDetails outlet selling healthy accessible and offers passengers an inside look into the snacks and drinks. A separate area has been reserved world of aviation. A shop was also opened nearby and for a ‘pop-up’ store, a temporary store or one themed an outdoor terrace with a view of the Fokker 100 was a differentiation in our range, incorporating more room phasing of the construction work, short completion around a special temporary theme. This is in line with added to Dakota’s Restaurant, Café & Bar. for experiences, unique concepts and brand stores. times and the deployment of temporary shops. Lounge 3 our new Retail vision, aimed at responding more rapidly More specialist and brand stores will be introduced is now a state-of-the-art area characterised by light, to the latest retail trends. Catering outlets alongside the See Buy Fly shops. And our own stores space and a varied, high-quality range of shops and Average spend per passenger dropped from EUR 5.52 in selling alcohol, tobacco and chocolate will adopt a other facilities. The central part of the lounge now Retail Airside 2010 to EUR 5.44 in 2011, mainly due to the renovation differentiated product range. In Lounge 3 we are offers space to various ‘Holland’-themed stores. Amsterdam Schiphol Airport aims to improve passenger of Departure Lounge 3. catering for the growing demand for more luxury perception of the value for money offered by products products (especially among passengers from Asia and The renovation of Departure Lounge 3 represents sold beyond Passport Control. In 2011, 57% of A great deal of effort was also devoted to improving Russia) with the new ‘Finest Spirits & Cigars’ store and an important step in the implementation of our new passengers rated this aspect ‘good to excellent’ (56% value for money at catering outlets. These efforts paid a specialist chocolate retailer. vision on retail. The development of specialty shops in 2010). A benchmark study showed that Amsterdam off, resulting in major improvements in 2011. and brand stores – alongside our familiar See Buy Fly Airport Schiphol still outranks other European airports Since 2010 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol once again has Departure Lounge 3 shops – plays an important role in this regard. The in this area. featured among the best in class in the catering quality The renovation of Departure Lounge 3, initiated in late Fashion & Accessories category was further developed, The renovation of Departure Lounge 4 commenced in category in European airport benchmarks. The upward 2010, was completed in July 2011. Average spend per with the addition of leading brand stores Hermès, 2011. Passenger surveys show that our smallest lounge trend in catering initiated in 2010 continued in 2011. passenger fell only slightly thanks to the intelligent Burberry and Victoria’s Secret. As regards our own did not meet expectations. 58 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 59 Our performance in 2011 Several well-known formulas have been performing well via www.schiphol.nl (57.6% in comparison with 50.5% at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. For example, the Burger in 2010) and through our partners. As average yields per King at Schiphol Plaza boasted the largest revenue of customer were down slightly, turnover from Long-Stay any of the corporation’s worldwide outlets, while the Parking products increased by 11.6%. Starbucks at Schiphol Plaza has the largest revenue per square metre of any Starbucks in Europe. The growth of Short-Stay Parking volumes was more modest (+5.0%). Since the fourth quarter of 2010, Catering outlets in the terminal offer a growing passengers have been able to book Short-Stay Parking range of organic and fair trade products, such as the products online (Visitors Parking & Excellence Parking). Fair Taste Café (Departure Lounge 1) that opened in In 2011, Excellence Parking´s contribution to the growth March, La Place Express (Arrival Hall 1) and Bread! of our parking products did not match expectations. (Departure Lounge 3). The coffee, tea and chocolate However, a large number of campaigns during the offered at all catering outlets are 100% fair trade as second half of 2011 helped achieve higher occupancy from the start of 2012. levels and greater awareness of this new car park. Services Advertising & Media In 2011 a number of innovations and improvements 2011 was a highly successful year in terms of Media. were implemented. A Rituals Spa was opened in Contrary to all market trends, advertising revenue the BC Corridor, an XpresSpa opened in Departure grew by 16.4% to EUR 15.9 million. This success is partly Lounge 3 and a Fish Spa Back2Life was added to the attributable to our ‘less is more’ strategy, involving Holland Boulevard. Boat-trip company Lovers launched the replacement of smaller advertising surfaces with a the Floating Dutchman, a hybrid bus-boat service that number of larger digital surfaces or objects. We entered offers passengers a tour of Amsterdam’s famous canals into a new two-year contract with Rabobank for adver­ from Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. ABN AMRO opened tising on passenger bridges, and negotiated a 15-year a Financial Centre at Schiphol Plaza that is open seven contract with Interbest on the operation of five adver­ days a week. tising towers along the A4 motorway. We also welcomed Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), a major A growing number of international passengers want new advertiser. to be able to apply for their tax refund at Amsterdam The Privium programme was developed to accommodate frequent travellers. Privium Plus members Airport Schiphol. In order to meet this growing demand, Schiphol Online have access to a special lounge. a new Global Blue Tax Free office was opened in Various online initiatives were launched in 2011. Departure Hall 2. For example, work is underway to give information on Amsterdam Airport Schiphol´s and the airlines’ network The launch of the world’s first automatic banner on the Schiphol.nl website, in order to offer passengers As of October, the Privium membership period no longer Development of the property portfolio dispenser – the BannerExpress – was picked up by all a clear overview of the entire network. A separate coincides with the calendar year. Passengers can now Rent levels at Schiphol were subject to some pressure the news media, including CNN. environment was created on our Facebook site, offering become members in any month of their choosing. in 2011. The Real Estate business area suffered negative general information on Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Membership can also be cancelled at any time, subject effects from some of the neighbouring commercial Parking and facilitating direct interaction with customers to a one-month cancellation period. In 2011, the number property owners facing difficult times, who offered 2011 was a relatively good year for Parking. Long-Stay (www.facebook.com/schiphol). New smart phone of Privium members grew from 45,690 to 46,043. significant discounts in order to attract new tenants. This Parking was especially successful in fending off versions of the Schiphol Apps were launched in order left us little choice but to offer more incentives as well. competition from other providers of parking products to better inform passengers and provide them with Flux Alliance, launched in April 2009, is a partnership Nonetheless, centrally located and multifunctional in the vicinity of the airport. Parking revenues rose a range of online products, such as online parking between the Netherlands and U.S. governments locations close to city centres and multi-modal hubs (such by 9.4%. reservations. Our website is now accessible for Android, enabling fast border passage. At the end of 2011, as Schiphol) continue to retain their appeal. Apple, Microsoft and all other cellular platforms via a total of 2,930 Privium members had joined the FLUX Multifunctionality and excellent accessibility are the most In Parking, too, much attention was paid to the traveller’s www.Schiphol.mobi. In 2011, Schiphol Group won the Alliance (2,143 at the end of 2010). important criteria for prospective tenants selecting a locaperception of the value for money. The option of Travelution Award for its Schiphol App. tion, aspects where Schiphol locations score high. The bar reserved parking and Smart Parking in particular brought VIP centre continues to rise, however, and people now want good about an improvement in perception of the price and Premium Services In 2011, the number of commercial events held in the retail facilities with a focus on ease and convenience, quality of Long-Stay Parking in the first half of 2011. This VIP centre was expanded, as was the target group. appealing catering concepts and sports facilities, as well growth began to stagnate in the second half of 2011. Privium Cooperation with other VIP centres throughout Europe as childcare in their immediate office environment. These Passenger perception of Short-Stay Parking remained We celebrated Privium´s 10-year anniversary with our was also intensified. This resulted in an additional 280 developments demand a new approach, and in 2011 we relatively stable. The renovation of the P1 car park, initimembers in 2011. This celebration also marked the VIP treatments (in comparison with 4,030 VIP treatments further honed our ‘preferred location’ strategy with the ated in 2011, should help enhance perception as of 2012. launch of our Sunday service. Privium Plus members at the end of 2010). introduction of new lease concepts and the creation of can now also use the Privium Lounge on Sundays. innovative services. Examples include the new (tempoThe number of long-stay parkers increased by 15.5%. This This new service was launched in response to strong rary) company restaurant in the Triport building and the can be attributed to the growing number of reservations demand among our members for Sunday opening. flexible leasing of furnished offices at Schiphol-East. 60 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 61 Our performance in 2011 Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) exercised its Occupancy (in %) 2011 2010 option to acquire the air traffic control tower at Schiphol-Centre in 2012. Offices 78.6 76.3 Commercial space 94.6 92.0 In 2011, our plots of land at the Badhoevedorp South Operating property 90.0 95.6 construction site were sold to a joint venture between Operating property terminal 91.5 88.6 Schiphol Area Development Company (SADC) and Schiphol Real Estate, in which the latter has a Total occupancy rate 88.5 86.5 19% interest. The municipality of Haarlemmermeer approved the Occupancy Schiphol land use scheme on 24 November. The scheme The occupancy rate of our property portfolio was 88.5% offers ample scope for property development. In order at year-end 2011, 2.0 percentage points higher than to be eligible for a location at Schiphol-Centre, compathe year-end 2010 figure. The increase can be attributed nies must be internationally oriented. This means that to higher occupancy levels in the terminal, the WTC being located in the immediate vicinity of the airport and various cargo buildings and to the demolition of must be of strategic importance to the company building 72. concerned. Seven per cent of the lease agreements will expire In 2011, Airport Real Estate Basisfonds C.V. (AREB), in 2012 (10% in 2011). in which Schiphol Real Estate holds a 61.15% share, acquired the Reykjavikweg 2 building at SchipholAssets under construction or in development Southeast. At the end of 2011, AREB’s investment Assets under construction or in development are portfolio had a value of EUR 331 million. intended as future investment property. For the duration of construction work, these assets will negatively impact A4 Zone West the result because they tie up capital and involve sunk To the southwest of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol lies costs. As soon as the object has been completed, it will the A4 Zone West plan area. This area is part of the contribute to RONA in the form of rental income and Schiphol Real Estate is responding to the demands of a changing market by offering furnished offices ‘Amsterdam Connecting Trade’ Master Plan, the aim of fair value changes. for rent at Schiphol-East under flexible conditions. which is to develop a hub of Schiphol-related logistics business parks. The Master Plan provides for the longerAs at year-end 2011, the total carrying value of the term development of this area. The plan area comprises assets under construction and in development was approximately 350 ha, of which approximately 170 ha is approximately EUR 158 million (EUR 162 million in 2010). Despite the drop in transport tonnage in the second In 2011, we initiated the development of a new land that can be allocated for commercial purposes. In The average carrying amount was EUR 160 million (EUR half of last year, the occupancy rate in our logistics planning strategy for the area between the terminal and 2011, the development of first-phase spatial, programme 158 million in 2010). The approved and current projects portfolio remained higher than ever before. Thanks the cargo buildings at Schiphol-Centre. As a key part of and civil engineering aspects was initiated on the basis as at year-end 2011 are shown in the table on the to the conclusion of a number of major lease contracts, this new strategy, the renovation of the Triport complex of a integrated development plan. following page. vacancy in this segment was reduced to 5%. at Schiphol-Centre was also initiated. This complex, which plays a key role in the southern section of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Schiphol-Centre, was originally built in 1994 and consists The General Aviation Terminal at Aerospace Exchange of three buildings with a total lettable floor area of (Schiphol-East) was added to Amsterdam Airport 36,630 m2 and a car park. The renovation will establish a Schiphol’s property portfolio. Part of this building (452 more effective connection between the three buildings m2 LFA) is used to process business jet passengers, while and create space for high-quality catering outlets, a Properties at Rotterdam The Hague Airport another section (3,800 m2 LFA) consists of office space, childcare centre, fitness facilities and possibly shops. Rotterdam The Hague Airport offers approximately 200,000 m2 of space for the development of commercial property. including the lounges of the various handling agents. At The ‘Rotterdam The Hague Airport 2010 – 2025’ Master Plan outlines the development strategy for the airport the end of 2011, 45% of the building had been leased. In 2011, further steps were taken in the design of a grounds and neighbouring business park. new 5-star hotel at Schiphol-Centre. The design has Work has begun on the demolition of halls and offices international appeal and incorporates the use of highIn April 2011 we commissioned Koninklijke Aannemingsmaatschappij van Waning to start construction of the at Aerospace Exchange. These buildings are outdated quality, sustainable materials. The 433-room hotel will ‘Parterre’ office building (1,950 m2 LFA). The building is scheduled for completion in early 2012. Construction of the and will be demolished to make way for new feature ample conference facilities and a large hall ‘Cornerstone’ building (12,100 m2 LFA) by Dura Vermeer Groep is on schedule for completion in mid-2013. December construction. accommodating 600 people. Negotiations for its 2011 saw the start of construction of the new multi-tenant Freightcentre, to provide approximately 6,000 m2 of LFA management are currently being held with an intended primarily to re-accommodate forwarding agents already active at the airport. Completion is planned for The Aerospace Flex Offices concept was successfully international hotel chain, and are now in their final mid-2012. Work is also currently underway on the development of a hotel together with a third party, on which we launched in building 144. This concept is based on the stage. We expect to see construction work start in 2012. hope to start construction in mid-2012. short-term lease of furnished office space. The hotel is scheduled to open in 2015. 62 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 63 Our performance in 2011 Total lettable Total area in m² Expected lettable in proportion completion Environment CO2 emissions for own operating activities Amsterdam Airport Schiphol* (tonnes) Location Category area in m² LFA to our interest Pre-let % date CO2 2011 6,684 Net CO2 emissions resulting from our activities at Schiphol-Centre Office space (redevelopment) 36,600 36,600 80 Q4-2013 2010 6,804 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol fell from 6,804 tonnes to Schiphol-Centre Hotel 39,000 39,000 N/A Q4-2014 6,684 tonnes in the 2011 operating year. We are taking 2009 7,517 Rotterdam The Hague Airport Office space 1,950 1,950 100 Q2-2012 part in the Airport Carbon Accreditation benchmark 2008 8,572 Rotterdam The Hague Airport Childcare centre 370 370 100 Q3-2012 scheme set up by industry association ACI. This benchRotterdam The Hague Airport Office space 6,000 6000 50 Q3-2012 2007 69,038 mark helps provide insight into airports’ efforts to Rotterdam The Hague Airport Collective heat/cold storage N/A N/A N/A Q4-2012 * operating year reduce CO2 emissions. In 2011, the airport received Rotterdam The Hague Airport Office space 12,000 12,000 50 Q2-2013 level 3 accreditation for its CO2 emissions in 2009. Malpensa, Italy Office space 12,900 9,030 0 Q3-2012 In order to be fully CO2 neutral in 2015, work started A total of 92 new efficiency measures were introduced, 108,820 104,950 at Eindhoven Airport in 2010 to make the terminal, accounting for a total conservation of over 77 terajoules; offices and hangars climate neutral by compensating this includes sustainably generated energy. This saving CO2 emissions. ‘Level 2’ in the Airport Carbon is comparable to the annual electricity consumption Most important developments Key developments in foreign participations Accreditation benchmark scheme was achieved in 2011. of approximately 2,450 households and the total at our domestic airports Aéroports de Paris recorded good results in 2011 thanks energy consumption (including gas) of more than The number of scheduled destinations served by in part to an expansion of its retail activities. Expansion Energy 850 households. These savings were realised by means of Rotterdam The Hague Airport increased by eight, projects at Paris-Charles de Gaulle in particular are on With a 3.7% reduction in 2011, the energy efficiency intelligent switching (reducing or switching off lighting bringing the total to 35. In addition, the departure hall schedule. Numerous projects developed within the target agreed with the government (2% reduction or ventilation), installation of energy-efficient motors in was redesigned and a new airport shop was opened. HubLink alliance have already delivered concrete results, in energy consumption per year until 2020) was met. our ventilation system and cooling units when replacing The number of destinations available from Eindhoven including the joint development of an App for Chinese This has also fully made up for the shortfall in 2009. or renovating old equipment, and by reducing the time Airport also grew in 2011. By the end of 2011, Eindhoven passengers and concrete steps towards reciprocal A total of 7% of the planned 8% reduction in energy that the baggage belts continue to run after the last Airport served a total of 36 destinations, four more than participation in property developments. consumption has now been achieved. We expect to suitcase has been signalled from 30 seconds to 5, which at the end of 2010. Lelystad Airport adjusted a number achieve a further 4% reduction in 2012. yielded savings of 15-20% during testing. We are also of ground rents, a move that will significantly increase Work on the expansion of Terminal 4 at JFK the first airport to have an energy-efficient baggage revenues from its property operations. The spring of International Airport in New York with the addition 2011 saw the completion of the construction of a hangar of nine international gates, baggage facilities, customs which now houses an aircraft maintenance company and border control is on schedule. CO2 emissions for own operating activities Amsterdam Airport Schiphol in 2011 specialising in aircraft painting services for aircraft up (tonnes) to the Fokker 100 in size. Activities of the Aviodrome Brisbane Airport is developing into an AirportCity, 94.8% National Aviation Theme Park located at Lelystad accommodating business parks, hotels and high-quality Energy consumption 133,035 Airport have not developed favourably. In November public transport connections. The airport’s domestic Own fleet of motor vehicles 2,813 the management applied for a moratorium, which terminal was expanded in 2011, with a connection to eventually became a bankruptcy in December 2011. a new 5,300-space car park to be completed in 2012. Commuter traffic 2,949 There are several parties investigating a possible Other 1,614 relaunch of the Park. Compensation of energy consumption – 133,035 2.0% 2.1% 1.1% Compensation of business trips by plane – 692 2011 2010 2011 2010 Growth Fully compensated Interest (in %) Result (in million EUR*) Passengers (in millions) (in %) 6,684 Energy Strategy 2020 Sustainable Mobility Domestic airports CO2 emissions 2010* Rotterdam The Hague Airport 100 6.2 5.4 1.12 0.97 15.9 (in tonnes) Eindhoven Airport 51 10.0 8.0 2.64 2.14 23.3 Lelystad Airport 100 0.3 0.1 The Netherlands 105,500,000** Aviation 60,000,000** Foreign aiports Schiphol location 1,003,985 Own operating activities Schiphol not compensated 139,222 ADP S.A. 8 31.4 26.4 88.1 83.4 5.7 Own operating activities Schiphol compensated 132,418 Terminal 4 JFK NY 100 6.0 31.1 10.2 9.8 3.9 Own operating activities Schiphol net emissions 6,804 BACH 18.7 12.1 8.1 20.4 19.8 3.4 * 2011 not yet available *) results recorded by Schiphol Group ** www.compendiumvoordeleefomgeving.nl 64 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 65 Our performance in 2011 Electricity consumption Natural gas consumption of a large proportion of our company fleet. PON Infrastructural measures focus on intensive cleaning Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (x1,000 kWh / operating year) Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (x1,000 m3 / operating year) supports us in our aim of being CO2 neutral in respect of airside paving with mobile cleaning and suction 2011 183,182 2011 13,804 of our own operations in 2012. We also purchased two machines and the use of sand to combat snow and ice. electric cars (Nissan Leafs) in 2011 to familiarise our The advantage of using mobile cleaning vehicles is that 2010 175,565 2010 15,025 employees this new type of drive. Land near the they offer greater flexibility and can therefore also be 2009 174,912 2009 14,624 Energieplein has been allocated to the electric transport used for other activities such as removing rubber. 2008 173,949 2008 15,677 company Better Place for a battery swap station. The advantage of using sand is that it has a negligible This company will start operations in spring 2012. impact on surface water quality. Sand cannot be used 2007 158,942 2007 14,402 Securitas, Microsoft, KLM and our subsidiary Schiphol under all circumstances, however, which means that Telematics have all begun using electric vehicles to potassium formate will still need to be used though a certain degree. This is one of the reasons why installamuch less frequently. belt made from 100% reusable materials. If the test Generating sustainable energy on-site tion of the necessary electric charging infrastructure results are positive, we will install more of these Amsterdam Airport Schiphol aims to generate 20% has been fast-tracked at the airport. For instance, taxi We are now working together with the Rijnland Water baggage belts in future. of its energy in a sustainable manner by 2020. Over companies operating at Schiphol have announced that Board to further develop Sanitation Plan 4 in the the past few years we have researched and applied they will be introducing several dozen electric taxis from 2011/2012 winter season. Furthermore, we are opting for energy-saving lighting a number of technologies for sustainable energy mid-2012. wherever possible. LED lighting was installed in a generation. Heat and cold storage in the ground and Use of de-icing agents number of public areas in the terminal and in various roof solar panel systems have already been installed To facilitate the arrival and growth of electric taxis, Mild conditions in the 2011 winter period meant buildings in 2011. Tests have shown that this type of on a small scale. The percentage of energy generated we will need to provide rapid-charge stations that relatively little potassium formate was used. Potassuim lighting can reduce energy consumption by around 40% in 2011 stood at 1.25% (1.2% in 2010). Everything is can charge batteries up to 80% in under 30 minutes. formate is sprayed on the runways, taxiways and aprons to 50%. Sustainable lighting has been installed in the ready for the large-scale commercial use of solar panels In January 2012, the first rapid-charge station was put to prevent ice from forming. In all, 224,741 litres were VIP centre, producing an annual saving comparable to in 2012. energyGROUNDS B.V., a joint venture with into commission at the Total service station at Schipholused in 2011; compared with one million litres used the energy consumption of 12 households. All new Imtech Nederland B.V., has been set up for this purpose. Centre. Natural gas taxis are also expected to be in an average winter. products launched by Advertising & Media will be We will produce a integrated energy plan for the airport introduced in 2012. fitted with energy-efficient screens or LED lighting. in 2012, which we will use when designing sustainable The average oxygen content fell below the standard power stations. Over the period from August to December 2011, we ran between 28 December 2010 and 6 January 2011. By year-end 2011, 74.2% of the lettable office floor area extensive tests on the use of 100% biodiesel in vehicles The impact of this was limited thanks to the successful in our property portfolio (including property owned by Eindhoven Airport has developed an action plan to and equipment in cooperation with KLM and KLM water quality recovery plan, the use of potassium associates, in proportion to our stake) at the Schiphol generate 5% of its on-site energy needs from sustain­ Equipment Services. The tests involved second generaformate instead of potassium acetate and the removal site had an A, B or C Energy Performance of Buildings able sources by 2015, increasing to 20% by 2020. tion biodiesel manufactured from waste oils and fats. and disposal of snow containing glycol and formate, Directive energy label (EPBD label). As well as making Rotterdam The Hague Airport has also examined ways If the results are positive, we will start to use this fuel thus preventing these agents from polluting the the buildings more sustainable, we are now examining of connecting the terminal to a central heat and cold in vehicles for which there is no sustainable alternative. surface water. to what extent it is feasible to introduce ‘green lease storage facility. Lelystad Airport is looking into options If the results are not positive, we will switch to a B30 contracts’ in which the lessor and lessee agree to make for generating sustainable energy by means of fuel that consists of 30% biodiesel and 70% regular In 2011, 190,000 kilograms of salt were used to prevent efforts to improve sustainability. fermentation and solar panels. fuel and reduces CO2 emissions by around 23%. In 2011, ice formation on roads, cycling paths and car parks. our participation in the Dutch Consortium Tender for Approximately 500,000 kilograms of salt are used LED lighting has been installed on the taxiway at Sustainable Mobility Programme Electric Cars was brought to a halt as a number of major on average each year. Rotterdam The Hague Airport, and fluorescent lighting Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is taking measures on a fleet owners had dropped out. has been replaced with the latest LED tubes. A new smaller scale to improve air quality through the use of TRUST electricity-saving building management system has also electric cars and scooters for employees. Concessions are Surface water quality TRUST – Transitions to the Urban Water Services of been introduced. also granted to taxis and buses on the condition that Tomorrow – is a European Commission project in which At Lelystad Airport, energy scans have been carried these vehicles comply with Euro 5 emission standards. Sanitation plans 30 partners from 11 countries are working together over out at the biggest energy users on the airport grounds. Schiphol is committed to improving the quality of the the next four years to examine means for improving The results of these scans will be used to make adjustIn 2011, we established a collaboration with PON surface water on a permanent basis, particularly by the sustainability of the water supply chain. Participants ments in the terminal in 2012. Services N.V. for the management and maintenance minimising the harmful effects of de-icing and ice include nine cities, including Amsterdam in collaboration control measures. This includes both more economical with Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. A main priority spraying and the use of sustainable alternatives to during the year under review was to develop a joint potassium formate. Working procedures are laid down strategy. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol hosted the in Sanitation Plan 1 (source-reducing measures) and project’s first meeting. Most important environmental indicators regional airports 2011 Rotterdam Eindhoven Lelystad Sanitation Plan 4 (infrastructure measures). Sourcereducing measures focus on the more economical use Water consumption (liter/pax) 10 7,4 N/A of both aircraft de-icing and snow and ice control Electricity consumption (kWh) 3,597,814 4,256,667 203,000 measures. Handling agents use glycol for the de-icing Gas consumption (m3) 157,187 93,664 28,000 of aircraft; we use potassium formate for ice-control Waste (tonnes) 128 217 4 measures on asphalt. % recycled waste 25% 17% 15% 66 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 67 Our performance in 2011 Drinking water consumption Schiphol Drinking and waste water rendering the use of kerosene and diesel unnecessary. ETS, the allowances granted will be lower than the (in % / operating year) At Schiphol we handle the distribution of drinking water Thirty aircraft stands were connected to these facilities forecast emissions. The final arrangements and 2011 (1,223,461 m3) and the removal of waste water (chiefly sanitary waste in 2011, with another 15 to follow in 2012. implementation will take place in 2012. 61 39 water) from the buildings to an Evides waste water 2010 (1,241,971 m3) 62 38 treatment plant on the airport site. In all, 1,223,461 m3 Emissions trading system Total emissions are verified annually by an external 2009 (1,238,546 m3) 60 40 of drinking water were consumed during 2011 The Netherlands Emissions Authority (NEA) granted auditor and subsequently reported to the NEA. In 2008 (1,309,791 m3) (1,241,971 m3 in 2010). Water consumption per Schiphol Nederland B.V. a licence to emit NOx and CO2. 2011, a total of 14,435 kg of NOx and 23,578 tonnes 57 43 passenger fell from 15.9 litres in 2010 to 14.0 litres This licence relates exclusively to direct emissions caused of CO2 were emitted. The maximum values were set at 2007 (1,336,791 m3) 61 39 in 2011. Schiphol aims to save drinking water by further by the use of natural gas and propane in heat/cold 7,370 kg of NOx and 28,524 tonnes of CO2. The required Consumption Amsterdam Airport Schiphol reducing water consumption per passenger. Water storage systems, central heating and steam boilers NOx emission rights was purchased on the emissions Consumption third parties treatment installations that reduce the mineral content and emergency power units managed by Schiphol. market. The surplus CO2 emission rights were added of the cooling water were installed on the roofs of to the reserve. The reduction in NOx emissions is largely terminals 2 and 3 in 2010. This measure resulted in a In 2006, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol began participaattributable to lower gas consumption by the heat/cold Drinking water consumption per passenger (litres) saving of around 20% on water consumption in 2011. ting in the Emission Trading Scheme (ETS), which takes storage systems, while the fall in CO2 emissions was a market-based approach to the reduction of emissions due to lower energy consumption as a result of higher 2011 14.0 Air quality (CO2 and NOx). By trading emission allowances, the outdoor temperatures. At the request of the NEA 2010 15.9 The government establishes standards for aircraft Dutch government is seeking to achieve cost-effective and the external auditor, a number of administrative emissions, which were met during the 2011 operating reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and to meet changes were made to the current monitoring protocol 2009 15.5 year. Statutory limits also apply to concentrations of the Kyoto Protocol targets. Phase 3 of the ETS (ETSIII) in 2011. A number of monitoring points were also 2008 14.5 nitrous oxide (NOx) and PM10 particles in order to protect will be launched in 2013. We have drawn up an adjusted in order to optimise the integrity of the 2007 16.1 local air quality. The statutory limits that will apply from allocation plan and a corresponding methodology CO2 and NOx readings. 2015 have been amply met at all locations at and around report for the implementation of this phase and the airport. To improve air quality, all of our aircraft submitted these documents to the NEA, which will stands are being connected to Fixed Electrical Ground grant us new emission allowances based on forecast Power (FEGP) facilities and to pre-conditioned air, emissions for the 2013-2020 period. In phase 3 of the 68 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 69 Our performance in 2011 Waste from aircraft is removed to a separate location intensive media and marketing attention for budget at Schiphol where it is separated into paper and parking at and around Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. residual waste. As the percentage of separated waste fell in 2011, a project was launched in October The percentage of public transport users declined from 2011 to realise a structural improvement. In order to 41.0% in 2010 to 40.5% in 2011. increase the amount of waste separated within our own office environments, a new waste separation Passenger satisfaction regarding the frequency of concept was introduced at Schiphol’s head office train services to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is with the launch of the ‘New Style of Working’ in currently 88% (90% in 2010), with satisfaction mid-2011. The individual waste bins at each workstation regarding services from Schiphol at 81% (80% in with two separate compartments (paper and residual 2010). Passenger satis­faction regarding the punctuality waste) have been replaced with collective waste of train services remained stable at 90%. Dutch collection points with seven compartments so that Railways (NS) reduced their night-time services from compostable waste, plastic and cardboard can now the Enschede and Brabant regions for commercial also be collected separately. More than 90% of waste reasons. In 2011, the Fyra High-Speed Train increased was collected separately at the locations where this the frequency of its services between Amsterdam, system has been introduced, and we have therefore Schiphol, Rotterdam and Breda. As a result, there are decided to roll out this concept on a large scale at now more high-speed connections to and from locations outside the main building. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Schiphol workers Accessibility Accessibility is also a key factor for businesses, suppliers and employees. When surveyed, 80% of this group The elimination of traffic bottlenecks and the improveranked Amsterdam Airport Schiphol’s accessibility ment of public transport facilities are crucial in ensuring level as ‘high’. Car use among this group rose to 64%. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol’s long-term accessibility. This too is attributable to the highly improved flow of In specific cases, we will opt to co-invest in infrastructure traffic on roads in the Schiphol region. The percentage outside the airport grounds. Key projects at Amsterdam of public transport users remained stable at 28%; 20% Airport Schiphol in 2011: opt for the train, while 8% use the bus or express bus. The ‘check into sustainability’ campaign was developed to raise awareness of waste separation and recycling among passengers. The express bus is extremely successful, and will 1. Increasing railway capacity between continue to play a key role in future public transport Duivendrecht and the Schiphol Tunnel developments. 2. High-Quality Public Transport at Schiphol-East Waste separation Since September 2011, the liquid and gels waste 3. Rerouting of the N201 Passengers, users and we ourselves produce a large stream generated during the security process has been 4. Decision to reroute the A9 Safety and security volume of waste each year. In 2011, 13,864 tonnes collected separately, sorted and processed off-site. 5. Opening of peak-hour lanes on the A9. of waste were collected and processed off-site. This waste flow amounts to an average of 15 tonnes Runway safety This represents a 1.3% reduction in comparison with per month and mainly consists of plastic, which is used In the leading Airport Service Quality Survey of The prevention of incidents on and around the take-off 2010. Less mown grass was removed (-700 tonnes). as a secondary raw material after separation. We will European airports, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is and landing runways is an area which has our constant In the operating year 2011, 30.2% of waste was recycled examine ways of further increasing this recyclable ranked second in terms of accessibility. attention. Runway safety is measured on the basis of the (excluding construction and demolition waste and stream in 2012. number of runway incursions (i.e., incidents on a runway water containing glycol). Passengers involving an aircraft, vehicle or person not authorised to Our aim is to increase the percentage of recyclable Following a successful pilot, tissues have also been Passenger satisfaction regarding airport accessibility be there at that time). The year 2011 saw a total of 36 waste flows, for instance by improving facilities for collected separately since June 2011, with an average by private transport rose by 4 percentage points to runway incursions (31 in 2010). These were all incidents separating waste at the source and by improving services of 2.5 tonnes of this separated waste now being 78.0%. The completion of new peak-hour lanes and that did not pose any major risks. In the Runway Safety to clients. A number of waste streams were separated transported to a special fermenting facility each extra traffic lanes has reduced the amount of congestion Team, parties from the aviation sector monitor and before disposal during 2011, including food leftovers, month, where it is used to produce biogas. on motorways leading to the airport. The flow of analyse runway incursions, after which appropriate liquids & gels and tissues. The separate collection of traffic on the airport site did not cause any problems measures are taken. food leftovers was intensified at the terminal in 2011, Schiphol SmartGate Cargo is a joint project with the in 2011. Additional road traffic controllers were in collaboration with various catering companies and air cargo industry for monitoring goods that leave the deployed during peak holiday periods. The number Implementation of the Runway Safety Policy drawn our partner, Van Gansewinkel. Almost 400 tonnes were EU via Schiphol. This project involves e-freight, which of vehicle kilometres increased in parallel with the rise up in 2010 commenced with the installation of warning collected from various restaurants and cafés in the year is paperless, as standard. According to the IATA, eighty in passengers numbers. In 2011, 26.6% (2010: 28.5%) lights at the Runway 06-24 intersection. The other under review; more than double compared with 2010 747 full freighter aircraft are needed to transport the of passengers were dropped off and picked up, and take-off and landing runways will be fitted with similar (186 tonnes). This waste is fermented to produce biogas worldwide volume of cargo documents used for air 12.4% (2010: 10.6%) took their own cars to the airport. lights over the course of 2012. In 2011, an extensive off-site. We will continue this policy in 2012. cargo transport each year. This can be attributed to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol’s campaign was conducted among users during large-scale improved accessibility by road, in combination with maintenance work on Runway 04-22. Users received 70 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 71 Our performance in 2011 Number of runway incursions at Schiphol Average number of traffic accidents airside Traffic safety Total Risk Weight (TRW) (per year) (per month) (tonnes) Traffic safety in the area of the airport accessible to 2011 36 2011 15 the public increased further in 2011. The number of Standard 9.724 registered traffic accidents per month dropped from 8 2010 31 2010 14 39 in 2010 to 37 in 2011. There were no accidents resul6 2009 32 2009 13 ting in death or serious injury in 2011. The number of 4 2008 41 2008 17 traffic accidents involving minor injuries dropped from an average 3.5 per month to 2.4, while the number of 2 2007 40 2007 16 accidents involving more serious injuries dropped to an 0 average of 0.4 per month. These figures are low in 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Number of bird strikes at Schiphol Average number of traffic accidents landside (per 10,000 air transport movements) (per month) comparison with national averages, which exceed the Schiphol figures by a factor of 9. The average monthly already in use at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Ever since 2011 7.6 2011 number of collisions and other incidents on aprons and 2005, we have been global pioneers when it comes to 6 37 2010 7.7 2010 perimeter roads not open to the public rose to an the development and implementation of the scans. 6 39 average of 15 per month (compared with an average Security scans are safe, reliable and customer friendly. 2009 7.1 2009 8 44 of 14 per month in 2010). 2008 4.2 2008 2011 Security Innovation Days 15 47 2007 5.4 2007 Safety in the terminal Working in collaboration with our partners, we regularly 18 49 Parking incidents The Schiphol Fire Safety covenant, an agreement launch new initiatives in the area of security. In October Collisions between the airport and the municipality of 2011, we organised the Security Innovation Days, Haarlemmermeer, was revised in 2011 on the basis of an event that offered national and international an evaluation of cooperation in 2010. The basic assumpknowledge institutions an opportunity to showcase tions underlying the new covenant became effective their potential contributions to Amsterdam Airport timely updates on the latest situation regarding the approach to this issue: population management, crop on 1 November 2011. We are also engaged in structural Schiphol’s security policy. Four parties were selected maintenance activities through the distribution of changes, nature (wetland) changes and the use of techcooperation in the area of crisis management with our from a total of over thirty presentations. Over the information brochures. As a result, potentially unsafe nology. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, LNVL and KLM are partners from the Kennemerland Safety Region. Among course of 2012, we will engage these parties to set situations could be avoided. responsible for developing the latter aspect. To this end, other aspects, this cooperation extends to joint planning up an operational field lab at Amsterdam Airport we prepared a bird species risk model in 2011 that was and exercises. Various administrative agreements and a Schiphol in order to test their innovative solutions In December 2011, the Dutch Safety Board defined on the basis of International Bird Strike number of operational agreements were revised in in a realistic environment. (Onderzoeksraad voor Veiligheid, OVV) published an Committee standards. Using this risk model, we then response to the introduction of the Security Regions investigative report on the ‘Taxiway take-off’ incident, developed specific control measures to target different Act on 1 October 2010. FLUX which occurred in February 2010. The definition of types of birds. In October 2011, the FLUX – Fast Low Risk Universal ‘runway incursion’ does not apply to this incident. External safety Crossing – programme was granted permanent status We have adopted the recommendation of the OVV The number of bird strikes at Amsterdam Airport The Aviation Act includes a safety standard for external in the United States. FLUX originally started as a oneto conduct a risk analysis into traffic taxiing near the Schiphol in 2011 totalled 7.6 for every 10,000 KLM air safety at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, which specifically year US-Dutch pilot project in 2009, and was designed take-off and landing runways together with Air Traffic transport movements (7.7 in 2010). In 2011, the Schiphol concerns the safety of persons who find themselves in to create an international network of trusted traveller Control the Netherlands (LVNL). The operational effects Bird Strike Committee launched a campaign to stimulate close proximity to the airport as well as the risk to these programmes. By late 2011, the various technical and of only using taxiways provided with green centreline pilots to report (suspected) bird strikes more frequently persons of becoming victims of an aircraft accident. operational improvements agreed upon by the partici­ taxi lighting, as recommended, will be investigated. and accurately. The campaign has been successful: pilots The applicable standard – Total Risk Weight (TRW) – pating countries’ authorities had been implemented. not only more accurately reported the bird strikes at that we are obliged to satisfy is determined by an FLUX is now ready to be rolled out in other countries. Bird strikes Schiphol, but there was also a rise in the number of aircraft’s take-off weight, the number of air transport In 2011, we worked with the Dutch government to Birds – especially geese – pose a growing risk to aviation reports by KLM pilots at other airports. movements at the airport and global historical aviation establish ties with Japan and South Korea in an effort safety. We are using every means at our disposal to accident statistics. The TRW standard for the airport has to expand the FLUX network into Asia. Participants in minimise the bird problem. As regards the geese During the summer months, we deploy a falconer on been set at 9.724 tonnes. With a TRW of 6.466 tonnes, the Asian programmes are eligible for membership of problem, the Dutch Safety Board (OVV) recommended a daily basis in order to scare off birds. This falconer Amsterdam Airport Schiphol remains within the the Dutch and US programmes, and vice versa. that the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment is also deployed to zones outside of the landing area allowable limit values. oversee efforts to substantially reduce the risk posed that attract large numbers of geese, lapwings and Fast border passage by birds to aviation safety. The Safety Board issued doves. The pilot project with a stationary green laser Security In 2010, we joined forces with the government in an this recommendation following its investigation of an on Runway 18L-36R has been completed; unfortunately, effort to develop fast border passage facilities for emergency landing by a Royal Air Maroc aircraft after the trial did not significantly reduce bird activity or the Security scans approved by European Commission registered passengers (priority automated border a collision with geese on 6 June 2010. number of bird strikes at this particular runway. The In November 2011, the European Commission decided to passage). In 2012, the further innovation of current handheld green lasers, however, have proven highly incorporate the security scan into European legislation automated border controls and facilities will provide The Ministry chairs the Netherlands Control Group for effective in scaring water birds away from the wateras an official security measure at European airports. This frequent flyers with a faster high-quality alternative Bird Strikes (NRV), of which we are a member together ways. The use of this technology is now a standard measure had previously been approved by the European to self-service control (No-Q ), a facility that will be with Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) and KLM. method of scaring off birds. Parliament. The scans are expected to be widely intromade available to all EU citizens with an ePassport Over the past year, the NRV has developed a four-track duced at European airports; over 70 security scans are in mid-2012. 72 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 73 Our performance in 2011 FTEs Schiphol Group per 31/12/2011 But there is still room for improvement. The same survey (in % per location) revealed that our employees are extremely critical with regard to Schiphol’s organisational efficiency. 2012 has 1.3 0.8 Schiphol (1,934) 5.3 therefore been pronounced the ‘Year of Efficiency’. Rotterdam (110) Eindhoven (28) Lelystad (16) Attracting and developing talent The New Style of Working was introduced for all 2,088 92.6 employees working in an office environment in 2011. An important change is that, in addition to promoting the use of flexible workstations and the possibility of remote working, the New Style of Working shifts more responsibilities to the employees themselves. Gender split Schiphol Group They determine to a large extent where, when and how (% of employees per location) they organise their work, which helps them to better Schiphol Group (2,145) manage their work-life balance. The new approach 70 30 also helps to improve accessibility of the airport by Schiphol (1,974) 70 30 promoting teleworking, since not all work necessarily Rotterdam (121) needs to be carried out in an office environment. 69 31 The New Style of Working boosts our profile and appeal Eindhoven (33) 42 58 as an employer. Two national surveys have shown that Lelystad (17) we are regarded as an attractive employer. Intermediair 82 18 Male magazine’s Employer Survey placed us in the top 25. Female In the Randstad Award survey, aimed at new employees, we came second. Gender split Schiphol Group managers (% of total managers per location) Our organisation continuously invests in attracting and developing talented individuals in a wide range Schiphol Group (243) 76 24 of professions. A number of master classes were The Schiphol Group head office features a pleasant working climate with flexible workspaces as part Schiphol (220) organised on current topics in collaboration with 76 24 of the New Style of Working concept. Nyenrode Business University for trainees who started Rotterdam (17) 71 29 in 2010. Our senior management were also invited Eindhoven (3) 67 33 to attend. Ten new highly talented trainees will again Lelystad (3) be recruited in 2012. Human Resources to take advantage of a redundancy scheme. The Mobility 100 0 Male Centre’s success has led to the introduction of Career Female Another example of how we are investing in our In 2011 our employees delivered outstanding Plaza Schiphol, a collaboration between Schiphol employees is the participation of a number of senior performance in a leaner organisation. College, Randstad HR Solutions and FOCUS career managers in an intensive management development counselling. Career Plaza Schiphol provides service Average age of Schiphol Group employees programme at IMD Business School in Lausanne. (years per location) Staff developments in relation the inflow, advancement and outflow of Aéroports de Paris employees also followed this In 2011 the Schiphol Group average workforce personnel. These services are available to all companies Schiphol Group 44,5 . training programme, which has helped to strengthen amounted to 2,115 FTEs (Full-Time Equivalents) and operating at Schiphol and their employees. We are our mutual working relationship. Schiphol 44.9 at year-end the total number of employees was 2,145 supporting this initiative because the airport is a (equal to 2,088 FTEs). This number of FTEs is almost 11% marketplace for jobs as well as products and services Rotterdam 39.5 lower than in 2010. Total employee costs fell by 4%. that we facilitate and manage. Career Plaza Schiphol Eindhoven 41.3 The volume (in terms of costs) of staff hired from third is in line with other initiatives put in place such as Lelystad 40.8 parties (as temporary replacements, seasonal workers Schiphol College in 2007 and the Aviation Sector Fund. or for specific expertise) remained approximately the same as in 2010. In light of the increased traffic volumes, Employee commitment this can be classed as an excellent achievement. Our employees are strongly committed to their Age distribution of Schiphol Group employees (number per location) <30 30-40 40-50 50-60 60> work and to the Schiphol organisation. This is evidenced Career Plaza Schiphol by the Schiphol Monitor, in which our employees answer The completion of the reorganisation marked the end a wide range of questions about strategy, organisation Schiphol Group (2,145) 153 584 680 574 154 of the Schiphol Mobility Centre and the 2009-2011 and working conditions once every 18 months. Employee Schiphol (1,974) 115 538 627 551 143 Redundancy Plan as of 1 July 2011. The Mobility Centre commitment rose from 7.3 to 7.9 on a 10-point scale. Rotterdam (121) 34 26 39 14 8 played an effective role in guiding employees to a new This is a high score by national standards. Eindhoven (33) 1 13 12 6 1 job, either internally or externally, or in preparing them Lelystad (17) 3 7 2 3 2 74 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 75 Our performance in 2011 Average training budget Schiphol Group Average employment length Schiphol Group (EUR per employee per location) (years per location) Schiphol Group 1,895 Schiphol Group 13.6 Schiphol 1,946 Schiphol 14.2 Rotterdam 1,390 Rotterdam 6.9 Eindhoven 1,151 Eindhoven 7.0 Lelystad 983 Lelystad 10.6 Performance management Agreements have been reached with the Central Works Council with regard to improving the performance management system. As well as simplifying the administrative process, the system now places a greater emphasis on reaching and implementing performance agreements and on the employee’s own responsibility for how these results are achieved. It has also been agreed that a 360 degree feedback system will be introduced for all employees. Under this system, Staff turnover in number of employees (per location) employees ask their colleagues to assess their performance: what do their fellow workers feel that Schiphol Group (2,145) 134 they need to stop doing, what should they continue 177 doing, and what do they need to address? The results Schiphol (1,974) 104 150 from this feedback are part of the input for the Rotterdam (121) 22 appraisal interview with the manager. 22 Eindhoven (33) 8 For managers, ‘People Management’ has become 4 an explicit element of their performance review. Lelystad (17) 0 1 The review looks not just at what he or she has achieved In service as a manager but also at how this has been achieved Out of service with the team. Getting the best out of your employees whilst at the same time encouraging and developing them wherever possible has become more important Number of seats in Works Council than ever. All Works Councils within Schiphol Group 7 Central Works Council 12 Consultations are taking place with trade unions and the CWC support 7 Central Works Council with regard to salary adjustments Aviation 11 which may result from performance reviews. Under the Consumer Products & Services 6 current policy, there is a unique link between the review Real Estate 5 and the resulting salary increase. We are keen to make 60 53 SAR B.V. 7 Schiphol Telematics 5 this system even more flexible and customised. It is Rotterdam Airport 7 hoped that the consultations with the trade unions in this regard can be finalised on entering into a new collective agreement for Schiphol Nederland B.V. employees. Absence rate of Schiphol Group employees (in % per location) Another important theme for the new collective agreement is the changes to the work scheduling Schiphol Group 5.0 policy in terms of both the system and method of Schiphol 4.9 remuneration. Equally important are agreements Rotterdam 4.9 which enhance the sustainability of our personnel policy in terms of ensuring that the policy is (even more) Eindhoven 4.3 in line with our employees’ different stages of life. Lelystad 14.3 76 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 77 Our performance in 2011 Collaboration Social involvement We believe it is important that not only our own employees but also the employees of the many other Schiphol fund companies that operate at the airport feel connected In 2011, the Schiphol Fund received nearly 400 requests to ‘their Schiphol’. We consult with our partners at for donations in the areas of sports, culture and welfare. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol in this regard, provide joint 129 of these requests for donations were granted, training programmes in the context of the welcoming amounting to a total of EUR 417,505. Schiphol project and organise social gatherings, also for facilities employees, to further their connection to the Schiphol College airport and to show our appreciation for their work. In 2011, 75% of all exam candidates successfully completed their work to learn programme. In this regard, Schiphol has played a major role as one 382 participants began MBO (senior vocational of the initiators in establishing the ‘Code of Responsible education) programmes. Schiphol College found work Market Conduct’ for the cleaning and window cleaning placement positions at Schiphol Group for 108 students. sectors. Around 350 facilities employees are active in Furthermore, 147 groups followed 50 different this sector every day at Schiphol alone. The Code was vocational training programmes. presented to the Minister of Social Affairs and Employment at the beginning of June 2011 in a SOS Children’s Villages ceremony attended by the President of Schiphol Group. The year 2011 marked the third year in which SOS Children’s Villages was the charity to benefit from Safe working conditions donations deposited in the collection points in the All employees working at the Schiphol location receive terminal and from employee-organised fund-raising the Safety & Security Pocket Guide when applying for events. In 2011, around EUR 150,000 was donated via their Schiphol Pass. This pocket guide now also contains the collection points, and fund-raising activities for and information on work safety. We have also improved by Schiphol employees generated a further EUR 70,000. procedures for our employees to report lost time injuries. Despite our efforts, we are as yet unable to Amsterdamse Bos Theatre provide a reliable figure for the Lost Time Injury In 2011 Schiphol Group continued its sponsorship of Frequency performance indicator. the Amsterdamse Bos Theatre and donated EUR 45,000 to the theatre group to help finance open-air perforWe have further reduced employee exposure to diesel mances in the summer months. The year 2012 will mark motor emissions by electrifying the aircraft stands the 15th anniversary of Schiphol’s sponsorship of this and by modifying or updating the vehicle fleet and theatre group that performs under the flight path of handling equipment. Runway 09-27. Outlook Given the uncertain economic developments, we expect the number of passengers at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol to grow slightly in 2012. In addition, we expect cargo volumes to fall. We expect passenger spending at the airport to continue to grow in 2012. We anticipate that the value of our property portfolio will remain stable and that occupancy will improve. We also expect that our regional airports and international activities will again contribute positively to our results. Barring unforeseen circumstances, we believe our net result in 2012 will at least match our net result in 2011 of EUR 194 million. Schiphol, 16 February 2012 The Management Board 78 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 79 Aviation Aviation • Total revenue rose by 7.2%, mainly as a result of an increase in passenger numbers (+10.0%), air transport movements (+8.8%) and cargo volume (+0.8%), and an average 0.6% increase in airport charges as of 1 April 2011. The total revenue in 2011 also included a direct distribution of EUR 15.1 million. • The number of destinations rose by 12 in 2011 to a total of 313, of which 285 are passenger destinations and 28 cargo destinations. • Operating expenses were up 7.1% (EUR 45.2 million), which was due to higher outsourcing costs (EUR 22.2 million), partly compensated by lower employee costs (EUR -5.6 million), higher security costs (EUR 9.1 million), maintenance costs (EUR 3.7 million), commercial costs (EUR 5.8 million, especially for the Airline Reward Programme) and capacity expansion (EUR 17.2 million, depreciation). The costs for energy, water and materials decreased by EUR 7.1 million. The Aviation business area operates at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, providing services and facilities to airlines, passengers and handling • The total costs of the Security reporting segment grew by EUR 10 million to agents. EUR 247 million in 2011. This is equivalent to 36.0% of total operating expenses for the Aviation business area (2010: 37.0%). EUR million 2011 2010 % Key Performance Indicators Total revenue 734 685 7.2 Number of scheduled destinations Passengers & cargo Operating expenses 685 640 7.1 EBITDA 202 181 11.8 2011 313 Operating result 49 45 9.1 2010 301 Average fixed assets 2,083 2,051 1.6 RONA after tax 1.8% 1.7% Investments in fixed assets 183 164 11.5 Punctuality of arrivals Punctuality of departures (in %) (in %) EUR million 2011 2010 % 2011 2010 % 2011 85.1 2011 78.8 Aviation Security 2010 81.7 2010 72.8 Total revenue 487 448 8.7 248 237 4.4 Operating expenses 439 403 8.8 247 237 4.0 EBITDA 173 153 13.0 29 27 5.0 Passenger market share Cargo market share Top 10 European airports (in %) Top 10 European airports (in %) Operating result 48 45 6.9 1 – 0.3 Investments in fixed assets 151 155 – 2.7 32 9 264.6 2011 2010 2011 2010 RONA after tax 2.0% 1.9% 0.2% – 0.1% 10.9 10.6 13.9 13.9 80 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 81 Consumer Products & Services Consumer Products & Services • Major quality improvement and better range of products and services on offer in the renovated Departure Lounge 3. • Time spent at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol now more enjoyable since the opening of Airport Park. • Perception of price/quality ratio for Retail Airside products was further improved. • Average spend per passenger in Retail Airside shops down by 1.8% to EUR 15.55, partly as a result of renovation works in Departure Lounge 3. • Revenue up by 13.6% while passenger numbers rise by 10.0%. • When adjusted for the costs of increased retail sales, operating expenses for Consumer The activities of the Consumer Products & Services business area comprise Products & Services rose by 6.4%. Much of this rise was due to the increase in managing concessions for shops, catering outlets and entertainment, depreciation and amortisation following completion of a number of major projects, operating shops and car parks, and marketing advertising opportunities. such as Excellence Parking and Departure Lounge 3. EUR million 2011 2010 % Key Performance Indicators Total revenue 340 299 13.6 Spend per pax Retail Airside Perceived price/quality Retail Airside EUR per departing passenger rated good or excellent Passenger satisfaction (in %) Operating expenses 192 166 15.4 EBITDA 174 155 12.1 2011 15.55 2011 57 Operating result 148 133 11.3 2010 15.84 2010 56 Average fixed assets 247 239 3.5 RONA after tax 44.9% 41.5% 2009 15.13 2009 52 Investments in fixed assets 29 26 8.7 2008 15.95 2008 55 2007 16.59 2007 56 EUR million 2011 2010 % Concession income per departing passenger Parking revenues Concessions 136 124 9.4 EUR per departing passenger EUR per departing NL passenger Parking 78 71 9.4 Retail sales 78 58 34.5 2011 5.26 2011 7.67 Rents and leases 16 15 6.8 2010 5.27 2010 7.82 Advertising & Media 18 15 16.4 2009 5.11 Other activities 14 15 – 7.8 2008 5.48 Total revenue 340 299 13.6 2007 5.41 Retail Airside Food and Beverage Retail Plaza Other concessions 82 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 83 Real Estate Real Estate • Occupancy up from 86.5% to 88.5%. • General Aviation Terminal at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol completed and projects started at Rotterdam The Hague Airport. • Real Estate saw a slight decline in revenue by 1.0% in 2011. Rental income rose from EUR 156.1 million in 2010 to EUR 156.5 million in 2011, thanks to higher occupancy levels (up 2 percentage points), the completion of the GA Terminal and stable rent levels. The combined income from concessions, tenant parking fees and other operating income fell slightly, mainly due to the decrease in services provided to tenants. • The value of our property portfolio (property and land) fell by EUR 1.7 million in 2011 (+ EUR 21.1 million in 2010). The 2010 amount included a one-off increase of EUR 26 million in the value of the land portfolio caused by a further refinement of our valuation methodology. The Real Estate business area develops, manages, operates and invests in property at and around airports at home and abroad. The property • For Real Estate, maintenance costs for buildings, costs of gas and electricity and portfolio consists of operating and commercial property. 2012 saw the costs associated with tenant services were lower than in 2010, while the costs the opening of the new GA Terminal at Schiphol-East. of external consultancy services were higher. EUR million 2011 2010 % Key Performance Indicators Total revenue 172 173 – 1.0 Direct return on investment property Occupancy rates (in %) (in %) Result on sale of investment property 1 0.0 Fair value gains and losses on investment property –2 21 – 108.0 2011 6.3 2011 88.5 Operating expenses 98 98 0.4 2010 6.6 2010 86.5 EBITDA 90 113 – 20.0 Operating result 72 97 – 25.2 Average fixed assets 1,556 1,524 2.1 Leases expiring within one year Based on annual rents (in %) RONA after tax 3.5% 4.8% Investments in fixed assets 35 52 – 31.8 2011 7.0 2010 10.0 Returns* (in %) 2011 2010 Revenue split in 2011 Property portfolio per category Direct Indirect Direct Indirect EUR million (in %) (as % of total square meters) RONA returns returns RONA returns returns 1 2 6 Investment property 6.1 6.3 – 0.2 8.7 6.6 2.1 6 Investment property, buildings Investment property, offices Investment property, land Investment property, industrial units Assets under construction or in development – 1.3 – 1.3 0.0 – 0.2 – 0.2 0.0 33 Operating property 20 32 Operating property terminal Assets used for operating activities 14.3 14.0 0.3 12.9 12.9 0.0 18 Intercompany revenue Operating property other Other operating income Total returns 6.6 6.7 – 0.1 8.5 7.0 1.5 172 Concessions 565,278 Parking fees m2 * Returns on the average fixed assets, before tax 26 14 42 84 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 85 Alliances & Participations Alliances & Participations • In 2011, total revenue from Alliances & Participations rose by 11.6% (+2.9% in 2010) from EUR 147 million to EUR 164 million. Eindhoven Airport, Rotterdam The Hague Airport and JFK IAT in New York in particular saw an increase in revenue in 2011 compared with 2010. Both regional airports saw a rise in passenger numbers (23.3% in Eindhoven and 15.9% in Rotterdam). JFK IAT contributed towards the rise in total revenue in the form of higher management fees. • Operating expenses at Alliances & Participations rose by 3.5%. Operating expenses rose notably at Rotterdam The Hague Airport and Eindhoven Airport, due to the rise in passenger numbers. • The share in results of associates fell from EUR 63 million in 2010 to EUR 42 million in 2011. In 2010 a one-off share in results was included relating to the expansion of our stake in JFK IAT (EUR 28 million). Schiphol Group has an 8% cross-participation in Aéroports de Paris, with which it has also entered into an industrial cooperation venture. Aéroports de Paris operates the Parisian airports Charles de Gaulle and Orly, among others. EUR million 2011 2010 % Key Performance Indicators Total revenue 164 147 11.6 JFK IAT, New York (USA) Eindhoven Airport Passengers x 1,000 Passengers x 1,000 Fair value gains and losses on investment property 1 1 – 7.2 Operating expenses 130 125 3.5 2011 10,200 2011 2,643 EBITDA 46 35 31.6 2010 9,840 2010 2,143 Operating result 35 22 55.8 Share in results of associates, interest income and dividends 42 63 – 32.8 2009 9,580 2009 1,712 Average fixed assets 861 844 2.0 2008 9,258 2008 1,630 RONA after tax 8.0% 8.0% 2007 8,897 2007 1,544 Investments in fixed assets 17 6 166.0 Foreign Domestic Other Brisbane Airport (Australia) Rotterdam The Hague Airport Passengers x 1,000 Passengers x 1,000 EUR million airports airports participations Allocations Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 20,400 2011 1,124 2010 19,800 2010 969 Revenue 12.5 6.1 62.0 53.8 89.2 86.5 0.1 0.3 163.7 146.7 2009 18,886 2009 965 Operating result 9.1 3.2 16.5 13.4 12.1 11.2 – 2.8 – 5.4 34.9 22.4 Share in result, 41.5 62.8 0.5 – 0.2 0.0 0.0 42.1 62.6 2008 18,780 2008 1,014 interest charges and results 2007 18,022 2007 1,093 on other investments Total result 50.6 66.0 16.5 13.4 12.7 11.0 – 2.8 – 5.4 77.0 85.0 Average asset base 726.1 713.7 73.7 71.5 48.2 53.6 12.8 4.8 860.8 843.6 RONA after tax 6.4% 7.5% 16.8% 14.0% 21.5% 15.2% 8.0% 8.0% 86 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 87 Corporate Governance & Compliance 88 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 89 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance General • T he Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility allowing the Supervisory Board to retrospectively Securities transactions Committee has a dual task. On the one hand it advises adjust variable remuneration in certain cases Despite the fact that Schiphol Group shares are not N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol (Schiphol Group) is a public the Management Board and the Supervisory Board as (Corporate Governance Code provision II.2.10). listed on a stock exchange, the company does have a limited liability company with a full two-tier board regards relationships with shareholders and communilimited set of Regulations governing Inside Information regime. The Dutch government, the Municipality of cation strategy (public affairs), and on the other it A detailed explanation of the above points, including and the Holding of Securities and Securities Transactions. Amsterdam, Aéroports de Paris and the Municipality plays an important role in defining the socio-economic a ‘comply or explain’ overview, has been published on The company has issued bonds under the Euro Medium of Rotterdam are joint shareholders. The governance aspects of Schiphol Group’s business activities. www.schiphol.nl under ‘Investor Relations’. The site Term Note (EMTN) Programme. Members of the structure is based on Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, also provides the internal regulations to which Schiphol Management Board and Supervisory Board refrain from the company’s Articles of Association and various Each of these committees is subject to a regulatory code, Group is subject, including the Regulations governing buying and selling these bonds and/or any Aéroports de internal regulations. published on www.schiphol.nl under ‘Investor Relations’. Inside Information and the Holding of Securities and Paris S.A. shares. The committees meet independently and carry out Securities Transactions, the Whistleblower Regulations Mr Hazewinkel indirectly holds bonds in Schiphol Group, Management Board preparatory work in a number of sub-areas for the and the rules governing the Supervisory Board, its which he already owned at the time of his appointment. Supervisory Board as a whole. The minutes of the committees and the management. His intention is to retain these bonds until the end of The Management Board of Schiphol Group consists meetings held by the various committees are reported their term and not to trade them in the interim. of four members and, in principle, meets once a week. in a regular Supervisory Board meeting, with decisions Mr Nijhuis and Mr Verboom both hold a board position Management Board members share responsibility for being taken accordingly by the entire Supervisory Board. at Aéroports de Paris S.A. In that capacity they are under the management of Schiphol Group and for general an obligation to hold one share in the capital of activities both within Schiphol Group and at its group Corporate Governance Code Aéroports de Paris S.A. The Corporate Auditor is the companies. Each member has accepted responsibility for central officer referred to in the Regulations governing a particular area, as approved by the Supervisory Board. In 2004, Schiphol Group voluntarily began applying Inside Information and the Holding of Securities and the principles and best practice provisions, wherever Securities Transactions. Supervisory Board possible and/or advisable, of the Corporate Governance Code drawn up by the Tabaksblat Committee. Schiphol Schiphol, 16 February 2012 The Supervisory Board of Schiphol Group consists of at Group has implemented these provisions in its Articles least five and at most eight members and meets at least of Association and various internal regulations. The Supervisory Board four times a year. The Supervisory Board is currently made up of eight members. Supervisory Board members In 2009 these regulations were brought in line – The Management Board are tasked with monitoring the Management Board of again, where possible and/or advisable – with the Schiphol Group and its activities. The Supervisory Board new Corporate Governance Code, or Frijns Code. also advises the Management Board. During the General Meeting of Shareholders on 15 April 2010, the Frijns Code and its consequences Corporate Governance structure Schiphol Group Committees of the Supervisory Board for the company were presented to the shareholders, The Supervisory Board has four subcommittees: discussed and approved as a separate agenda item. • The Audit Committee’s tasks include monitoring The meeting identified the principles and best practice the internal risk management and control systems, provisions that are not relevant to Schiphol Group and Shareholders compiling annual and semi-annual reports, and will therefore not be applied. Those provisions concern Audit Committee financing. Areas such as tax planning, insurance options as a component of remuneration, a public policies and pensions also fall within this committee’s response to a private bid for parts of the company portfolio. and the issue of depositary receipts for shares. Selection & Appointments Committee External Audit • The Selection and Appointments Committee carries Also, due to the small number of shareholders, Supervisory Board out preparatory activities connected to procedures the obligatory presence at the General Meeting for the appointment of Supervisory Board and of Shareholders of the full Supervisory Board and Remuneration Committee Internal Audit Management Board members, including drawing Management Board and external auditor is waived. up selection criteria. Lastly, the Code’s provisions on remuneration were • The Remuneration Committee is responsible for applied based on the understanding that employment Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee the remuneration policy and the remuneration of contract agreements made prior to 2004 will Management Board members of the Management Board. It also prepares continue to be honoured. The latter only applies the Remuneration Report and carries out the periodic to the ­employment contract of Mr Verboom. performance assessments of individual Management Each Management Board member’s performance Board members and reports its findings to the contract contains a ‘clawback’ clause (Corporate Business area Business area Consumer Business area Business area Staff + Support Units Supervisory Board. Governance Code provision II.2.11) and a provision Aviation Products & Services Real Estate Alliances & Participations 90 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 91 The Board and Management Supervisory Board A. Ruys T.A. Maas de Brouwer P. Graff H.J. Hazewinkel, RA (1947, Dutch nationality) (1946, Dutch nationality) (1947, French nationality) (1949, Dutch nationality) Chairman Vice-Chairperson First appointed in 2009 First appointed in 2009 First appointed in 2006 First appointed in 2001 First term of office expires in 2014 First term of office expires in 2013 Second term of office expires in 2014 Final term of office expires in 2013 • Member of the Supervisory Board of British American Tobacco PLC • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Philips Electronics • Chairman and CEO of Aéroports de Paris S.A. • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Reggefiber B.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of ITC Ltd Nederland B.V. • Director GDF SUEZ • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of TKH Group N.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of Janivo Holding B.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of Arbo Unie • Director RATP • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Heisterkamp Beheer B.V. • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Aidsfonds/ • Chairman of the Governing Council of Van Leer Group Foundation • Director SOGEPA • Member of the Supervisory Board of Reggeborgh Groep Stop Aids Now Foundations • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Van Gogh Museum • Director SOGEADE Génerance SAS (stepped down at the end of 2011) • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Rijksmuseum • Member of the Board of Governors of VNO-NCW • Member of the Economic and Social Council (France) • Member of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke Boskalis • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Madurodam Foundation • Chairman of the Utrecht Development Board • Chairman of the European and international affairs committee Westminster N.V. • Former Chairman of the Management Board of Heineken N.V. • Former President of the HayVision Society of the National Tourism Council (France) • Member of the Supervisory Board of Zeeman Groep B.V. • Former Member of the Dutch Senate • Director of MEDEF-Paris, the French employers’ organisation • Member of the Supervisory Board of the Sociaal Werkvoorzieningschap Centraal Overijssel Soweco N.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of Zorgpunt Holding B.V. • Member of the Management Board of Foundation ING Aandelen • Member of the Supervisory Board of the Netherlands Symphony Orchestra • Former Chairman of the Management Board of VolkerWessels J.G.B. Brouwer dr. F.J.G.M. Cremers M.A. Scheltema W.F.C. Stevens (1955, Dutch nationality) (1952, Dutch nationality) (1954, Dutch nationality) (1938, Dutch nationality) First appointed in 2002 First appointed in 2011 First appointed in 2006 First appointed in 2010 Final term of office expires in 2012 First term of office expires in 2015 Second term of office expires in 2015 First term of office expires in 2014 • Member of the Supervisory Board of RFS Holding/Wehkamp.nl • Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Fugro N.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of ASR Nederland N.V. • Non-Executive Director Brit Insurance Holdings N.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of Albron B.V. • Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of • Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Triodos Bank N.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of Nederlandse Staatsloterij • Member of the Supervisory Board of DA Retailgroep B.V. N.V. Nederlandse Spoorwegen • Member of the Supervisory Board of ECN • Member of the Supervisory Board of Holland Casino • Member of the Supervisory Board of Hoogvliet Supermarkten B.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke Vopak N.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of TNT Express N.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of AZL N.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of Kring-apotheek B.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of Unibail-Rodamco SE • External Member of the Audit Committee of Stichting • Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Concertgebouw • Member of the Advisory Board of the Retail Jaarprijs Foundation • Member of the Supervisory Board of Parcom Capital B.V. Pensioenfonds ABP Foundation • Member of the Management Board of VEDIS • Member of the Supervisory Board of SBM Offshore N.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of the Rijksmuseum Foundation • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Foundation Diabetes Detailhandelsplatform • Member of the Capital Markets Committee of the AFM • Research Fellow of Erasmus University Rotterdam Onderzoek Nederland (DON) • Former Chairman of the Management Board of de Boer N.V. • Board Member of the Stichting Preferente Aandelen of Philips • Member of the Advisory Board of Plan Nederland • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Foundation Preferente • Former Chairman of the Management Board of C1000 N.V. and Heijmans • Member of the Supervisory Board of World Press Photo Aandelen WAVIN N.V. • Former CFO and Member of the Management Board of VNU N.V. • Treasurer of Institut Néerlandais, Paris • Former Senior Partner at Caron & Stevens/Baker & McKenzie • Former CFO of Shell Nederland B.V. • Former Member of the Dutch Senate 92 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 93 The Board and Management Management Board Key Management J.A. Nijhuis RA Business areas (1957, Dutch nationality) Otto Ambagtsheer Consumer Products & Services business area André van den Berg Real Estate business area Birgit Otto Aviation; Airport Operations Ron Louwerse Aviation; Safety, Security and Environment President & CEO since 1 January 2009 Floor Felten Aviation; Asset Management • Member of the Supervisory Board of SNS Reaal N.V. • Member of the Supervisory Board of Aéroports de Paris S.A. Regional and International activities • Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Dutch National Ballet Roland Wondolleck Rotterdam The Hague Airport • Member of the Board of Governors of the Amsterdam Music Theatre • Member of the Amsterdam Economic Board, Chairman of the Logistics cluster Joost Meijs Eindhoven Airport Erik Lagerweij Lelystad Airport Julieanne Alroe Brisbane Airport Corporation Alain Maca JFK IAT, New York dr. P.M. Peter Steinmetz Aruba Airport Authority A.P.J.M. Rutten M.M. de Groof Verboom (1951, Dutch (1957, Nederlandse Staff & support (1950, Dutch nationality) nationaliteit) Peter van Laarhoven Corporate Development nationality) Paul Luijten Corporate Affairs Rob de Leeuw Corporate Audit Services a.i. Member of the Management Board/COO Member of the Management Board/CFO Member of the Management Board/CCO since 1 September 2005 since 1 September 1997 since 1 February 2008 Coen Reinders Corporate Control Joris Backer Corporate Legal, Company Secretary • Member of ACI Europe • Member of the Supervisory Board and • Member of the Supervisory Board Frits Bosch Corporate Procurement • Member of the Executive Committee Audit Committee of VastNed Retail N.V. of Eindhoven Airport N.V. Robert Lenterman Corporate Treasury & Schiphol International of ACI Europe • Member of the Supervisory Board of • Member of the Board of Amsterdam • Member of the ACI World Aéroports de Paris S.A. Connecting Trade Wim Mul Human Resources Governing Board • Member of the Supervisory Board of • Member of the Board of KennisKring Kees Jans Information & Communication Technology • Chairman of ACI Fund for Developing Brisbane Airport Company Ltd Amsterdam Gerard Geurtjens Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Project Office Nations’ Airports • Member of the Advisory Board of • Member of the Advisory Board of NIBC Merchant Bank N.V. National Aerospace Laboratory NLR • Chairman of the Board of Governors • Member of the Supervisory Board of of the Master’s programme for Central Works Council (CWC) Eindhoven Airport N.V. Registered Controllers, Erasmus • Chairman of the Schiphol Security University Rotterdam Members of the CWC as of 1 January 2011: and Public Safety Steering Group Sandro Broeke Chairman Willem Verwoerd Secretary Bart-Jan Wielinga Deputy Committee Member Consumer Arun Jairam Aviation Alliances & Participations Products & Services Marjo Loderus-Wijnen Rob Schelvis Frits Strasters Jan van Duin Schiphol Telematics Real Estate Arnold van Rennes Rotterdam The Hague Airport (vacancy Aviation Works Council) (vacancy Support Works Council) (vacancy SAR Works Council) 94 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 95 Remuneration report Remuneration report fixed salary component with that of the reference group referred to in the above remuneration benchmark study. The basic principle is that the fixed salary component for quarter of 2011 to tighten up the specific quantitative target (with regard to ROE) for 2011. the ordinary members amounts to approximately 80% Short-term variable pay as a percentage of fixed salary: of that received by the President. General remuneration policy for the performed to determine whether the remuneration Other Management Management Board level, and more particularly that of the President, was in Short-term variable pay Board line with market practice. The study was jointly initiated Annual variable pay arrangements are based on the Target (in %) President members Procedure by and performed in close consultation with the Ministry achievement of financial targets and various personal In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, of Finance on behalf of the Dutch State as the majority performance and/or team-related targets, and on the Financial target 20 15 the Supervisory Board draws up the remuneration policy shareholder of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol. The study was Supervisory Board’s assessment of the overall perfor1. Personal performance target 7.5 7.5 for the Schiphol Group Management Board members performed in accordance with the Remuneration Policy mance of the individual Management Board members. 2. Personal performance target 7.5 based on the recommendations of the Remuneration Guidelines for state shareholdings dated 24 October Unlike the other components, the latter component, General performance 7.5 5 Committee. The General Meeting of Shareholders of 2008 drawn up by the Ministry. Remuneration consulassessment of overall performance, is not specified in Schiphol Group then ratifies the remuneration policy. tants conducted the study. detail but left to the Supervisory Board’s discretion. Total (excluding swing) 35 35 The Supervisory Board determines the fixed salary Aspects subject to review can include interaction with Maximum swing percentage 12.5 10 component within the framework of the adopted The study results showed that the current total the various stakeholders and representation of the Total (including maximum swing) 47.5 45 remuneration policy, again based on the recommen­ ­remuneration package of the President falls below the Schiphol organisation in the public domain. dations of the Remuneration Committee, and each year reference group median. Nevertheless – taking account determines the variable salary component. of prevailing public and political-administrative views – The financial target is obtained from the net result Long-term variable pay the newly formulated remuneration policy incorporates divided by the average equity (ROE), in accordance Schiphol Group is not a listed company, which is why it is The Supervisory Board and the Management Board a proposal to moderate the current remuneration policy with the annual budget as approved by the Supervisory not possible to grant Schiphol Group shares and/or share members agree a performance contract at the beginning for newly appointed Management Board members. Board for that year. The personal and/or team-related options as part of the remuneration policy. Nevertheless, of each year for the variable salary component. performance targets may vary from year to year and the Supervisory Board considers it important that the This contract lays down specific, challenging, measurable During the year under review shareholders represented relate to aspects such as operating processes, the public remuneration of Management Board members also and controllable targets for both the short and long by the Ministry of Finance were frequently consulted, and socio-economic role played by the airport and reflects the extent to which sustainable results have term. The targets set for each Management Board particularly by the Chairman of the Remuneration Corporate Responsibility. In view of the nature of been realised. member on this occasion include not only financial Committee, with regard to the finer details of the newly the targets, it was decided in 2011 once again to targets, but also socio-economic targets (including formulated policy. The Ministry approved this policy in apply collective Management Board targets. To foster the achievement of these long-term objectives targets with regard to Corporate Responsibility and December 2011 and the proposed policy will now also The Remuneration Committee advised the Supervisory of Schiphol Group, a long-term incentive scheme which Mainport Development) and operational targets. After be submitted to the other shareholders at the Ministry’s Board at the time of drafting the current policy that rolls forward over a three-year period has been agreed. having assessed the Management Board members’ request. This procedure was agreed during the General these targets should account for a maximum of 7.5% The long-term incentive (LTI) system is therefore also a performance over the previous year, the Supervisory Meeting of Shareholders in April 2011, following presenof the fixed salary of the President and a maximum of conditional annual remuneration component and has Board determines whether they have attained their tation of the main points of the policy. The current 15% of the fixed salary of the other Management Board an on-target payment level of 35% of the fixed salary. collective and individual targets. The Supervisory Board remuneration policy – which, therefore, also applied members, without a fixed percentage being agreed also regularly examines whether the fixed and the in 2011 – is set out in brief below. for each individual target; instead, the allocation of Actual payment depends on the cumulative Economic variable salary components are in line with current percentages per component will be at the discretion Profit (EP) achieved over a period of three successive market practice. Finally, the Supervisory Board analyses of the Supervisory Board. financial years compared with the medium-term business the possible outcomes of the variable remuneration Structure of the remuneration package plan approved by the Supervisory Board and the components and the associated consequences for the The total on-target level of the short-term variable Economic Profit target specified therein. In the event of remuneration of the Management Board members. The Supervisory Board considers the variable pay (STI) equals 35% of the fixed salary. If the levels as exceptional performance, whereby the pre-established ­remuneration component to be an important part of defined for the financial targets are exceeded, this performance criteria are exceeded by more than 10%, General the overall package. The performance criteria governing may result in at most 1.625 times the defined on-target the bonus may be increased to a maximum of 52.5% The basic principle of the remuneration policy is that the the short-term and long-term variable remuneration are level for that component for the President and at most of the fixed salary. reward should be competitive and that Schiphol Group derived from the key company management parameters 1.67 times that level for the other Management Board should be able to attract, retain and motivate good (financial, operational and/or Corporate Responsibility). members. In the event of exceptional performance, The impact that the 2009 strategy revision had on the managers on the basis of the agreed benefits package. This is reflected in the type and structure of the adopted therefore, the maximum short-term variable pay is company’s medium-term business plan led to Year 2009 The policy must also foster the achievement of the benefits package. For this reason, a significant part of 47.5% of the fixed salary for the President and 45.1% of the business plan, as used as a reference for the company’s short-term and long-term objectives. To attain the overall remuneration package is performancethereof for the other Board members. The extent to long-term variable remuneration, being replaced by these goals, the levels of remuneration should be in line related, with a balanced mix of short-term and which the defined targets have been achieved is the approved 2009 budget. The business plan as drawn with those of other comparable companies and long-term targets. determined in part on the basis of the externally up in 2009 applies to the years 2010 and 2011. organisations. audited financial statements. Fixed salary In the second quarter of 2011, the Supervisory Board The current remuneration policy was ratified by the In order to ensure that Schiphol Group is able to attract, In view of the unanticipated strong positive developformulated a more ambitious performance target General Meeting of Shareholders held on 13 April 2006. retain and motivate good managers, the Supervisory ment in traffic and transport figures in the first quarter for the 2009-2011 LTI and for the 2010-2012 LTI In the autumn of 2010 a benchmark study was Board also regularly compares the Management Board’s of 2011, the Supervisory Board decided in the second (in line with the reasoning behind the adjustment 96 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 97 Remuneration report of the 2011 STI target but then in relation to the 2010 The contribution is expressed as a percentage of Management Board Remuneration Remuneration of the Supervisory Board financial year). This had the net effect that the large fixed salary and can be used towards a life-course for 2011 surplus EP achieved in the financial year 2010 was savings scheme. General adjusted downward for the purpose of calculating Schiphol employees covered by the Schiphol Nederland The remuneration of the Chairman of the Supervisory a possible entitlement to a payment under the LTI. Other benefits B.V. CLA received a salary increase of 1.55% effective Board was EUR 33,000 per annum. The General Meeting The secondary benefits comprise appropriate expense 1 April 2011. In 2011, the Management Board members’ of Shareholders increased this amount to EUR 36,500 At the end of each year, an estimate is made of the allowances, a company car and telephone costs. fixed salary was also increased by 1.55% by a separate, per annum with effect from 1 January 2011. amount of the variable pay payable at the end of The company has also taken out personal accident discretionary resolution of the Supervisory Board, The ordinary members’ remuneration is EUR 24,000 the respective three-year period. A pro-rata share ­insurance and directors’ liability insurance on behalf of effective the same date. per annum. All members of the Supervisory Board also of the amount thus calculated is accounted for in and the Management Board members. No loans, advances receive an expense allowance of EUR 1,600 per annum. attributed to the relevant year. Payment will only be or guarantees were or will be granted to members In view of the financial results achieved in relation Members of a Supervisory Board committee are entitled made on condition that the Management Board of the Management Board. The company operates a to the ROE target in 2011, the Management Board to an additional fee. Each member of the Audit member is still employed by the company at the end ­restrictive policy with regard to other offices; acceptance members qualify for the maximum swing factor. Committee receives EUR 6,000 per annum, and each of the three-year period. If the employment contract is of other offices requires the explicit approval of the The Supervisory Board has determined, advised by member of one of the other committees is entitled terminated by mutual agreement or due to retirement, Supervisory Board. the Remuneration Committee, that the Management to EUR 5,000 per annum. a pro rata allocation is made. In that case, it is also Board has largely achieved the collective, non-financial possible to determine the future award and pay it Employment contracts (operational and socio-economic) targets for 2011. Remuneration of the Supervisory Board for 2011 out in advance. In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, Information on the remuneration of the Supervisory members of the Management Board are appointed for The assessment of the overall performance of the Board for 2011 can be found on page 225-228 of this Each Management Board member’s performance an initial term of office of not more than four years. Management Board members by the Supervisory Annual Report. contract contains a ‘clawback’ clause (Corporate Depending on performance, upon expiry of the initial Board was positive. The positive assessment takes Governance Code provision II.2.11) and a provision term a Management Board member may be reappointed into consideration the enormous efforts made by the Schiphol, 16 February 2012 allowing the Supervisory Board to retrospectively for successive periods not exceeding four years each. Management Board to realise the strategic objectives adjust variable remuneration in certain cases The premise governing the employment contracts of and the excellent financial results that were achieved. The Supervisory Board (Corporate Governance Code provision II.2.10). Management Board members is that new contracts will Subsequently, the Supervisory Board has granted a total be drawn up in line with the relevant provisions of the realisation of 42.5% (max. 47.5%) of the fixed income Pension arrangements Corporate Governance Code but that the existing of the President and 40.1% (max. 45.1%) for the other Pensions are arranged on the basis of an average contracts agreed before 1 January 2004 will be board members. earnings scheme applicable from 1 January 2004, and honoured. Specifically, this means that Mr Verboom’s in accordance with the standard Algemeen Burgerlijk contract of employment has not been amended, while The Supervisory Board, advised by the Remuneration Pensioenfonds (ABP) rules. The amount of the contri­ the employment contracts concluded with Messrs Committee, has set the swing factor for the long-term bution payable to the pension scheme is calculated Nijhuis, Rutten and De Groof are consistent with remuneration of Messrs Nijhuis, Verboom, Rutten and each year by ABP and paid in full by the company. the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code. De Groof over the period 2009-2011 at 1.5. Mr Verboom and Mr Rutten can retire at the age Mr Verboom’s contract provides for a redundancy More detailed information on the remuneration of the of 62. Both have defined retirement benefits equalling payment (which is made in the event that the company Management Board for 2011 can be found on pages 224 70% of their final total fixed salary. To this end, a terminates the employment contract prematurely, i.e. of this Annual Report. supplementary allocation is made each year for the ‘ABP before the age of 65, for reasons not imputable to the Extra Pension’ (AEP), in addition to the accrual based on person concerned) based in principle on one and a half fixed salary under the ABP pension scheme. Should the times the fixed salary paid in the preceding year. It was accrued supplement at the end of any financial year agreed with Mr Verboom in August 2011 that he will prove to be inadequate in relation to the obligation step down from the Management Board at the age entered into, a payment will be made, on a pro rata basis, of 62 as of 1 May 2012. As part of this agreement to fulfil the agreement made. Such an additional payment Mr Verboom has waived any right to the above­ was made to the amount of EUR 28,731 for Mr Rutten, mentioned redundancy payment. Mr Verboom chargeable to the 2011 financial year. No additional will continue to be associated with the company payment was required in the case of Mr Verboom. in an advisory capacity until the end of 2014 in regard to several ongoing projects. Mr Nijhuis and Mr De Groof also participate in the ABP average earnings scheme on the basis of fixed salary (under which retirement benefits based on full pension build-up are paid from the age of 65). It has been contractually agreed with them that their term of office will end at the age of 62. They are entitled to a fixed annual contribution in order to compensate for the missing pensionable years between the ages of 62-65. 98 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 99 Risk management Risk management The risks faced by Schiphol Group can be of a strategic, Risk acceptance Risk management and internal • T he Management Team Schiphol Group, chaired by ­operational or financial nature, or may be related to control system the President, discusses overall progress and results compliance with laws and regulations. A uniform policy The value that we place on fulfilling our socio-economic achieved in the areas of safety, the environment and has been developed to manage these risks. Risk managerole in combination with our enterprising business We aim to reduce the likelihood of errors, wrong social responsibility four times a year; ment is an integral part of our business operations. operations is what determines which risks we will and decisions and surprises due to unforeseen circumstances • We have introduced codes of conduct, a whistleblower will not accept. On the one hand, we must focus on as much as possible. This does not guarantee full scheme and regulations on how to deal with fraud; Our policy is based on the following philosophy: smooth day today operations which meet all the protection, however. It can never be ruled out that • Periodic discussions take place between the Chief • The Management Board and management are expectations and demands of users and always provide we may be exposed to risks of which we are currently Financial Officer and the operational and commercial ­responsible for developing and testing risk managemaximum security and reliability. On the other, unaware, or which may not yet be considered important directors and their controllers, on the results of audits ment and internal control systems. These systems have we must also keep an eye on necessary long-term at this time. No risk management or internal control conducted by external and internal accountants; been designed to identify significant risks, monitor the ­investments, changes in demand and the system can provide an absolute safeguard against failure • The business area management teams report to the achievement of targets and ensure compliance with preser­vation of a solid financial position, enabling to achieve corporate objectives, nor fully prevent any Management Board at least once per month; relevant laws and regulations; the company to weather difficult years financially. possible loss, fraud or breach of rules and regulations. • Follow-up of the recommendations contained in • Effective risk management and internal monitoring To name one example, Schiphol is particularly ­susceptible the external auditor’s management letter. systems will reduce the likelihood of errors, wrong We are not prepared to take any risks that would to adverse weather conditions and other natural decisions and surprises due to unforeseen ­jeopardise the safety of passengers, employees, visitors ­phenomena. Although we cannot prevent or influence The Management Board reports on and accounts for circumstances; or local residents. such phenomena, we can ensure that their effects are the risk management and internal control system to • A healthy business must take risks. The Management kept to a minimum. the Supervisory Board, following discussion in the Board bears ultimate responsibility for determining Where financial risks are concerned, we are not Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee. the maximum acceptable level of risk prepared to take risks that would constitute a threat to To ensure effective risk management and internal (‘risk acceptance’). our minimum ‘A’ credit rating (Standard & Poor’s). control, we use a range of coordinated instruments: In light of the above, we believe that risk management and internal control systems provide a reasonable The management has identified the risks that may • O ur risk management system identifies, analyses degree of assurance concerning financial reporting risks, affect the achievement of Schiphol Group’s objectives Risk categories and monitors strategic, operational, financial and and that the financial reporting does not contain any as thoroughly as possible. compliance-related risks; material misstatements. We have categorised our risks according to the • The line managers, who are responsible for the This analysis produced a list of 17 risks, which has not COSO-ERM guidelines. There is a direct relationship implementation of risk management, provide a report The Management Board declares that to its knowledge: changed since the 2010 Annual Report. between our objectives and the components of risk on their activities twice a year to their immediate • the financial statements give a true and fair view of management that indicate what is required in order to director, who in turn reports to the Risk Committee. the financial assets, liabilities, financial position and The developments during the global financial and achieve these objectives. Our objectives are classified The Risk Committee comprises the four Management profits of Schiphol Group as well as the combined economic crisis have made us aware that different into four categories: Board members and the directors of Corporate Audit consolidated enterprises; risks can occur simultaneously and, what is more, can • Strategic and Corporate Control; • the Annual Report gives a true and fair view of the reinforce each other. Schiphol Group is mindful of this • Operational • Risk management is a fixed part of our monthly situation on the balance sheet date and of developmultiplier effect, and our risk management system is • Financial planning and control cycle; ments over the course of the financial year; and designed to reduce the adverse effects of the individual • Compliance • Procedures to be followed, as well as the accounting • the key risks facing Schiphol Group are described risks at an early stage. policies, are described in detail in manuals; in this Annual Report. This makes it possible to obtain a picture of risk manage• The use of a tax control framework as a management In this context, Schiphol Group is dependent to a greater ment at different levels: both for Schiphol Group in its programme for fiscal risks; or lesser extent on what happens within the aviation entirety and for individual categories of objectives, • Several quality management systems, such as an sector and in the outside world. components, business units or parts of business units. environmental and safety management system; • Continuous monitoring of security by government By making these dependencies transparent, we gain Key risks identified by Schiphol Group are listed in the authorities through audits and inspections; periodic insight into the risks that can be transferred within the table on page 102. Section B of the table on page 103 discussion in the Policy and Enforcement consultation, chain. This enables us to anticipate chain reactions at describes the risk of major changes in demand, which in a security company escalation ladder for monitoring an early stage. our case mainly relates to drops in air transport security tasks as well as overall inspection by the movements and passenger/cargo transport. European Union; A 1% change in passenger numbers at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol will cause a change in revenue of around EUR 10 million. In this case, profitability also increases or decreases by a similar amount. 100 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 101 Risk management Strategic risks D > International business Schiphol Group’s international business exposes the A > Political uncertainty concerning the growth group to risks that are different to the risks within of the airport our national borders. If there is insufficient (political) support to ensure our ‘Licence to grow’, the Mainport objective and the Risk management measures Operational competitive position of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol • Limiting risks to local subsidiaries. Strategic Compliance may be under threat. Long-term plans may be disrupted • Engaging competent local management Financial as a result of new government policies. and renowned local advisors. • Maintaining good relations with local Inherent risks Risk management measures airport authorities. • Participation in various consultative bodies and A Political uncertainty concerning the growth of the airport • engaging in continual dialogue with all stakeholders. E > Competition • Monitoring and influencing (political) decision-making Inability to ensure a healthy competitive position processes. owing to a lack of investment in quality and capacity. B Major fluctuations in demand • Especially in the area of transfer traffic, Amsterdam B > Major fluctuations in demand Airport Schiphol is experiencing more intensive C Long-term contracts • Developments relating to the economy, laws and ­competition from other major hubs in Europe and ­regulations, aviation policy, environmental measures, the Middle East that are making substantially larger market changes, technological progress or strategic investments. We are also facing greater competition D International business • developments at airlines and other business partners in our catchment area in terms of OD traffic. Our nonmay create a capacity shortfall or overcapacity and put aviation activities such as Parking, Retail and Real Estate pressure on the Mainport function of Amsterdam are all experiencing competition from parties in E Competition • Airport Schiphol. This also entails a risk that our Schiphol’s immediate environment. long-term investments are not sufficiently in line F Damage to reputation or image • with future demand. Risk management measures • Timely investment in infrastructure in close Risk management measures consultation with airlines. G Safety and security • • Short and long-term scenario-based planning and • Competition analyses. monitoring of external trends and developments. • Airline Reward Programme. H Unexpected business interruptions • • Regular contact with the various ­government bodies • Wide range of parking products. in order to keep track of ­legislative developments. • Expanded range of shops, product ranges • Consultation with airlines on future plans. and facilities. I Dependence on third parties • • Marketing campaigns. C > Long-term contracts J Human Resources • The airport infrastructure requires major investments, F > Damage to reputation or image involving substantive long-term contracts. Legislative Negative perception or negative/inaccurate publicity changes, construction delays, technological developmay undermine public acceptance of the airport K Information security and information systems • ments and the outsourcing of work can all affect ­activities. Insufficient appeal and a negative perception long-term contracts. of the price/quality ratio at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol L Vacancy in the property portfolio • may also affect our image. Risk management measures • Standardised and well-documented purchasing Risk management measures M Supplier and outsourcing liability • and investment decisions. • Effective communication strategy. • Professional project management and project • Active stakeholder dialogue with all stakeholders. directorship. • Entering into alliances aimed at regional N Market risk, liquidity risk and counterparty risk • • Training of employees in support of the control development. and contract management function. • Annual surveys to assess our reputation and O Non-compliance with noise and environmental standards • public image. P Economic regulation • Q Legal risks and possible liability • 102 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 103 Risk management Operational risks J > Human Resources M > Supplier and outsourcing liability P > Economic regulation The achievement of our objectives is conditional on Schiphol Group works with numerous external compaOur aviation activities are subject to economic G > Safety and security having sufficient well-qualified staff and ensuring that nies and is exposed to liability risk if suppliers or partners ­regulation, which means that there is a cap on the A safety or security failure increases the risk of a labour relations are not undermined. Unethical or fail to behave in a socially responsible manner, employ returns we are permitted to generate. An emphasis on ­disruption of airport operations as well as incidents inappropriate employee behaviour would not only have unethical business practices, violate laws and regulations lower absolute cost levels for our activities, during the or accidents that could have serious consequences for legal and financial consequences, it could also adversely or fail to fulfil their obligations. An example of the evaluation of the Aviation Act, for instance, could result passengers, local residents and the employees of compaaffect stakeholder trust in our company. above would be the failure to pay taxes or social security in inadequate investments in capacity and quality, which nies located at Schiphol. Changes in security legislation contributions. in turn would erode the competitive position and affect may give rise to major operational changes and escalaRisk management measures the service levels of Mainport Schiphol. ting security costs. • Good labour relations and corporate culture. Risk management measures • Succession planning and talent development. • Thorough assessment of new suppliers on a timely Risk management measures Risk management measures • Consultation with the works council and trade unions. basis, also with respect to Corporate Responsibility • Transparent airport charges, established following • Safety management systems. • Regular attention to integrity issues. A code of aspects. consultation with the airlines. • Timely implementation of (rapidly) changing laws conduct has also been incorporated in the Collective • Transfer of payments to blocked supplier accounts. • A separate administration and allocation system and regulations. Labour Agreement. • Professional project directorship. for aviation activities. • Investments in innovations, such as the security scan. • Coordination with the Dutch Competition • Assess the execution of security control duties K > Information security and information systems Authority, NMa. through random checks. A lack of adequate data protection – both physical and Financial risks • Participation in discussions with the government on • Operational security training for staff. ICT systems data – could result in financial or sensitive the subject of regulation. competitive information being leaked. ICT systems that N > Market risk, liquidity risk and H > Unexpected business interruptions do not function properly could lead to business process counterparty risk Q > Legal risks and possible liability Extreme weather or natural phenomena, fire, disruption. Schiphol Group faces a variety of financial risks, Non-compliance with laws and regulations, inadequate ­pandemics, aircraft accidents, technical or power such as currency, price and interest rate risks, decision-making or incorrect registration of decisions failures can disrupt business processes which, in turn, Risk management measures liquidity risks as well as counter party risk. and contracts could weaken our legal position and lead could seriously affect airport operations, the results • Periodic vulnerability scans. to legal claims and disputes that could jeopardise the and prospects. • Emergency plan. Risk management measures achievement of our objectives. • Classified information systems. • Large liquidity position. Risk management measures • Periodic revisions of and supplements to ICT policy. • Proactive refinancing strategy. Risk management measures • Company emergency plans and procedures. • Standard ICT governance framework (COBiT). • Balanced distribution of loans and repayments. • Active involvement of legal experts in decision-making • Emergency measures. • Monitoring of creditworthiness (Standard & Poor’s processes. • Well-trained and prepared staff. L > Vacant properties in the existing A rating) to ensure access to capital markets. • Adequate registration of decisions and contracts. • Insurances. property portfolio • Limitation of currency and interest rate risks. • Insurance. Changing market conditions and a lack of insight into • Monitor counterparty creditworthiness I > Dependence on third parties regional market developments may bring about a (minimum Standard & Poor’s A rating). The airport depends to a large extent on the efforts and decline in occupancy levels in the property portfolio, equipment of third parties, i.e. government authorities, which in turn will cause rent levels to fall, resulting in such as the municipalities, the Dutch Border Police fair value losses. Compliance risks (Koninklijke Marechaussee) and Dutch Customs through to our industry partners, such as the airlines and ground Risk management measures O > Non-compliance with noise and handlers. Any industrial action, business interruptions or • Monitoring of market conditions and current environmental standards the unethical behaviour of external parties could prospects. We are required to comply with complex national and damage our reputation and negatively affect results. • Valuation of the properties in the property portfolio international noise and environmental regulations. We every six months. have little influence on the drafting of these regulations Risk management measures • Continued efforts to enhance the appeal of the while any breaches of the standards can have negative • Updated covenants and agreements, good mutual location and the portfolio by carrying out renovations financial and operational consequences. relationships and contacts with external parties. and redevelopment schemes on a timely basis. • Participation in public and private partnerships. • Client-focused account and sales management Risk management measures • Screening of external parties in order to reduce activities. • Compliance with laws and regulations. integrity risk. • Cooperation with the regulatory authorities and • Adequate coordination and contract management. implementing bodies. • Differentiated charges and operational measures aimed at the selective use of the night-time regime and scarce environmental capacity. 104 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 105 Shareholder information Shareholder information Organisation of Corporate Responsibility Share capital Credit rating Corporate Responsibility is an intrinsic element of our Twenty Corporate Responsibility Ambassadors were strategy. More explicitly, this means that Corporate appointed at the end of 2010 in an effort to raise The authorised capital of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol Schiphol Group maintains contractual agreements with Responsibility is increasingly being integrated into employee awareness and more actively involve currently amounts to EUR 143 million, divided into Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (S&P) and Moody’s our day-to-day operations. staff in Corporate Responsibility. These colleagues 300,000 class A shares and 14,892 class B shares, each with Investor Services (Moody’s) regarding the provision of held workshops in most Schiphol Group departments a nominal value of EUR 454. In total 171,255 of the A rating information. Schiphol Group maintains an active Although the President & CEO of Schiphol Group is working in daytime shifts over the course of 2011. shares and 14,892 of the B shares have been issued. Since dialogue with both rating information providers. primarily accountable for Corporate Responsibility, Colleagues working in continuous shifts will follow 31 December 2008 there have not been any changes in Standard & Poor’s long-term rating remained unchanged he shares this responsibility with the other members similar workshops in 2012. During the workshop, the authorised capital or number of shares issued. in 2011 at ‘A flat’ with a ‘stable outlook’. Moody’s of the Management Board. Each Board member is participants learn about Corporate Responsibility, long-term rating likewise remained unchanged at A1, assigned responsibility for an item on the Corporate its importance to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, with a ‘stable outlook’. The short-term ratings are P-1 Responsibility agenda. The Management Board defines and what efforts we are undertaking in this area. Dividend policy (Standard & Poor’s) and A-1 (Moody’s). the Corporate Responsibility vision and policy. Its At the end of the workshop, participants create a list members are advised by management as well as the of the Corporate Responsibility actions that can be The current dividend policy permits a maximum Public Affairs and Corporate Responsibility Committee undertaken by the relevant ­department, and the payout of 50% of the financial result attributable to Important dates of the Supervisory Board. The achievement of Corporate actions employees themselves can take at work and shareholders (net result), excluding the changes in value Responsibility targets also one of the elements of the at home. The Corporate Responsibility Ambassadors of investment property (after tax). In 2011 the financial General Meeting of Shareholders remuneration policy. have also helped to initiate follow-up activities in result (attributable to shareholders) amounted to EUR 18 April 2012 various departments. Over the course of 2012, 194 million, giving earnings per share of EUR 1,045. Employees are motivated to implement Corporate they will support management in its efforts to The adjusted result for the purposes of dividend Publication of interim results Responsibility. In order to embed Corporate Responsibility initiate and encourage the conscious balancing of ­calculation is EUR 195 million. Accordingly, the 17 August 2012 even more strongly inside the organisation, we created the interests of People, Planet and Profit in the proposed per share dividend distribution for 2011 a number of temporary positions and consultation day-to-day operations and decision-making processes. is EUR 524, equal to a 50% pay-out. platforms in 2010. In 2011 the Corporate Responsibility Board established in 2010 was incorporated into the The competition launched in 2010 did not achieve monthly Schiphol Group Management Team meetings. the desired result. The question “What will your The central process director, the core team (advisory role working day look like in 2025?” proved to be too concerning vision and policy) and the coordination team abstract. However, more proactive internal and external Schiphol Group Shareholders (organisational embedding) are still active. ­communications on People, Planet, Profit did yield (in %) results. Internal measurements via the Company Monitor 2 These temporary measures will also help to anchor showed that there was an increasing awareness among 8 State of the Netherlands Municipality of Amsterdam Corporate Responsibility more rapidly into all of our employees of Corporate Responsibility. Schiphol’s Aéroports de Paris S.A. business processes. The audit of specific Corporate ranking in the 2011 Sustainable Image Index (an index 20 Municipality of Rotterdam Responsibility information by an external auditor – reflecting the extent to which consumers perceive PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. – has a favou­organisations as sustainable brands) rose faster than 70 For more information, please contact Investor Relations: rable effect on the completeness and reliability of the that of any other company on the index, climbing Telephone: +31 (0)20 601 2570 assessment, collection, recording and reporting of data. from 32nd to 14th place. email: investor_relations@schiphol.nl or visit: www.schiphol.nl Schiphol Group Shareholders (in %) Do you wish to comment on this report? State of the Netherlands 129,880 shares A 69.77 This reports, as well as any other information of interest Municipality of Amsterdam 37,276 shares A 20.03 about Schiphol Group, is available on our corporate website Aéroports de Paris S.A. 14,892 shares B 8.00 www.schiphol.nl. More information about Schiphol and the Municipality of Rotterdam 4,099 shares A 2.20 surroundings can be found on www.bezoekbas.nl. We look forward to receiving your questions and comments in response Total 186,147 100.00 to the content of this report via cr@schiphol.nl. 106 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 107 Operational and socio-economic Statements 2011 108 Schiphol Group Annual Financial Report 2011 Statements 109 Operational and socio-economic statements Operational and socio-economic statements Performance indicators Note 2011 2010 Legend Schiphol has direct influence Commercial development Schiphol has indirect and/or partial influence Operationele capaciteit Price/quality Retail Airside (passenger satisfaction) 57% 56% Spend per departing passenger (Retail Airside) (in EUR) 15.55 15.84 Parking revenues per departing Dutch passenger (in EUR) 7.67 7.82 Amsterdam Rotterdam Eindhoven Lelystad Concession revenues per departing passenger (in EUR) 5.26 5.27 Airport Schiphol The Hague Airport Airport Airport # Privium members 46,043 45,690 Performance indicators 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Purchasing from responsible suppliers 2 66% 63% Direct returns on property investments (before tax) 6.3% 6.6% Competitive position Expiry of leases 7.0% 10.0% Occupancy rate of property portfolio 88.5% 86.5% Number of destinations 313 301 35 27 36 32 Occupancy rate of operating property terminal 91.5% 88.6% Total passenger volume 49,755,252 45,211,749 1,124,000 969,480 2,643,000 2,143,832 Occupancy rate of operating property other 90.0% 95.6% (incl. transit-direct passengers) Size of property portfolio (m2) 565,278 569,037 # Air transport movements 420,249 386,316 13,137 12,917 20,227 16,650 123,035 125,675 Cargo volume 1,523,806 1,512,256 Zero 80 tonnes tonnes tonnes Passenger market share 10.9% 10.6% (top 10 European airports) Amsterdam Airport Rotterdam Eindhoven Lelystad Cargo market share 13.9% 13.9% Schiphol The Hague Airport Airport Airport (top 10 European airports) Performance indicators Note 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 No. of O/D passengers 29.5 million 26.4 million No. of transfer passengers 20.2 million 18.7 million Environment CO2 emissions from our own 3 6,684 6,804 Performance indicators (in %) 2011 2010 activities tonnes tonnes Electricity consumption 183,181,798 175,565,000 3,597,814 3,456,000 4,256,667 4,455,711 203,000 220,000 (kWh/operating year) Operating capacity Gas consumption 13,804,031 15,025,000 157,187 259,308 93,664 156,877 28,000 29,000 Operationele capaciteit (m3/operating year) Irregularity rate 2.0 2.5 Energie efficiency – 3.7% – 2.2% Arrival punctuality 85.1 81.7 Total energy savings 77 44,6 terajoules terajoules Departure punctuality 78.8 72.8 EPBD labels for existing buildings 4 74.2% N/A % of departing passengers rating Schiphol as good/excellent 93 94 Self-generated energy 1.25% 1.2% % of arriving passengers rating Schiphol as good/excellent 94 93 (% of total energy needs) # aircraft stands connected 5 30 0 to FEGP annually Oxygen content of surface water 6 95.4% N/A Performance indicators Note 2011 2010 Potassium formate (litres) 224,741 1.9 million Average salt consumption (kg) 190,000 1.3 million Socio-economic capacity Drinking water consumption 1,223,461 1,241,971 (m3/operating year) Drinking water consumption 7 14,0 15.9 10.0 10.0 7.4 6.8 # noise enforcement point breaches 1 No breaches No breaches per passenger in litres # flights by noisiest aircraft at Schiphol (% of total no. of flights) 0.2% 0.4% Total waste collected from 13,864 13,998 128 106 217 202 4.0 4.0 # people reporting noise disturbance to Bas 5,419 5,387 business operations tonnes tonnes Specific reports 88,768 212,335 % Regular Schiphol waste Recycled 8 30% 34% 25% 25% 17% 15% 15% 15% Period reports 40,843 33,477 Other reports 3,255 1,795 Focus group reports 5,394 5,272 % of structural complainants and their share in total % of reports 0.5% of structural 2.1% of structural complainants are complainants are responsible for responsible for 88.9% 57.3% of reports of reports 110 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 111 Operational and socio-economic statements Performance indicators Note 2011 2010 Accessibility Operationele capaciteit Satisfaction of people working at Schiphol with overall accessibility 80% 80% Passenger satisfaction with train services to and from Schiphol 88%, 81% 90%, 80% Passenger satisfaction with road access to Schiphol 78% 74% Safety # runway incursions 9 36 31 Bird strike rate 10 7.6 7.7 Performance of integral fire safety testing 11 91% N/A # airside collisions (monthly average) 15 14 # landside collisions (monthly average) involving parking damage 36.5 of which 39, of which 6 6 involved parking involved parking damage damage # fatal landside road accidents 0 0 # landside accidents resulting in severe injuries 0 0 # landside road accidents resulting in minor injuries (monthly average) 2.4 3.5 # landside road accidents resulting in more serious injuries (monthly average) 0.4 0.5 Total Risk Weight (third-party risk) (in tonnes) 6,466 6,118 Schiphol Amsterdam Rotterdam Eindhoven Lelystad Group Airport Schiphol The Hague Airport Airport Airport Performance indicators Note 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Employees # FTEs 2,088 2,093 1,934 1,941 110 111 28 24 16 17 % FTEs 100 100 92.6 92.7 5.2 5.3 1.4 1.2 0.8 0.8 Average employee age 44.5 44.6 44.9 45.1 39.5 38.1 41.3 42.0 40.8 40.6 Average years of service 13.6 14.1 14.2 14.7 6.9 6.6 7.0 7.0 10.6 10.6 Employee commitment at Schiphol 12 7.9 7.3 Nederland B.V. and Schiphol Telematics Proportion of women 30 30 30 30 31 32 58 55 18 17 (women as a % of employees) Proportion of female managers 24 23 24 22 29 31 33 33 0 0 (women as a % of employees) Diversity in Schiphol Nederland B.V. 13 23.4 22 top layer management (%) Absenteeism rate among employees (%) 5.0 4.8 4.9 4.7 4.9 4.6 4.3 6.2 14.3 15.1 Schiphol Nederland B.V. absenteeism rate (%) 14 4.7 4.4 Turnover of staff in service 134 133 104 108 22 21 8 2 0 2 (no. of employees) Turnover of staff leaving service 177 313 150 283 22 27 4 1 1 2 (no. of employees) Average training budget 1,895 1,730 1,946 1,819 1,390 294 1,151 1,579 983 1,620 (in EUR per employee) Schiphol College 15 •  Successful exam candidates 75% 44 new work to learn places • Senior secondary vocational education 382 472 •  Work placements 108 90 •  Group training programmes 50 training 42 programmes training for 147 programmes groups for 81 groups 112 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 113 Operational and socio-economic statements General information As a Global Compact participant, we have compiled a Various Corporate Responsibility targets addressing A map is provided on page 116 to show which locations progress report on the ten Global Compact principles. themes such as safety, the environment and people were included when measuring the performance Schiphol Group aims to conduct its business with This report is featured in the Global Compact and society have also been defined within the processes ­indicators for drinking water consumption and recycling respect for people, the community and the environment. Communication on Progress on page 131. of strategy and policy, planning and control, and accounwaste materials. The information presented on this map Corporate Responsibility makes up an essential part of tability. The company in its entirety, and each business is primarily derived from the buildings covered by our strategy and is being integrated ever more broadly Schiphol Group has engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers unit independently, are evaluated according to key the Schiphol Nederland B.V. environmental permit. into our business operations. The results achieved in the Accountants N.V. as its external auditor. The airport performance indicators (KPIs) derived from these targets The scope of the indicators does not correspond area of Corporate Responsibility and our financial requested the auditor to conduct an audit with the and subsequently reported. The standards applicable to entirely with the scope of the environmental permit. performance have therefore been presented in a single aim of providing a moderate degree of assurance these KPIs are determined jointly by the Management annual report since 2009. Integrated annual reporting concerning the reliability of the information about Board and the various business areas so as to challenge is receiving increasing attention around the world. the 15 performance indicators, the results of which are management to improve the business process results. Performance indicators – The International Integrated Reporting Committee discussed in the notes. These performance indicators socio-economic capacity (www.theIIRC.org) is developing a framework for this relate solely to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol: Topics of significance to the airport are discussed in purpose. Schiphol Group is one of over 50 international the Report of the Management Board. These topics have 1. KPI Number of noise enforcement point breaches companies participating in the pilot programme. 1. Purchasing from responsible suppliers an impact on financial matters, safety, the environment, • Internal reports: quarterly The integrated approach is continually developing, 2. Number of noise enforcement point breaches people and the surrounding area. With their i­mplications • Reporting period: operating year as is clearly reflected in the entirely new structure 3. CO2 emissions from our own activities for day-to-day life (job opportunities, noise disturbance • Scope: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol of the 2011 Annual Report. 4. EPBD labels for existing buildings and so on), these topics are relevant to stakeholder • Registration: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol 5. Number of aircraft stands on Fixed Electrical groups as diverse as shareholders, passengers, employees • 2011: no breaches (no breaches in 2010) The Report of the Management Board discusses subjects Ground Power (FEGP) and local residents. An incident involving fire safety, for of material significance and the events that took place 6. Oxygen content of surface water instance, could also have a potentially huge impact on The noise impact for the surrounding area is measured in 2011. In addition to this annual report, relevant 7. Consumption of drinking water per passenger stakeholders. Moreover, during the stakeholder dialogue on the basis of noise enforcement points. A noise information can be found on www.schiphol.nl and 8. Recycling of normal waste the interviewed stakeholders identified energy, noise, enforcement point is a monitoring point that is subject www.schiphol.nl/cr. 9. Runway incursions mobility and Schiphol College as relevant topics for to a maximum permitted noise limit set by the central 10. Bird strike rate inclusion in the annual report. government. There are 35 noise enforcement points 11. Integral fire protection testing for the 24-hour period and 25 additional points for Reporting guidelines 12. Employee commitment The 15 performance indicators discussed in this chapter the night-time period (11:00 p.m. 7:00 a.m.). 13. Diversity were selected because they are either relevant to every This report was drawn up in accordance with the 14. Absenteeism due to illness company (such as CO2 emissions and absenteeism due to The operating year ended without any breaches of relevant international guidelines and best practices, with 15. Schiphol College illness) or are highly specific to the sector (such as bird the aircraft noise limit values at any enforcement point. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guideline being strikes and noise). They further concern activities that The objective of preventing breaches also applies in the the most important. The current degree to which the G3 The auditor performed the audit in compliance with are within the airport’s control at the Schiphol location, long term. As a result of strict monitoring, the noise guideline has been applied is ranked at B+, on a scale of the Netherlands Institute of Chartered Accountants unless stated otherwise. impact at 24-hour period monitoring point 33, located A to C inclusive. The ‘+’ means that the information is (NBV) COS 3410N guideline ‘Assurance engagements under Runway 06-24’s climb-out routes, precisely equals externally audited. The GRI reference table is published concerning Corporate Responsibility reports’. These KPIs are preferably reported as a component the legally permitted limit value. on page 122-130 and shows where in this report inforThe assurance report can be found on page 132. of existing periodic management information. Eleven mation can be found about the indicators relevant to performance indicators are reported at least each Major repairs were carried out near Runways 18L-36R our business operations. The GRI sector supplement for quarter and discussed by the Management Board and 06-24 during the 2011 operating year. Both runways airport companies was published in mid-2011 and Scope of the report and the relevant senior managers. Four performance were consequently unavailable for a number of weeks. has been applied to this annual report. ­indicators are measured and assessed at least once a Air traffic was handled at other runways, causing a The results of our financial, operational and year: the CO2 emissions of our own activities, EPBD redistribution of noise impact in the surrounding area The Dutch Ministry of Finance has determined that socio-economic performance are presented in a single labelling, drinking water consumption per passenger which, in the absence of provisions, could potentially annual reports of state shareholdings must have at annual report. Over 90% of our activities take place at and sustainable purchasing. lead to breaches of noise limits at one or more noise least GRI level C effective 2010. With a B+, Schiphol not Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. As a result, a large part enforcement points. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol only satisfies this requirement but also meets its own of our operational and socio-economic performance The information presented here concerns the 2011 requested that the Ministry of Infrastructure and the targets in this respect. In addition, the annual reports relates solely to this particular location. The national and calendar year (1 January – 31 December 2011). Environment draw up alternate limit values, which of state shareholdings are required to be included in international subsidiaries and participations (airports However, performance on four indicators are the Ministry provided accordingly. It also issued an a survey of the Transparency Benchmark study group. and other activities) carry out their own initiatives, reviewed within the framework of the operating year exemption allowing Runway 09-27 to be used as an The benchmark was conducted by KPMG in 2011 on geared towards their local environment which fit within (1 November 2010 – 31 October 2011); these are the alternative take-off runway at night for the duration behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture Schiphol Group’s vision. The performance indicators CO2 emissions of our own activities, breaches of noise of the maintenance work on Runway 06-24. and Innovation. We have participated in this survey reviewed by the external auditor relate solely to enforcement points, recycling waste materials and since 2006. A total of 469 organisations submitted their Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. ­drinking water consumption. The time period for 2010 annual reports for the Transparency Benchmark. the enforcement points indicator is laid down by law. Schiphol Group achieved 32nd place in the Practical reasons governed the choice of the operating overall ranking. year for the other indicators. 114 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 115 Operational and socio-economic statements Eighty per cent of purchased products and services are Amsterdam Airport Schiphol aims to run a CO2 neutral obtained from approximately 60 suppliers, the other operation for its own activities at the Schiphol location 20% from over 1,300 suppliers. We measure the KPI on by 2012. To that end a step-by-step plan aimed at the basis of the group of approximately 60 suppliers, minimising CO2 emissions was drawn up. Among other from whom we obtain 80% of our products and services. measures, this will require reducing energy and fuel As a result, the KPI score cannot exceed 80%. consumption, using the necessary energy and fuel more efficiently, using sustainable energy and fuel and, last Sixty-six per cent of our purchasing volume for 2011 was but not least, compensating for energy consumption. obtained from suppliers that have an active Corporate Responsibility policy, as evidenced by – at least – a recent The CO2 emissions reported here are the non-­ Corporate Responsibility policy document. We aim to compensated CO2 emissions resulting from our own continue this upward trend. activities totalling 140,411 tonnes. Of the remaining CO2 emissions, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol compensates the greater part (133,727 tonnes) by purchasing Guarantees of Performance indicators – Environment Origin (green energy certificates). In 2011, emissions were compensated on the basis of Norwegian hydropower. Policy and management systems The net CO2 emissions totalled 6,684 tonnes. The Environmental Policy Plan for 2008-2011 describes targets and measures for the environmental sub-areas Amsterdam Airport Schiphol also compensates CO2 of noise, air, waste, soil, energy, water, hazardous emissions for business trips by air. Business trips made substances, nature and landscape at the Schiphol site. with Air France-KLM are compensated by the KLM CO2 The environmental policy plan serves as a coordinating compensation service; trips made with other airlines framework for sub-plans and provides the context are compensated by Climate Neutral Group. within which current and future business activities are to be developed. 4. KPI EPBD labels for existing buildings • Internal reports: quarterly Tasks, responsibilities, authorisations and working • Reporting period: calendar year agreements for the management of environmental • Scope: existing buildings in Schiphol Real Estate B.v. risks associated with business operations at Amsterdam (SRE)’s commercial property portfolio, located solely Airport Schiphol are recorded in the environmental at the Schiphol site management system. This system handles the planning • Registration: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and control of the airport’s various environmental • 2011: 74.2% of the lettable floor area carried sub-areas. a C label or higher (N/A in 2010) Amsterdam Airport Schiphol designs company-wide The existing buildings in the SRE portfolio are being programmes in which all business areas collaborate to transformed into more sustainable premises. At the end help achieve the energy and mobility objectives. These of 2011, 74.2% of the lettable floor area in the relevant programmes are derived from the Energy Strategy 2020 buildings carried an Energy Performance of Buildings programme – an energy plan for achieving sustainable Directive (EPBD) C label, or higher. The labels range energy management in 2020 – and the Sustainable from G to A, with A representing the highest rating. Mobility programme, which seeks to improve the air quality at the airport as well as airport accessibility. The percentage is calculated on the basis of the lettable In some cases, new programmes are designed in floor area (LFA). We aim to ensure that 90% of all LFA response to laws and regulations. Examples include in existing buildings carries a C certificate or higher programmes focusing on managing the quality of the by 2013. Performance indicators – supply chain Amsterdam Airport Schiphol’s central purchasing surface water or improving the quality of the air at management department is responsible for selecting suppliers for and around Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. This performance indicator relates to commercial real the airport’s business areas and services. The selection estate at the Schiphol location. It does not include 2. KPI Purchasing from responsible suppliers criteria include Corporate Responsibility, which is 3. KPI CO2 emissions from our own activities properties for operating activities, commercial property • Internal reports: annually assessed by requiring potential suppliers to provide a • Internal reports: annually at other locations or property owned by entities other • Reporting period: calendar year recent Corporate Responsibility policy document, an • Reporting period: operating year than SRE. Investment property earmarked for demolition • Scope: Schiphol Nederland B.V. integrated Corporate Responsibility report, an ISO 14001 • Scope: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol activities has similarly not been included. Industrial buildings have • Registration: Schiphol Nederland B.V. or product/product group-specific certificate and an at the Schiphol site been excluded since no EPBD label is available for this • 2011: 66% of total purchasing volume EMAS certificate. • Registration: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol category of investment property. (63% of total purchasing volume in 2010) • 2011: 6,684 tonnes (6,804 tonnes in 2010) 116 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 117 Operational and socio-economic statements 5. KPI Number of aircraft stands using Fixed Electrical The number of days during which average oxygen enter into individual contracts with a waste collection Runway safety is measured on the basis of the number Ground Power (FEGP) content exceeded 3 mg/l at the three enforcement company of their choice. As a result, Van Gansewinkel of runway incursions. A runway incursion is an incident • Internal reports: quarterly points was 98.58%, 97.17% and 90.57% in 2011. does not collect waste at all locations within the scope on a runway involving an aircraft, vehicle or person • Reporting period: calendar year This rise in comparison with 2010 is mainly attributable of the environmental permit. not authorised to be there at that time. Incidents • Scope: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol to the warm fourth quarter of 2011, the wintry weather are registered in the same way by both LVNL and • Registration: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol in 2010 and the use of potassium acetate in 2010 (which Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. LVNL plays a leading • 2011: 30 aircraft stands (0 aircraft stands in 2010) has since been phased out). The target we have set is Performance indicators – Safety role in this area. The airport reports on this performance that all three enforcement points comply with the indicator but is reliant on LVNL for the completeness of In accordance with the Airport Traffic Ruling standards at all times in 2015. Policy and management systems notifications and incident reports. (Luchthavenverkeerbesluit, LVB), air quality in the Safety at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol concerns aviation airport vicinity is to be improved by connecting aircraft 7. KPI Consumption of drinking water per passenger safety, fire safety, road safety and occupational health Thirty-six runway incursions were registered in 2011, stands to FEGP facilities and to pre-conditioned air units • Internal reports: twice a year and safety. To guarantee and improve the level of safety, all without major safety risks. We aim to achieve a providing climate control in the aircraft cabins. In the • Reporting period: operating year we use the Terminal Safety Management System downward trend for this performance indicator. period from 2010 through 2013, an average of 15 • Scope: drinking water consumption at Amsterdam (TSMS) in the terminal complex and the Airside Safety aircraft stands will be adapted each year. Airport Schiphol Management System (ASMS) for the area beyond. 10. KPI Bird strike rate • Registration: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol All operating activities have been charted in these • Internal reports: monthly The airport provides the required infrastructure and • 2011: 14.0 litres (15.9 litres in 2010) two systems, as well as the operational risks, the • Reporting period: calendar year 400Hz equipment. This equipment supplies the aircraft ­corresponding risk control measures and the process • Scope: boundaries of airport grounds with power during aircraft handling. We will also install Amsterdam Airport Schiphol supplies drinking water owners who bear responsibility. Reporting is used to • Registration: bird strikes registered by KLM connections for PCAs purchased by the ground handlers. to buildings on the Schiphol premises. Drinking water manage these risk control measures. This enables and Amsterdam Airport Schiphol PCAs provide the aircraft with warm and cold air. A total consumption per passenger is calculated on the basis of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol to take stock of, analyse • 2011: 7.6 bird strikes per 10,000 air transport of 30 aircraft stands were adapted in 2011. the amount of drinking water consumed in the terminal and manage safety risks via the TSMS and ASMS movements (7.7 in 2010) divided by the total number of passengers. This includes ­‘plan-do-check-act’ cycles. The current risks in the The use of Auxiliary Power Units (APU) at Piers F, G, all drinking water used at catering outlets, toilets, TSMS control cycle are as follows: Bird strikes are incidents in which traces of a bird are and B South and the use of Ground Power Units (GPU) ­drinking fountains and the offices above the lounges. • Fire in the terminal found on an aircraft or dead birds or parts thereof are was banned from 1 January 2011. GPUs supply power, The scope of this performance indicator is outlined on • Injury from mechanical systems found on a runway and in which it can reasonably be while APUs supply aircraft with both power and warm the map on page 116. This scope does not correspond • Infectious diseases assumed that the strike occurred within the airport and cold air during handling at the gate. Both units are entirely with that indicated in the environmental permit. • Traffic safety on drop-off roads at the terminal boundaries. That upper limit is fixed at a height of 200 a source of NOx emissions and soot. The ban on the use This is due, among other things, to the fact that part of • Dangerous situations/injury resulting from feet for landing aircraft, and 500 feet for aircraft taking of APUs and GPUs is expanded each year to promote drinking water consumption is invoiced to Schiphol Real construction and maintenance work off. Large birds and those that fly in flocks pose a the use of FEGP facilities and PCA units. Estate, which then passes on these charges in the rent. ­particular risk for aircraft and aircraft engines The current risks in the ASMS control cycle are during take-off and landing. 6. KPI Oxygen content in surface water Drinking water consumption dropped to 14 litres per as follows: • Internal reports: quarterly passenger in 2011. This is due to the fact that cooling • Runway incursions Since 2005 home carrier KLM and Amsterdam • Reporting period: calendar year towers do not need to be replenished as frequently, • Bird strikes Airport Schiphol have been using the same bird strike • Scope: surface water on Amsterdam Airport Schiphol thanks to the increased use of water filtered by • Litter ­registration procedure. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol grounds reverse osmosis. discusses these incidents with KLM on a monthly basis. • Registration: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol 9. KPI Runway incursions The incidents registered by the two parties are discussed • 2011: 95.4% (N/A in 2010) 8. KPI Recycling of normal waste • Internal reports: monthly every quarter in the Schiphol Bird Strike Committee (SBC), • Internal reports: quarterly • Reporting period: calendar year which also discusses policy and the various bird dispersal Measures to keep aircraft free of ice – the process • Reporting period: operating year • Scope: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol airside resources and their effectiveness. Other members of the of de-icing – and to keep snow and ice off taxiways, • Scope: normal waste at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol • Registration: incidents registered by Air Traffic SBC include transavia.com, LVNL, the Dutch Civil Airports ­take-off and landing runways and aprons significantly • Registration: Van Gansewinkel Control the Netherlands (LVNL) and Amsterdam Association (Nederlandse Vereniging van Luchthavens, affect the quality of the surface water on and around • 2011: 30.2% (34% in 2010) Airport Schiphol NVL), the Ministry of Infrastructure and the the airport grounds. De-icing agents are biodegradable, • 2011: 36 runway incursions (31 in 2010) Environment’s Directorate-General for Accessibility and thus extract oxygen from water. Water quality is Van Gansewinkel collects waste at various locations. and, on an ad hoc basis, the Transport and Water determined on the basis of oxygen content. The airport is working to raise the recycling rate in In respect of aviation safety, runway safety, which entails Management Inspectorate (IVW) and the Dutch respect of its own normal waste, including wood, the prevention of incidents on and around the runways, Airline Pilots Association Vereniging van Nederlandse The Rijnland Water Board conducts measurements at household chemical waste, glass, paper, ordinary has our constant attention. Verkeersvliegers, (VNV). three transfer points using equipment calibrated to ISO rubbish and other waste material. In 2011, 30.2% The basic principle for the 24-hour operations of both The bird strike rate for 2010 was adjusted, resulting and NEN standards. The measurement results are used of the airport’s own normal waste was separated for LVNL and Amsterdam Airport Schiphol as well as in in 7.7 bird strikes per 10,000 air transport movements to calculate 24-hour averages. Data is reported on a processing. We aim to further increase this percentage ­developing procedures and infrastructure, is to raise instead of the 7.2 bird strikes per 10,000 air transport daily basis via the joint web interface developed by a in the future. The scope of this performance indicator or at least maintain the level of safety. movements reported last year. A joint assessment of the third party in collaboration with the Rijnland Water is outlined on the map on page 116. This scope does data with KLM provided new insights into the relevant Board and the airport. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol not correspond entirely with that indicated in the air transport movements. accesses the data via the web interface. environmental permit as some tenants are free to 118 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 119 Operational and socio-economic statements In 2011 there were 7.6 bird strikes per 10,000 air Our health and safety policy aims to ensure the health, The N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol and Schiphol Nederland Work to learn places transport movements at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. safety and well-being of our employees in the work B.V. Management Board (consisting of the CEO, CCO, Work to learn places are intended for unemployed This figure is down by 0.1 from 2010. In the long term, place. The key focus is the prevention of physical or COO and CFO) is referred to as Reporting Level I. people who have not completed their education. we aim to achieve a downward trend in terms of the psychological injury to our employees and third-party Reporting level II is the management layer that reports Work to learn places offer these people basic bird strike rate. The average bird strike figure was personnel, as well as to passengers and visitors. directly to Reporting Level I. Reporting level III is the qualifications and better opportunities on the labour calculated by dividing the total number of bird strikes Amsterdam Airport Schiphol makes use of an OHS management layer that reports directly to Reporting market. The percentage of participants who have reported by KLM and the number of bird strikes management system based on the international OHSAS Level II. Currently 23.4% of these positions are filled ­successfully completed the programme is used to reported by Amsterdam Airport Schiphol involving 18001 standard (Occupational Health and Safety by women. We aim to raise this percentage to 30% measure whether performance expectations have KLM aircraft and occurring within the relevant airspace Assessment Series). by the end of 2014. been met. In 2011, 75% of exam candidates passed zone by the number of KLM air transport movements. the examination completing the learning programme. The resulting average figure is thus calculated on the 12. KPI Employee commitment 14. KPI Absence due to illness Given that the performance indicator was adjusted over basis of reports covering approximately 50% of the total • Internal reports: every 18 months • Internal reports: monthly the course of 2011, the same target will be applied in number of air transport movements. We have opted for • Reporting period: 18 months • Reporting period: calendar year 2012: successful completion of the work to learn this method in view of the fact that bird strike reporting • Scope: Schiphol Nederland B.V. • Scope: Schiphol Nederland B.V. programme by at least 70% of exam candidates. by pilots is not always reliable. Since KLM is the airport’s • Registration: MeyerMonitor • Registration: Schiphol Nederland B.V. As a result of the above adjustment, last year’s data home carrier, KLM pilots’ readiness to report incidents • 2011: 7.9 (7.3 in 2010) • 2011: 4.7% (4.4% in 2010) cannot be compared with 2010. is much greater and the number of reports therefore more reliable. Employee commitment is measured on the basis of Schiphol Nederland B.V. wants its employees to be fit, Senior secondary vocational education the results of the Company Monitor carried out by healthy and continually employable. Above all else, this (MBO) programmes Nevertheless, in view of the fact that Amsterdam MeyerMonitor, a research and dialogue consultancy is obviously in the employees’ best interests. After all, MBO programmes are designed especially for work Airport Schiphol is largely dependent on KLM for the company. The monitor determines the difference our employees will spend a considerable portion of their at the airport and focus on security and air cargo registration of bird strikes, for which KLM, in its turn, between the desired and actual situation for seven lives at work. The health of our employees is also impor­logistics. In 2011, 382 participants commenced the MBO is dependent on its pilots, the completeness of the strategic themes. Based on the identified differences, tant in terms of operational continuity and quality. A fit programme. There is no clear reason for the drop in the reported data is inherently limited in a manner management can then determine which themes require and healthy employee is one who possesses the required number of enrolments. We aim to increase the number that cannot be quantified. greater focus in order to achieve the strategic objectives. competencies and physical health to be able and willing of enrolees to 400 in 2012. to perform his or her duties. 11. KPI Integral fire safety testing The Schiphol Monitor included three additional Work placements • Internal reports: monthly ­questions regarding satisfaction with current work, Overall employee fitness is calculated on the basis of Schiphol College also acts as an agency for work • Reporting period: calendar year pride taken in work and intention to continue working the average absenteeism rate for the Schiphol Nederland placements at Schiphol Group. In 2011, a total of • Scope: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol should other options B.V. workforce. This percentage does not include 108 students were given work placement positions at • Registration: Amsterdam Airport Schiphol arise. The average of these three scores results in a value absence due to maternity leave. In 2011, Schiphol Schiphol Group. The number of work placements rose • 2011: 91% of the integral tests were carried representing employee commitment, in this case 7.9. Nederland B.V. recorded an absenteeism rate due to in comparison with 2010, due to the fact that a growing out according to schedule (N/A in 2010) Employee commitment will be measured again in 2013. illness of 4.7%. This percentage was calculated on the number of students and teachers are now familiar with We aim to ensure that the score continues to improve. basis of the Verbaan standard. The rise was caused by Schiphol College and are satisfied with the products The airport is responsible for fire safety in the terminal. The Schiphol Monitor was sent to all Schiphol Nederland a higher number and longer duration of medium and and services it provides. The objective for 2012 remains Integral tests are conducted in order to ensure fire B.V. employees and the employees at Schiphol long-term absences. We aim to achieve a downward the same as 2011: Schiphol College aims to provide safety and the operational reliability of fire protection Telematics. The response rate was 61%. trend in absenteeism due to illness. at least 100 students a work placement position at system overrides. Fire alarm systems, air conditioning Schiphol Group. systems, baggage systems, lift controls, fire-resistant 13. KPI Diversity 15. KPI Schiphol College blinds and evacuation systems in the terminal are • Internal reports: quarterly • Internal reports: quarterly Vocational training programmes integrally tested under operational circumstances. • Reporting period: calendar year • Reporting period: calendar year Schiphol College also offers vocational and other Ninety-one per cent of the integral tests were carried • Scope: Schiphol Nederland B.V. • Scope: Schiphol location training programmes. These are courses designed out in accordance with the planning schedule. The aim • Registration: Schiphol Nederland B.V. • Registration: Schiphol College specifically for the aviation sector and are provided is to maintain the same level of integral tests in 2012. • 2011: 23.4% (22% in 2010) • 2011: Work to learn places – 75% of all exam in collaboration with the Amsterdam ROC. In 2011, candidates obtained their diploma (2010: 44 work 50 groups completed a total of 147 different vocational Schiphol Nederland B.V.’s diversity policy is aimed at to learn placements) Senior secondary vocational training programmes. A growing number of companies Performance indicators – Employees promoting talented women to top-level positions within education (MBO) – 382 enrolees (2010: 472 enrolees) are now familiar with Schiphol College, and are satisfied the organisation, The term ‘top-level’ is defined as the 108 work placements (2010: 90 work placements) with the products and services it provides. This has Policy and management systems upper three management tiers at Schiphol Nederland 50 vocational training programmes were resulted in an increase over 2010. In view of the Amsterdam Airport Schiphol has developed anti-fraud B.V. The scope includes all positions in reporting levels I, completed by 147 groups (2010: 81 training economic situation the target will remain and whistleblowing regulations as well as additional II and III with a certain degree of influence on programmes by 42 groups) unchanged for 2012. codes addressing inappropriate behaviour, the use of ­developing strategy, policy and/or decision-making e-mail and the Internet, and dealing with external concerning our core activities. relations. 120 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 121 Global Reporting Initiative reference table Global Reporting Initiative reference table GRI G3 guidelines for sustainability reporting Chapter Page Explanation, reference to other sources of information GRI G3 guidelines for sustainability reporting Chapter Page Explanation, reference to other sources of information Ref. Guideline Description Ref. Guideline Description 1 Profile 4 Governance Structure Indicators 1.1 CEO statement Foreword 8, 9 4.1 Organisational governance structure Report of the 10-15 1.2 Key effects, risks and opportunities Strategic objectives 34-36 Supervisory Board Risk management 100-105 Corporate Governance 90, 91 The Board and 92-95 Management 2 Organisation Profile 4.2 Relationship between the Chair of the highest The Board and 92-95 2.1 Name of the organisation Doing business in a 18-31 governing body and executive position Management complex environment 4.3 Number of members of the highest governing body The Board and 92-95 2.2 Primary products, and/or services Doing business in a 18-31 that are independent and/or non-executive members Management complex environment 4.4 Mechanisms available to shareholders and employees Corporate Governance 90, 91 2.3 Operational structure Doing business in a 18-31 for submitting recommendations to, or exercising Shareholder information 106 complex environment participation in decision-making 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters + Evert van de Beekstraat 202, 1118 CP Schiphol 4.5 Link between compensation for members of the Remuneration report 96-99 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates Doing business in a 18-31 highest governing body, top executives and managers complex environment and the organisation's performance 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Governance 90, 91 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governing body to Corporate Governance 90, 91 See also: Shareholder information 106 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup1/InvestorRelations/ 2.7 Doing business in a complex environment Doing business in a 18-31 CorporateGovernance.htm complex environment 4.7 The highest governing body's knowledge of Remuneration report 96-99 Our performance in 44-49 Corporate Responsibility Organisation of Corporate 107 2011/Competitive Responsibility position 4.8 Internally developed mission statements, principles and + The CLA features codes of conduct on appropriate behaviour, use of 2.8 Scale of the organisation Doing business in a 18-31 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol covers 2,787 hectares and has 6 runways. codes of conduct e-mail and dealing with external parties. In addition there are anti-fraud complex environment regulations and whistleblower regulations. Our performance in 38-43 See also: http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/CorporateResponsibility/ 2011/Financial CRAtSchiphol/CodesOfConductAndConventions.htm performance 4.9 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 90, 91 See also: 2.9 Significant operational changes during Doing business in a 18-31 No significant changes http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/InvestorRelations/Corporate the reporting period complex environment Governance.htm 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Our performance in 49-55 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governing body's Remuneration report 96-99 2011/ Operating capacity own performance 4.11 Precautionary principle + http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/CorporateResponsibility/ 3 Reporting Parameters CRAtSchiphol/EuropesPreferredAirport.htm 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, + Global Compact 3.1 Reporting period + 01 Jan. 2011-31 Dec. 2011 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 5 April 2011 http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/InvestorRelations/ 4.13 Membership of associations (such as industry associaT he Board and 92-95 Member of industry association Airports Council International FinancialInformation/AnnualReports.htm tions) and/or national/international interest groups Management 3.3 Reporting cycle + Annual 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Doing business in a 18-31 See also: 3.4 Contact point for questions + http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/InvestorRelations/ complex environment http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/CorporateResponsibility/ IRServicesContact.htm OurStakeholders.htm http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/CorporateResponsibility/ 4.15 Basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with Doing business in a 18-31 Stakeholders have not been awarded a specific place in the Contact.htm whom to engage complex environment Management Board's Report, but are discussed at various points in 3.5 Process for defining report content Operational and socio114, the 2011 Annual Report. economic performance 115 4.16 Method of engaging stakeholders Doing business in a 18-31 Stakeholders are regularly consulted through various consultative bodies. 3.6 Scope of the report Operational and socio114, complex environment We organise approximately four stakeholder dialogues per year, at which economic performance 115 the Management Board meets with a selection of stakeholders to elicit their views on our strategic direction and explain certain decisions. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope of the report Operational and socio114, economic performance 115 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through + The main discussion topics are socio-economic capacity, environment, stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation accessibility and safety. 3.8 Basis for reporting Operational and socio114, has responded to those key topics and concerns economic performance 115 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculation Operational and socio114, Specific GRI indicators were found to be immaterial for Schiphol Group principles economic performance 115 in terms of content. As a result, no measurements or calculations were carried out and no data is available. In other cases, data is not publicly available. 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in + The definitions of CO2 emissions resulting from our own activities and of previous reports work to learn places, one of the factors underlying the Schiphol College KPI, have been adjusted. As a result, data on these aspects cannot be compared with previous data. The 2010 bird strike rate has been recalculated due to improved insight into the number of relevant air transport movements. 3.11 Significant changes relative to the previous + reporting period 3.12 GRI table of contents Operational and socio122economic performance 130 3.13 Verification report Operational and socio132 economic performance 122 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 123 Global Reporting Initiative reference table GRI G3 guidelines for sustainability reporting Chapter Page Explanation, reference to other sources of information GRI G3 guidelines for sustainability reporting Chapter Page Explanation, reference to other sources of information Ref. Guideline Description Ref. Guideline Description 5.1 Economic Performance Indicators AO2 Number of air transport movements over the course + Amsterdam Airport Schiphol of one year, categorised into day and night-time flights, Air transport movements totalled 437,083 Management approach to economic performance Schiphol Group creates sustainable value for its stakeholders by developing AirportCities and positioning and commercial, non-commercial, cargo and Cargo flights (commercial) 15,928 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol as Europe’s preferred airport. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol ranks among the military flights. Passenger flights (commercial) 404,321 leading, most efficient transport hubs for air, rail and road connections and offers its visitors and the businesses General aviation (non-commercial) 16,834 located at Schiphol the services they require 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Military flights (non-commercial) 152 offers scheduled services to 313 destinations. The airport’s market share for passenger transport and cargo Other GA flights (non-commercial) 16,682 transport is 10.9% and 13.9% respectively. These are key indicators for companies wishing to establish their Night-time flights total 21,592 business in the Netherlands and, in particular, in the proximity of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Night-time flights (commercial) 20,979 Night-time flights (non-commercial) 613 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is the airport manager. In this role, it develops and operates the airport grounds. We invest between EUR 250 and EUR 300 million on an annual basis. A substantial portion of this amount is AO3 Cargo Volume + Amsterdam Airport Schiphol invested in improving, maintaining and optimally deploying the infrastructure related to the airport. 1.523.806 ton The long-term investments contribute to the quality, accessibility and usage options of the airport. Additionally, regular substantial investments have been made to improve parking facilities and airport-related real estate such 5.2 Environmental Performance Indicators as hotels, offices and cargo buildings. The investments generate significant additional economic activity and Management approach of environmental indicators Amsterdam Airport Schiphol plays an active and leading role in the area of the environment, a role in which increase employment at and around the airport, particularly in the areas of construction and installation. innovations take centre stage. It is our intention to achieve a sustainable energy and water management The facilities realised attract other companies that set up business at the airport and project their own programme, improve air quality and enhance the accessibility of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. economic influence on the region. These objectives have been included in the environmental policy plan that consists of the following compart500 companies are established at the airport offering employment to almost 62,000 people. Schiphol College ments: air, energy, water, noise pollution, waste, soil, hazardous substances, and nature and landscape. enables Schiphol Group employees as well as people employed by companies operating at the Schiphol location The progress of our activities is monitored in the environmental management system. Energy and mobility are to undergo further training and retraining to ensure that personnel are mobile and can be efficiently deployed. priority areas for us, and the subjects of the following ambitious programmes: The EnergieStrategy 2020 and At the end of 2011, Schiphol Group employed 2,145 people. the Sustainable Mobility Concept. theGROUNDS is the catalyst that Amsterdam Airport Schiphol uses to achieve its environmental objectives (faster) by working closely with companies and knowledge institutes. More information on Financial developments: Our performance in 2011/Financial performance (38-43) Furthermore, each quarter the Management Board receives an overview of developments surrounding key Passenger and cargo transport, including market presence: Our performance in 2011/competitive non-financial objectives. The CEO is responsible for Corporate Responsibility in its entirety. As the airport position (44-49) manager, the COO is responsible for environmental developments at the Schiphol location. Investments: Our performance in 2011/Financial performance (42) The COO is responsible for the mobility and accessibility dossier, while the CFO is tasked with selecting Employment and Schiphol College: Our performance in 2011/Human Resources (74-78) responsible suppliers. Theme directors have been appointed in the organisation. These directors make sure that and www.schipholcollege.nl business divisions focus on achieving the objectives wherever possible. The directors of Airport Operations and EC1 Direct economic values Financial statements 134 Asset Management are the theme directors for the environmental compartments. We are actively pursuing EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Our performance 65-71 theGROUNDS a more engaged approach to the environment with regard to the performance indicators energy efficiency, for the organisation’s activities due to climate change in 2011/ The Environment See also: the CO2 neutrality of our own activities, BREEAM certification for new office buildings, FEGP for aircraft stands, http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/CorporateResponsibility/ recycling of waste, drinking water consumption per passenger and surface water quality. EnvironmentAndNoise/theGROUNDS1.htm EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit Financial statements 134 More information on: plan obligations Energy, CO2, water and air quality, waste, mobility: Doing business in a complex environment/ The environment (28), Our performance in 2011/The environment (65-71) and EC4 Significant financial assistance received + Amsterdam Airport Schiphol has not received any significant Operational and socio-economic performance (117-119) from government financial assistance. Accessibility: Doing business in a complex environment/Accessibility (28) and Our performance in 2011/ EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared + Salaries are set down in the CLA. Accessibility (71) to local minimum wage at www.schiphol.nl/cr and at www.theGROUNDS.com. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally Not available EN1 Total amount of materials used by weight or volume + In view of the fact that we are a service company, this performance based suppliers indicator is not materially significant. We only record the purchase EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior + International activities only involve a small number of managers of materials, not the quantity of materials actually used. management hired from the local community seconded from the Netherlands. EN2 Use of recycled materials Our performance in 70, 71 2011/The environment EC8 Development and effect of infrastructure investments Our performance in 38-43 We invest between EUR 250 to 300 million on an annual basis. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Our performance in 65, 66 and services provided primarily for public benefit 2011/Financial A substantial portion of this is invested in improving, maintaining 2011/The environment performance and optimally deploying the infrastructure related to the airport. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source + The energy consumption recorded concerns the total amount of energy The long-term investments contribute to the quality, accessibility and consumed (electricity and gas). No indirect energy is purchased usage options of the airport. Additionally, regular substantial investments separately. If necessary, Schiphol will itself arrange for the transition have been made to improve parking facilities and airport-related from direct to indirect energy consumption. property such as hotels, offices and cargo buildings. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Our performance in 65, 66 EC9 Insight into and description of significant indirect + The investments generate substantial additional economic activity and efficiency improvements 2011/The environment economic consequences, including their scale increase employment at and around the airport, particularly in the areas of construction and installation. The facilities built attract other EN6 Initiatives to promote energy efficiency and the use of Our performance in 65, 66 companies that set up business at the airport and project their own sustainable energy, as well as reduce energy needs as a 2011/The environment economic influence on the surrounding area. This was also confirmed in result of these initiatives the Mainport Study conducted by McKinsey and the Boston Consultancy EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Our performance in 65, 66 Reducing our indirect energy consumption is part of the energy Group, published in March 2011. 2011/The environment reduction and efficiency goals set out in the MYA and our climate goals. AO1 Number of passengers handled over the course of one + Amsterdam Airport Schiphol EN8 Total water draw-off by source Our performance in 68 We do not draw off water to treat it for drinking purposes year, categorised into international and domestic flights Passengers (incl. transit-direct passengers) 49,755,252 2011/The environment or industrial applications. and O&D and transfer passengers, including transitDomestic 419 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by water draw-off Our performance in 68 direct passengers European 33,846,307 2011/The environment Intercontinental 15,908,526 O&D passengers (total) 29,491,315 EN10 Percentage of water recycled and reused Our performance in 68 We do not recycle or reuse water. O&D European 22,433,362 2011/The environment O&D Intercontinental 7,057,953 AO4 Captured rainwater from the airport grounds. Not available Transfer (total) 20,189,310 Rainwater may be polluted as a result of airport Transfer European 11,391,948 processes (such as kerosene leakage) Transfer Intercontinental 8,797,362 Transit passengers 74,627 124 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 125 Global Reporting Initiative reference table GRI G3 guidelines for sustainability reporting Chapter Page Explanation, reference to other sources of information GRI G3 guidelines for sustainability reporting Chapter Page Explanation, reference to other sources of information Ref. Guideline Description Ref. Guideline Description EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed, or + The airport did not build any new runways or terminals in 2011. As a 5.3 Working Conditions and Full-Time Work Indicators adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiverresult, there was no need to move any flora or fauna to a new location. sity value outside protected areas Management approach of working conditions Schiphol Group attaches great value to pursuing a balanced personnel policy and developing its staff. The employees are essential to guaranteeing the quality of the services provided. To strike the right balance between Our business operations do not take place in protected areas or areas their work and private lives, employees can opt for flexible working hours as advocated under the New Style of EN12 Description of significant effects of activities, products, + adjacent to such areas. Because we leave the natural environment Working. Our Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) management system allows the airport to monitor the vitaand services on biodiversity in protected areas and between our runways untended, it is home to special specimens of lity of its workforce. We strive to ensure a healthy and well-motivated workforce, by focusing on the issues of areas of high biodiversity value flora and fauna. For more information, read the book: ‘Natuurgebied absence due to illness, diversity and employee commitment. Safe working conditions are crucial to keeping Schiphol. Flora en Fauna in kaart gebracht (Schiphol nature reserve. operations running smoothly. We are continually exploring ways to further improve safety. A compendium of its Flora and Fauna)’. EN13 Habitats protected or restored + Safe working conditions are defined in laws and regulations, which also deal with exposure to noise and EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for mana+ emissions. We instruct our employees on safe working practices through the use of warning signs, newsletters ging effects on biodiversity and the Safety & Security Pocket Guide. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conser+ The CEO is responsible for employee policies. This responsibility has been delegated to the Human Resources vation list species with habitats in areas affected by director, who has also been appointed theme director for the subjects relating to ‘people and society’. business operations, by level of extinction risk For more information: E mployee development and safe working conditions : Doing business in a complex environment/ EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Our performance in 65-69 Only CO2 and NOx emissions available. For the environmental permit, the Human Resources (31) and Our performance in 2011/ Human Resources (74-78) 2011/The environment other emissions no longer need to be reported to the province of North-A  bsenteeism due to illness, diversity and employee commitment: Our performance in 2011/ Holland. Consequently, this information is not available. Human Resources (74-78) and Operational and socio-economic performance (120, 121) http://www.schiphol.nl/cr and www.schiphol.nl/WerkenVacatures EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions + The focus is on CO2, the most important greenhouse gas. See also EN16. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Our performance in 74-78 No information is available about type of work. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Our performance in 65-69 contract, and region 2011/Human Resources 2011/The environment LA2 Employee turnover Our performance in 74-78 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances + The use of cooling agents no longer needs to be reported to the 2011/Human Resources province of North-Holland for environmental permit purposes. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not + All group benefits available to employees with full-time employment Consequently, this information is not available. provided to temporary or part-time employees, per contracts apply in full to employees working part-time, albeit on a pro EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Our performance in 65-69 Only CO2 and NOx emissions available. For the environmental permit, major activity rata basis. Individual payments and/or supplements apply equally to 2011/The environment the other emissions no longer need to be reported to the province of full-time and part-time employees. North-Holland. Consequently, this information is not available. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective labour + 93.7% agreements AO5 Air quality composition + Air quality is monitored by the government through the National Air LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational + No specific agreements were made on notice periods that would Quality Cooperation Programme. Additionally, an external party calcuchanges apply in the event of operational changes. lates the air composition at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol once a year. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal + 0.45% EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination + All waste water (sanitary and otherwise) is discharged from our buildings joint employer-employee health and safety committees to an Evides waste water treatment installation. that help monitor and advise on working EN22 Total weight of waste by type Our performance in 70, 71 conditions programmes. 2011/The environment LA7 Rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days, and Our performance in 74-78 There were no work-related deaths in 2011. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills + There have been no significant discharges into surface water. absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 2011/Human Resources by region EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, + We outsource the transportation and processing of our waste, or treated waste including hazardous waste. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and riskOur performance in 74-78 Also see: control programmes in place to assist workforce 2011/Human Resources http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/Company1/Career.htm EN25 Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected Not available members by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements + Agreements on occupational safety and health topics have been set with trade unions down in the collective labour agreement, but no formal agreements AO6 Amount of de-icing agent used to de-ice aircraft and -O  ur performance in 67 have been made with trade unions. remove ice from runways and taxiways 2011/The environment LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by + Number of training hours as yet unknown, but the average training employee category budget has been recorded. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impact of Our performance in 65-71 See also: products and services 2011/The environment http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/Company1/Career.htm EN27 Packaging materials of products + Schiphol Group does not sell pre-packaged products. LA11 Programmes for competency management and lifelong + http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/Company1/Career.htm EN28 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance + No matters were taken to court concerning operations carried out at learning that support the continued employability of with environmental laws and regulations the Amsterdam Airport Schiphol site, nor were any fines or penalties employees and assist them in completing their career imposed, or any other administrative coercive measures used in relation LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance + 100% to non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations. and career development reviews EN29 Significant environmental impact of transporting Our performance in 66, 67 LA13 Composition of governing bodies T he Board and 92-95 products and other goods and materials used for the 2011/The environment Management organisation’s operations, and transporting members of Our performance in 71 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women + Basic salaries for men and women are the same. the workforce 2011/Accessibility This has been set down in the CLA. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Not available investments by type 5.4 Human Rights AO7 Number of people living in noise-affected areas Our performance in 56, 57 Visit www.bezoekbas.nl for an easy-to-read overview of noise impact 2011/Socio-economic distribution across the various regions. Management approach of human rights The majority of our operations take place in the Netherlands. Our foreign associates are located in developed capacity countries (United States, Australia, France, Sweden, Italy, Hong Kong and Aruba). Consequently, these indicators apply to a lesser degree. Moreover, we operate (in any event in the Netherlands) in line with Dutch legislation and regulations which guarantee these aspects. For Schiphol Nederland B.V. employees, the following codes of conduct have been drawn up: inappropriate behaviour, use of e-mail and Internet, and dealing with external parties. We have also put in place anti-fraud regulations and whistleblower regulations. Our purchasing regulations set out requirements that suppliers of our products and services must meet. In 2010, Schiphol Group also signed the Global Compact. The CEO is responsible for employee policies. The Dutch Border Police (Koninklijke Marechaussee) is responsible for Passport and Border Control and is therefore also responsible for matters such as human trafficking. For more information: Risk management; Risk M: Supplier and outsourcing liability (104) Doing business in a complex environment/Human Resources (31) and Our performance in 2011/ Human Resources (74-78) 126 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 127 Global Reporting Initiative reference table GRI G3 guidelines for sustainability reporting Chapter Page Explanation, reference to other sources of information GRI G3 guidelines for sustainability reporting Chapter Page Explanation, reference to other sources of information Ref. Guideline Description Ref. Guideline Description HR1 Investment and purchasing agreements that include + http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/CorporateResponsibility/ SO9 Operational activities with a significant (potentially) Our performance in 56, 57 The environment is especially likely to encounter noise disturbance. human rights clauses CRAtSchiphol/PurchaseAndSupplyChainManagement1.htm negative impact on the local environment 2011/ Socio-economic See also: www.bezoekbas.nl and GRI indicator PR1. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors + Schiphol Group applies a purchasing policy. However, suppliers are not capacity that have undergone screening on human rights specifically screened in terms of their human rights record. SO10 Measures taken to minimise (potentially) negative Our performance in 56, 57 The environment is especially likely to encounter noise disturbance. and action taken See also: effects on the local environment 2011/ Socio-economic See also: www.bezoekbas.nl and GRI indicator PR1. http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/CorporateResponsibility/ capacity CRAtSchiphol/PurchaseAndSupplyChainManagement1.htm SO2 Corruption-related risks + The internal audit department investigates any reports of corruption. HR3 Total hours of staff training on policies and procedures + Schiphol Group does not provide services in countries where human No corruption incidents were reported. concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant rights are at stake. Therefore, no training courses are provided to SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies + The company’s senior management took part in a Fraud Awareness to operations employees in this area. and procedures Workshop in 2011. This training programme focused on the issues of HR4 Discrimination + No cases of discrimination have been reported. integrity, fraud and signs of fraud. HR5 The right to exercise freedom of association and + Employees are free to unite in trade unions and to negotiate collectively. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption + Not applicable, as there are no known cases of fraud. collective bargaining SO5 Positions with regard to public policy, participation in + Member of industry association Airports Council International. HR6 Child labour + The majority of our operations take place in the Netherlands. public policy development, and lobbying activities. Our operations fully comply with Dutch laws and regulations and do not SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to + We do not make any financial or in-kind contributions. touch upon such issues as child labour or forced or compulsory labour. political parties, politicians, and related institutions HR7 Forced or compulsory labour + The majority of our operations take place in the Netherlands. by country Our operations fully comply with Dutch laws and regulations and do not SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive + Schiphol Group lodged an appeal against the judgment of the District touch upon such issues as child labour or forced or compulsory labour. behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Court of Rotterdam of November 2010 regarding the NMa’s ruling that HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organi+ The security personnel working at Schiphol have been seconded from the costs of facilities at Runway 18R-36L could not be factored into sation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of companies that comply fully with Dutch laws and regulations. In the perforthe charges. human rights that are relevant to operations mance of their work, our security personnel fully respect human rights. easyJet has withdrawn its appeal against the NMa’s ruling regarding the HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights + Not applicable. We do not carry out operations in developing countries. relatively high charges for O&D passengers. easyJet is now bringing the of indigenous people and actions taken case before the European Court of Justice. HR10 Percentage of operations screened in terms of their + Not applicable In November 2011, the NMa published its decision on the Schiphol human rights impact Aviation Club’s application. The NMa ruled that the take-off and landing HR11 Number of complaints regarding human rights received + Not applicable fees and the Passenger Service Charge at Schiphol-East for the aviation through official channels. club and similar users were unreasonable. In response to this ruling, we adjusted the fees for flights and passengers handled at Schiphol-East. 5.5 Social Performance Indicators We have lodged an appeal against this NMa decision. The Schiphol Aviation Club also submitted an application to the NMa regarding Management approach of social performance Amsterdam Airport Schiphol operates as a multimodal hub for the Netherlands. The airport connects our the fees taking effect on 1 April 2012. indicators country with the rest of the world, both in terms of passengers and cargo. As a Mainport, Schiphol is of socio-economic importance to the Randstad which, together with Amsterdam, benefits from the network of SO8 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance + No penalties were imposed in 2011. destinations and flight frequencies. The airport plays an important part in attracting international companies with laws and regulations that benefit from fast, worldwide connections and an attractive business climate. As a result, not only does AO8 (Estimated) number of people to be voluntarily or + Expansion of the airport in 2011 was limited and did not require any Schiphol provide direct employment for almost 62,000 people at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol but it also is involuntarily relocated in connection with the people to be relocated. the driver of a significant amount of indirect employment both within the region and beyond. A Mainport development or expansion of an airport requires an open market economy with healthy competition so that in all areas, pricing is balanced, passengers have sufficient choice and all airlines can offer their services at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. 5.6 Product Responsibility The socio-economic function of the airport was discussed in detail during the stakeholder dialogue that took Management approach to consumer health and safety For Schiphol Group this component is less relevant given the products and services that Schiphol offers. place in 2011. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is engaged in a continuous dialogue with the local communities The Dutch Border Police (Koninklijke Marechaussee) is responsible for Passport Control, Border Control and relevant government authorities on a wide variety of subjects. In the Alders Platform consultative body, and protecting civil aviation against attacks and hijacks. Customs monitors the import, export and transit we hold discussions on how the airport can continue to develop up to 2020 and on how to protect the of goods and it levies and collects taxes and duties owed on imported goods. quality of life in the surrounding area. In this regard, two performance indicators are actively monitored: socio-economic capacity and exceeding noise impact enforcement points. Schiphol is also a member of The health of passengers is promoted through good hygiene and medical facilities, the timely emptying the Schiphol Regional Consultative Committee (CROS) and participates in the Alders Platform. The Local of waste bins and offering facilities such as restaurants with healthy food options, as well as spa and Community Contact Centre Schiphol (Bas) is the information centre where local residents can obtain massage facilities. information on air traffic flying to and from the airport. Passenger safety is safeguarded in the TSMS and ASMS (fire and aviation safety). Two key performance Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is not only an economic driver that provides employment in the Amsterdam indicators are runway incursions and bird strikes. Keeping the terminal, the aprons and the runways clean metropolitan region, it is also involved at the social level. The Schiphol Fund, established in 1994, provides is another important factor in preventing unsafe situations. funding to associations and foundations. Schiphol College was established to prepare students for airportrelated careers or work placements. After having concluded a three-year partnership with SOS Children’s The COO is responsible for safety and the environment at the Schiphol location. The directors of Airside Villages, the airport entered into a new agreement with UNICEF in 2012. Finally, Schiphol has sponsored the Operations, Asset Management and Safety, Security & Environment are the theme directors for the subjects Amsterdamse Bos theatre for 15 years. relating to safety and the environment. The COO is responsible for the Alders Platform and has delegated this responsibility to the Airside Operations More information on: director, who is theme director for the noise-reduction environmental compartment. Schiphol College comes Safety: Doing business in a complex environment/Safety (29), Our performance in 2011/Safety (71-73) under the responsibility of the Human Resources director. and Operational and socio-economic performance (119, 120) www.schiphol.nl/cr More information on: PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety effects of + Employees are provided with a safe and healthy workplace. Employees Stakeholder dialogue: Doing business in a complex environment (20) products and services are assessed are protected against high noise impact levels and high emission concenAlders Platform, breaches of noise enforcement points and the Local Community Contact Centre (Bas): trations. Among other measures aimed at the environment, an up-toDoing business in a complex environment/Socio-economic capacity (27), Our performance in 2011/Sociodate overview of noise impact levels has been made available via economic capacity (56, 57) and Operational and socio-economic performance (115) and www.bezoekbas.nl www.bezoekbas.nl. Read more about our measures in the sections Schiphol College: Doing business in a complex environment/Human Resources (31), Safety, Socio-economic Capacity, Environment, and Accessibility. Our performance in 2011/ Employees (78), Operational and socio-economic performance (121) PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with + No known incidents. and www.schipholcollege.nl regulations and voluntary codes concerning health Schiphol Fund: Doing business in a complex environment/Human Resources (31), and safety effects of products and services during Our performance in 2011/Human Resources (78) and www.schipholfonds.nl their life cycle http://www.schiphol.nl/SchipholGroup/CorporateResponsibility.htm PR3 Type of information on products and services that are + The aviation sector is subject to a multitude of national and international SO1 The way in which activities affect communities Our performance in 56, 57 mandatory for procedures laws and regulations. The airport provides services and does not sell 2011/Socio-economic durable products. capacity 128 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 129 Global Reporting Initiative reference table Global Compact Communication on Progress GRI G3 guidelines for sustainability reporting Chapter Page Explanation, reference to other sources of information Global Compact principles Incorporated in See also: GRI indicator Ref. Guideline Description Human rights PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with + No known incidents. regulations and voluntary codes concerning product 1. Schiphol supports and respects human rights Codes of conduct LA4, LA6-9, LA13-14 and service information and labelling Purchasing regulations HR1-9 PR5 Policy on customer satisfaction and the results of Our performance in 80-87 Amsterdam Airport Schiphol conducts surveys to assess the satisfaction 2. Schiphol is certain that it does not take part in any activity Codes of conduct HR1-9 customer satisfaction surveys 2011/Performance per levels of passengers, concessionaires and tenants. Amsterdam Airport violating human rights Purchasing regulations business area Schiphol also participates in the ACI Airport Service Quality Survey. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol won various awards in 2011, including the prestigious ACI Europe Best Airport Award. Working conditions PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and + Our marketing communication policy adheres to generally accepted 3. Schiphol ‘s employees are free to join associations and Employees are free to join associations. Schiphol LA4-5 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, ethical and cultural values and advertising codes. This renders the exercise their right to collective bargaining makes an annual payment to the trade unions as HR1-3 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship deployment of special programmes for compliance with laws and a contribution and to help cover training costs. HR5 regulations in this field unnecessary. Furthermore, employees that are active on behalf of the trade union and/or the Works Council receive PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with + No such incidents were reported during the reporting year. a certain amount of free time to conduct regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing these activities communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 4. Schiphol eliminates all forms of forced labour The type of work, working conditions and work times HR1-3, HR7 are set out in the CLA PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding + No known substantiated complaints. Purchasing regulations breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 5. Schiphol eliminates child labour Schiphol does not conclude employment agreements HR1-3, HR6 with people under the age of 18 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations + During the reporting year no fines were imposed on Schiphol Group Purchasing regulations concerning the provision and use of products for failure to provide services, or to provide them in full. and services 6. Schiphol eliminates discrimination based on profession Remuneration conditions for men and women LA2, LA13-14 are the same HR1-4 AO9 Number of animals involved in wildlife strikes per Our performance in 72 Bird strikes are an issue of material significance to Code of Conduct on Undesirable Behaviour 10.000 air transport movements 2011/Safety Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Internal Complaints Committee Operational and socio119, Purchasing Regulations economic performance 120 Environment 7. Schiphol focuses on environmental challenges as The Energy Strategy 2020 programme, the EC2 a precautionary measure Sustainable Mobility programme, the Water Plan EN18, EN26, EN30 theGROUNDS, SIM Innovative Mainport Alliance, Knowledge and Development Centre (KDC) Purchasing Regulations 8. Schiphol takes initiatives to enhance responsibility for The Energy Strategy 2020 programme, the EN1-30 the environment Sustainable Mobility programme, the Water Plan Schiphol Quality of Life Foundation (Stichting Leefomgeving) Local Community Contact Centre (Bas) Purchasing Regulations 9. Schiphol promotes the development and introduction of Tests with solar panels, sustainable new buildings EN2, EN5-7, EN18, EN26, EN30 environmentally friendly technologies (e.g. TransPort) theGROUNDS, SIM Innovative Mainport Alliance, Knowledge and Development Centre (KDC) Anti-corruption 10. Schiphol combats all forms of corruption, including bribery Codes of conduct, whistleblower regulations, SO2-6 and extortion anti-fraud regulations Purchasing regulations The Management Board Schiphol, 16 February 2012 130 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 131 Operational and socio-economic statements Assurance report Review procedures performed We planned and performed our review procedures in To the Management Board of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol accordance with Dutch law, including Standard 3410N ‘Assurance engagements relating to sustainability Report on selected Corporate reports’. Our most important review procedures were: Responsibility disclosures • performing an analysis of Schiphol Group’s operating context and obtaining insight into the industry, Engagement and responsibilities relevant social issues, relevant laws and regulations In the Annual Report N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol as well as the characteristics of the organisation; (hereafter: ‘Schiphol Group’) reports on its policies, • reviewing the acceptability of the reporting policies activities, events and performance relating to and their consistent application, such as review of the Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) in the reporting period outcomes of the stakeholder dialogue and the 2011 (hereafter referred to as: ‘the CR disclosures’). reasonableness of estimates made by management; We have been engaged by the Management Board • with regard to the CR disclosures in our assurance of Schiphol Group to review selected CR disclosures scope, reviewing the systems and processes for data in the Annual Report. gathering, internal controls and the aggregation process of data to the CR disclosures as presented A review is focused on obtaining limited assurance in the Annual Report; which does not require exhaustive gathering of • with regard to the CR disclosures in our assurance evidence as in audit engagements. Consequently scope, reviewing internal and external documentation a review engagement provides less assurance than to determine whether the CR disclosures in the Annual would be obtained from an audit engagement. Report are adequately substantiated; • evaluating the overall presentation of the CR Our engagement is confined to providing limited disclosures in the Annual Report, in line with assurance on selected CR disclosures as listed in the Schiphol Group’s reporting criteria; paragraph ‘Reporting Guidelines’ on page 114. • assessing the consistency of CR disclosures in We do not provide assurance on other CR disclosures the Annual Report; and in the Annual Report which are outside our limited • reviewing the application level according to assurance scope. Furthermore, we do not provide the G3 Guidelines of GRI. any assurance on the assumptions and feasibility of ­prospective information relating to CR, such as We believe that the evidence obtained from our targets, expectations and ambitions, included in ­examination is sufficient and appropriate to provide the Annual Report. a basis for our conclusion. The Management Board of Schiphol Group is responsible Conclusion for the preparation of the CR disclosures in the Annual Based on our review procedures performed, nothing has Report. We are responsible for providing an assurance come to our attention that would cause us to conclude report on the CR disclosures as listed in the paragraph that, in all material respects, the CR disclosures as listed ‘Reporting Guidelines’ on page 114. in the paragraph ‘Reporting Guidlines’ on page 114 do not provide a reliable and adequate presentation of the Reporting criteria CR policy of Schiphol Group or of the activities, events Schiphol Group developed its reporting criteria on and performance of the organisation relating to CR the basis of the G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting during the reporting year, in accordance with Schiphol Initiative (‘GRI’). These reporting criteria contain certain Group’s reporting criteria. inherent limitations which may influence the reliability of the CR disclosures. These limitations are adequately Schiphol, 16 February 2012 explained in the CR disclosures on pages 108 to 131. PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. The CR disclosures in our assurance scope do not cover all entities of Schiphol Group as they only include data S. Barendregt-Roojers RA from Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Detailed information on the reporting scope is given in the paragraph ‘Scope of the Report’ on pages 114 and 115 of the Annual Report. We consider the reporting criteria to be relevant and appropriate for our examination. 132 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 133 Financial Statements 2011 134 Schiphol Group Annual Financial Report 2011 Statements 135 136 Schiphol Group Contents Consolidated financial statements Consolidated profit and loss account for the year 2011 138 Consolidated comprehensive income statement 2011 139 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2011 140 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 142 Consolidated cash flow statement for 2011 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 144 • General information 144 • Accounting policies 144 • Judgement regarding application of accounting policies 154 • Key assumptions and estimates 155 • Management of financial and tax risks 156 • Segment information 166 • Notes to the consolidated profit and loss account 170 • Notes to the consolidated balance sheet 184 • Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 220 • Events after the balance sheet date 221 • Related party disclosures 222 Corporate financial statements Corporate profit and loss account for 2011 238 Corporate balance sheet as at 31 December 2011 239 Notes to the corporate financial statements 240 Other information 245 Financial Statements 2011 137 Consolidated profit and loss account for the year 2011 Consolidated comprehensive income statement for the year 2011 (in thousands of euros) Note 2011 2010 (in thousands of euros) Note 2011 2010 Revenue 1 1,278,300 1,180,148 Result 197,510 171,714 Sales of property 23,336 2,715 Translation differences 31 3,795 9,697 Cost of sales of property 22,760 2,866 Changes in fair value on hedge transactions 31 – 55,318 13,790 Changes in fair value on other financial interests 31 – 4,617 3,450 Result on sales of property 2 576 – 151 Total other income and expenses – 56,140 26,937 Fair value gains and losses on property 3 – 664 22,180 Total comprehensive income 141,370 198,651 Other income, from property – 88 22,029 Attributable to: Costs of outsourced work and other external charges 4 579,834 522,072 Minority interests 3,150 2,773 Employee benefits 5 177,470 183,737 Shareholders (net result) 138,220 195,878 Depreciation and amortisation 6 206,134 185,829 Impairment 7 1,473 467 Restructuring 8 9,135 Other operating expenses 9 9,114 4,229 Total operating expenses – 974,025 – 905,469 Operating result 304,187 296,708 Financial income and expenses 10 – 91,252 – 115,181 Share in results of associates 11 35,889 57,076 Result before tax 248,824 238,603 Corporate income tax 12 – 51,314 – 66,889 Result 197,510 171,714 Attributable to: Minority interests 13 3,025 2,754 Shareholders (net result) 194,485 168,960 Earnings per share (in euros) 14 1,045 908 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 14 1,045 908 138 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 139 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2011 Assets Equity and liabilities (in thousands of euros) Note 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 (in thousands of euros) Note 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Non-current assets Share capital and reserves Intangible assets 15 41,395 43,200 attributable to shareholders Assets used for operating activities 16 2,402,813 2,376,031 Issued share capital 29 84,511 84,511 Assets under construction or development 17 397,032 390,695 Share premium 29 362,811 362,811 Investment property 18 1,068,872 1,053,313 Retained profits 30 2,728,149 2,609,827 Deferred tax 19 243,352 228,647 Other reserves 31 – 25,292 30,973 Investments in associates 20 725,048 689,413 Loans to associates 21 92,141 88,221 3,150,179 3,088,122 Other financial interests 22 6,141 10,758 Lease receivables 23 3,300 Minority interests 32 24,334 21,295 Other loans 24 1,561 4,260 Derivative financial instruments 33 89,565 89,415 Total equity 3,174,513 3,109,417 Other non-current receivables 25 34,381 23,170 Non-current liabilities 5,102,301 5,000,423 Borrowings 33 1,773,877 1,609,317 Lease liabilities 34 52,597 57,917 Employee benefits 35 33,227 35,525 Other provisions 36 17,927 29,573 Derivative financial instruments 33 63,000 1,464 Other non-current liabilities 37 89,834 93,786 2,030,462 1,827,582 Current assets Lease receivables 23 3,299 2,223 Current liabilities Other loans 24 30 84 Borrowings 33 101,834 122,756 Assets held for sale 26 23,577 38,242 Lease liabilities 34 5,914 55,731 Trade and other receivables 27 177,881 161,004 Derivative financial instruments 33 6,311 16,413 Corporate income tax 38 3,116 Corporate income tax 38 11,582 Cash and cash equivalents 28 413,287 304,202 Trade and other payables 39 404,457 362,697 621,190 505,755 518,516 569,179 5,723,491 5,506,178 5,723,491 5,506,178 140 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 141 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity Consolidated cash flow statement for 2011 (in thousands of euros) Attributable to shareholders (in thousands of euros) Note 2011 2010 Issued Share Retained Other Minority Note share capital premium profits reserves interests Total Cash flow from operating activities: Cash flow from operations 41 526,670 486,538 Balance as at 31 December 2009 84,511 362,811 2,505,423 4,054 18,633 2,975,432 Corporate income tax paid – 60,164 – 35,595 Interest paid – 103,481 – 114,651 Result 168,960 2,754 171,714 Interest received 11,347 2,544 Other comprehensive income 31,32 26,919 18 26,937 Dividend received 12,991 11,753 – 139,307 – 135,949 Comprehensive income 168,960 26,919 2,772 198,651 Cash flow from operating activities 387,363 350,589 Dividend paid 30 – 64,556 – 110 – 64,666 Cash flow from investing activities: Balance as at 31 December 2010 84,511 362,811 2,609,827 30,973 21,295 3,109,417 Investment in intangible assets 15 – 11,133 – 11,628 Investment in property, plant and equipment 17 – 252,148 – 236,316 Result 194,485 3,025 197,510 Proceeds from disposals of investment property 2 17,059 2,715 Other comprehensive income 31,32 – 56,265 125 – 56,140 Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 16 558 41 Acquisitions 42 – 3,550 – 9,708 Comprehensive income 194,485 – 56,265 3,150 141,370 Sale of subsidiary 20 362 2,157 Share capital contributions to associates 20 – 9,419 Dividend paid 30 – 76,163 – 111 – 76,274 Repayment on other loans 24 2,808 85 Finance lease instalments received 23 3,079 3,025 Balance as at 31 December 2011 84,511 362,811 2,728,149 – 25,292 24,334 3,174,513 Other non-current receivables received 25 1,594 – Cash flow from investing activities – 250,790 – 249,629 The dividend per share paid in 2011 and 2010 can be calculated as follows: Free cash flow 136,573 100,960 dividend for 2010, dividend for 2009, Cash flow from financing activities: paid in 2011 paid in 2010 New borrowings 33 583,034 116 Repayment of borrowings 33 – 460,770 – 211,942 Dividend attributable to shareholders (in euros) 76,163,000 64,556,000 Interest difference buy-back of EMTN bonds 33 – 19,328 Settlement derivative financial instruments 31 – 15,076 – 11,723 Average number of shares in issue during the year 186,147 186,147 Dividend paid 30 – 76,274 – 64,666 Finance lease property, plant and equipment 34 689 Dividend per share (in euros) 409 347 Other non-current liabilities paid 37 2,136 Finance lease instalments paid 34 – 61,377 – 13,644 Cash flow from financing activities – 27,638 – 321,187 Net cash flow 108,935 – 220,227 Opening balance of cash and cash equivalents 28 304,202 524,403 Net cash flow 108,935 – 220,227 Exchange differences 10 150 26 Closing balance of cash and cash equivalents 28 413,287 304,202 142 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments; Classification and The share of the other shareholders in consolidated Measurement (not yet endorsed, mandatory taking equity and consolidated results is presented in the General information by Schiphol Group but have little or no effect on effect from the 2015 financial statements) balance sheet as minority interests (part of total the explanatory notes and financial data in the 2011 • IFRIC 20 Stripping cost in the production phase of equity) and in the profit and loss account as result N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol is a public limited liability financial statements: a surface mine (not yet endorsed, mandatory taking attributable to minority interests. company (N.V. a large company within the meaning • Amendments in the context of the 2010 Annual effect from the 2013 financial statements) of the Netherlands Civil Code), based at Schiphol in the Improvements Project (c) Joint ventures municipality of Haarlemmermeer. The address of the • IFRS 1, First time adoption amendments Where applicable, the statutory provisions relating to The financial information of joint ventures is consolicompany’s registered office is Evert van der Beekstraat • IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures annual reporting contained in Part 9, Book 2, of the dated in proportion to the size of the interest. A joint 202, 1118 CP, Schiphol, Netherlands. N.V. Luchthaven • IAS 32, Classification of rights issues Netherlands Civil Code have also been complied with. venture is an activity performed by either a legal entity Schiphol trades under the name of Schiphol Group. • IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a minimum funding or a partnership in which there is contractually agreed requirement amendment Schiphol Group adheres to the historical cost convensharing of control by a limited number of venturers, Schiphol Group is an airport business, with Amsterdam • IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial liabilities with tion except for buildings and land in the investment with decisions requiring their unanimous consent. Airport Schiphol as our main asset. We wish to create Equity Instruments property portfolio, derivative financial instruments and sustainable value for our stakeholders, who represent other financial interests, which are stated at fair value. The results of subsidiaries and interests in joint a diverse range of interests. Our core values of New standards and amended standards that are ventures acquired in the course of the year are consolireliability, efficiency, hospitality, inspiration and mandatory with effect from 2012 or afterwards Change in accounting estimates in 2010 dated as from the date on which the company gains sustainability play a central role in how we conduct Schiphol Group has not voluntarily applied new standWith regard to the lands pertaining to the investment sole or joint control of them. The financial information our business. Our mission is to link the Netherlands to ards, amended standards or interpretations in advance property, a reassessment took place in 2010 of the relating to subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures other important cities and regions in the world via the that will not be mandatory until 2012 or afterwards. discount rate applied in determining the market value, disposed of in the course of the year continues to be Mainport Schiphol. It is the aim of Amsterdam Airport including the associated risk mark-ups. This was done included in the consolidation up to the date on which Schiphol to be and remain Europe’s preferred airport: Schiphol Group is currently examining the consein order to ensure consistency with the more common sole or joint control ceases. the airport that is valued for its quality, capacity and quences of the following new standards, interpretamethods used by independent external surveyors. extensive network of destinations. We wish to serve tions and amendments to existing standards, the Based on this reassessment, the discount rate has been (d) Associates airlines, handlers, passengers and business people as application of which is mandatory as from the financial reduced. Furthermore, with effect from 2010 a final An associate is an entity over which the company has efficiently as possible, with a well-equipped airport statements 2012 or afterwards, as stated below: value is determined for all leasehold contracts, even if significant influence. Investments in associates are and modern facilities. • IFRS 7 Financial Instruments amendment the contract only expires after 20 years. Previously, accounted for by applying the equity method, i.e. the • IFRS 1 First time adoption amendment (not yet the final value of contracts expiring after 20 years investment is initially recognised at cost and adjusted On 16 February 2012 the Supervisory Board agreed the endorsed) was fixed at zero because of uncertainty about the thereafter for the company’s post-acquisition share in financial statements as prepared by the Management • IAS 12 Income taxes amendment (not yet endorsed) use of the lands after the expiry of these contracts. the change in the associate’s net assets. The carrying Board. The Management Board will present the finan• IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation amendment The aforesaid changes in the discount rate applied amount of these investments in associates includes the cial statements for adoption to the General Meeting of (not yet endorsed) and the determination of the final value resulted in goodwill arising on their acquisition. The company’s Shareholders to be held on 18 April 2012. • IAS 19 Employee Benefits amendment (not yet a one-off fair value gain on investment property of share in the results of associates over which the endorsed, mandatory taking effect from the 2013 EUR 26 million in 2010. company has significant influence is recognised in the financial statements) profit and loss account (share in results of associates). Accounting policies • IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates The cumulative changes in the net assets of associates amendments within IAS 27 Consolidated and (a) General are accounted for in proportion to the company’s Set forth below are the accounting policies providing Separate Financial Statements (not yet endorsed, Where necessary, appropriate adjustments are made to interest under the heading of investments in associthe basis of consolidation, valuation of assets, equity mandatory taking effect from the 2013 financial the accounting policies of subsidiaries, joint ventures ates. The company ceases to recognise its share in the and liabilities and determination of results for Schiphol statements) and associates so that they comply with the Schiphol result of an associate in the profit and loss account and Group. These policies are in accordance with IFRS, as • IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and amendments within Group accounting policies. its share in the net asset value of that associate immeendorsed for use in the EU, and are applied consistIAS 28 Associates and Joint Ventures (not yet diately if recognition would cause the carrying amount ently to all the information presented unless otherwise endorsed, mandatory taking effect from the 2013 (b) Subsidiaries of the investment to become negative and the indicated. financial statements) The financial information of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol company has not entered into any commitments or • IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities (not and its subsidiaries is fully consolidated. Subsidiaries made any payments on behalf of the associate. New standards and amended standards that are yet endorsed, mandatory taking effect from the are those companies in which N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol Investments in associates are accounted for as other mandatory with effect from 2011 2013 financial statements) has control over operating and financial policy. financial interests with effect from the date on which Various new standards, interpretations and amend• IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements (not yet endorsed, the company ceases to have significant influence or ments to existing standards have been issued which mandatory taking effect from the 2013 financial control. are mandatory from 1 January 2011 and are applied statements) 144 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 145 (e) Acquisition of subsidiaries, joint ventures decision maker, about the resources to be allocated to entity concerned and are likewise translated Intangible assets and associates the segment. Schiphol Group distinguishes 14 operat the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date. Intangible assets relate to the cost of goodwill An acquisition of a subsidiary, an interest in a joint ating segments, which have been combined into nine Exchange differences arising on the translation of purchased from third parties, contract-related assets venture or an investment in an associate is accounted reporting segments for reporting purposes. balance sheets and profit and loss accounts of and the cost of software. for according to the purchase method. Under this subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates outside the method, the cost of such an acquisition is the aggreGroup overheads are allocated to the operating Euro zone are recognised directly in equity under Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and gate of: the fair values of assets given, liabilities segments largely on the basis of their relative share in the translation differences reserve. On disposal of interests in joint ventures is included in intangible incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued. the direct costs of Schiphol Group. subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates outside the assets. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of investThe identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Euro zone, the accumulated translation differences ments in associates is included in the carrying amount liabilities acquired are measured initially at their fair Foreign currency initially recognised in the translation differences of the investments concerned. Goodwill is initially values at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of (a) Functional currency and presentation currency reserve are recognised in the profit and loss account recognised at cost, this being the difference between the acquisition over the company’s interest in the net The primary economic environment of Schiphol Group as part of the result on disposal. the cost of acquisition and the company’s share in the fair value of the acquired assets, equity and liabilities is is the Netherlands. Both the functional currency and fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities. The recognised as goodwill in the consolidated financial the reporting currency of Schiphol Group therefore are Total revenue carrying amount of goodwill is subsequently reduced statements and included under intangible assets the euro. Financial information is presented in thouMany of Schiphol Group’s activities generate turnover by accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is not (in the case of subsidiaries and joint ventures) or as sands of euros unless otherwise indicated. that qualifies as turnover from the provision of services amortised. The above impairment losses are identified part of the carrying amount in the case of associates. (airport charges, concession fees, rents and leases and by an impairment test performed annually, comparing If the net fair value exceeds cost, the difference is (b) Transactions, assets and liabilities parking fees). This turnover is recognised by reference the carrying amount with the recoverable amount. In recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. Transactions (investments, income and expenses) in to the stage of completion at the balance sheet date, order to perform this test, goodwill is allocated to the Costs relating to an acquisition are recognised foreign currencies are accounted for at the settlement provided that the result can be reliably estimated. cash-generating unit (subsidiary, joint venture or assodirectly in the profit and loss account. rate of exchange. Monetary assets and liabilities The turnover from retail sales is generated by the sale ciate) to which it relates. This allocation is described in (receivables, payables and cash) in foreign currencies of goods and is recognised at the moment when greater detail in the note to the balance sheet item of (f) Eliminations are translated at the rate prevailing on the balance these sales transactions, effected exclusively in cash, intangible assets. There is no reversal of goodwill Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries, sheet date. The exchange differences arising on transtake place. impairment losses. associates and joint ventures are eliminated, in the lation and on settlement of these items are recognised case of joint ventures and associates in proportion to in the profit and loss account under financial income Total revenue represents the income from the supply The item contract-related assets concerns contracts, the company’s interest in those entities, along with any and expenses. The same applies to exchange differof services less discounts and tax (VAT and excise duty). acquired upon the acquisition of activities from third unrealised gains and assets and liabilities arising out of ences on non-monetary assets and liabilities unless Revenue equals total revenue minus the revenue from parties. The fair value of these contracts, determined them. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless these items are included directly in equity, in which intra-group transactions. Costs are recognised in the in accordance with the purchase method, has been set there are indications of impairment of the assets case the exchange differences are also accounted for in profit and loss account in the year in which the related at cost, which is amortised over the remaining contract concerned. equity. revenue is recognised. period. Corporate profit and loss account An exception to the above concerns exchange differFinancial income and expenses Software concerns both purchased and internally Use has been made of the option of presenting the ences on financial instruments denominated in foreign Interest income and expense is recognised on a time developed software. In the case of internally develcorporate profit and loss account in abridged form currencies against which derivative financial instruproportion basis that takes into account the effective oped software, both internal and external hours provided by Section 402, Book 2, of the Netherlands ments are held with the object of hedging exchange yield on the asset. Royalties are recognised on an involved in the development and implementation Civil Code. risks on future cash flows. The exchange differences on accrual basis. Dividends are recognised when Schiphol stages of ICT projects are capitalised according to these financial instruments are recognised directly in Group’s right to receive payment is established. records of hours charged. Internal and external hours Cash flow statement shareholders’ equity provided the hedge is determined charged in the initiative and definition stages are not The cash flow statement has been prepared using the to be highly effective. The ineffective portion is recogEarnings per share capitalised. Software is amortised on a straight-line indirect method. nised in the profit and loss account under financial The undiluted earnings per share are calculated by basis over its useful life. income and expenses. dividing the profit attributable to holders of ordinary Segment information shares by the weighted average number of ordinary Assets under construction or development An operating segment is a clearly identifiable part of a (c) Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates shares in issue during the year. The diluted earnings All capital expenditure except for that relating to company which carries out business activities with the Income and expenses denominated in foreign currenper share are in fact equal to the undiluted earnings intangible assets is initially recognised as assets under associated revenue, costs and operating results, and cies are translated at average rates. Assets and equity per share since there are currently no shares to be construction or development, if it is probable that the about which separate financial information is available and liabilities are translated at the rate prevailing issued, in connection with options or convertible Group will derive future economic benefit and the that is regularly reviewed by the Management Board on the balance sheet date. Goodwill and fair value bonds, that could potentially lead to dilution of the amount can be measured reliably. Three categories in order to assess the performance of the segment and adjustments arising on the acquisition of investments earnings per share. of assets are distinguished in this context: in order to take decisions, as the chief operating in associates are treated as assets and liabilities of the 146 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 147 a) assets under construction for future operating installations and other assets. These assets are stated Impairment The buildings classified as investment property are activities; at historical cost less investment grants received, The carrying amounts of non-current assets are carried at fair value, i.e. their market value as let b) assets under construction or development as straight-line depreciation and impairment losses. periodi­cally compared with their recoverable amounts property. All of the properties in the portfolio are future investment property; Subsequent expenses are added to the carrying if there are indications of impairment. In the case of taxated at minimum once a year by independent c) assets under construction or development by amount of these assets if it is probable that the Group goodwill, the impairment test is performed annually, appraisers. To prevent double counting, the fair value order of third parties. will derive future economic benefit and the amount regardless of any such indications. The recoverable of investment property as presented in the balance can be measured reliably. amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use sheet takes account of the lease incentives included in Assets under construction or development for future and its fair value less costs to sell. The fair value less the balance sheet. Gross rental revenues from operaoperating activities (category a) are carried at historical Assets used for operating activities, with the exception costs to sell is the amount obtainable from the sale of tional leases are recognised on a time-proportionate cost including: of land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over an asset in an arm’s length transaction between basis for the period of the leases. Rent-free periods, • interest during construction of all capital projects, the useful life of the assets concerned, which depends knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of discounts on rent and other lease incentives are i.e. interest payable to third parties on borrowed on the nature of the asset and the components into disposal. The value in use is the present value of incorporated as an integral part of the gross rental capital attributable to the project; and which each asset can be divided for depreciation estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the revenues. Service costs relate to the costs of energy, • hours charged at cost to capital projects by Schiphol purposes. Useful lives and residual values are continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the concierges, maintenance and so forth, which costs Group employees during the construction stage. reappraised each year-end. end of its useful life. The above test is performed at may be passed on to the tenant under the lease. cash-generating unit level. The portion of the service costs not passed on relates Assets under construction or development for future The net result on the disposal of assets used for in large part to non-leased property investments is operating activities are not depreciated, although it operating activities is recognised in the profit and If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying recognised in the profit and loss account. The costs could be necessary to recognise impairment losses. loss account as part of revenue from other activities. amount, the difference is recognised as an impairment and cost charges are not presented in the profit and The same applies to assets under construction or deve­ loss in the profit and loss account and the carrying loss account separately. lopment as future investment property (category b) Depreciation and amortisation amount of the asset is reduced by the same amount. until the time that the fair value can be measured The intangible assets and assets used for operating Also, where applicable, the straight-line depreciation Land in the investment property portfolio is also reliably. At that time these assets are stated at fair activities are amortised and depreciated on a straightover the remaining useful life of the asset concerned is carried at fair value. Land is valued by internal and value, and the changes in the fair value are recognised line basis according to the schedule below, depending adjusted accordingly. In certain circumstances, it may external surveyors. Each year a different portion of our in the profit and loss account under ‘fair value gains of the character of the asset. Goodwill is not amortised also be appropriate to reverse an impairment loss. total land holdings is valued by independent external and losses on property’. and no depreciation is charged on investment propThere will be no reversal of impairment losses on surveyors. The market value of land leased out on erty, assets under construction or land. goodwill, however. a long lease is calculated by discounting the value of When the assets of category a are delivered and ready The amortisation and depreciation periods applied by the future annual ground rents under the contracts for use, they are transferred at historical cost to ‘assets Schiphol Group, based on the expected useful life, Investment property concerned (DCF method). used for operating activities’, which is also when the are as follows: Investment property is stated at fair value, also while straight-line depreciation commences at the expense this property still forms part of the assets under Fair value gains and losses on investment property are of the profit and loss account. The assets of category b Intangible assets construction or development, provided that the fair recognised in the profit and loss account in the year in are transferred upon completion to ‘investment • Contract-related assets 5 years value can already be measured reliably at that time. which the value adjustment occurs. On disposal of property’ at fair value. As to the manner in which • ICT hours charged to application If this is not possible, the property is stated at historical assets, realised gains or losses, i.e. differences between investment property is subsequently recorded, development 5 years cost. Upon completion, investment property is transcarrying amount and net selling price, are taken to reference is made to the separate description of • Software licences 5 years ferred at fair value to the item ‘investment property’. the profit and loss account. accounting policies for this balance sheet item. Any difference between the fair value and the historAssets used for operating activities ical cost is recognised in the profit and loss account Investment property is not depreciated. Assets under construction or development by order of • Runways and taxiways 15-60 years under ‘fair value gains and losses on property’. third parties (category c) are recorded in accordance • Aprons 30-60 years Deferred tax with the percentage-of-completion method. Revenues • Paved areas etc.: Property purchased from outside the Group is initially Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in and costs relating to such assets are recognised in the Car parks 30 years recognised at cost, including transaction costs. respect of temporary differences between the carrying profit and loss account under ‘sales of property’ and Roads 30 years Expenditure after property has been commissioned amount of assets and liabilities according to tax rules ‘cost of sales of property’ respectively, in proportion to Tunnels and viaducts 40 years is capitalised if it can be measured reliably and it is and according to the accounting policies used in the completion stage of the project activities on the Drainage systems 20-40 years probable that future economic benefits will flow preparing these financial statements. balance sheet date. • Buildings 20-40 years to the Group. Other expenditure is recognised • Installations 5-30 years immediately in the profit and loss account. Deferred tax assets, including those arising from tax Assets used for operating activities • Other assets 5-20 years loss carry-forwards, are recognised when it is probable Assets used for operating activities include runways, that there will be sufficient future taxable profits taxiways, aprons, car parks, roads, buildings, against which tax losses can be set off, allowing the assets to be utilised. 148 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 149 Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable (c) Schiphol Group as lessee in an operating lease in which the movement occurs. The dividend received the balance sheet and recognised as an expense in temporary differences associated with investments In the case of leases where beneficial ownership is in from these interests and, in the event of disposal of the profit and loss account in equal instalments over in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint the hands of third parties, recognition is restricted to such interests, the difference between net selling price the lease term. ventures except to the extent that Schiphol Group presenting the lease payments in equal instalments, and carrying amount are recognised in the profit and is able to control the timing of the reversal of the allowing for lease incentives, as expenses in the profit loss account under financial income and expenses. Assets held for sale temporary difference and it is probable that the and loss account. Non-current assets are presented as held for sale if the temporary difference will not reverse in the Derivative financial instruments carrying amount will be recovered through sale. foreseeable future. (d) Schiphol Group as lessor in a finance lease The company makes use of derivative financial Land falling into this category is carried at the lower of Assets leased out on a contract that qualifies as instruments exclusively to hedge the risk of changes cost and fair value less costs to sell. The historical cost The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets and a finance lease are included in the balance sheet as a in future cash flows connected with periodic interest also includes the costs associated with acquiring the liabilities are calculated at the tax rates expected to be lease receivable and carried at the present value of the payments and repayments on loans as a result of land and site preparation costs. Assets held for sale applicable to the period in which an asset is realised or minimum lease payments receivable at the inception movements in market interest rates and exchange are not depreciated. a liability is settled, based on the tax rates (and tax of the lease. The lease payments receivable are apporrates. The instruments used to hedge these risks are legislation) in respect of which the legislative process tioned between the finance income and the reduction interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and currency Trade and other receivables has been concluded (or materially so) on the balance of the outstanding receivable so as to present swaps. In view of their specific use, hedge accounting Trade and other receivables are included at fair value, sheet date. a constant periodic effective rate of interest on is applicable in the case of all these hedging instrunormally face value, less a provision for credit risks. the remaining balance. ments, with all the hedging transactions being treated Amounts added to and released from this provision Leases as cash flow hedges. are recognised in the profit and loss account. (a) Classification (e) Schiphol Group as lessor in an operating lease Assets where the company or one of its subsidiaries has Assets leased out on a contract that qualifies as an Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised Cash and cash equivalents economic ownership under a lease contract are classioperating lease are recognised in the balance sheet at cost and subsequently carried at fair value, based Cash and cash equivalents comprise current account fied as finance leases. The company, or a subsidiary, and accounted for according to the type of asset. either on quoted prices or a model for valuing derivacredit balances with banks and deposits with original has beneficial ownership if substantially all the risks The lease payments receivable under such leases are tive financial instruments. Movements in the fair value maturities of less than three months. Bank overdrafts and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred to recognised as income in equal instalments, allowing are recognised in the reserve for hedging transactions are accounted for in trade and other payables. it. Contracts where beneficial ownership remains with for lease incentives, in the profit and loss account. (part of equity), provided the hedge is highly effective. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at fair value, third parties are classified as operating leases. Whether The ineffective portion of the hedges is recognised in which is normally the same as face value. a lease is a finance lease or an operating lease depends Loans to associates and other loans the profit and loss account under financial income on the economic reality (substance of the transaction Loans to associates and other loans are recognised and expenses. Equity rather than the form of the contract). initially at cost, representing the fair value of the (a) Issued share capital loans granted. Transaction costs are deducted from this At the inception of a hedge, the contract is formally The issued share capital consists of the amounts paid (b) Schiphol Group as lessee in a finance lease amount. Loans to associates and other loans are subsedocumented. The parameters (maturity and face value) up on the shares issued, up to their nominal value. These assets are recognised as either assets used quently carried at amortised cost, with differences of the underlying instrument and the hedge will for operating activities or investment property. between the redemption value and the fair value less correspond exactly. The effectiveness of hedging (b) Share premium reserve The borrowings associated with such lease contracts transaction costs at the time of issue amortised over transactions is nevertheless measured periodically to The share premium reserve consists of the amounts are accounted for as lease liabilities. The assets and the remaining term to maturity using the effective determine whether the hedge has been effective over paid up on the shares issued, insofar as these payments liabilities concerned are initially recognised at the interest method. the preceding period and whether it is probable that exceed the nominal value of the shares in question. lower of the amount equal to the fair value of the it will be effective over the period ahead. leased assets and the present value of the minimum Other financial interests (c) Retained profits lease payments at the inception of the lease. The assets In the case of other financial interests, the company If a hedging instrument expires or is sold, ends or is Retained profits refers to net results (i.e. that part are depreciated, using a method consistent with that has neither control nor significant influence. This exercised or the hedge ceases to satisfy the hedge of the result which is attributable to shareholders) used for identical assets owned by the company. generally concerns interests of less than 20%. Such accounting criteria, hedge accounting is discontinued accumulated in previous years. The depreciation period may be shorter if the lease interests are carried at fair value, derived from quoted immediately. The fair value gains and losses accumuterm is shorter, if it cannot be extended and if share prices or, if the entity is not listed, other valualated up to that date continue to be carried in the (d) Other reserves ownership will not be obtained. The lease payments tion methods. If it is not possible to estimate the fair hedging transactions reserve and are subsequently Other reserves comprise the reserve for hedging are apportioned between the finance charge and the value reliably using valuation methods, owing to a lack recognised in the profit and loss account simultanetransactions, the reserve for other financial interests reduction of the outstanding liability so as to present of information or up-to-date information, other investously with the realisation of the hedged cash flow. and the reserve for translation differences. a constant periodic effective rate of interest on the ments are carried at cost. Movements in the fair value remaining balance. of these other financial interests are recognised in the Other non-current receivables The reserve for other financial interests is increased or reserve, through the total comprehensive income for In the case of prepaid ground rents, the amount paid reduced, via the total comprehensive income in respect other financial interests included in equity in the year to acquire the leasehold is included as a lease asset in of movements in the fair value of Schiphol Group’s 150 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 151 other financial interests. On disposal of other financial (b) Post-employment benefits 3. minus any past service cost not yet recognised. The expected costs of supplementary income for interests the accumulated fair value gains and losses This category of benefits covers employee benefits that If, owing to changes in the pension schemes, the employees in receipt of incapacity benefit are recogare recognised in the profit and loss account as part may be due following termination of employment. expected obligations based on future salary levels nised in full in the profit and loss account effective on of the result on disposal. They include pensions and other retirement benefits, with respect to prior years of service (past service the date on which an employee is declared wholly or job-related early retirement benefit, payment of costs) increase, the amount of the increase is not partially incapacitated. A provision for paid sabbatical The policies with respect to the reserve for hedging healthcare insurance costs for pensioners and -supplerecognised in full in the period in which the rights leave entitlements is recognised in the balance sheet, transactions are discussed under ‘derivative financial mentary incapacity benefit. are granted but is charged to the profit and loss the costs being accounted for in the year in which the instruments’. The policies with respect to the reserve account over the remaining years of service; and leave entitlements are granted. for translation differences are discussed under (c) Schiphol Group’s pension scheme is administered by 4. minus the fair value at the balance sheet date of under ‘foreign currency’. ABP. The pension scheme is treated as a group scheme plan assets (if any) out of which the obligations The long-term variable remuneration provisions are involving more than one employer. Based on the are to be settled directly. recognised at the present value of the obligation. Borrowings formal terms of the pension scheme, it qualifies as a Other long-term employee benefit obligations are This item relates to bonds, private placements and defined benefit plan. However, Schiphol Group does The other provisions for employee benefits belongs not discounted. bank loans. Borrowings are initially carried at cost, not have access to sufficient information to apply the too to job-related early retirement benefit, payment i.e. the amount raised, allowing for any premium or proper method of accounting for defined benefit of healthcare insurance costs for pensioners and (d) Termination benefits discount and net of transaction costs. Subsequently plans. ABP is currently not in a position to supply supplementary incapacity benefit are also calculated Termination benefits are employee benefits payable borrowings are carried at amortised cost, with the information necessary in order to account for according to actuarial principles and accounted for as a result of either a decision by Schiphol Group to differences between the redemption value and the the pension scheme as a defined benefit plan. using the method as described under 1–4 above. terminate an employee’s employment before the fair value less transaction costs at the time of issue Consequently, the scheme is provisionally accounted normal retirement date or an employee’s decision to amortised over the remaining term to maturity for as a defined contribution plan. (c) Other long-term employee benefits accept voluntary redundancy in exchange for such using the effective interest method. This category concerns employee benefits payable benefits. The scheme supplementing the statutory Accordingly, in measuring the obligations arising from twelve months or more after the end of the period amount of unemployment benefit is an example of Borrowings expected to be repaid within twelve the pension scheme, Schiphol Group merely recognises in which the service is rendered by the employee. a termination benefit. The costs are recognised in full months of the balance sheet date are presented the pension contributions payable as an expense in the At Schiphol Group, this includes variable remuneration in the profit and loss account as soon as such a decision under current liabilities. profit and loss account. components for the members of the Management is made. Board and senior executives in charge of corporate Employee benefits For the defined benefit pension schemes of several staff departments and the business areas, long-service Termination benefits are recognised at the present There are four categories of employee benefits: subsidiaries and joint ventures, however, the informacomponents, supplementary income for employees in value of the obligation. a) short-term employee benefits; tion needed in order to account for a defined benefit receipt of incapacity benefit (long-term paid sick leave) b) post-employment benefits; plan is available. In those cases, a net asset or liability and paid sabbatical leave. Other provisions c) other long-term employee benefits; is recognised in the balance sheet, comprising: Provisions are made for legally enforceable or and termination benefits. The long-term variable remuneration components constructive obligations existing on the balance sheet d) termination benefits 1. the present value of the defined benefit obligation are a performance-related remuneration component date when it is probable that an outflow of resources at the balance sheet date measured using the which is conditional on the executives concerned embodying economic benefits will be required to Definitions of these categories and brief descriptions projected unit credit method, under which the having satisfied certain performance criteria (economic settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be of the Schiphol Group employee benefits falling into present value of the pension obligations is profit) cumulatively over a period of three years made of the amount of the obligation. Other them are given below. determined on the basis of the number of active (the reference period) from the time of award of the provisions are included at the present value of the years of service prior to the balance sheet date, variable remuneration. Payment is only made if the obligation, if the effect of the time value of money (a) Short-term employee benefits the estimated salary level at the expected date of executive is still employed by the company at the end is material. Short-term employee benefits are benefits payable for retirement and the market interest rate; of that period. If it is mutually agreed that the contract current employees within twelve months of the end 2. plus any actuarial gains (less any actuarial losses) of employment should be ended, the award is made Other non-current liabilities of the year in which the service is rendered. Within not yet recognised in the profit and loss account. on a pro rata basis. At each year-end, an estimate is In the case of prepaid ground rents, the amount paid Schiphol Group, this category includes wages and Actuarial gains and losses are not recognised in the made of the variable remuneration components to acquire the leasehold is included as a lease liability -salaries (including paid annual leave and holiday profit and loss account unless the total amount of payable at the end of the three-year period. in the balance sheet and recognised as income in the allowances) and other fixed and variable allowances, the accumulated gains and losses falls outside During the reference period a pro rata part thereof is profit and loss account in equal instalments over the social security contributions, paid sick leave, profit a bandwidth of 10% of the higher of the maximum charged each year to the result for the relevant year. lease term. sharing and variable (short-term) remuneration obligation under the scheme and the fair value of components. The costs in respect of these employee the associated investments. The part which is not Trade and other payables benefits are recognised in the profit and loss account within the bandwidth is credited or debited to the Trade and other payables are carried at fair value, at the time when the service is rendered or the rights profit and loss account over the remaining years of which is normally the same as face value. to benefits are accrued (e.g. holiday entitlements). service of the plan members (corridor approach); 152 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 153 Judgement regarding application in the decision-making process. A substantial or Key assumptions and estimates Useful life and residual value of assets of accounting policies majority ownership by another investor does not used for operating activities necessarily preclude an investor from having In applying the accounting policies, management in Assets used for operating activities constitute The preceding pages provide a comprehensive significant influence. some cases inevitably has to rely on estimates and a significant part of the company’s total assets and description of Schiphol Group’s accounting policies. assumptions that could affect the amounts presented, the scheduled straight-line depreciation charges form In certain situations, management’s judgement will The existence and effect of potential voting rights the disclosures and the other information contained a significant part of the annual operating expenses. be decisive in determining the way in which the that are currently exercisable or convertible, including in the financial statements. Actual figures may differ The useful lives and residual values arrived at on the accounting policies are applied. potential voting rights held by another entity, are from the estimates and assumptions used. This is basis of management’s estimates and assumptions considered when assessing whether an entity has the particularly true of the following. have a major impact on the valuation of assets used This relates mainly to: power to govern the financial and operating policies for operating activities. The useful life of assets used of another entity. Potential voting rights are not Impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets for operating activities is estimated on the basis of Control, joint control and significant influence currently exercisable or convertible when, for example, Impairment tests are performed on non-current assets design life, experience with similar assets, an asset’s Control is the power to govern an entity’s financial they cannot be exercised or converted until a future comparing their carrying amounts with the recovermaintenance history and the period for which and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from date or until the occurrence of a future event. able amounts, should there be evidence of impaireconomic benefits will flow to Schiphol Group from its activities. Control is presumed to exist when the In assessing whether potential voting rights contribute ment. For non-current assets, other than land, where the operation of the asset. Existing estimates and parent owns, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, to control, Schiphol Group examines all facts and the carrying amount is not amortised (goodwill), an assumptions are reviewed each year-end for any more than half of the voting power of an entity unless, circumstances (including the terms of exercise of the impairment test is performed at least once a year. changes warranting adjustment of an asset’s useful in exceptional circumstances, it can be clearly demonpotential voting rights and any other contractual The need to recognise an impairment loss may be life and/or residual value. Such adjustments are strated that such ownership does not constitute control. arrangements whether considered individually or indicated if, in the management’s estimation, there has applied prospectively. in combination) that affect potential voting rights, been, for example, a more rapid decline in the market Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of except the intention of management and the financial value of an asset than would result from the passage Share in results of associates control over an economic activity, and exists only when ability to exercise or convert. of time or normal use, a significant change in the use The estimate of the contribution of associates, the strategic financial and operating decisions relating of an asset or in the business strategy, performance including Aéroports de Paris S.A. and Brisbane Airport to the activity require the unanimous consent of the Distinction between assets used for operating falling well below forecast levels, a significant Corporation Holdings Ltd. to Schiphol Group’s result is parties sharing control (the venturers). The existence activities and investment property deterioration in the sector or in the economy as a based on information available at year end and is of a contractual arrangement distinguishes interests Investment property is distinguished from operating whole, accelerated obsolescence of an asset or damage determined by the Schiphol Group Board of that involve joint control from investments in associproperty on the basis of the following criteria: to an asset. It is also possible for circumstances, in Management. The estimate of the contribution of ates in which the investor has significant influence. • investment property is held for rental income management’s estimation, to indicate the need to Aéroports de Paris S.A. to Schiphol Group’s result is Activities that have no contractual arrangement to and realisation of fair value gains; reverse a previously recognised impairment loss. based on publically available information. establish joint control are not joint ventures. • investment property generates cash flows that Reversal of impairment losses on goodwill, however, Any necessary adjustments to the estimated The contractual arrangement establishes joint are largely independent of the other assets held is not permitted. contribution to the result will be incorporated into control over the joint venture. Such a requirement by the company. the subsequent financial year’s figures. ensures that no single venturer is in a position to Deciding whether impairment losses should indeed control the activity unilaterally. The above assessment is made for each be recognised, or reversed, in the above circumstances Valuation of investment property at fair value individual property. involves determining the recoverable amount. To that As previously mentioned, the annual measurement of Significant influence is the power to participate in the end, management makes use of estimates and assumpthe fair value of the land recognised under ‘investment financial and operating policy decisions of an entity, Some properties comprise a part that is used tions with regard to defining cash-flow-generating property’ is carried out by external and in-house but is not control over those policies. If an investor for operating activities and another part that is units, the future cash flows and the discount rate. The appraisers and, in that context, the following estimates holds, directly or indirectly (e.g. through subsidiaries), investment property. If these portions could be sold assessments underpinning such estimates and assumpand assumptions are important. The best evidence of 20% or more of the voting power of the investee, it is separately or leased out separately, the parts are tions may differ from year to year, depending on the fair value are current prices in an active market for presumed that the investor has significant influence, accounted for separately as assets used for operating state of the economy, market conditions, changes in similar investment property and other contracts. unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not activities and as investment property. If the portions the business or regulatory environment or other In the absence of such information, Schiphol Group the case. Conversely, if the investor holds, directly or could not be sold separately, the property is investfactors outside the company’s control. If the projected determines the amount within a range of reasonable indirectly (e.g. through subsidiaries), less than 20% of ment property only if an insignificant portion is held recoverable amounts need revising, it may be necesfair value estimates. the voting power of the investee, it is presumed that for use in connection with operating activities. sary to recognise impairment losses or (except in the In making its judgement, Schiphol Group considers the investor does not have significant influence, unless case of goodwill) to reverse existing impairment losses. information from a variety of sources including: such influence can be clearly demonstrated. The latter Investment property does not include property for • current prices in an active market for properties that will be the case, for example, if the investor is repreimmediate or future use by the company or property differ in terms of their nature, condition or location sented on the Management Board, Supervisory Board under construction or development intended for (or subject to different lease or other contracts), or an equivalent administrative body, and is involved future use as investment property. adjusted to reflect those differences; 154 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 155 • recent prices of similar properties in less active Assets and liabilities with regard to claims Market risk receivable, including interest owed, with a book markets, with adjustments to reflect any changes and disputes Market risk comprises three types of risk: currency risk, value as at 31 December 2011 of EUR 92.1 million in economic conditions since the date of the transA receivable in respect of a claim or dispute is price risk and interest-rate risk. (EUR 88.2 million as at 31 December 2010), is largely actions that occurred at those prices; recognised in the balance sheet as soon as there is hedged with forward exchange transactions. A change • discounted cash flow projections based on reliable a high degree of certainty that an inflow of resources (a) Currency risk in the rate of the relevant foreign currency will not, estimates of future cash flows, derived from the embodying economic benefits will occur. If such an Currency risk occurs if future business transactions, therefore, affect the results relating to this receivable. terms of any existing lease and other contracts, inflow of resources is merely probable, the receivable recognised assets and liabilities and net investments Translation differences on this position are recognised and (where possible) from external evidence such as is disclosed in the notes as a contingent asset. A proviin activities outside the euro zone are expressed in in the reserve for translation differences, and have current market rents for similar properties in the sion is recognised for present obligations when it is a currency other than the functional currency of the minor influence on the result. The effect on equity in same location and condition, and using discount probable that an outflow of resources embodying entity (in the case of Schiphol Group this is the euro). 2011 is EUR 3.8 million (given the development in the rates that reflect current market assessment of economic benefits will be required to settle the -obliSchiphol Group operates at international level and balance of the reserve for translation differences from the uncertainty in the amount and timing of gation and a reliable estimate can be made of the faces currency risks via several currency positions, in 18.2 million as at 31 December 2010 to 22.0 million the cash flows. amount of the obligation. Contingent obligations are particular the Japanese yen (borrowings), the US dollar as at 31 December 2011). disclosed in the note on Contingent assets and (net investments in activities outside the euro zone) The principal assumptions underlying management’s liabilities. and the Australian dollar (net investments in activities Corporate Treasury is responsible for the management estimation of fair value are those related to the receipt outside the euro zone). of the net position in the individual foreign currencies. of contractual rents, expected future market rentals, Management periodically reviews all claims and vacancy levels, maintenance requirements and approdisputes. The outcome of this review determines which Schiphol Group manages the currency risk with regard (b) Price risk priate discount rates. These valuations are regularly claims and disputes will be recognised and which to borrowings by using futures contracts. The financial Price risk is the risk of fluctuations in the value of compared with actual market yield data and actual merely require disclosure as contingent assets or risk management policy is that virtually 100% of the assets and liabilities as a result of changes in market transactions by Schiphol Group and those reported by obligations. Where an asset or liability is recognised, expected cash flows is hedged. As at 31 December prices. Schiphol Group is affected especially by the the market. estimating the probability and amount of any inflow 2011, 10.7% of total borrowings had been drawn in price risk of land and buildings which it recognises at or outflow of resources to a large extent involves foreign currency (one loan with a carrying amount of fair value under ‘property investments’. This fair value Deferred tax assets arbitrary decisions. In arriving at these decisions, EUR 200.6 million, being the equivalent of 20 billion is influenced by developments in supply and demand Deferred tax assets, including tax loss carry-forwards, management also draws on legal opinion. Japanese yen, nominal value) compared with 10.7% of and changes in interest rates and the rate of inflation. are recognised if it is probable that sufficient taxable total borrowings (one loan with a carrying amount of An average increase of one percentage point in the profits will be available in the future against which the EUR 185.3 million, being the equivalent of 20 billion net initial yield on offices and industrial buildings losses can be set, enabling the deferred tax assets to Management of financial and tax risks Japanese yen, nominal value) a year earlier. This posidemanded by property investors would reduce the be utilised. In its assessment of this probability, tion is fully hedged by means of currency swaps, in value of our offices and industrial buildings by a total management makes use of estimates and assumptions Financial risk factors accordance with the aforementioned policy. Therefore amount of approximately EUR 90 million. Given the which also affect the carrying amount of the asset. Due to the nature of its activities, Schiphol Group faces a change in the rate of the relevant foreign currency aforementioned accounting policy, our profitability a variety of risks including market risk, counterparty will not affect the results relating to these borrowings. before tax in that situation would fall by the Actuarial assumptions with regard to employee risk and liquidity risk. The financial risk management The effect on equity is temporary (i.e., only for the same amount. benefit provisions programme (which is part of Schiphol Group’s total risk duration of the hedging transaction) and amounts Provisions relating to employee benefit schemes as management programme) focuses on the unpredictato 2011 EUR 12.1 million negative in 2011 (after Furthermore, Schiphol Group owns shares that also well as the net assets or liabilities in respect of pension bility of the financial markets and on minimising any deduction of deferred taxes). involve a price risk. These shares are recognised under schemes of associates are measured actuarially, based adverse effects this may have on Schiphol Group’s ‘other financial interests’ at their fair value, which is on assumptions relating to future trends in pay levels, financial results. Schiphol Group uses derivative Schiphol Group has a number of strategic investments derived from the market price of these shares. Changes mortality rates, staff turnover, returns on plan assets financial instruments to hedge certain risk positions. in activities outside the euro zone, of which the net in the fair value are recognised in the reserve for other and other factors. Changes in these estimates and The financial risk management is carried out by investments, recognised in the balance sheet under financial interests, which is part of equity. Therefore assumptions can result in actuarial gains and losses a central treasury department (Corporate Treasury) ‘investments in associates’ and ‘loans to associates’, these changes have no direct influence on the result. which, if not in a bandwidth of 10% of the greater of and is part of approved Management Board policy. are affected by a translation risk. In accordance The effect on equity is relatively small (given the the obligations under the plan and the fair value of In addition to drawing up written guidelines for with the policy, the currency position relating to development in the balance of the reserve for other the plan assets, are credited or debited to the profit financial risk management, the Management Board Schiphol Group’s net investments in the activities financial interests from EUR 3.7 million as at and loss account over the average remaining years of determines the policy for specific key areas such as outside the euro zone, totalling EUR 181.4 million as 31 December 2010 to EUR 0.9 million negative service of the plan members (corridor approach). currency risk, interest-rate risk, counterparty risk, the at 31 December 2011 (EUR 171.2 million as at as at 31 December 2011). use of derivative and non-derivative financial 31 December 2010), is not hedged, with the exception instruments (derivatives), and the investment of of the Redeemable Preference Shares included herein a temporary liquidity surplus. which Schiphol Group owns in Brisbane Airport Corporation Holdings Pty Ltd. The currency risk on this 156 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 157 Schiphol Group purchases electricity and gas, for which purpose it concludes long-term contracts with regard to The cash flow interest-rate risk is managed by using a financial instrument fails to fulfil its obligations, its own use. The remaining term as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 respectively of the obligations interest rate swaps, with which a variable interest rate causing the other party to sustain a financial loss. under the long-term contracts for electricity and gas is as follows: can be changed to a fixed interest rate, and interest Schiphol Group’s counterparties in derivative financial rate caps, with which any increase in interest rates is instruments and liquidities transactions are limited to limited. As part of an interest rate swap, Schiphol financial institutions with high creditworthiness (in thousands of euros) Total ≤ 1 year > 1 year > 1 year but > 5 years Group agrees with a counterparty to effect a swap, (a minimum S&P credit rating of A), whereby the net 2011 ≤ 5 years at predetermined moments, of the difference between position (balance of receivables and payables relating a fixed contract rate and a variable interest rate. to financial instruments) for each counterparty should Obligations relating to gas 3,517 3,517 This difference is calculated on the basis of the undernot exceed EUR 200.0 million. The maximum net posiObligations relating to electricity 16,761 9,133 7,628 7,628 lying principal sum agreed. If the average variable tion as at 31 December 2011 was EUR 130.0 million interest rate during the year 2011 had been 1% higher, (against a maximum of EUR 131.0 million as at 20,278 12,650 7,628 7,628 this would have had no effect on the interest expense 31 December 2010). relating to group financing loans (2010: no effect). As at 31 December 2011, the item trade receivables (in thousands of euros) Total ≤ 1 year > 1 year > 1 year but > 5 years In order to limit the cash-flow risk on long-term loans ammounts to EUR 74.7 million (EUR 71.5 million as at 2010 ≤ 5 years in the medium term, derivatives were concluded which 31 December 2010). This amount includes a bad debt fixed the rates of interest at which loans maturing in provision of EUR 3.9 million (EUR 5.4 million as at 31 Obligations relating to gas 4,015 2,887 1,128 1,128 2013 and 2014 could be refinanced. The effect of these December 2010) and EUR 2.2 million in security Obligations relating to electricity 22,603 9,621 12,982 12,982 transactions on equity is temporary (only lasting until deposits received (EUR 2.2 million as at 31 December refinancing in 2013 and 2014) and amounted to 2010). The provision fully covers receivables owed by 26,618 12,508 14,110 14,110 EUR 42.4 million negative (after deduction of deferred debtors that went into liquidation or applied for a taxes) as at 31 December 2011 (2010: no effect). moratorium. The same applies to receivables older than one year and larger receivables younger than (c) Interest-rate risk fluctuations in the fair value of borrowings have Counterparty risk one year which are expected to be irrecoverable. The interest-rate risk is divided into a fair value little effect on the financial position and the result. Counterparty risk is the risk that one party to interest-rate risk and a cash flow interest-rate risk. Cash flow interest-rate risk The movements in the bad debt provision are as follows: Fair value interest-rate risk The cash flow interest-rate risk is the risk of fluctuaThe fair value interest-rate risk is the risk of fluctuations in the future cash flows of a financial instrument (in millions of euros) 2011 2010 tions in the value of a financial instrument as a result as a result of fluctuations in the market interest rate. of fluctuations in the market interest rate. Schiphol Except for liquid resources, Schiphol Group has no Carrying amount 1 January 5.4 5.8 Group does not have any significant financial assets significant financial assets that attract a cash flow Utilised during the year – 2.8 – 0.6 that attract a fair value interest-rate risk. Schiphol interest-rate risk. If the average interest paid on Added during the year 1.3 0.2 Group is affected by the fair value interest via fixeddeposits during the year 2011 had been 1% lower, interest borrowings. Schiphol Group’s policy is to take the interest income relating to deposits would have Carrying amount 31 December 3.9 5.4 out at least 75% of the funds borrowed at a fixed been EUR 2.7 million lower (2010: EUR 1.5 million). interest rate, where necessary by using derivative The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: financial instruments. With regard to Airport Real In addition, Schiphol Group runs a cash flow interestEstate Basisfonds C.V. (AREB C.V.), at least 60% of all rate risk in respect of long-term borrowings at (in millions of euros) 2011 2010 borrowings should be fixed-interest or capped-interest a variable interest rate. This position is hedged by borrowings. As at 31 December 2011, the percentage Schiphol Group’s policy to take out no more than 25% Younger than 60 days 76.2 74.8 of fixed-interest borrowings for Schiphol Group was of the funds borrowed at a variable interest rate, Older than 60 days 2.6 1.4 100% (against 100% as at 31 December 2010, where necessary by using derivatives, excluding the Older than 360 days 1.0 1.6 excluding subsidiaries and participating. For AREB C.V. loan portfolio of AREB C.V. For AREB C.V., a maximum Bankruptcies 1.0 1.3 this percentage was 66%, shortly after balance sheet of 40% applies. As at 31 December 2011, the percentdate as at 4 January 2012, after refinancing of the ages of variable-interest borrowings were 0% for 80.8 79.1 loans (against 65.4% as at 31 December 2010). It is the Schiphol Group and 34% for AREB C.V., shortly after Provision for bad debt – 3.9 – 5.4 management’s intention to retain borrowings until the balance sheet date at 4 January 2012 (0% and 34.6% Security deposits received – 2.2 – 2.2 end of the term. As a result, these borrowings are respectively as at 31 December 2010). valued at amortised cost. This means that interim Total Trade receivables 74.7 71.5 158 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 159 Of the trade receivables amounting to EUR 80.8 million (before deduction of the provision for bad debt The remaining term as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 respectively of the (net) obligations relating amounting to EUR 3.9 million and the security deposits received amounting to EUR 2.2 million), an amount of to financial instruments is as follows: EUR 4.6 million fell due without a provision having been made. Expectations are that these trade receivables will be paid, as the debtors concerned have no default history. (in thousands of euros) Total ≤ 1 year > 1 year > 1 year but > 5 years 2011 ≤ 5 years The ageing analysis of these accounts receivable is as follows: Borrowings 1,875,711 101,834 1,773,877 794,131 979,746 Finance lease liabilities 58,511 5,914 52,597 6,192 46,405 (in millions of euros) 2011 2010 Derivative financial instrument liabilities 69,311 6,311 63,000 6,442 56,558 Trade payables 95,767 95,767 Younger than 30 days 2.9 3.2 Younger than 60 days 0.5 1.3 Liabilities 2,099,300 209,826 1,889,474 806,765 1,082,709 Older than 60 days 1.2 1.1 Loans to associates – 92,141 – 92,141 – 92,141 Total past due, not impaired 4.6 5.6 Other financial interests – 6,141 – 6,141 – 6,141 Finance lease receivables – 3,299 – 3,299 Other loans – 1,591 – 30 – 1,561 – 1,561 Parties procuring services from Schiphol Group are Derivative financial instrument receivables – 89,565 – 89,565 – 89,565 first assessed on their creditworthiness. Depending Trade receivables – 74,670 – 74,670 on the outcome of this assessment, the buyer may Cash and cash equivalents – 413,287 – 413,287 be required to provide security (in the form of a bank guarantee or deposit) in order to limit the Assets – 680,694 – 491,286 – 189,408 – 93,702 – 95,706 bad debt risk. As at 31 December 2011, Schiphol Group has an amount of EUR 32.7 million in bank Total 1,418,606 – 281,460 1,700,066 713,063 987,003 guarantees and security deposits (EUR 29.6 million as at 31 December 2010). Koninklijke Luchtvaart­ (in thousands of euros) Total ≤ 1 year > 1 year > 1 year but > 5 years maatschappij N.V. (KLM), has an individual 2010 ≤ 5 years balance in excess of EUR 10.0 million. Borrowings 1,732,073 122,756 1,609,317 1,001,340 607,977 Finance lease liabilities 113,648 55,731 57,917 10,093 47,824 Liquidity risk Derivative financial instrument liabilities 17,877 16,413 1,464 1,464 Liquidity risk is the risk that Schiphol Group will Trade payables 76,556 76,556 have difficulty in raising the financial resources required to honour the commitments relating to Liabilities 1,940,154 271,456 1,668,698 1,012,897 655,801 financial instruments. Careful liquidity risk management entails that Schiphol Group maintains suffiLoans to associates – 88,221 – 88,221 – 88,221 cient liquid resources and has access to sufficient Other financial interests – 10,758 – 10,758 – 10,758 financing opportunities, in the form of promised Finance lease receivables – 5,523 – 2,223 – 3,300 – 3,300 (and preferably committed) credit facilities and the Other loans – 4,344 – 84 – 4,260 – 4,260 EMTN programme. Derivative financial instrument receivables – 89,415 – 89,415 – 89,415 Our financing policy is also aimed at reducing the Trade receivables – 71,546 – 71,546 refinancing risk. For brevity’s sake, reference is Cash and cash equivalents – 304,202 – 304,202 made to note 33, dealing with borrowings, in which the aforesaid margin and facilities are Assets – 574,009 – 378,055 – 195,954 – 95,781 – 100,173 explained in more detail. Total 1,366,145 – 106,599 1,472,744 917,116 555,628 All the items in the above overview are shown at the amounts for which they are also recognised in the balance sheet, together with the year of redemption or settlement agreed for each item with the other party. Schiphol Group’s policy dictates that no more than 25% of obligations may have a term of less than one year. As at 31 December 2011, this percentage was 10.0 % (against 14.0% as at 31 December 2010). 160 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 161 The financial instruments can be divided, based on the applied accounting policies, as follows: Fair value estimate Capital management The fair value of financial instruments that are traded Schiphol Group’s long-term capital strategy and (in thousands of euros) Fair value on active markets is based on their market prices on dividend policy is geared towards returning value Total Amortised Fair value through the balance sheet date (level 1). In the case of Schiphol to its shareholders, facilitating sustainable long-term 2011 cost through equity profit and loss Group, this only concerns the 1% stake in Flughafen growth and preserving an appropriate financial Wien AG, which is recognised at fair value under other structure and sound creditworthiness. With the current Borrowings 1,875,711 1,875,711 financial interests. shareholder base (public shareholders) Schiphol Group Finance lease liabilities 58,511 58,511 only has access to the debt market. Nonetheless, Derivative financial instrument liabilities 69,311 69,311 The fair value of financial instruments that are not Schiphol Group has a continued focus on further Trade payables 95,767 95,767 traded on active markets is determined with the aid optimising its capital structure and cost of capital. of valuation techniques. Schiphol Group uses various Liabilities 2,099,300 1,934,222 69,311 95,767 methods and assumptions for this purpose based on Schiphol Group makes use of certain financial ratios, the market conditions on the balance sheet date including cash flow-based metrics to capture the Loans to associates – 92,141 ­– 92,141 (level 2). The fair value of these financial instruments dynamics of capital structure, dividend policy and Other financial interests – 6,141 – 6,141 is determined on the basis of the present value of the cash flow generation and monitor its capital structure Finance lease receivables – 3,299 – 3,299 projected future cash flows converted into euros, with in line with credit rating agencies and comparable Other loans – 1,591 – 1,591 reference to the relevant exchange rates and the best practices. In this context, key financial ratios Derivative financial instrument receivables – 89,565 – 89,565 market interest rate applicable to Schiphol Group employed include: Trade receivables – 74,670 – 74,670 on the balance sheet date (for comparable • Funds From Operations (FFO) Interest Coverage Cash and cash equivalents – 413,287 – 413,287 financial instruments). concerns the FFO plus interest charges divided by In the case of Schiphol Group this concerns borrowthe interest charges. Assets – 680,694 ­ 97,031 ­ 95,706 ­ 487,957 ings, loans to associates and derivatives, with only the • Leverage concerns interest-bearing debt divided derivatives being recognised in the balance sheet at by equity plus the interest-bearing debt. Total 1,418,606 1,837,191 – 26,395 – 392,190 fair value. The fair value of the other items is only • Funds From Operations (FFO)/Total debt, reported in the explanatory notes. which is the FFO divided by the Total debt. (in thousands of euros) Fair value It is assumed that the nominal value, reduced by the Total Amortised Fair value through estimated adjustments for trade receivables and trade 2010 cost through equity profit and loss payables, approximates the fair value. Borrowings 1,732,073 1,732,073 For information provision purposes, the fair value of Finance lease liabilities 113,648 113,648 financial assets and liabilities is estimated by factoring Derivative financial instrument liabilities 17,877 17,877 in the future contractual cash flows at the current Trade payables 76,556 76,556 market interest rate which Schiphol Group applies to comparable financial instruments. Liabilities 1,940,154 1,845,721 17,877 76,556 Loans to associates – 88,221 – 88,221 Other financial interests – 10,758 – 10,758 Finance lease receivables – 5,523 – 5,523 Other loans – 4,344 – 4,344 Derivative financial instrument receivables – 89,415 – 89,415 Trade receivables – 71,546 – 71,546 Cash and cash equivalents – 304,202 – 304,202 Assets – 574,009 – 98,088 – 100,173 – 375,748 Total 1,366,145 1,747,633 – 82,296 – 299,192 162 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 163 Funds From Operations is structured as follows: For capital management purposes, debt capital consists of the non-current and current liabilities as shown under ‘total debt’. (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Equity for capital management purposes is equal to equity shown in the consolidated balance sheet. Operating result 304,187 296,708 As at 31 December 2011, equity was EUR 3,174.5 million (EUR 3,109.4 million as at 31 December 2010). Depreciation and amortisation 206,134 185,829 Impairment 1,473 467 As at 31 December, the FFO/total debt and leverage were: Result from the sale of assets – 432 – 26 Other income, from property 88 – 22,029 2011 2010 Non cash changes receivables 2,357 – 5,607 Non cash changes liabilities – 1,992 – 3,030 FFO/total debt 18.5% 17.0% Movements in provisions – 13,883 – 1,927 Leverage 37.9% 37.2% Income tax paid – 60,164 – 35,595 Interest paid – 103,481 – 114,651 Interest received 11,347 2,544 The reduction in the FFO/total debt is caused primarily Tax risk factors Dividend received 12,991 11,753 by the decrease in the total debt being smaller than Because of its diverse range of activities, Schiphol the increase in the FFO. The reduction in the leverage Group deals with many different types of tax. The Funds From Operations 358,625 314,436 is the result of a stronger increase in the interestinternal control procedures for the related tax risks bearing loans than the increase in equity. (also known as the ‘tax control framework’) are part of Schiphol Group’s overall risk management and control The item ‘Funds From Operations’ is calculated The rise in the FFO is mainly the result of a higher The FFO interest coverage ratio is calculated by system. This system serves to identify tax risks and specifically for the purpose of determining the financial operating result – adjusted for write-downs and changes dividing the FFO plus the interest charges relating monitor internal control. Tax risk management is faciliratios and differs from the cash flow from operations, in the provisions – of EUR 47.5 million and a fall of the to borrowings and lease liabilities, amounting to tated by the central control department (Corporate as calculated in accordance with our accounting policies net interest paid of EUR 20.0 million. On the other hand, EUR 103.6 million in 2011 (EUR 112.7 million in 2010), Control) and is part of approved Management Board in the consolidated cash flow statement. EUR 24.6 million more corporate income tax was paid by these interest charges. As a result, the FFO interest policy. This policy proceeds from the assumption that in 2011. coverage ratio for 2011 was 4.5x (compared with Schiphol Group is a reliable taxpayer through the 3.8x for 2010). application of professional tax compliance procedures. In addition, Schiphol Group seeks to develop and The ratios as at 31 December 2011 are consistent with implement a reasoned tax planning framework. The total debt is structured as follows: Schiphol Group’s policy to maintain a single A credit rating (S&P’s). The general tax risk for Schiphol Group concerns the (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 timely submission of complete tax returns and the payment of the tax amounts concerned, as well as Non-current liabilities compliance with all tax laws and regulations and Borrowings 1,773,877 1,609,317 reporting rules specifically relating to corporate Lease liabilities 52,597 57,917 income tax. Activities abroad entail an increased risk because of different local tax laws. Current liabilities Borrowings 101,834 122,756 Lease liabilities 5,914 55,731 Total debt 1,934,222 1,845,721 164 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 165 Segment information The Alliances & Participations business area comprises the reporting segments Domestic Airports, Foreign Schiphol Group distinguishes fourteen operating Airports and Other Subsidiaries. Airport charges and segments, which have been combined into nine parking charges are the main sources of revenue of reporting segments for reporting purposes. the regional airports. The airports abroad contribute to the Group result through performance fees and The Aviation business area operates solely at dividends as accounted for in share in results, through Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and provides services and the interest paid on loans and through intellectual facilities to airlines, passengers and handling agents. property fees. This involves stakes in airports such as The Aviation business area has been subdivided into Aéroports de Paris S.A., Brisbane Airport Corporation two reporting segments: Aviation and Security. Ltd and JFK IAT Member LLC. The other subsidiaries Sources of revenue for Aviation include airport include Schiphol Telematics and Utilities, among charges (aircraft and passenger related charges) and others. Schiphol Telematics delivers telecom services on concession fees (paid by oil companies for the right and around the airport. The Utility activities generate to provide aircraft refuelling services). The source revenue from the transport of electricity and gas and of revenue for Security consists of airport charges from the supply of water. (security related charges). The Netherlands Competition Authority (NMa) regulates the Information relating to alliances specifically associated charges which are levied and sets limits on the with a particular business area is presented under the returns generated. reporting segments of that business area. The information relating to other alliances is presented under the The activities of the Consumer Products & Services reporting segments of the Alliances & Participations business area consist of granting and managing business area. Group overheads are allocated to the concessions for shops and food service outlets business segments largely on the basis of their relative (reporting segment: Concessions, providing revenue share in the direct costs of Schiphol Group. from concessions and lease of retail locations), the operation of car parks (reporting segment: The Management Board and the central treasury Parking, providing revenue from parking fees) and department review the obligations and the financial the operation of shops, the marketing of advertising income and expenditure at group level rather than opportunities at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and reporting segment level. Transactions between the the operation of management contracts at domestic reporting segments are conducted at arm’s length. airports (reporting segment Other), providing revenue from retail sales, the lease of advertising space and Since Schiphol Group’s current activities are largely management fees respectively). concentrated in the Netherlands (99% of the consolidated revenue in 2011, the same as in 2010), The Real Estate business area, which is also a reporting there is no geographical segmentation. Around 42% segment, develops, manages, operates and invests in of revenue (35% in 2010) relates to one external property at and around domestic and foreign airports. client and is generated primarily in the Aviation The greater part of the portfolio, comprising both business area. operational buildings and commercial properties is located at and around Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Sources of revenue include income from development and letting out buildings and sites. The business area also makes contributions to Schiphol Group results via other property results (sales, the fair value gains or losses on property and the granting of long lease of land). 166 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 167 Segment information (continued) 2011 Aviation Consumer Products & Services Real Estate Alliances & Participations (in thousands of euros) Foreign Domestic Other Aviation Security Concessions Parking Other airports airports participations Total Total revenue 486,881 247,507 147,020 85,795 106,803 171,562 12,511 62,079 89,158 1,409,314 Elimination of internal revenue – 368 – 87 – 28,599 – 898 75 – 35,427 – 574 – 156 – 64,982 – 131,014 Revenue 486,513 247,420 118,421 84,897 106,878 136,135 11,937 61,923 24,175 1,278,300 Fair value gains and losses on investment property – 1,692 1,028 – 664 Depreciation and amortisation – 124,853 – 27,902 – 13,237 – 8,152 – 4,327 – 16,339 – 12 – 4,329 – 6,984 – 206,134 Impairment – 1,473 – 1,473 Restructuring costs Operating result 48,370 663 105,148 37,465 5,418 72,212 9,089 14,212 11,611 304,188 Share in results of associates* 642 1,348 41,522 534 44,047 Total assets 2,227,651 257,848 138,168 136,549 19,886 1,850,955 926,078 93,079 73,278 5,723,492 Total non-current assets (excluding corporate income tax) 1,891,161 218,899 117,297 115,923 16,882 1,571,365 786,192 79,019 62,210 4,858,949 Investments in associates and other financial interests 2,995 33,626 679,456 15,113 731,190 Capital expenditure 150,742 31,818 13,721 10,392 4,428 35,170 43 8,977 7,987 263,279 2010 Aviation Consumer Products & Services Real Estate Alliances & Participations (in thousands of euros) Foreign Domestic Other Aviation Security Concessions Parking Other airports airports participations Total Total revenue** 448,105 236,964 134,635 79,177 85,187 173,266 6,130 53,891 86,702 1,304,057 Elimination of internal revenue** – 2,137 – 539 – 20,991 – 1,137 35 – 36,347 – 247 – 213 – 62,334 – 123,908 *) T  he share in results of associates includes the share Revenue 445,967 236,426 113,644 78,040 85,222 136,920 5,883 53,678 24,368 1,180,148 in results of associates presented as such in the profit and loss account and the share of interest income Fair value gains and losses on investment property 21,071 1,109 22,180 and dividends presented as part of financial income Depreciation and amortisation – 108,044 – 27,500 – 11,900 – 6,877 – 3,174 – 16,069 –5 – 4,295 – 7,965 – 185,829 and expenses that is attributable to investments in Impairment – 153 – 314 – 467 associates, lease receivables and other financial Restructuring costs – 3,596 – 2,055 – 359 – 454 – 719 – 884 – 22 – 410 – 637 – 9,135 interests. Operating result 45,246 – 306 96,584 31,837 4,575 96,366 3,179 10,568 8,660 296,708 **) A  s at 1 January 2011 Schiphol Dienstverlening B.V. is no longer included in the consolidated figures of Share in results of associates* 532 1,480 62,847 – 224 64,636 Schiphol Group. The comparative figures of the business area Aviation and reporting segments Total assets 2,168,008 230,680 131,877 132,096 15,796 1,802,834 878,486 87,172 59,228 5,506,178 Aviation and Security have been changed with Total non-current assets (excluding corporate income tax) 1,878,844 199,912 114,287 114,478 13,689 1,562,376 761,315 75,546 51,328 4,771,776 regard to the revenues and the expenses. Investments in associates and other financial interests 2,941 32,955 658,875 5,400 700,171 The changes that have been made have no effect Capital expenditure 154,967 8,727 7,225 13,624 5,418 51,589 2,365 4,030 247,944 on the operating result. 168 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 169 Notes to the consolidated profit and loss account 1. Revenue The revenue analysis by reporting segment is as follows: 2011 Aviation Consumer Products & Services Real Estate Alliances & Participations (in thousands of euros) Foreign Domestic Other Aviation Security Concessions Parking Other airports airports participations Total Airport charges 458,933 246,514 39,123 744,569 Concessions 12,207 130,585 3,429 2,064 1,401 3,649 153,334 Rent and leases 28 15,649 381 156,488 2,816 175,363 Parking fees 77,633 2,943 11,905 92,481 Retail sales 78,190 78,190 Other activities 15,713 992 785 4,353 26,549 10,730 12,511 4,587 89,158 165,377 Total revenue 486,881 247,507 147,020 85,795 106,803 171,562 12,511 62,079 89,158 1,409,314 Elimination of internal revenue – 368 – 87 – 28,599 – 898 75 – 35,427 – 574 – 156 – 64,982 – 131,014 Revenue 486,513 247,420 118,421 84,897 106,878 136,135 11,937 61,923 24,175 1,278,300 2010 Aviation Consumer Products & Services Real Estate Alliances & Participations (in thousands of euros) Foreign Domestic Other Aviation Security Concessions Parking Other airports airports participations Total Airport charges 420,542 234,943 33,620 689,106 Concessions 11,521 119,478 3,043 1,894 1,248 3,174 140,358 Rent and leases 14,791 222 156,143 2,923 174,080 Parking fees 28 70,915 2,832 10,276 84,051 Retail sales 58,259 58,259 Other activities* 16,042 2,021 338 4,997 25,033 13,043 6,130 3,896 86,702 158,203 Total revenue 448,105 236,964 134,635 79,177 85,187 173,266 6,130 53,891 86,702 1,304,057 Elimination of internal revenue* – 2,137 – 539 – 20,991 – 1,137 35 – 36,347 – 247 – 213 – 62,334 – 123,908 *) C  omparative figures have been changed for Revenue 445,967 236,426 113,644 78,040 85,222 136,920 5,883 53,678 24,368 1,180,148 comparison (see page 169, second footnote) Airport charges The activities of the Aviation business area (the operation of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol) are regulated. above returns with the industry. Deficits relative to these returns may be passed on. Settlement must in principal This means, among other things, that the annual process of fixing the airport charge rates is overseen by the take place after the close of a financial year and after the preparation of the financial accounts for Aviation & Netherlands Competition Authority (NMa) and that the aviation industry should be consulted as part of this Security using the subsequent new airport charge rates. In accordance with the accounting policies, surpluses and process. When setting the airport charges, the Aviation business area’s profitability is also limited to an average deficits eligible for settlement in the airport charge rates are not presented as assets and liabilities in the balance weighted cost of capital (WACC) for regulated assets; both must be determined in compliance with the regulasheet. The above procedure does not apply to the airport charges of Rotterdam, Eindhoven and Lelystad, which tions laid down in the Aviation Act. Under the Aviation Act, Schiphol Group must settle surpluses relative to the are accounted for in the Domestic Airports reporting segment. 170 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 171 The 2009 financial year was marked by a significant deficit (EUR 31.7 million for the reporting segment Aviation Rents and leases and EUR 17.3 for the reporting segment Security). Schiphol Group decided not to factor this deficit into the 2011 The analysis is as follows: charges owing to the market conditions. (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 The 2010 financial year yielded a surplus, however, and this was factored into the charges that took effect on 1 November 2011. In respect of the Aviation and Security reporting segments this amounted to an airport charges Investment property buildings, including service costs 71,083 57,303 refundable in the amount of EUR 29.1 million and EUR 16.2 million respectively. Investment property sites 25,663 24,620 Operating property, including service costs 47,069 61,057 The 2011 financial year yielded a higher result from normal business operations than expected, estimated to Elimination of internal revenue 31,548 31,100 EUR 15.1 million, of which EUR 5.6 million derived from the Aviation reporting segment and EUR 9.5 million from the Security reporting segment. This higher result is primarily due to passenger numbers being higher than was 175,363 174,080 assumed at the time of consultation on the rates as of 1 November 2011. Furthermore, there are specific costs which are lower than was assumed at the time of consultation. In view of the current economic situation, Schiphol The occupancy figure as at 31 December 2011 was 88.5% (86.5% as at 31 December 2010) in the Real Estate Group has decided to accelerate the set-off of this additional result by repaying it to the airlines on a short notice, reporting segment. in proportion to their share in our revenues from airport charges in 2011. The proportion of all leases (measured in terms of income from rents and leases) expiring within one year is The income from airport charges has the following analysis: approximately 7% (10% in 2010). Approximately 47% expires after one year and within five years (41% in 2010) and approximately 46% expires after more than five years (49% in 2010). (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Property management expenses can be analysed as follows: Aircraft-related fees 193,051 179,562 Passenger-related fees 283,004 250,554 (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Security service charge 275,661 251,031 Aircraft parking fees 7,953 7,959 Occupied buildings 36,214 36,574 Settlement airport charges – 15,100 Unoccupied buildings 7,327 6,033 744,569 689,106 43,541 42,607 Concessions In the case of buildings that are only partially leased up, the management expenses have been apportioned Schiphol Group’s reporting segment Concessions has a total of 107 concession contracts (2010: 99 concession on the basis of floor area. contracts) concerning the performance of various commercial activities at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Parking fees A concession involves granting non-exclusive rights to a concession holder to operate and manage a commercial The analysis is as follows: activity (outlet) in a specific location designated by Schiphol Group. The concession charges are calculated according to an agreed scale as a percentage of the sales generated by the concession holder. A separate contract (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 is entered into with concession holders for the required space, for which a fixed rent is payable. The concessions run for an average of 3–5 years. At balance sheet date, around 66% of the concessions had a remaining term of Parking at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol: less than three years (2010 around 55%), 23% had between three and five years to run (2010 around 28%) and Short-stay car park 37,738 34,297 11% had more than five years to run (2010 around 17%). Long-stay car park 22,939 20,743 Other public car parking 4,509 4,214 The income from concessions generated by the Aviation reporting segment of EUR 12.2 million (EUR 11.5 million Business parking 14,626 13,716 in 2010) and by the Parking reporting segment of EUR 3.4 million (EUR 3.0 million in 2010) concerns concession contracts relating to the third-party supply of fuel and the use of drop-off roads by taxi services and car 79,812 72,970 rental respectively. Parking at other locations 11,905 10,276 Elimination of internal revenue 764 805 92,481 84,051 172 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 173 The parking fees generated on other locations relate to Rotterdam, Eindhoven and Lelystad and are accounted With regard to the lands pertaining to the investment property, a reassessment took place in 2010 of the discount for by the Domestic Airports reporting segment. rate applied in determining the fair value, including the associated risk mark-ups. Based on this reassessment, the discount rate has been reduced. This was done in order to ensure consistency with the more common Retail sales methods used by independent external surveyors. Furthermore, with effect from 2010 a final value is determined The turnover from retail sales in 2011 of EUR 78.2 million (EUR 58.3 million in 2010) represents revenue from for all leasehold contracts, even if the contract only expires after 20 years. Previously, the final value of contracts the liquor, tobacco and chocolate retail activities. The cost of sales of EUR 39.4 million (EUR 30.2 million in 2010) expiring after 20 years was fixed at zero because of uncertainty about the use of the lands after the expiry of related to this revenue is accounted for on the line ‘Costs of outsourced work and other external charges’ these contracts. The aforesaid changes in the discount rate applied and the determination of the final value under operating expenses. resulted in a one-off fair value gain on property of EUR 26 million in 2010 and are part of the overall market value adjustment for land. Other activities The analysis is as follows: Property under development is stated at fair value, provided that this value can be measured reliably. A change in the value is recognised in this line under ‘fair value gains and losses on property’, as are changes in value resulting (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 from the refurbishment of existing properties (which may have been purchased recently) so that these can be leased more profitably, leading to an increase in fair value. Advertising 18,608 15,847 Services and activities on behalf of third parties 18,459 22,740 The fair value of all the properties is reassessed each year and adjusted as necessary on the basis of internal and Electricity, gas and water 6,788 6,455 external appraisals. The fair value takes account of any lease incentives granted. The resulting adjustments to the Other operating income 28,594 26,612 fair value are included in the market value adjustments in the above analysis. Miscellaneous 19,415 14,626 Elimination of internal revenue* 73,513 71,921 4. Costs of outsourced work and other external charges The analysis is as follows: 165,377 158,201 (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 *) comparative figures have been changed, see page 169, second footnote Cleaning 29,481 26,722 2. Result on sales of property Security activities 177,803 165,025 The amount of EUR 23.3 million recognised under ‘sales of property’ concerns the contribution of land in Maintenance 79,052 79,527 GEM Badhoevedorp-Zuid C.V. of EUR 21.3 million and GEM A4 Zone West C.V. of EUR 2.0 million. This contribuOther outsourcing 83,829 67,547 tion resulted in EUR 17.1 million in cash for Schiphol Group as well as a 19% interest in GEM Badhoevedorp-Zuid Energy and water 25,168 26,100 C.V. (valued at EUR 4.2 million) and a 33% interest in GEM A4 Zone West C.V. (valued at EUR 2.0 million). Cost price retail sales 39,444 30,215 Hired personnel 24,302 24,067 3. Fair value gains and losses on property Commercial expenses 33,069 23,802 The analysis is as follows: Insurance 18,465 19,551 Advice and audit expenses 16,770 14,295 (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Costs related to investments 10,638 6,706 Other expenses 41,813 38,515 New long leases granted – 2,932 Acquisition and completions of buildings 1,497 3,826 579,834 522,072 Market value adjustment land – 4,017 35,982 Market value adjustment buildings 1,856 – 14,696 The other expenses concern costs as general expenses, renting and leasing. – 664 22,180 As at 31 December 2011, there were commitments (not included in the balance sheet) in respect of long-term security, maintenance and cleaning contracts etc. totalling EUR 399.8 million (31 December 2010: The gains resulting from the granting of new long leases are connected with the change in valuation on the EUR 417.7 million). The size of these commitments is primarily attributable to contracts in relation to security, release of land from historical cost to fair value upon the release of the leasehold land. The fair value is calculated with a total value of EUR 171.3 million. The total amount stated above also includes commitments with respect by discounting the annual ground rents from the leases concerned (DCF method), using a discount rate based on to outsourced work (EUR 110.0 million), maintenance (EUR 51.7 million), cleaning (EUR 29.9 million) and gas the interest rate on Dutch State Loans plus a risk mark-up. and electricity purchasing (EUR 20.3 million). The total for the obligations relating to 2012 amounts to EUR 201.0 million. In addition, maintenance contracts were concluded that do not involve a purchase obligation. 174 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 175 Under operating leases with Schiphol Group as lessee, the following future lease instalments are payable 5. Employee benefits (not included in the balance sheet): The analysis is as follows: > 1 year but (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 (in thousands of euros) Total ≤ 1 year > 1 year ≤ 5 years > 5 years Short-term employee benefits Rental and lease contract commitments 36,700 5,046 31,654 17,331 14,323 Salaries 140,551 146,585 Social security charges 11,511 12,547 Internal hours capitalised – 12,167 – 11,055 Auditor’s fees Included in the advice and audit expenses are the following costs with respect to auditor’s fees. 139,895 148,077 (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Post-retirement benefits Pension charges (defined contribution plans) 19,951 18,184 Audit of the financial statements 602 625 Pension charges (defined benefit plans) 927 2,153 Other audit services 731 764 Early retirement benefits 1,595 1,634 Tax advisory 310 131 Other non-audit services 10 206 22,473 21,971 1,653 1,726 Other long-term employee benefits Long-service bonuses 246 558 Management long-term bonuses 1,014 1,036 The above fees concern the activities carried out at Schiphol Group and the consolidated group companies by the Other employee benefits 44 – 199 audit firm within the meaning of Section 1(1) of the Act on the Supervision of Audit Firms and represent the fees charged by the entire network of which this audit firm is part. The fees of PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants 1,304 1,395 N.V. make up EUR 1.3 million (in 2010: EUR 1.4 million) while the activities performed by other members of the PwC network amount to EUR 0,3 million (against EUR 0.3 million in 2010). Termination benefits 1,696 630 Other staff costs 12,102 11,664 Total employee benefits 177,470 183,737 The average number of employees, on a full-time equivalent basis, of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol and its subsidiaries totalled 2,115 (2010: 2,328). The capitalised internal hours concern capitalised own production in the form of internal hours charged by staff in the implementation phases of investment projects. The costs of post-retirement benefits, other long-term employee benefits and redundancy payments are explained in more detail in note 35, dealing with employee benefits. For an explanation of the remuneration of Supervisory and Management Board members under Section 2:383c of the Dutch Civil Code, reference is made to the chapter entitled ‘Related Party Disclosures’. 176 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 177 6. Depreciation and amortisation 8. Reorganisation The analysis is as follows: In 2011, further substance was given to the reorganisation resulting from the strategy recalibration in 2009. This resulted in the outsourcing of non-core activities in 2010 and 2011 and a fall in the average number of (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 employees at the Schiphol location of around 7% in 2010 and 9% in 2011. The provisions accounted for in the profit and loss of 2009 and 2010 proved to have been adequate so that the reorganisation did Intangible assets not result in additional costs in 2011. Contract related assets 2,301 4,241 Automated application development 6,710 4,523 9. Other operating expenses Software licences 3,195 2,126 The other operating expenses include a variety of different operating cost items. In 2011, as in 2010, no exceptional cost items were recorded. 12,206 10,890 10. Financial income and expenses Assets used for operating activities The analysis is as follows: Runways, taxiways and aprons 21,153 20,499 Paved areas, roads etc. 11,235 11,373 (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Buildings 34,573 31,878 Installations 95,792 84,490 Interest expense Other assets 27,320 25,971 Borrowings – 98,053 – 103,141 Interest difference buy-back of EMTN bonds – 19,328 190,073 174,211 Lease liabilities – 5,550 – 9,515 Depreciation and amortisation relating to disposals 3,855 728 – 103,603 – 131,984 Total depreciation and amortisation 206,134 185,829 Interest income Cash and cash equivalents 3,947 2,951 Loans to associates 7,038 6,127 7. Impairment Lease receivables 855 1,059 The analysis is as follows: Capitalised construction period borrowing costs 3,835 8,115 Tax collection 516 521 (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Other 907 448 Intangible assets 17,098 19,221 Software under development 314 Other financial gains and losses Assets used for operating activities Exchange differences on loans to associates 65 764 Other assets 153 Exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents 150 26 Exchange differences on other assets and liabilities – 691 – 159 Assets under construction or development Derivative financial instruments – 4,664 – 2,660 Assets under construction for operating activities 1,000 Dividends from other financial interests 370 375 Other 23 – 764 Current assets Assets held for sale 473 – 4,747 – 2,418 Total impairment losses 1,473 467 Total financial income and expenses – 91,252 – 115,181 As a result of recent, less positive forecasts regarding the development and commercial operation of land The capitalised construction period borrowing cost concerns interest charges incurred during the construction at and around the Amsterdam Airport Schiphol location, the book value of this land depreciated by phase of large investment projects. EUR 1.5 million in 2011. 178 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 179 The exchange differences on loans to associates concern the redeemable preference shares of Brisbane Airport 12. Corporate income tax Corporation Holdings Pty Ltd held by Schiphol Group. In view of the terms requiring repayment of the nominal The corporate income tax charge in the profit and loss account can be analysed as follows: value to the shareholders within a period of 10 years, among other conditions, the shares are considered not to be part of the net investment in the associate. Consequently, the exchange differences should be accounted for (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 in the profit and loss account instead of in the exchange differences reserve. However, the currency risk relating to this long-term receivable is largely hedged by using annual forward transactions for the nominal value and Result before tax 248,824 238,603 accrued interest. By means of these transactions, the Australian dollar position is hedged to euros. The hedge Share in result of associates * – 35,659 – 56,865 transactions are recognised as a cash flow hedge, while the associated exchange differences are recognised in the reserve for hedging transactions. The other exchange differences are recognised in the profit and loss account. 213,165 181,738 11. Share in results of associates Standard rate of corporate income tax 25.0% 25.5% The item ‘share in results of associates’ presents the share in the results of non-consolidated associates, including Aéroports de Paris S.A. (ADP), Brisbane Airport Corporation Holdings Ltd (BACH) en JFK IAT LLC. Corporate income tax calculated at the standard tax rate 53,291 46,343 The share in results of associates for 2011 includes a contribution of EUR 3.2 million from Brisbane Airport Different rate for foreign subsidiaries 158 12,466 Corporation Holdings Ltd (BACH). In the years up to and including 2010, no share in BACH’s result could be presented because of this participation’s negative equity, under Schiphol Group accounting policies. In 2011, Corporate income tax before extraordinary items 53,449 58,809 this negative equity became positive. Effective rate of corporate income tax before extraordinary items 21.5% 24.6% ADP’s contribution to Schiphol Group’s financial result for 2011 consists of a gain of EUR 31.4 million (a gain of EUR 26.4 million in 2010), including adjustments in connection with differences in the accounting policies mainly Adjustment deferred taxes due to a decrease in the standard rate of 5,075 relating to investment property. corporate income tax Other movements corporate income tax liabilities – 1,105 2,896 The share in results of associates for 2010 includes a one-off result of EUR 28.1 million that can be attributed Other movements deferred tax assets and liabilities – 1,030 109 to the extension of our stake in JFK IAT LLC. This acquisition is explained in more detail in note 42, ‘Acquisitions’, to which we refer for brevity’s sake. Corporate income tax in the profit and loss account 51,314 66,889 Effective rate of corporate income tax after extraordinary items 20.6% 28.0% *) In calculating the corporate income tax payable, the share in results of associates is deducted because they satisfy the substantial holding privilege tax rule. This does not apply to the results of limited partnerships (C.V.s), which are not independently liable for tax and whose results are included in the result of the N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol fiscal entity. In 2011, the effective tax burden of 20.6% was lower than the nominal corporate income tax rate of 25%. This is primarily attributable to the share in the results of associates, which were not subject to Dutch corporate income tax. Furthermore, once-only results were achieved owing to the application of tax-deductible losses that had not been valued by a deferred tax asset and with the set-off of withholding tax of previous years. The effective tax burden for 2010 was 28.0%, which is higher than the nominal corporate income tax rate of 25.5%, primarily on account of a relatively high tax burden on the one-off result relating to the extension of our stake in JFK IAT LLC and a write-down of deferred tax liabilities in connection with the adjustment of the tax rate to 25% as at 1 January 2011. 180 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 181 13. Result attributable to minority interests Included in the result attributable to minority interests is the share of third parties in the results of the group companies Eindhoven Airport N.V. and Avioport SpA. An abridged profit and loss account for these companies has been included in the chapter entitled ‘Related Party Disclosures’ (under ‘subsidiaries’). 14. Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated as follows: 2011 2010 Result attributable to shareholders (net result in euros) 194,485,000 168,960,000 Average number of shares in issue during the year 186,147 186,147 Earnings per share (in euros) 1,045 908 At the moment, there is no question of potential share issues resulting from options or convertible equity instruments that might dilute the profit per share. 182 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 183 Notes to the consolidated balance sheet The goodwill recognised under intangible assets as at 31 December 2011 consists of an amount of EUR 0.8 million that relates to Schiphol Telematics B.V. and an amount of EUR 1.4 million that relates to Villa Carmen B.V. 15. Intangible assets The analysis and movements were as follows: At year-end 2011, an impairment test was performed on the carrying amount of the related goodwill, comparing it with the value in use of the related cash-generating unit (Schiphol Telematics B.V.) calculated on the basis of ContractAutomated information taken from its 2012-2016 business plan using a discount rate of 5.3%. The test did not indicate any related application Software Software under need to recognise an impairment loss. (in thousands of euros) Goodwill assets development licences development Total Malpensa Real Estate II B.V. (MRE II B.V., a subsidiary of Schiphol Group) acquired an interest of 47.44% in Analysis as at 31 December 2009 Villa Carmen B.V. in 2005. The goodwill this created is derived from the appreciation of the land contributed by Cost 7,591 27,884 30,636 14,126 15,917 96,154 MRE II B.V. on acquisition of its share. In 2011, as in 2010, there were no developments which necessitated an Cumulative amortisation and – 5,350 – 21,342 – 18,942 – 8,399 – 54,033 impairment loss. impairment Automated application development relates to internal and external hours charged to ICT projects in the Carrying amount 2,241 6,542 11,694 5,727 15,917 42,121 implementation and completion phases. Software licences relates to third-party packages. For an explanation of the impairment losses, see note 7. Movements in 2010 Additions 11,628 11,628 Completions 9,522 2,314 – 11,836 Amortisation – 4,241 – 4,523 – 2,126 – 10,890 Impairment – 314 – 314 Reclassification 655 655 Total movements in the year – 4,241 4,999 188 133 1,079 Analysis as at 31 December 2010 Cost 7,591 27,884 40,158 16,440 16,364 108,437 Cumulative amortisation and – 5,350 – 25,583 – 23,465 – 10,525 – 314 – 65,237 impairment Carrying amount 2,241 2,301 16,693 5,915 16,050 43,200 Movements in 2011 Additions 86 11,047 11,133 Completions 9,666 8,384 – 18,050 Amortisation – 2,301 – 6,710 – 3,195 – 12,206 Disposals – 577 – 155 – 732 Total movements in the year – 2,301 2,379 5,120 – 7,003 – 1,805 Analysis as at 31 December 2011 Cost 7,591 27,884 49,247 24,755 9,361 118,838 Cumulative amortisation and – 5,350 – 27,884 – 30,175 – 13,720 – 314 – 77,443 impairment Carrying amount 2,241 19,072 11,035 9,047 41,395 184 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 185 16. Assets used for operating activities 17. Assets under construction or development The analysis and movements were as follows: The analysis and movements were as follows: Runways, Assets under Assets under taxiways Paved areas, Other construction construction (in thousands of euros) and aprons roads etc. Buildings Installations assets Total for operating for investment (in thousands of euros) activities property Total Analysis as at 31 december 2009 Cost 647,423 577,156 1,163,522 1,408,595 343,470 4,140,166 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2009 393.332 154.949 548.281 Cumulative depreciation and – 273,145 – 145,500 – 450,636 – 830,239 – 242,078 – 1,941,598 impairment Movements in 2010 Capital expenditure 196.464 39.852 236.316 Carrying amount 374,278 431,656 712,886 578,356 101,392 2,198,568 Construction period borrowing cost capitalised 7.615 500 8.115 Completed assets and investment property – 353.217 – 48.694 – 401.911 Movements in 2010 Fair value gains and losses – 106 – 106 Completions 7,144 4,667 104,136 211,536 25,734 353,217 Depreciation – 20,499 – 11,373 – 31,878 – 84,490 – 25,971 – 174,211 Total movements in the year – 149.138 – 8.448 – 157.586 Impairment – 67 – 86 – 153 Sales –2 – 14 – 16 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2010 244.194 146.501 390.695 Changes in the consolidation – 17 – 17 Disposals – 446 – 125 – 156 – 727 Movements in 2011 Reclassification – 2,977 2,977 – 656 – 656 Capital expenditure 220.326 31.822 252.148 Exchange differences 26 26 Construction period borrowing cost capitalised 3.564 271 3.835 Completed assets and investment property – 209.795 – 16.749 – 226.544 Total movements in the year – 13,801 – 6,773 69,281 129,896 – 1,140 177,463 Fair value gains and losses 438 438 Impairment – 1.000 – 1.000 Analysis as at 31 december 2010 Reclassification – 7.352 – 15.188 – 22.540 Cost 654,567 581,823 1,264,681 1,623,108 368,548 4,492,727 Cumulative depreciation and impairment – 294,090 – 156,940 – 482,514 – 914,856 – 268,296 – 2,116,696 Total movements in the year 6.743 – 406 6.337 Carrying amount 360,477 424,883 782,167 708,252 100,252 2,376,031 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2011 250.937 146.095 397.032 Movements in 2011 Completions 22,077 12,826 28,934 116,519 29,439 209,795 The reclassification of the assets under construction for investment property amounting to EUR 15.2 million Depreciation – 21,153 – 11,235 – 34,573 – 95,792 – 27,320 – 190,073 relates to the Cornerstone building at Rotterdam The Hague Airport. The prepayment on this asset is recognised Sales – 125 – 125 as other long-term receivables. Changes in the consolidation – 23 – 23 Disposals – 26 – 343 – 2,314 – 440 – 3,123 The capitalisation of borrowing costs during the construction period is calculated by applying a percentage that Reclassification 60 2,450 1,202 6,125 497 10,334 is determined on a quarterly basis according to the current ratio of equity to borrowed capital. In 2011, the rate Exchange differences –3 –3 varied between 2,47% and 2,54% per annum which takes into account former mentioned ratio. Total movements in the year 984 3,890 – 4,780 24,538 2,150 26,782 At year-end 2011, there were assets under construction for investment property that are stated at a fair value of EUR 3.2 million (2010: zero). Analysis as at 31 december 2011 Cost 676,704 596,948 1,294,474 1,743,438 398,018 4,709,582 As at 31 December 2011, there were obligations to invest in assets under construction or development up Cumulative depreciation and impairment – 315,243 – 168,175 – 517,087 – 1,010,648 – 295,616 – 2,306,769 to an amount of EUR 106.5 million, of which EUR 21.6 million in property (as at 31 December 2010: EUR 136.4 million, of which EUR 26.0 million in property). Carrying amount 361,461 428,773 777,387 732,790 102,402 2,402,813 For an explanation of the impairment losses, see note 7. 186 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 187 18. Investment property 19. Deferred tax The analysis and movements were as follows: With effect from 1 January 2002, Schiphol Group has been subject to corporate income tax. Schiphol Group and the Tax Authorities signed the settlement agreement on 8 September 2006. This agreement specifies the final (in thousands of euros) Buildings Sites Total opening balance sheet for tax purposes and contains some further agreements on the determination of Schiphol Group’s taxable profit. Carrying amount as at 31 December 2009 706,013 276,426 982,439 Assets used for operating activities and assets under construction are valued at cost both for reporting purposes Movements in 2010 and for tax purposes. However, the aforementioned settlement agreement resulted in differences between the Completions 44,388 4,306 48,694 cost for reporting and tax purposes respectively of assets held as at 1 January 2002. The balance sheet for tax Fair value gains and losses – 14,593 36,773 22,180 purposes equates the cost with the market value as at 1 January 2002, whereas the balance sheet for reporting purposes equates the cost with the (lower) historical cost. In addition, property investments, derivative financial Total movements in the year 29,795 41,079 70,874 instruments and borrowings in foreign currencies are valued at fair value for reporting purposes and at cost for tax purposes. Furthermore, the property investments are depreciated for tax purposes (with a residual value of Carrying amount as at 31 December 2010 735,808 317,505 1,053,313 25%), whereas there is no depreciation of this property for reporting purposes. Furthermore, the Working on Profit Act came into force effective the 2007 financial year. This Act limits the Movements in 2011 depreciation for tax purposes of both commercial buildings and operational buildings to the so-called base value. Completions 14,468 2,281 16,749 The base value is 50% of the WOZ value (i.e., the value under the Valuation of Immovable Property Act) of Acquisitions 2,894 2,894 operational buildings and 100% of the WOZ value of commercial buildings. This limitation on tax-related Fair value gains and losses 1,183 – 2,285 – 1,102 depreciation also causes a valuation difference. Reclassification – 2,982 – 2,982 Finally, there are differences in the valuation of personnel provisions because of a deviation in the actuarial assumptions applied. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect of all these valuation differences, Total movements in the year 15,563 –4 15,559 and in respect of the deferred tax liability resulting from the extension of our stake in JFK IAT LLC. Carrying amount as at 31 December 2011 751,371 317,501 1,068,872 The deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from the following balance sheet items: (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Airport Real Estate Basisfonds C.V. (AREB C.V.) has encumbered 16 of its investment properties with liens in favour of ING Bank N.V. and ABN AMRO N.V. for a combined amount of EUR 330 million. The proportionate consolidaDeferred tax assets tion of AREB C.V. means that 61.15% of this amount in respect of investment property is reflected in the Schiphol Assets used for operating activities 185,930 190,184 Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2011. Assets under construction or development 78,878 78,987 Derivative financial instruments and borrowings 13,236 Buildings includes an amount of EUR 89.6 million (31 December 2010: EUR 93.1 million) in respect of the fair value Employee benefits 3,294 2,890 of assets (Triport) where the company has the risks and rewards incidental to ownership but not legal title (finance lease). Sites includes land leased under long-lease contracts. Deferred tax liability Investment property – 26,187 – 25,198 The calculation of the cash flows (which are a factor in determining the fair value at which investment property is Derivative financial instruments and borrowings – 7,209 presented in the balance sheet) takes into account the existence of deferred lease incentives. For an explanation Investments in associates – 11,799 – 11,007 of the sales and fair value gains and losses, see notes 2 and 3, respectively, in the notes to the consolidated profit and loss account. 243,352 228,647 It is Schiphol Group policy to grant rights to all sites solely on either a long-lease or a ground rent basis except for Non-current (settlement is not expected) 83,574 83,574 those sites which management intends to sell. This concerns sites away from Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, which Non-current (expected to be recovered or settled after longer than 12 months) 158,200 145,449 are presented in the balance sheet as assets held for sale. Current (expected to be recovered or settled within 12 months) 1,578 – 376 243,352 228,647 188 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 189 Pursuant to IAS 12, Income Taxes, a deferred tax asset should be included insofar as it is likely that sufficient taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised. However, it is not to be expected that the deferred tax assets will actually be realised in relation to a part of the operating assets (EUR 83.6 million). The difference between the value for reporting and tax purposes respectively will be realised only in the event of a sale (resulting in a lower profit for tax purposes and a lower corporate income tax liability), in the event of impairment (resulting in higher costs for tax purposes and a lower corporate income tax liability), or upon termination of the aviation activities (resulting in higher costs for tax purposes, because compensation will only be obtained up to the book value for reporting purposes). Schiphol Group is not-authorised to sell the land for operating activities. The expectations with regard to future cash flows do not suggest that impairment losses will be necessary. Finally, it is not likely either that the activities will be terminated. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted, because these assets and liabilities are part of the same fiscal unity and the company at the head of this fiscal unity has a legally enforceable right to do so. The movements in the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities during the year were as follows: (in thousands of euros) Assets used Assets under Derivative for operating construction or Investment financial Employee purposes development property instruments benefits Associates Total Carrying amount as at 31 December 2009 193,988 80,567 – 20,888 – 811 4,134 256,990 Movements in 2010 Deferred tax on depreciation for tax purposes – 2,442 – 2,442 Deferred tax recognised in the profit and loss account – 2,235 – 2,293 – 718 – 10,834 – 16,080 Deferred tax recognised in equity – 4,229 – 4,229 Adjustment due to the reduction in the tax rate – 3,804 – 1,580 367 124 – 58 – 4,951 Other movements – 468 – 173 – 641 Total movements in the year – 3,804 – 1,580 – 4,310 – 6,398 – 1,244 – 11,007 – 28,343 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2010 190,184 78,987 – 25,198 – 7,209 2,890 – 11,007 228,647 Movements in 2011 Deferred tax on depreciation for tax purposes – 4,254 – 1,701 – 5,955 Deferred tax recognised in the profit and loss account – 109 – 228 926 404 – 792 199 Deferred tax recognised in equity 19,519 19,521 Other movements 940 940 Total movements in the year – 4,254 – 109 – 989 20,445 404 – 792 14,705 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2011 185,930 78,878 – 26,187 13,236 3,294 – 11,799 243,352 190 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 191 20. Investments in associates 21. Loans to associates The movements were as follows: The movements were as follows: (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Carrying amount as at 1 January 689,413 629,815 Carrying amount as at 1 January 88,221 66,541 Movements in the year Movements in the year Share in results 35,889 57,076 Accrued interest 838 6,990 Dividend – 12,621 – 13,183 Exchange differences hedging transactions 3,017 13,926 Investments 9,708 Other Exchange differences 65 764 Sales – 2,157 Changes in the consolidation 182 Total movements in the year 3,920 21,680 Value gains and losses – 354 Share capital contributions to associates 9,419 Carrying amount as at 31 December 92,141 88,221 Exchange differences 3,120 8,154 Total movements in the year 35,639 59,598 The loans to associates relate exclusively to the redeemable preference shares in Brisbane Airport Corporation Holdings Pty Ltd (BACH) held by Schiphol Group. Carrying amount as at 31 December 725,048 689,413 The redeemable preference shares includes a cumulative dividend entitlement. The nominal value of these shares is also repayable to the shareholders by 2014 at the latest. On the basis of these features, the redeemable The EUR 9.4 million capital increase realised in 2011 relates to the participation in Schiphol Area Development preference shares, amounting to AUD 116.6 million (EUR 92.1 million), are classified as a long-term loan to Company N.V. As all shareholders have deposited additional capital in proportion to their shareholdings, an associate and the dividend on these shares is treated as interest income. Schiphol’s share in this participation has remained unchanged. The interest accrued concerns the valuation of the redeemable preference shares at amortised cost and part of The investments in 2010 for a total amount of EUR 9.7 million concern the extension of our share in JFK IAT LLC, the interest accrued for the past two and a half years, which the management of BACH in mid 2009 decided not reference is made to note 42. to distribute as yet. Given its cumulative preference nature, however, this interest is still recognised as receivable and financial income. The carrying amount of the investments in associates as at 31 December 2011 includes EUR 244 million of goodwill relating to Aéroports de Paris and EUR 34 million of goodwill relating to Brisbane Airports Corporation Ltd. Where the nominal value is concerned, the currency risk relating to this long-term receivable is hedged by using For both investments, the annual impairment test on goodwill did not indicate a need to recognise an impairannual forward transactions. By means of these transactions, the Australian dollar position is hedged to euros. ment loss. The hedge transactions are recognised as a cash flow hedge. The exchange differences relating to part of the receivable that is not hedged and the period between the successive annual forward transactions are recognised Further details on the associates can be found in the chapter entitled ‘Related Party Disclosures’. in the profit and loss account. The other exchange differences are included in the reserve for hedging transactions Further details on the share in the results of associates can be found in note 11. through the total comprehensive income. The fair value of the loans to associates as at 31 December 2011 amounted to EUR 91.8 million (AUD 116.2 million). The effective interest rate was 10%. The fair value is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at current market interest rates available to the borrower for similar financial instruments. 22. Other financial interests Other financial interests concern the 1% interest in Flughafen Wien AG. The investment is recognised at fair value, derived from the quoted price of the shares. In 2011, the fair value decreased by EUR 4.6 million from EUR 10.8 million to EUR 6.2 million. The decrease in value has been recognised in the other financial interests reserve via total comprehensive income. 192 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 193 23. Lease receivables 24. Loans The movements were as follows: The movements were as follows: (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Carrying amount as at 1 January 5,523 7,489 Carrying amount as at 1 January 4,344 4,170 Movements in the year Movements in the year Accrued interest on lease receivables 855 1,059 Accrued interest 445 195 Lease instalments received – 3,079 – 3,025 Repayments – 2,808 – 85 Other – 390 64 Total movements in the year – 2,224 – 1,966 Total movements in the year – 2,753 174 Carrying amount as at 31 december 3,299 5,523 Carrying amount as at 31 December 1,591 4,344 The lease receivables as at 31 December 2011 are presented in full under current assets (31 December 2010: EUR 2.2 million). The current portion of the other loans as at 31 December 2011, amounting to EUR 0.1 million (31 December 2010: EUR 0.1 million) is presented under current assets. Beheeren beleggingsmaatschappij Balnag B.V. (Balnag – a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schiphol Group) took out a 20-year lease on the air traffic control tower at the centre of the airport from a financing company, Abinton In 2011, the two loans totalling EUR 2.7 million to the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment B.V., in 1992. The control tower was in turn leased to Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) for a similar were repaid early. period. Both contracts qualify as finance leases, resulting in the recognition of a lease receivable under the lease to LVNL and a lease liability to Abinton B.V. On expiry of the lease, LVNL has the option of purchasing the control Also included in other loans is a loan to the Aviodrome with a redemption value of EUR 1.6 million. In view of the tower for a payment of EUR 6.8 million from Balnag. The effective interest rate of the lease contract between Aviodrome’s current financial situation, it was decided in 2007 to recognise a provision covering the loan in full. Balnag and LVNL is 13.0%. Both LVNL and Balnag have decided to invoke their option to purchase. The purchase and sale transaction is expected to be executed in 2012, at the prices agreed to in the leases. 25. Other long-term receivables The composition of the other long-term receivables is as follows: (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Purchased long leases 3,410 3,500 Lease incentives 15,784 19,670 Prepaid assets 15,187 Total other non-current receivables 34,381 23,170 The purchased long leases concern the rent instalments which Schiphol Group paid in advance in respect of land it acquired on a long lease. Lease incentives concerns the cost of benefits which Schiphol Group provided to tenants at the start of their lease. Both items are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the underlying contracts. In establishing the cash flows underlying the determination of the fair value of property, account is taken of the existence of lease incentives. The prepayment of EUR 15.2 million in respect of assets relates to the development of the Cornerstone building located in Rotterdam The Hague Airport at the expense and risk of Dura Vermeer Real Estate, where Schiphol Group paid the purchase price in advance. 194 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 195 26. Assets held for sale The trade and other receivables are included at the fair value of the consideration receivable, which is usually The land which is intended to be sold is presented as assets held for sale. At year-end 2010, this land concerned the face value, less a provision for bad debts. the A4 zone West, an extensive logistics site adjacent to the A4 motorway to the south of the Amsterdam Airport Schiphol cargo zones, and Badhoevedorp Zuid, a site for offices and industrial premises to the north of the Trade receivables as at 31 December 2011 takes account of bad debt provisions of EUR 3.9 million (31 December A4 motorway. 2010: EUR 5.4 million) and received security deposits of EUR 2.2 million (31 December 2010: EUR 2.2 million). With respect to these provisions, an amount of EUR 2.8 million (2010: EUR 0.6 million) was utilised for bad debts In 1987, the municipality of Amsterdam, the municipality of Haarlemmermeer, Schiphol Group and the province and an amount of EUR 1.3 million (2010: EUR 0.2 million) was added and charged to the profit and loss of North-Holland incorporated the land development company Schiphol Area Development Company N.V. (SADC) account in 2011. as a public-private partnership. In December 2005 and November 2009, the shareholders decided in cooperation agreements (known as SADC II and SADC III respectively) to contribute the land at the Badhoevedorp South site As in previous year, the other receivables include an amount of EUR 19.0 million which Schiphol Group paid referred to above to a land bank as yet to be established so as to be able subsequently to develop this area to Chipshol. A more detailed explanation can be found in note 36, dealing with other provisions. together. To this end, GEM Badhoevedorp Zuid C.V. was incorporated in 2011 and Schiphol Group contributed land priced at EUR 20.8 million, which yielded Schiphol Group a direct interest of 19% in this entity, amounting 28. Cash and cash equivalents to EUR 4.3 million. Cash amounts to EUR 413.3 million as at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: 304.2 million) and includes deposits with original terms ranging from 2.5 months to 4 months (average 3.3. months) for EUR 348.8 million In December 1999 and December 2009, the municipality of Haarlemmermeer, Schiphol Real Estate B.V. and SADC as at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: EUR 186.6 million). The average interest rate on these deposits as decided in cooperation agreements (SOK I and SOK II respectively) to jointly acquire and allocate plots in the at 31 December 2011 is 1.4 % (31 December 2010: 1.1%). The cash is freely available. A4 Zone West area. The land in the area was first acquired by the municipality of Haarlemmermeer on behalf of the three land bank partners. When this land is contributed to GEM A4 Zone West C.V., which was incorporated in Cash is included at fair value, which is usually face value. 2011 and in which Schiphol Real Estate B.V. has a direct interest of 33%, the associated costs will be settled between the parties involved. This does not apply to the land that was acquired in 1999, which was financed 29. Issued share capital by the three partners on an equal basis. The authorised share capital as at 31 December 2011 amounts to EUR 142,960,968 divided into 300,000 A shares In 2008 and in 2011, the municipality of Haarlemmermeer decided to acquire four plots, financing the acquisition and 14,892 B shares, each with a nominal value of EUR 454. In total, 171,255 of the A shares and 14,892 of by taking out a loan from Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten. Schiphol Real Estate B.V.’s interest in this will amount to the B shares have been issued. The shareholders’ interests are as follows: EUR 21.5 million, to be increased by financing and acquisition costs. The land still needs to be contributed. (in thousands Furthermore, in 2011 Schiphol Group sold a part of the land it had previously financed with a book value of (in numbers) (percentage) of euros) EUR 2 million to the province of North-Holland, in connection with the construction of the N201 provincial road in the A4 Zone West area. Schiphol Real Estate B.V. subsequently contributed this amount to the GEM A4 Zone Share holder: West C.V. as a limited partner’s capital contribution. State of the Netherlands 129,880 69.77% 58,966 Municipality of Amsterdam 37,276 20.03% 16,923 27. Trade and other receivables Aéroports de Paris 14,892 8.00% 6,761 The analysis is as follows: Municipality of Rotterdam 4,099 2.20% 1,861 (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 186,147 100.00% 84,511 Trade receivables 74,670 71,546 In 2011 there were no changes in the issued share capital. Accrued income 29,327 18,941 Value-added tax reclaimable 15,571 12,793 30. Retained profits Prepayments 13,687 13,059 On a resolution proposed by the Management Board and following Supervisory Board agreement, the General Stock 6,888 6,196 Meeting of Shareholders voted to declare a regular dividend of EUR 76.2 million for 2010. This amount, paid in Lease incentives 3,949 3,731 2011, was deducted from retained profits. The dividend for 2009, which amounted to EUR 64.6 million, was paid Receivable from shareholders and associates 16 915 out in 2010 and deducted from retained profits. Purchased long leases 90 Other receivables 33,773 33,733 The entire amount of the net result for 2011 has been added to retained profits so that retained profits as at 31 December 2011 still includes the proposed dividend distribution for 2011, as detailed in the Other 177,881 161,004 information section. 196 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 197 31. Other reserves Translation differences reserve The movements were as follows: The translation differences reserve is made up of exchange differences arising on the translation of the net investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates outside the Euro zone. Other Exchange financial Hedging Other financial interests reserve difference interests transactions This concerns movements in the fair value of financial interests in which Schiphol Group has neither control (in thousands of euros) reserve reserve reserve Total nor significant influence. Balance as at 31 December 2009 8,478 251 – 4,675 4,054 Hedging transactions reserve This comprises the movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and borrowings used in cash Movements in 2010 flow hedges, net of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Also included in the hedging transactions reserve are the Exchange differences 9,697 9,697 translation differences arising on the translation of loans at closing rates. In both cases, recognition in the Fair value changes 3,450 3,450 hedging transactions reserve requires that the hedge is determined to be highly effective. Exchange differences on hedged borrowings – 34,302 – 34,302 Exchange differences on hedged loans to associates 13,926 13,926 The tax effects of the changes recognised directly in equity via total comprehensive income are as follows: Fair value changes on derivative financial instruments 47,934 47,934 Of which are reported through the profit and loss account 2,042 2,042 (in thousands of euros) Before tax Tax After tax Deferred tax on fair value changes derivative financial instruments – 12,976 – 12,976 Deferred tax on fair value changes borrowings 8,747 8,747 Translation differences 3,795 3,795 Settlement of hedge transactions – 11,723 – 11,723 Changes in fair value on hedge transactions 74,837 19,519 55,318 Adjustment to deferred tax due to a change in tax rate 124 124 Changes in fair value on other financial interests 4,617 4,617 Total movements in the year 9,697 3,450 13,772 26,919 Other Comprehensive income 2011 75,659 19,519 56,140 Balance as at 31 December 2010 18,175 3,701 9,097 30,973 Translation differences 9,697 9,697 Changes in fair value on hedge transactions 18,019 4,229 13,790 Movements in 2011 Changes in fair value on other financial interests 3,450 3,450 Exchange differences 3,795 3,795 Fair value changes – 4,617 – 4,617 Other Comprehensive income 2010 31,166 4,229 26,937 Exchange differences on hedged borrowings – 16,283 – 16,283 Exchange differences on hedged loans to associates 3,017 3,017 Fair value changes on derivative financial instruments – 51,284 – 51,284 Further details of the restrictions on the distribution of reserves can be found in note 45, shareholders’ equity Of which are reported through the profit and loss account 4,664 4,664 included in the corporate balance sheet. Deferred tax on fair value changes derivative financial instruments 15,679 15,679 Deferred tax on fair value changes borrowings 3,840 3,840 32. Minority interests Settlement of hedge transactions – 15,076 – 15,076 Minority interests as at 31 December 2011 represents the shares of third parties in the net assets of the group companies Eindhoven Airport N.V. and Avioport SpA. An abridged balance sheet for these companies has been Total movements in the year 3,795 – 4,617 – 55,443 – 56,265 included in the chapter entitled ‘Related Party Disclosures’ (under ‘subsidiaries’). Balance as at 31 December 2011 21,970 – 916 – 46,346 – 25,292 198 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 199 33. Borrowings The current portion of the borrowings as at 31 December 2011, amounting to EUR 101.8 million The analysis is as follows: (31 December 2010: EUR 122.8 million), is presented under current liabilities. Nominal Year Interest amount Hedging Schiphol Group launched a Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme in 1999, making it possible to raise funds (in thousands of euros) redeemable rate Currency (x 1,000) reference 2011 2010 as required in the years ahead up to a maximum of EUR 2.0 billion, provided the prospectus is updated annually. The prospectus was updated in 2011. As at year-end 2011, borrowings under the programme totalled XS0171966269 2013 4.38% EUR 175,929 175,685 299,593 EUR 1,379.9 million (31 December 2010: EUR 1,361.3 million). Schiphol Group could be obliged to redeem the XS0399674216 2014 6.63% EUR 370,704 369,155 646,959 notes prematurely in the event of specific circumstances commonly stipulated for this type of instrument. XS0495479555 2016 4.46% EUR 50,000 49,927 49,911 No such circumstances arose in 2011. XS0459479472 2016 4.46% EUR 15,000 14,940 14,927 XS0167622454 2018 5.16% EUR 30,000 29,954 29,947 In June 2008, Schiphol Group launched a Euro-Commercial Paper (ECP) programme with a limit of EUR 750 million XS0459479399 2019 4.94% EUR 50,000 49,841 49,821 in addition to the existing EMTN programme. On 31 December 2011, no short-term loans were outstanding under XS0459442710 2019 4.97% EUR 85,000 84,868 84,851 the ECP programme. XS0621167732 2021 4.43% EUR 438,447 404,960 XS0378569247 2038 3.16% JPY 20,000,000 A 200,614 185,252 In April 2011, Schiphol Group acquired a ‘Namensschuldverschreibung’ (registered bond) that grants the group guaranteed financing of EUR 25 million from 2013 at a fixed rate of interest (5.072%). The current book value EMTN programme 1,379,944 1,361,261 consists of the capitalised costs. Namensschuldverschreibung 2023 5.07% EUR 25,000 – 100 Schiphol Group issued so-called Schuldschein notes (fixed-interest loans with terms of 7 and 10 years) for (miv 2013) a nominal amount of EUR 195 million. In principle, the Schuldschein documentation contains the same covenants as the EMTN programme, as well as a ‘change of control’ in combination with a ‘downgrade below investment XF0000NS4ET7 2016 5.38% EUR 84,000 83,721 83,652 grade’ for early redemption. XF0000NS4FH9 2016 5.45% EUR 40,000 39,929 39,912 XF0000NS4FX6 2016 5.12% EUR 10,000 9,982 9,978 In 2002 the company contracted a facility of EUR 150.0 million with the European Investment Bank. This amount XF0000NS4DN2 2019 5.75% EUR 50,000 49,099 48,972 was drawn down in 2003. Repayment commenced in August 2006, involving ten six-monthly instalments. The XF0000NS4PP1 2019 5.50% EUR 11,000 10,784 10,754 final part of this loan was repaid in February 2011. Schuldschein 193,515 193,268 In 2010, Schiphol Group contracted a facility of EUR 350 million with the European Investment Bank. This loan had not yet been drawn as at 31 December 2010. As at 31 December 2011 a number of withdrawals totalling European Investment Bank 2031 3.95% EUR 180,000 175,500 EUR 180 million have been made from this facility (of which EUR 4.5 million has since been repaid). Schiphol European Investment Bank 2006-2011 3.75% EUR 150,000 16,285 Group could be obliged to repay the loan prematurely if (in addition to the usual circumstances) other loans are ING RA Finance 2012 Euribor+mark-up EUR 26,559 26,559 26,168 repaid early or shareholders’ equity falls below 30% of total assets. Additional security will be demanded if the ABN AMRO 2011 Euribor+mark-up EUR 12,796 12,608 credit rating is BBB or lower (S&P) or Baa2 or lower (Moody’s). In addition, the loan agreement contains ING Bank 2012 Euribor+mark-up EUR 5,781 5,781 5,696 a ‘change of control’ clause. ING Bank 2012 Euribor+mark-up EUR 14,586 14,586 14,373 ING Bank 2012 Euribor+mark-up EUR 15,224 15,224 15,000 The debt raised under the EMTN programme, the ECP programme and the loan facility with the European ABN AMRO 2011 Euribor+mark-up EUR 18,511 18,239 Investment Bank are not subordinate to other liabilities and are eligible for voluntary early repayment. ING Bank 2012 Euribor+mark-up EUR 9,051 9,051 8,917 ABN AMRO 2011 Euribor+mark-up EUR 2,782 2,742 In December 2011, AREB C.V. contracted a facility of EUR 195 million from Svenska Handelsbanken, with a term ABN AMRO 2011 Euribor+mark-up EUR 2,293 2,259 of four years and six months. On 4 January 2012, EUR 181 million was withdrawn from this facility (our portion amounted to EUR 110 million), which was used to redeem the existing loans of AREB C.V. partly in December 2011 AREB C.V. loans 71,201 106,002 and partly in January 2012. The new loan is a mortgage loan and is subject to mandatory early redemption if the amount of the loan exceeds Villa Carmen phase 1 2012 Euribor+mark-up EUR 14,100 1,864 2,160 60% of the appraised value of the financed properties. To provide collateral security for the repayment, AREB C.V. Avioport phase 2 2012 Euribor+mark-up EUR 21,750 17,249 15,926 has granted Svenska Handelsbanken a lien on the receivables relating to the leasehold and rental rights enjoyed Avioport phase 1 2013 Euribor+mark-up EUR 28,000 G 28,000 28,000 by the property company vis-à-vis the tenants of the properties in its portfolio as at balance sheet date. AREB C.V. Other 8,538 9,171 has also pledged all existing and future rent receivables relating to the property that are already available for pledging. Furthermore, AREB C.V. has pledged all claims and all rights derived from insurance policies with Other borrowings 55,651 55,257 respect to the properties. Total borrowings 1,875,711 1,732,073 200 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 201 Villa Carmen Srl (a subsidiary of the joint venture Villa Carmen B.V., in which Schiphol Group owns a 47.44% The derivative financial instruments comprise the following contracts, with the references relating to various interest) arranged a mortgage loan with three banks (Banca Popolare di Lodi, Banca Popolare Italiana and loans in the analysis of borrowings. Unicredit) for a total amount of EUR 33.1 million (our proportional share being EUR 14.1 million). As at 31 December 2011, the outstanding amount of this loan is EUR 3.9 million (our proportional share being Fair value in thousands of euros EUR 1.9 million). Reference Counterparty Type Interest Currency Nominal amount Maturity 31 December 31 December rate (x1000) rate 2011 2010 Avioport SpA (a 70% subsidiary of Schiphol Group) arranged a mortgage loan with two banks (Banca Popolare di Lodi and Banca Popolare Italiana) for a total amount of EUR 49.8 million (EUR 28.0 million for phase 1 and A JP Morgan Currency 3.16% JPY 20,000,000 2038 – 89,565 – 89,415 EUR 21.8 million for phase 2). Of this loan, EUR 45.3 million was utilised as at 31 December 2011 (EUR 28.0 million swap for phase 1 and EUR 17.2 million for phase 2). The collateral for phase 1 consists of the buildings, the shares and B RBS Rate swap 4.03% EUR 370,000 2024 39,968 the rental income, while the collateral for phase 2 is the entire project. Furthermore, the shareholders have C JP Morgan Rate swap 3.93% EUR 150,000 2023 16,590 committed themselves to contributing financial resources – in addition to the aforementioned loan – in order D ING Rate swap 2.95% EUR 24,461 2016 1,704 to fund the overall project. E ING Rate swap 2.83% EUR 24,461 2016 1,550 F ABN AMRO Rate swap 3.40% EUR 24,461 2016 2,279 In October 2011 Schiphol Group refinanced its EUR 175 million syndicated and committed one-year facility by G BPL Rate swap 4.32% EUR 21,000 2013 909 1,464 means of a syndicated and committed five-year facility for the same sum of EUR 175 million. H ING Forward N/A AUD 113,000 2012 6,311 H ING Forward N/A AUD 51,300 2011 7,550 Of the total loan amount, EUR 200.6 million has been drawn in Japanese yen (JPY 20 billion). In line with the H ING Forward N/A AUD 50,000 2011 7,358 financial risk management policy, interest rate swaps, currency swaps and, in some cases, combined currency and ING Rate swap 4.84% EUR 13,729 2011 385 interest rate swaps have been contracted on the loans to hedge the risks inherent in exposure to movements in ING Rate swap 4.12% EUR 15,411 2011 452 interest rates and exchange rates. In principle, the transactions concerned correspond to the underlying loans in ING Rate swap 5.11% EUR 9,051 2011 359 all relevant characteristics, such as maturity, amount and so on, and hedge the positions with respect to the ABN AMRO Rate swap 5.16% EUR 2,782 2011 75 euro or to either fixed or capped interest rates, or both. All hedging transactions are accounted for as ABN AMRO Rate swap 5.16% EUR 2,293 2011 62 cash flow hedges. BPL Rate swap 4.30% EUR 12,041 2011 172 Total – 20,254 – 71,538 Recognised in the balance sheet under: Non-current assets – 89,565 – 89,415 Non-current liabilities 63,000 1,464 Current liabilities 6,311 16,413 – 20,254 – 71,538 Schiphol Group’s risk in respect of the currency swap (reference A) is mitigated by a cash collateral agreement with JPMorgan, which results in a maximum net position for both parties depending on the parties’ credit rating. If the credit rating of either party is reduced, the maximum net position for that party will decrease as well. Under the cash collateral agreement, the difference between the market value of the swap and the applicable maximum net position is paid weekly through the bank. 202 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 203 As at 31 December 2011, the maximum net position of both parties amounted to EUR 10 million Carrying amount Fair value (EUR 10 million as at 31 December 2010) while the market value of the swap was approximately EUR 89.6 million (in thousands of euros) as at 31 December 2010 as at 31 December 2010 (EUR 89.4 million as at 31 December 2010) in Schiphol Group’s favour. As at 31 December 2011 JPMorgan paid Schiphol Group EUR 77.6 million (EUR 79.0 million as at 31 December 2010) (cash) by way of collateral. EMTN programme 1,361,261 1,574,300 Schuldschein 193,268 234,500 References B and C relate to two forward-starting interest-rate swaps acquired in May 2011 which principally European Investment Bank 16,285 16,600 fixed the interest rates at which outstanding EMTN loans can be refinanced in 2013 and 2014. AREB C.V. borrowings 106,002 106,002 Other borrowings 55,257 55,258 References D, E en F relate to three forward-starting interest rate swaps acquired in April, May and June 2011 which fixed the interest rates at which part of the loans of AREB C.V. will be refinanced in January 2012. Total borrowings 1,732,073 1,986,660 Reference H relates to the derivative financial instrument for hedging the translation differences on the redeemable preference shares presented in loans to associates. The fair value is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows using the current market interest rates available to the borrower for similar financial instruments. The interest rates shown against the various currency swaps and interest rate swaps and the combined currency The movements in borrowings during the year were as follows: and interest rate swap are the fixed rates at which interest is payable to the counterparty, for which interest at the variable (or fixed) rate that Schiphol Group in turn has to pay on the loans concerned is receivable from Borrowings Borrowings the counterparty. (in thousands of euros) > 1 year <= 1 year Total The remaining terms of the borrowings as at 31 December 2011 can be analysed as follows. The portion of Carrying amount as at 31 December 2009 1,847,114 60,750 1,907,864 the borrowings due within one year is presented under current liabilities. Movements in 2010 New borrowings 116 116 (in thousands of euros) Total ≤ 1 year > 1 year > 1 year but > 5 years Accrued interest 514 514 ≤ 5 years Transferred to current liabilities – 122,756 122,756 Repayments – 151,192 – 60,750 – 211,942 EMTN programme 1,379,944 – 4,563 1,384,507 596,154 788,353 Exchange differences 34,302 34,302 Namensschuldverschreibung – 100 – 100 – 100 Other movements 1,219 1,219 Schuldschein 193,515 – 246 193,761 133,095 60,666 European Investment Bank 175,500 9,000 166,500 36,000 130,500 Total movements in the year – 237,797 62,006 – 175,791 AREB C.V. borrowings 71,201 71,201 Other borrowings 55,651 26,441 29,209 28,982 227 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2010 1,609,317 122,756 1,732,073 Total borrowings 1,875,711 101.834 1.773.877 794.131 979.746 Movements in 2011 New borrowings 583,034 583,034 Accrued interest 4,216 4,216 The total carrying amount of the borrowings (at amortised cost) has the following fair value analysis: Transferred to current liabilities – 101,834 101,834 Repayments – 338,014 – 122,756 – 460,770 Carrying amount Fair value Deconsolidations – 425 – 425 (in thousands of euros) as at 31 December 2011 as at 31 December 2011 Acquisitions 1,584 1,584 Exchange differences 16,283 16,283 EMTN programme 1,379,944 1,627,600 Other movements – 284 – 284 Namensschuldverschreibung – 100 3,100 Schuldschein 193,515 239,100 Total movements in the year 164,560 – 20,922 143,638 European Investment Bank 175,500 209,400 AREB C.V. borrowings 71,201 71,201 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2011 1,773,877 101,834 1,875,711 Other borrowings 55,651 55,651 Total borrowings 1,875,711 2,206,052 204 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 205 On 28 April 2011, Schiphol Group successfully placed a new bond loan of EUR 438 million with a maturity of The remaining terms of the lease liabilities as at 31 December 2011 can be analysed as follows. The portion of the 10 years. Schiphol Group used the net proceeds of this bond issue to finance the purchase of bond loans with lease liabilities due within one year is presented under current liabilities. a nominal value of EUR 403 million. By buying back a portion of two existing bonds loans with maturities up to 2013 and 2014, the term of Schiphol Group’s debt has effectively been extended while the transaction took (in thousands of euros) Total ≤ 1 year > 1 year > 1 year but > 5 years advantage of favourable market conditions. This transaction together with the previous buy-back in 2010 resulted ≤ 5 years in a reduction of the repayment commitments in 2013 and 2014 to approximately EUR 545 million. Face value of finance lease instalments 115,177 9,955 105,223 20,285 84,937 Schiphol Group’s financial instruments comprise the borrowings and derivative financial instruments described in Interest component in finance lease instalments – 56,666 – 4,041 – 52,626 – 14,093 – 38,532 this note, as well as the loans to associates (21), other financial interests (22), loans (24), trade and other receivables (27), cash and cash equivalents (28), a number of items under the other non-current liabilities (37) and trade Carrying amount of finance lease liabilities 58,511 5,914 52,597 6,192 46,405 and other payables (39). Further information on these financial instruments can be found in the notes shown in brackets. The movements in the lease liabilities during the year were as follows: 34. Lease liabilities The analysis is as follows: (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Effective Expiry date Carrying amount as at 1 January 113,648 117,777 (in thousands of euros) Counterparty interest rate of lease 2011 2010 Movements in the year P1 car park / walkway ABP 6.7% 2035 52,394 Accrued interest on lease liabilities 5,550 9,515 Triport ABP 7.0% 2034 52,649 53,666 Lease instalments paid – 61,377 – 13,644 Control tower Abinton B.V. 7.7% 2012 4,222 6,121 Finance lease-investments 690 Other 1,640 1,467 Total movements in the year – 55,137 – 4,129 Total lease liabilities 58,511 113,648 Carrying amount as at 31 December 58,511 113,648 The current portion of the lease liabilities as at 31 December 2011, amounting to EUR 5.9 million (31 December 2010: EUR 55.7million), is presented under current liabilities. In April 2011, Schiphol Group repaid the 40-year lease agreement before maturity with regard to the P1 car park and related walkway for a total of EUR 53.5 million. The Triport office building contract with ABP runs for a total of 40 years, with options to cancel the lease after 25 years and again after 30 years. If the lease is cancelled before the end of the 40-year period, Schiphol Group will be liable to pay a lump sum and penalty interest, by which the buildings will become the property of Schiphol Group. The rent will be increased annually in line with the consumer price index. The leasehold of the land on which the Triport buildings stand has been granted to ABP for the duration of the lease. Beheeren beleggingsmaatschappij Balnag B.V. (Balnag – a 100% subsidiary of Schiphol Group) also leases the air traffic control tower at the centre of the airport from a financing company, Abinton B.V., on a 20-year lease taken out in 1992. The control tower is in turn leased to Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) for a similar period. Both contracts qualify as finance leases. The receivable under the lease to LVNL is included in lease receivables. On expiry of the lease Balnag has the option of purchasing the control tower from Abinton B.V. for a payment of EUR 2.1 million. Both LVNL and Balnag have decided to invoke their option to purchase. The purchase and sale transaction is expected to be executed at the prices agreed to in the leases. 206 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 207 35. Employee benefits As regards these pension schemes, the developments in the present value of benefit obligation, the fair value of The employee benefits concern the following net liabilities: plan assets and the actuarial gains and losses not taken into account have been as follows in recent years: Post-employment Other long-term Termination (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands of euros) benefits employee benefits benefits Total Carrying amount as at 31 December Carrying amount as at 31 December 2010 Present value of benefit obligation 11,964 10,780 18,904 15,440 16,585 Present value of benefit obligation 34,370 10,557 2,557 47,484 Fair value of plan assets 10,475 9,253 14,645 12,036 13,631 Fair value of plan assets 9,253 9,253 1,489 1,527 4,259 3,404 2,954 25,117 10,557 2,557 38,231 Unrecognised actuarial gains and losses – 1,527 – 1,615 – 3,139 – 1,729 – 951 Unrecognised actuarial gains and losses – 2,640 – 66 – 2,706 Benefit liability in the balance sheet – 38 – 88 1,120 1,675 2,003 Benefit liability in the balance sheet 22,477 10,557 2,491 35,525 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2011 The different employee benefits gave rise to the following net benefit expense in the year: Present value of benefit obligation 34,167 10,229 1,981 46,377 Fair value of plan assets 10,475 10,475 Post-employment Other long-term Termination (in thousands of euros) benefits employee benefits benefits Total 23,692 10,229 1,981 35,902 Current service cost 1,699 1,345 655 3,699 Unrecognised actuarial gains and losses – 2,610 – 65 – 2,675 Interest cost on benefit obligation 2,074 334 48 2,456 Net actuarial gain/loss recognised in 76 – 240 – 164 Benefit liability in the balance sheet 21,082 10,229 1,916 33,227 the year Released (as a result of amended – 18 – 18 plan terms) Post-employment benefits consist of retirement benefits (defined benefit), job-related early retirement benefits Expected return on plan assets 63 63 and pensioners’ medical expenses. Other costs – 125 – 44 – 55 – 224 Other long-term employee benefits consist of long-term service pay, (long-term) variable pay, paid sabbatical Total net benefit expense in 2009 3,787 1,395 630 5,812 leave and incapacity benefit supplements. Current service cost 1,163 1,519 1,666 4,348 Termination benefits consist of redundancy pay, special early retirement benefits and unemployment benefit Interest cost on benefit obligation 1,536 315 36 1,887 supplements other than those included in the provision relating to the reorganisation. Net actuarial gain/loss recognised 42 – 509 – 467 in the year The defined benefit pension scheme which ABP administers on Schiphol Group’s behalf is recognised as a defined Expected return on plan assets – 219 – 219 contribution scheme. A more detailed explanation of this scheme can be found in note 40. The pension schemes Other costs – 21 –6 – 27 of a number of subsidiaries that also qualify as defined benefit schemes are indeed recognised as such. Total net benefit expense in 2010 2,522 1,304 1,696 5,522 208 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 209 With regard to the defined benefit pension schemes, under post-employment benefits a total expense The employee benefit liabilities have been calculated on the basis of the following actuarial assumptions and of EUR 1.7 million is expected for the employer in 2012. In 2011, the actual expenses under these schemes estimates on the part of management: amounted to EUR 0.9 million, as explained in note 5, dealing with employee benefits. 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 The movements resulting from the relevant employee benefit liabilities during the year were as follows: Discount rate 4.75% 4.75% Post-employment Other long-term Termination Return on plan assets 4.75% 4.75% (in thousands of euros) benefits employee benefits benefits Total Inflation 2.00% 2.00% General pay increase 2.00% 2.00% Carrying amount as at 31 December 2009 25,042 10,656 2,636 38,334 Life expectancy Forecast table 2060 with adjustment Forecast table 2060 with adjustment factors geared to the company’s factors geared to the company’s Movements in 2010 average salary level average salary level Total net benefit expense for the year 3,787 1,395 630 5,812 Individual pay rises, depending on age 4.00% (age untill 39), 3.00% (age 40-49), 4.00% (age untill 39), 3.00% (age 40-49), Benefits paid during the year – 2,990 – 1,294 – 950 – 5,234 2.00% (age 50-59), 2.00% (age 60-65) 2.00% (age 50-59), 2.00% (age 60-65) Payment of contributions – 1,384 – 172 – 1,556 Age difference Men 3 years older than female Men 3 years older than female Changes in the consolidation – 1,996 – 198 2,194 partners partners Other movements 18 –1 346 363 Incapacity risk UKV 2007-IV, based on inflow UKV 2007-IV, based on inflow Total movements in the year – 2,565 – 98 – 146 – 2,809 2006 and 2007 2006 and 2007 Termination probability, 0.10% (age 60) to 4.20% 0.10% (age 60) to 4.20% Carrying amount as at 31 December 2010 22,477 10,558 2,490 35,525 depending on age (age 25) (age 25) Movements in 2011 Continued service probability 100% 100% Total net benefit expense for the year 2,522 1,304 1,696 5,522 (job-related early retirement scheme) Benefits paid during the year – 3,150 – 1,598 – 1,123 – 5,871 Payment of contributions – 923 – 174 – 1,097 Other movements 156 – 34 – 974 – 852 For further details of the obligations under the pension scheme insured with ABP, see the contingent assets and liabilities note. Total movements in the year – 1,395 – 328 – 575 – 2,298 36. Other provisions Carrying amount as at 31 December 2011 21,082 10,230 1,915 33,227 The reorganisation and the related costs are further clarified in note 8. As at 31 December 2011 a provision of EUR 7.8 million remained in respect of this reorganisation (31 December 2010: EUR 19.6 million). Among other things, the provision relates to the temporary continued pay of redundant staff and the costs of accompaniment other employment, benefits for participants in the FPU senior staff scheme until their retirement, non-recurrent transfer payments to staff members in subcontracting projects, and other arrangements with individual employees. Schiphol Group faces a liability in connection with several claims and disputes. As in 2010, the provision of EUR 10.0 million recognised in respect of the combined amount of these claims and disputes in 2004 remained unchanged in 2011. The most important of the above claims and disputes concerns the consequences of the ban on the development of the Groenenberg terrain that was in place from 19 February 2003 to 28 June 2007. Based on the insights available in 2003, development of the Groenenberg terrain could seriously compromise the use of Runway 18L–36R. In February 2003, The State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Environment accordingly prohibited development of this terrain under the provisions of Section 38 of the Aviation Act (old act). In June 2003, the beneficial owner of the terrain (Chipshol) filed a claim against Schiphol Group under Section 50 of the Aviation Act for the losses resulting from the imposition of this prohibition. 210 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 211 Based on enhanced insight and new data, the Minister decided that it was no longer necessary to maintain the 37. Other non-current liabilities ban for the entire terrain. On 28 June 2007, in response to the request from Schiphol Group and Chipshol, the The analysis of the other non-current liabilities is as follows: Minister of Infrastructure and Environment lifted the development ban. The law provides for a scheme to deal with value increases when bans are lifted, similar to the compensation provided for when a development ban is (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 imposed. This is known as the separate repayment proceedings under Section 55 of the Aviation Act. Schiphol Group instituted such proceedings against Chipshol before the Court of Haarlem. Purchased long leases 84,895 86,396 Unrealised profit on contribution in kind Schiphol Logistics Park C.V. 3,646 3,646 In 2007, Schiphol Group paid an advance of EUR 19.0 million (EUR 16.0 million plus interest) to Chipshol in compliLiability to Stichting Mainport en Groen 2,150 ance with an interlocutory decision in the proceedings under Section 50. To hedge the restitution risk with respect Lease incentives 209 152 to that amount, Chipshol was instructed by the Court to provide a bank guarantee for Schiphol Group in the Other movements 1,084 1,442 amount of EUR 21.5 million. 89,834 93,786 In its final decision of 30 January 2008 the Court, by virtue of Section 50 of the Aviation Act, set the compensation amount which Schiphol Group should pay to Chipshol at EUR 16.0 million (to be increased by statutory interest). Chipshol’s claim regarding tax damage was rejected. Both parties lodged appeals in cassation against the The purchased long leases concern the rent instalments which Schiphol Group received in advance in respect of interlocutory decisions and the final decision. The airport has instituted proceedings under Section 55 land leased out to third parties on a long lease. This item is credited to the profit and loss account over the term of the Aviation Act to establish the increase in the value of the land on the Groenenberg terrain since the of the underlying contracts. development ban was lifted, in order to determine the amount to be paid by Chipshol or to be deducted from the advance payable by Schiphol Group. The Court ruled in the proceedings that the security for restitution In 2006, SRE B.V. contributed land to Schiphol Logistics Park C.V. and in so doing acquired an interest in this risk will remain in place. company in excess of 38%. The difference between the fair value of the site at the time of its contribution, amounting to EUR 23.7 million, and the total historical cost of the site, of EUR 11.7 million is EUR 12 million. On 19 February 2010, the Supreme Court pronounced judgment in the proceedings under Section 50 of the Applying the accounting policies, an amount in excess of 38% of this profit, representing SRE B.V.’s share in Aviation Act, ruling that the final decision of the Court of Haarlem on 30 January 2008 could not be upheld. Schiphol Logistics Park C.V., or EUR 4.6 million, should be treated as unrealised. In 2009 this profit was partly It was ruled that Chipshol is entitled to compensation as a result of the imposition of the development ban realised when part of the land was sold. but that Schiphol Group is likewise entitled to compensation for the value increase as a consequence of the ban having been lifted. The amount of this compensation will be determined by the Court of Amsterdam, whereby Schiphol Group made EUR 8.5 million available to Stichting Mainport en Groen, which amount was charged to consideration must be given to aspects such as Chipshol’s own fault, double counting of settlements which the financial year 2006. This amount was promised in 1996, on which occasion it was agreed that payment would Chipshol effected with the municipality of Haarlemmermeer and the province of North-Holland on the one take place on the basis of more detailed plans. As at 31 December 2011 the final instalment of 25% was hand and the non-recognised component of tax damage on the other. recognised under ‘current liabilities’. Stichting Mainport en Groen is dedicated to creating an attractive green landscape around Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. The Court of Haarlem has since pronounced final judgment in the case regarding compensation under Section 55 of the Aviation Act in connection with the ban on development of the Groenenberg terrain. The judgment is Lease incentives concern the cost of benefits which Schiphol Group provided to tenants at the start of their lease. particularly procedural in nature and has identified the judicial authority that is ultimately to decide in this case These are credited to the profit and loss account over the period during which the lease incentives apply. with respect to the level of any compensation to be paid (which will be the Amsterdam Court of Appeal). Chipshol has announced that it will (again) appeal against the judgment with the Dutch Supreme Court. Shortly thereafter, on 27 December 2011, the Amsterdam Court of Appeal issued an interlocutory ruling in which it more precisely described the instruction of the Supreme Court to further examine the most important outstanding issues and in which it answered a number of questions. One of the most important decisions of the court of appeal is that it is bound by all decisions previously taken. This decision means the court rejected all attempts by Chipshol to again discredit the experts (or judges) of the Court of Haarlem or to resume from the beginning the case about the level of the compensation or to introduce new elements to the proceedings. The court of appeal follows the ‘blueprint’ that the Supreme Court provided and will probably appoint experts. The court of appeal’s next ruling or interlocutory ruling is set for December 2012 as Chipshol’s appeal to the Supreme Court must first be submitted. In view of the foregoing, the Management Board is of the opinion that no adjustment is required to the estimate it made of Schiphol Group’s net liabilities towards Chipshol. The Board expects that the remaining amount of the compensation which Schiphol Group will eventually have to pay to Chipshol with regard to the Groenenberg terrain will not exceed the provision made in this respect. 212 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 213 38. Corporate income tax 40. Contingent assets and liabilities The corporate income tax liability is calculated on the profit for reporting purposes, allowing for permanent differences between the profit as calculated for reporting purposes and for tax purposes. The corporate income Pension scheme tax liability on the fair value gains and losses (in the Netherlands) is recognised in the provision for deferred tax Schiphol Group’s pension scheme is administered by ABP. Based on the formal terms of the pension scheme, assets and liabilities. The corporate income tax receivable of EUR 3.1 million shown in the balance sheet as at it qualifies as a defined benefit plan. This means that Schiphol Group ought to present its share of the present 31 December 2011 concerns the sum of the corporate income tax payable in respect of the years 2010–2011 net value of the defined benefit obligation, plan tassets and income and expenses arising out of the scheme, of provisional assessments already paid. including related disclosures. However, Schiphol Group does not have access to sufficient information to apply the proper method of accounting for defined benefit plans. ABP is currently not in a position to supply the The corporate income tax return for 2009 was discussed with the tax inspector and recognised accordingly in information necessary in order to account for the pension scheme as a defined benefit plan. There is no consistent these financial statements. The corporate income tax returns for 2010 and 2011 have not yet been filed and and reliable basis for allocating the benefit obligations, plan assets and costs of the ABP scheme to individual may potentially result in reclassification of existing short-term corporate income tax liabilities to deferred affiliated employers participating in the plan because the schemes of the affiliated employers are exposed to tax liabilities. actuarial risks associated with the existing and former employees of other affiliated employers. The scheme is consequently accounted for as a defined contribution plan. Schiphol Group recognises the pension contributions Differences between the corporate income tax paid according to the cash flow statement and the corporate payable to ABP as an expense in the profit and loss account. income tax recognised in the profit and loss account concern additions to and withdrawals from deferred tax assets and liabilities, estimation differences between taxable amounts in provisional and final tax assessments, With regard to Schiphol Group’s share in surpluses or deficits of the pension fund, it should be noted that the and settlements in respect of previous years. pension scheme does not contain any provisions whatsoever concerning additional contributions to the fund or withdrawals from the fund. For Schiphol Group, therefore, any surpluses and deficits will result exclusively in 39. Trade and other payables changes in the amount of the contributions payable in the future, which will depend on the financial position The analysis is as follows: of the pension fund (and expectations in that regard), as reflected in the funding ratio. As at 31 December 2011, ABP’s funding ratio was 94%. ABP must take measures to ensure that it recovers its financial soundness. These (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 measures consist of, on the one hand, a possible reduction in the pensions from 1 April 2013 (pension claims of workers and pension rights of retired individuals) if the funding ratio is still insufficient on 31 December 2012 Trade payables 95,767 76,556 and, on the other, an increase of the temporary pension contribution to restore the financial position from 1% Payable to shareholders and associates 7 780 to 3% in 2012. Payable in respect of wage tax and social security contributions 4,803 5,040 Payable in respect of pensions 2,186 2,130 Covenants on the future development of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Interest payable 58,735 63,423 The Alders Platform was created in December 2006 and is a consultative forum presided over by Mr Hans Alders. Liability to Stichting Mainport en Groen 2,150 2,150 Its purpose is to advise the Government on balancing the requirements of aviation growth at Amsterdam Airport Accruals 95,934 84,025 Schiphol, nuisance reduction and local environmental quality for the short term (up to and including 2010) and Settlement airport charges 15,100 the medium term (up to and including 2020). All the parties involved are represented in the Alders Platform: Deferred income 39,030 36,632 the State (representatives of the Ministries of Infrastructure and Environment (I&M)), the aviation parties Purchased long leases 1,643 1,838 (Schiphol Group, Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) and KLM), a number of regional and local authorities Lease incentives 657 612 (the provinces of North-Holland and South-Holland, the municipalities of Haarlemmermeer, Amstelveen, Other payables 88,445 89,511 Uitgeest and Amsterdam) united in the Schiphol Regional Airport Governance Group (BRS), residents living in the vicinity of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol via the Schiphol Regional Consultative Committee (CROS), and the 404,457 362,697 Association of Joint Platforms (VGP). On 1 October 2008, the Alders Platform presented its advice for the medium term (up to 2020) to the Minister of I&M. The details of this advice were elaborated in three covenants: ‘Local environmental quality for the medium term’, ‘Disturbance reduction and development of Amsterdam The higher result for the 2011 financial year, of the regulated reporting segments Aviation and Security is Airport Schiphol for the medium term’ and ‘Maintaining and strengthening the main-port function and estimated to amount to EUR 15.1 million. Schiphol Group has decided to accelerate the set-off of this result network quality’. by repaying it on a short notice through credit notes. The parties involved have been performing the agreements since 1 October 2008 . Progress is discussed within the The collateral of approximately EUR 77.6 million paid up under the cash collateral agreement with JPMorgan Alders Platform at least twice a year. The first agreements made are expected to be reviewed in 2012 in terms of, was recognised under ‘other payables’ as at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: EUR 79.0 million). among other things, timing and mutual consistency with sub agreements concerning regional airports. The trade and other payables are included at fair value, which is usually the face value. On 1 November 2010, a two-year experiment was started in respect of a new noise reduction system for Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. The purpose of the new noise reduction system is to maintain the network of connections at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and to provide equal or better protection to the local community. In addition, the system should not be complicated and should be easy to explain. During the experiment, 214 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 215 the present system with limit values at measurement points will remain in force. If it appears that the limit values In the spring of 2007 Schiphol Group and the municipality of Haarlemmermeer reached agreement about within the current system are about to be exceeded as a result of the experiment, an ‘experimental scheme’ with an additional contribution of EUR 14.8 million from the Elzenhof area development for the rerouting of the replacement limit values can be drawn up. The Alders Platform has concluded that the use of the runway system A9 motorway. This amount is indexed and amounted to a total of EUR 15.6 million in 2011. As a condition for at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol must be such as to affect the lowest number of people on a consistent basis. this contribution, Schiphol Group stipulated that irreversible planning permission be given to the development of 100,000 m2 of the Elzenhof area that it owns. This permission was given concrete form in the new Schiphol Covenant on the quality of the local environment for the medium term zoning plan adopted by the Municipal Council on 24 November 2011. The time at which and instalments in The arrangements to be made under this covenant concern area-specific projects (improvement of the quality which the contribution referred to will be paid by Schiphol Group depends on the time at which the zoning of the local environment in particular areas), individual measures (mitigation in individual cases of noise-related plan becomes irrevocable. distress) and generic arrangements. Schiphol Group has provided EUR 10 million (chargeable to the financial year 2006) for the term to 2010, earmarked exclusively for the funding of individual measures in distress cases. The Rerouting of the N201 State and the province of North-Holland have also provided EUR 10 million each in order to fund all the above In 2005, an agreement was concluded between the province of North-Holland and Schiphol Nederland B.V. measures. Furthermore, if the chosen approach proves to be successful when measured against the substantive concerning the financing of the project to reroute the N201 provincial road between Uithoorn and Hoofddorp. criteria from the covenant, the process and the availability of projects whose primary financing has been Under the terms of the agreement, Schiphol Nederland B.V. has promised to contribute up to EUR 5.0 million in arranged, the three parties intend to provide a second amount of EUR 10 million each for the medium term (up cash (payable on completion in equal annual instalments) and up to EUR 7.0 million in kind. Conditions relating to 2020). In 2012 the parties will evaluate the approach and determine whether a second tranche is opportune. to completion of those parts of the project of material importance to Schiphol Group, guarantees regarding the airport’s strategic and immediate interests and position as a main port, cost-effectiveness of the expenditure and Covenant on disturbance reduction and development of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol for the medium term transparency with regard to financial reporting have been attached to this contribution. This covenant includes arrangements on subjects such as traffic volume and selectivity (a maximum traffic volume The first instalment of the contribution in cash will become due and payable one year after the required changes of 580,000 air transport movements per annum until 2020, of which 70,000 elsewhere). With regard to disturin the zoning plan regarding those elements of the project that are most essential to Schiphol Group have bance-reducing measures Schiphol Group specifically undertakes, whether on its own or in collaboration with become irreversible. According to current expectations, this will be the case in 2012. other parties, to optimise a number of flight routes, to develop glide approaches, to take measures restricting In anticipation of our obligation becoming irrevocable, the contribution in kind is already given shape with effect ground-noise levels, to discourage operations with ‘bottom Chapter 3’ aircraft (marginally conforming aircraft), from 2005 in the secondment of staff members of Schiphol Group or third parties, working in the area of project to objectify criteria for prioritising the installation of new noise monitoring points and to provide insight into the management and/or services supporting project management. current quality assurance of the NOMOS system, to develop an environmental simulator providing insight into ground noise perception, and to extend the provision of information via the Local Community Contact Centre Water sanitation plan Schiphol (Bas). To improve the quality of the surface water in the long term, a sanitation plan was drawn up in 2007 to reduce the harmful effects of de-icing. The sanitation plan includes source-reducing and infrastructure-related measures Covenant on maintaining and strengthening the main-port function and network quality like the use of sand on taxiways and aircraft stands as a means to counter snow and slipperiness and the mechaThe parties are making every effort to ensure that the additional capacity at the regional airports of around nical removal of the pollution by suction before it is dispersed by rainfall. The plan’s feasibility depends on the 35,000 air transport movements in total can be realised as the limit of 95% of the 510,000 air transport extent to which it is supported by the Rijnland Water Board. At the beginning of June 2011, the Water Board movements is attained, in line with the Alders Platform. The aviation market is expected to recover in the coming issued a management resolution stating that there was support for the measures that Schiphol Group had years in line with the economic expectations. This means that the airport capacity at Amsterdam Airport proposed within the framework of this sanitation plan. Implementation of the plan is expected to take until Schiphol will probably become insufficient at a later stage. 2015 inclusive. The realisation of airport capacity at the regional airports requires planning procedures and other preparatory Schiphol Group’s Management Board is not yet in a position to make a reliable estimate of the investments activities before actual additional capacity becomes available. The average completion time of these procedures and costs that the group will have to bear in the coming years in connection with the sanitation plan. and activities and the stakeholders’ involvement in making and implementing decisions require a well-timed and careful process. For this reason, the parties will adhere to the arrangements made in the covenant, which will Compensation for nitrogen dioxide now be effectuated at a later stage. Schiphol Group, in cooperation with the Ministry I&M, is developing In 2010, the amended ‘Airport Traffic Ruling’ (LVB) entered into force. The LVB is geared towards controlling measures to stimulate the transfer of non main-port related traffic to the regional airports. the environmental impact of the air traffic to and from Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Among other things, this ruling includes measures which will more than compensate for the expected increase in nitrogen dioxide Rerouting of the A9 concentrations. The amended ruling provides that Schiphol Group will annually, from 2010, install fixed power In 2005, an agreement was concluded between the State of the Netherlands, the province of North-Holland, the points and preconditioned air units at 15 aircraft stands. At the end of year 2014, there will be 61 aircraft stands municipality of Haarlemmermeer, the Amsterdam Regional Body, the municipality of Amsterdam and Schiphol where electricity is provided. Nederland B.V. concerning the financing of the project to reroute the A9 motorway at Badhoevedorp. Schiphol Nederland B.V. has undertaken to pay a conditional contribution towards the costs of up to EUR 15.0 million, The current estimate is that Schiphol Group will have to invest EUR 8 million in the coming years to have the provided that the rerouting of the A9 meets the conditions it has set in relation to, among other things, necessary infrastructure located. In addition, in consultation with the sector, it was decided at the beginning of the cost-effectiveness of the expenditure, the flow of traffic and the accessibility of the airport grounds, 2011 that Schiphol Group also take charge of the costs of the 400Hz converters, which is currently estimated to which amount will become payable in 2012 according to the current schedule. require an investment of over EUR 4 million in the coming years. The amount indexed up to and including 2012 is around EUR 16.4 million. 216 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 217 Airport charge settlements The watercourses of Schiphol that were contaminated during the same incident will be cleaned within the In June 2010, the hearings before the Court of Rotterdam took place in the appeal cases regarding the airport framework of the regular dredging programme. The most heavily contaminated locations close to the hangar charges from 1 April 2009. The NMa had ruled in July 2009 that easyJet’s complaint about the relatively high will be accorded priority. The additional costs relative to the regular dredging programme for the transport and charges for O/D passengers was unfounded. easyJet appealed against this ruling. processing of the contaminated material will be charged to KLM. The water purification company Evides is taking measures in consultation with the municipality of Haarlemmermeer to deal with the technical facilities that were Schiphol Group itself appealed against the NMa’s ruling that the costs of the facility at Runway 18R-36L – to be likewise contaminated by this incident. constructed in order to reduce the ground noise produced by aircraft –, the costs of recruiting and training baggage handling staff, and the unexpected costs of audit activities by the external auditor in respect of the Other contingent assets and liabilities allocation system should not be included in the airport charges. The company is committed to making a contribution in 2010 of EUR 0.5 million to the Schiphol Fund and has given guarantees for loans taken out by employees as well as other guarantees together totalling EUR 0.3 million. The Court of Rotterdam dismissed both appeals in the judgment that it passed at the end of November 2010. A bank guarantee amounting to EUR 2.3 million relating to payment commitments connected with the ‘Storage Appeals have been lodged in both cases by easyJet and Schiphol respectively. The court has not yet issued a date in Underground Tanks’ order has been given to the North-Holland Provincial Authority. for these proceedings. Villa Carmen Srl and Avioport Spa issued bank guarantees to construction companies amounting to easyJet submitted a complaint with the Netherlands Competition Authority (NMa) against the charges as from EUR 5.8 million (the share for Schiphol Group being EUR 3.4 million). 1 April 2009 concerning the difference in passenger charges between O/D and transfer passengers. The NMa declared this complaint unfounded on 14 July 2009. EasyJet appealed against this decision to the Court of Various other claims have been filed against N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol (hereafter: the company) and/or its Rotterdam, which declared easyJet’s appeal unfounded. group companies as well, and there are disputes which have still to be settled. All claims and disputes are being contested and the company has taken legal counsel regarding them. However, as it is impossible to predict the easyJet also submitted a complaint with the NMa on the same grounds concerning the charges as from 1 April outcomes with any certainty it is not yet clear whether any of the cases will result in actual liabilities for the 2010, but then withdrew this complaint with the intention of bringing it before the European Court. However, company and/or its group companies. Accordingly, no provisions have been included in the balance sheet in according to easyJet the European Court has indicated that it will not hear this case. respect of these claims and disputes. Border Control Reform (No-Q) The company has also brought claims against third parties and has disputes pending in which it is claimant. By mid-2009, Schiphol Group and the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) of the Ministry of Justice Since it is not yet clear whether these cases will be resolved in the company’s favour, no related receivables decided, as part of their ongoing cooperation in the area of safety and security at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, have been included in the balance sheet either. to launch a joint Border Management Reform programme. The aim of the programme is to help increase the safety, quality and speed of services by creating an effective and efficient border control process involving the greatest possible use of information-driven action on the one hand, based on previously received data about passengers and their baggage, and the application of new automatic border passage concepts on the other. Schiphol Group and the IND have committed one-off financial contributions to the programme up to a maximum of EUR 16.5 million and EUR 10 million respectively for the development and application of a new automatic border passage concept as currently investigated and elaborated in the No-Q project. Of Schiphol Group’s contribution, an amount of EUR 8 million is expected to become available for the period up to and including 2013. The remaining EUR 16.5 million may be made available after 2013. Contamination by extinguishing water In July 2008, the Rijnland Water Board collected contaminated extinguishing water released during an incident at a KLM hangar in Schiphol Southeast and stored the water in basins made available by Schiphol. Rijnland had been granted a permit for the purpose by the province of North-Holland. In spite of the removal and purification of the contaminated extinguishing water in 2009, it was later discovered that the soil and groundwater at the location of the basins had been contaminated. As the owner of the land concerned, Schiphol suffered damage as a result of the contamination. Rijnland removed the sludge from the basins in 2011, as a result of which no further contamination is taking place through the soil. Rijnland, KLM and Schiphol are now working together to take control measures aimed at preventing the further spread of contamination through groundwater. The contaminated basins will ultimately have to be sanitised. A study will be carried out in 2012 to determine the sanitation method to be used. 218 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 219 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement The 100% stake in class A shares has a fair value of EUR 37.8 million and is included as an associate. The difference between this fair value and the additional payment of EUR 9.7 million has been stated as one-off income of 41. Cash flow from operations EUR 28.1 million under ‘share in results of associates’. On this result, a deferred tax liability (also a tax charge) The analysis is as follows: of EUR 10.9 million has been recognised. (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Based on the governance structure described in the chapter entitled ‘Related Party Disclosures’, the stake in JFK IAT Member LLC is included as an associate and valued in accordance with the equity method. Result 197.510 171.714 Corporate income tax 51.314 66.889 Events after the balance sheet date Share in result of associates – 35.889 – 57.076 Financial income and expenses 91.252 115.181 There are no events after the balance sheet date. 106.677 124.994 Operating result 304.187 296.708 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 206.134 185.829 Impairment 1.473 467 Result on sales of property – 576 151 Fair value gains and losses on property 664 – 22.180 Other non cash changes lease receivables and liabilities 365 – 8.637 Result on disposal of assets – 432 – 26 Change in other provisions and employee benefits – 13.883 – 1.927 193.745 153.677 Operating result after adjustments 497.932 450.385 Change in working capital 28.738 36.153 Cash flow from operations 526.670 486.538 42. Acquisitions Increase of interest in Airport Real Estate Basisfonds C.V. (AREB) in 2011 On 29 April 2011, Schiphol Group increased its stake in AREB from 60.25% to 61.15% by participating in the purchase of property by AREB that was disproportionate to its interest in AREB. Following this increase in its interest, Schiphol Group and the other shareholders have retained their joint control of the company. Expansion of stake in JFK IAT LLC in 2010 In the first half of 2010, Schiphol Group increased its stake in JFK IAT LLC. JFK IAT Member LLC – an associate of Schiphol USA Inc. – extended its stake in JFK IAT LLC from 40% to 100%.Since then, SUSA Inc. holds all the class A shares and Delta Airlines Inc. holds all the class B shares in JFK IAT Member LLC. In this transaction, Schiphol Group exchanged 40% of the rights currently attached to the class B shares for the remaining 60% of the rights currently attached to the class A shares, and paid an additional amount of EUR 9.7 million. 220 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 221 Related Party Disclosures Chapter 6 of the Aviation Supervision Rules requires the operator to take certain precautions with regard to the safety of the airfield such as marking of obstacles, installation of airfield lighting, provision of fire services and Shareholders general maintenance of the airfield. In that context, the operator is under obligation to take measures to ensure The shareholders are: effective supervision of safety and good order on the airfield. For this purpose, the operator has set up a safety management system which has been certified by the authorities. State of the Netherlands 69.77% Municipality of Amsterdam 20.03% Supervision of operation Aéroports de Paris S.A. 8.00% There are two lines along which supervision of the operation of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is monitored. Municipality of Rotterdam 2.20% • One line of supervision concerns preventing of use of a position of economic power by the operator. The body responsible for this supervision is the NMa Office of Transport Regulation. The supervision relates to the Dividend policy charges and the conditions fixed by the operator pursuant to Section 8.25d of the Aviation Act to be met by The dividend amounts to a maximum of 50% of the net result, excluding the fair value gains and losses on the airport users in the forthcoming year. The charges are regulated on the basis of the mandatory annual investment property after tax. consultation of users by the operator concerning the proposed charges and conditions for the forthcoming tariff year. In submitting its proposal, the operator provides the users with a statement of the level of service Government-related affiliated parties to be provided as measured by the indicators stipulated in the Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Operation Decree. Schiphol Group maintains a significant banking relationship with ABN AMRO N.V. over which it exercises no The NMa Office of Transport Regulation exercises supervision on the basis of complaints from users concerning control. the question of whether the charges have been arrived at in accordance with the statutory requirements. By law, the charges for all of the airport activities should be transparent. This also applies to the revenue from Operation of the airport activities that are directly associated with the aviation activities at the airport that are factored into the In its legislative capacity, the government (State of the Netherlands) is responsible for the legislation governing charges. For this purpose, the operator is required to keep separate accounts for the airport activities, including the operation of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, which is provided for indefinitely in law in Chapter 8, Part 4, subaccounts for the costs of security relating to passengers and their baggage and the revenue generated by of the Aviation Act and other legislation. security charges. For the income and expenses of these activities, the operator has implemented an industrystandard allocation system that is proportionate and comprehensive. The NMa Office of Transport Regulation, Sections 8.7 and 8.17 of the Aviation Act set forth the constraints on the development and use of Amsterdam after consulting the airlines, approved the allocation system in 2010. Airport Schiphol. The Airport Traffic Decree lays down rules for airport use and stipulates limits for noise levels, air pollution and risks to public safety. The Airport Planning Decree describes the airport zone and the restrictions • The other line of supervision involves the Ministry of Infrastructure and Environment and relates to the governing the use of the area in and around the airport. operation of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, for which a licence has been granted pursuant to Section 8.25 of the Aviation Act. The operator reports to the Minister on the operation of the airport at least once every Pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.18 of the Aviation Act, the operator is under obligation to keep the three years, in particular concerning the investments that are important to the development of the airport. airport open in accordance with the rules laid down in the Airport Traffic Decree. The operator may ignore this This report was issued for the first time in 2008 and was also issued in 2011. Based on information obtained requirement if necessary in the interests of safety. The airport operator together with the provider of air traffic from the operator, the Minister makes an assessment of whether the airport is being mismanaged in a way services and the airlines is required to promote the smooth operation of air traffic in accordance with the which could jeopardise its continuity. The ability to foster the main port status of the airport, to the extent Airport Traffic Decree. that the operator is able to influence that status, is -particularly dependent on the development of the airport infrastructure in the medium and long term. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.25a of the Aviation Act, the operator of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol is under obligation to operate the airport, making such provisions as are necessary for the proper handling of the Incidentally, the Aviation Act provides for the exchange of information between the two regulators to avoid the airport traffic and the associated transport of persons and goods, having due regard to the provisions of Section need for the operator to provide the same information more than once. 8.3 of the Aviation Act -the objective of achieving sustainable growth of Schiphol as a main port. This concerns important elements of the services provided by an airport, such as the runway system, the baggage system, the aircraft parking aprons, the terminal building, the piers, the gates etc. Airport operation imposes a duty of care on the operator to record the threat to public safety and the environmental impact associated with air traffic. In that context, the operator is required to perform measurements and computations necessary in order to maintain such records. Chapter 3A of the Aviation Act contains the obligations incumbent on the operator with regard to airport safety. The specific requirements are specified in Section 37, paras. b–e. 222 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 223 Supervisory Board Management Board The disclosure of the remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board required by Section 2:383c of The disclosure of the remuneration of members of the Management Board required by Section 2:383c of the the Netherlands Civil Code is as follows: Netherlands Civil Code is as follows. (in euros) 2011 2010 Regular salary (in euros) 2011 2010 Anthony Ruys 41,500 38,000 Trude A. Maas-de Brouwer 39,000 39,000 Jos A. Nijhuis 383,243 377,994 Hans van den Broek 14,500 Pieter M. Verboom 299,365 295,265 Frans J.G.M. Cremers 35,000 35,000 Ad P.J.M. Rutten 299,365 295,265 Pierre Graff Maarten M. de Groof 299,365 295,265 Jan G.B. Brouwer 18,000 Herman J. Hazewinkel 35,000 35,000 Total 1,281,338 1,263,789 Margot A. Scheltema 29,000 20,542 Willem F.C. Stevens 40,000 40,000 Toon H. Woltman 9,917 The annual (short-term) variable remuneration depends on the achievement of financial targets, a number of personal performance targets and the Supervisory Board’s assessment regarding general performance. Total 237,500 231,959 The financial target concerns the Return on Equity (ROE) in accordance with the budget for that year approved by the Supervisory Board. For that purpose, the ROE is determined by dividing the result, reduced by other property results not generated by Schiphol Group’s own actions after corporate income tax (in particular fair value gains The Supervisory board Chairman’s remuneration is EUR 36,500 per annum. The ordinary members receive and losses on investment property), by the average equity capital. The personal performance targets may vary directors’ fees of EUR 24,000 per annum. In addition to the above remuneration, membership of a Supervisory from year to year. The on-target level of the (short-term) variable remuneration is 35% of the fixed salary, with Board committee confers the right to supplementary remuneration. Audit Committee members receive an achievement of the financial target accounting for approximately two-thirds of the total short-term variable additional fee of EUR 6,000, Remuneration Committee members receive an additional EUR 5,000 per annum, remuneration. If the financial targets are exceeded, the (short-term) variable remuneration can be up to Public Affairs & Corporate Responsibility Committee members receive an additional EUR 5,000 per annum and 1.625 times the on-target level for that component for the CEO, for the other members of the Management Members of the Selection and Appointments Committee also receive an additional fee of EUR 5,000 per annum. Board this can be up to 1.67. In the event of exceptional performance the maximum short-term variable remuneration for the CEO can be 47,5% of the fixed salary and for the other members of the Management All the members of the Supervisory Board also receive expense allowances of EUR 1,600 per annum, which have Board this can be 45.1%. The extent to which the targets have been achieved is determined partly on the basis not been included in the above remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board. of the audited financial statements. Mr Graff has indicated that he does not wish to receive any remuneration or expense allowance with regard to Based on the assessment by the Supervisory Board of the extent to which the targets were achieved, the his membership of the Supervisory Board and its committees. following (short-term) variable remuneration has been charged to the result for 2011 in respect of the variable remuneration scheme (short-term) for 2011. The variable remuneration for the CEO was set at 42.5% of the Mr Hazewinkel indirectly holds bonds in Schiphol Group, which he already owned when he was appointed fixed salary and for the other members of the Management Board at 40.1% of the fixed salary. Supervisory Director. His intention is to retain these bonds until the end of their term and not to trade them in the interim. Variable remuneration (short term) No shares, options, loans, advances or guarantees have been or will be granted to members of the (in euros) 2011 2010 Supervisory Board. Jos A. Nijhuis 162,869 160,648 Pieter M. Verboom 119,896 118,401 Ad P.J.M. Rutten 119,896 118,401 Maarten M. de Groof 119,896 118,401 Total 522,556 515,851 224 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 225 Schiphol Group is not a listed company and therefore does not have the ability to award Schiphol Group The cost increase chargeable to the financial year is attributable inter alia to the fact that Mr Nijhuis is entitled shares or share options. Instead, to foster the achievement of Schiphol Group’s long-term objectives, there is a to the long-term variable remuneration for the first time, over a three-year period. (long-term) variable remuneration scheme which rolls forward over a three-year period. The (long-term) variable remuneration is a remuneration component payable each year with an on-target level of 35% of the fixed salary, In 2011, payment was made of the 2008 (long-term) variable remuneration, for which provisions had been built depending on the cumulative economic profit realised over a period of three successive years, based on the up. Accordingly, the payment did not lead to a charge on the 2011 result. In 2012, payment will be made out of medium-term business plan approved by the Supervisory Board. If the company performs exceptionally well, the provisions accumulated for the 2009 (long-term) variable remuneration, relating to the economic profit over the (long-term) variable remuneration may be increased up to a maximum of 52.5% of the fixed salary. the three-year period 2009, 2010 and 2011. The (long-term) variable remuneration in each case relates to the period of three years from the time of award The pension costs presented below concern the payment of regular pension contributions and a refund of of the variable remuneration (the reference period): contributions unduly withheld. • The performance criteria for the 2009 (long-term) variable remuneration relate to the economic profit for the three-year period 2009, 2010 and 2011 with payment, if applicable, made in 2012. Pension costs • The performance criteria for the 2010 (long-term) variable remuneration relate to the economic profit for (in euros) 2011 2010 the three-year period 2010, 2011 and 2012, with payment, if applicable, made in 2013. • The performance criteria for the 2011 (long-term) variable remuneration relate to the economic profit for Jos A. Nijhuis 96,259 92,658 the three-year period, 2011, 2012 and 2013 with payment, if applicable, made in 2014. Pieter M. Verboom 75,399 202,120 Ad P.J.M. Rutten 75,399 111,502 At the end of each year, an estimate is made of the amount of the (long-term) variable remuneration payable on Maarten M. de Groof 75,399 71,834 conclusion of the three-year period. During the reference period, a pro rata part thereof is charged each year to the result for the relevant year. Payment is only made if the relevant Management Board member is still Total 322,456 478,114 employed by the company at the end of the three-year period. If it is mutually agreed that the contract of employment should be terminated, the award is made pro rata. It is also possible in that case to calculate and pay out future variable remuneration in advance. Defined benefit pensions adhere to the average earnings scheme applicable since 1 January 2004, in accordance with the standard Algemeen Burgerlijk Pensioenfonds (ABP) rules. The amount of the contribution payable to the In respect of the (long-term) variable remuneration, the Supervisory Board’s assessment of the development pension scheme is calculated each year by ABP and paid in full by the company. of economic profit has resulted in justifying a provision for employee remuneration as at 31 December 2011 as follows: Mr Verboom will be retiring in 2012 at the age of 62. Mr Rutten will be eligible to retire at the age of 62 in 2013. • the full (long-term) variable remuneration for 2009 (reference period 2009-2011), Both have defined retirement benefits equalling 70% of their final total fixed salary. To this end, a supplementary including a swing factor of 1.5 and allocation is made each year according to the standard ‘ABP Extra Pension’ (AEP) rules, in addition to the accrual • two-thirds of the (long-term) variable remuneration for 2010 (reference period 2010-2012), under the ABP pension scheme. Should the accrued supplement prove to be inadequate, a payment will be made including a swing factor of 1.0 and to fulfil the agreement made. Calculations by ABP showed that supplementary allocations were necessary in 2011 • one-third of the (long-term) variable remuneration for 2011 (reference period 2011-2013), for mr Rutten. including a swing factor of 1.0. Mr Nijhuis and Mr De Groof also participate in the ABP average earnings scheme (under which retirement The foregoing gives rise to the following costs chargeable to the financial year: benefits based on full pension build-up are paid from the age of 65). It has been contractually agreed with them that their term of office will end at the age of 62.They are entitled to a fixed annual contribution (representing a percentage of fixed salary) towards a life-course savings scheme in order to compensate for the missing Variable remuneration (long term) pensionable years between the ages of 62-65. (in euros) 2011 2010 Jos A. Nijhuis 197,704 88,485 Pieter M. Verboom 154,432 154,661 Ad P.J.M. Rutten 154,432 154,661 Maarten M. de Groof 154,432 154,661 Total 661,000 552,468 226 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 227 The foregoing gives rise to the following costs chargeable to the financial year: Pension costs (supplementary) (in euros) 2011 2010 Jos A. Nijhuis 32,210 32,129 Pieter M. Verboom 58,385 Ad P.J.M. Rutten 28,731 18,509 Maarten M. de Groof 35,511 35,432 Total 96,443 144,455 The other payments concern allowances for private healthcare insurance costs and entertainment expenses, the employers’ share of social security contributions and various non-recurring benefits. Other payments (in euros) 2011 2010 Jos A. Nijhuis 7,656 8,937 Pieter M. Verboom 7,656 7,668 Ad P.J.M. Rutten 7,656 8,464 Maarten M. de Groof 7,656 6,779 Total 30,624 31,848 Total remuneration to the Management Board charged to profit and loss 2,914,416 2,986,525 228 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 229 Subsidiaries Abridged balance sheet for the minority interests in Eindhoven Airport N.V. and Avioport Spa exclusive The following subsidiaries are fully consolidated: of the interests of Schiphol Group: Direct / indirect Registered in interest in % (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Schiphol Nederland B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Assets Schiphol Australia Pty Ltd Schiphol 100.00 Non-current assets 42,742 39,476 Schiphol Socrates B.V. Schiphol 100.00 Current assets 13,515 10,557 Schiphol North American Holding Inc. Delaware 100.00 Schiphol Services Inc. Delaware 100.00 56,257 50,033 Eindhoven Airport N.V. Eindhoven 51.00 Equity and liabilities Schiphol Asia Sdn. Bhd. Kuala Lumpur 100.00 Total equity 24,334 21,295 N.V. Luchthaven Lelystad 1) Lelystad 100.00 Non-current liabilities 25,205 24,798 Luchthaven Lelystad Vastgoed B.V. Lelystad 100.00 Current liabilities 6,718 3,940 Schiphol USA Inc New York 100.00 Rotterdam Airport B.V. 1) Rotterdam 100.00 56,257 50,033 Rotterdam Airport Supplies Services B.V. 1) Rotterdam 100.00 Rotterdam Airport Holding B.V. 1) Rotterdam 100.00 Rotterdam Airport Vastgoed B.V. 1) Rotterdam 100.00 The profit and loss account for these minority interests exclusive of the interests of Schiphol Group: Beheeren beleggingsmaatschappij Balnag B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Brisbane Airport Real Estate B.V. Schiphol 100.00 Malpensa Real Estate B.V. Schiphol 100.00 (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Malpensa Real Estate II B.V. Schiphol 100.00 Schiphol Real Estate Caravelle B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Revenue 15,916 13,546 Schiphol International B.V. Schiphol 100.00 Other income, from property – 467 96 Schiphol Real Estate Badhoevedorp B.V. Schiphol 100.00 Schiphol Real Estate Participaties A4 Zone West B.V. Schiphol 100.00 15,449 13,642 Schiphol Real Estate Logistics Park B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Schiphol Real Estate B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Total operating expenses – 10,516 – 9,144 Schiphol Real Estate Eindhoven B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Schiphol Real Estate Eindhoven Finance B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Operating result 4,933 4,498 Schiphol Real Estate Eindhoven II B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Financial income and expenses – 953 – 845 Schiphol Real Estate International B.V. Schiphol 100.00 HAFOK B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Result before tax 3,980 3,653 Schiphol Real Estate World Trade Center B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 European Chinese Trade Center B.V. Schiphol 100.00 Corporate income tax 955 899 Schiphol Real Estate Italy Srl Lonate Pozzolo 100.00 Airport Real Estate Management B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Result 3,025 2,754 Airport Property Management B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Dartagnan B.V. 1) Amsterdam 100.00 Avioport SpA Lonate Pozzolo 70.00 Schiphol Telematics B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 Schiphol Consumer Services Holding B.V. Schiphol 100.00 Schiphol Airport Retail B.V. 1) Schiphol 100.00 1) The provisions of Section 403, Book 2, of the Netherlands Civil Code apply with respect to these companies 230 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 231 Joint ventures Abridged balance sheet for Schiphol Group’s interests in the proportionately consolidated companies: The interests in the following companies are proportionately consolidated: Direct / indirect (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Registered in interest in % Assets Airport Real Estate Basisfonds C.V. Schiphol 61.15 Non-current assets 229,757 216,429 Schiphol Travel Taxi B.V. Schiphol 50.00 Current assets 8,227 14,029 Flight Square Beheer B.V. Schiphol 50.00 Flight Square C.V. Schiphol 50.00 237,984 230,458 Flight Forum Beheer Vennoot B.V. Eindhoven 50.00 Equity and liabilities Beheer Personeelsrestaurant Schiphol B.V. Schiphol 50.00 Total equity 110,164 103,625 VOF Proefdraaiplaats Holding 27 Schiphol 50.00 Non-current liabilities 83,585 114,426 Pantares Tradeport Asia Ltd Hong Kong 50.00 Current liabilities 44,235 12,407 Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB Stockholm 40.00 Villa Carmen B.V. Amsterdam 47.44 237,984 230,458 Villa Carmen Srl Milan 47.44 GEM A4 zone west C.V. Schiphol 33.00 GEM A4 zone west Beheer B.V. Schiphol 33,00 Abridged profit and loss account for Schiphol Group’s share in the results of these companies: GEM Beheer Badhoevedorp Zuid B.V. Schiphol 50.00 EnergyGrounds B.V. Schiphol 51.00 (in thousands of euros) 2010 2009 The subsidiary Airport Real Estate Management B.V. and joint ventures Flight Forum Beheer B.V. and Flight Revenue 23,739 23,628 Square Beheer B.V., as managing partners, bear joint and several liability for the debts of Airport Real Estate Other income, from property 314 – 655 Basisfonds C.V., Flight Forum C.V. and Flight Square C.V., respectively. 24,053 22,973 Similarly, Schiphol Nederland B.V. bears joint and several liability for the debts of VOF Proefdraaiplaats Holding 27. Total operating expenses 10,872 9,449 Although the interest held in certain companies may be greater or less than 50%, the group exercises joint Operating result 13,181 13,524 control over them nevertheless and these companies are consequently consolidated on a proportional basis. Financial income and expenses – 3,846 – 3,171 In the contractual arrangements establishing these joint ventures, the venturers have agreed that decisions Share in result of associates – 736 – 308 on important strategic, financial and operational matters shall require their unanimous consent. Result before tax 8,599 10,045 Corporate income tax – 377 – 257 Result 8,222 9,788 232 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 233 Associates Schiphol Group owns 100% of the class A shares in JFK IAT Member LLC and accordingly exerts significant As at 31 December 2011, this concerns the investments in the following companies measured by applying the influence. The governance structure is determined by the following agreements: equity method: • Schiphol USA Inc. and Delta Airlines concluded an operating agreement under which Schiphol USA Inc. holds Direct / indirect all the class A shares and Delta Airlines holds all the class B shares in JFK IAT Member LLC. This agreement also Registered in interest in % contains arrangements about the division of the result between the shareholders, the two shareholders’ powers in respect of strategic decisions, operational management and the shareholders’ further rights Mainport Innovation Fund B.V. Delft 25.00 and obligations; Flight Forum C.V. Eindhoven 49.00 • JFK IAT LLC (a subsidiary of JFK IAT Member LLC) and Delta Airlines concluded an anchor tenant agreement Brisbane Airport Corporation Holdings Ltd Brisbane 18.72 under which JFK IAT LLC and Delta Airlines are proportionally represented in a Management Committee JFK IAT Member LLC New York 100.00 *) and an Operations Advisory Committee, which committees will determine the policies in key financial and Cargonaut B.V. Schiphol 36.93 operational areas; Vebego Airport Services B.V. Schiphol 25.00 • JFK IAT LLC and the Port Authority concluded a lease agreement regarding Terminal 4 under which the Schiphol Area Development Company N.V. Schiphol 25.00 Port Authority has far-reaching consultation rights and veto rights in key strategic and operational areas Schiphol Logistics Park B.V. Schiphol 45.00 • Schiphol USA Inc.’s revenues primarily consist of regular revenues resulting from management contracts and Schiphol Logistics Park C.V. Schiphol 38.08 depend to a limited extent on the revenues of JFK IAT LLC. Tradeport Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong 18.75 Airport Medical Services B.V. Haarlemmermeer 20.00 Schiphol Group has an interest of 18.72% in Brisbane Airport Corporation Holdings Pty Ltd. The latter company Airport Medical Services C.V. Haarlemmermeer 20.00 owns 100.00% of Brisbane Airport Corporation Holdings No.2 Pty Ltd, which in turn owns 100.00% of Brisbane Aéroports de Paris S.A. Paris 8.00 Airport Corporation Ltd. (BACL). Despite Schiphol Group’s interest in Brisbane Airport Corporation Ltd (BACL) GEM Badhoevedorp-Zuid C.V. Schiphol 19.00 being smaller than 20%, the company does have a significant influence on the basis of the following considerations: *) Schiphol Group holds all the class A shares and Delta Airlines holds all the class B shares. Schiphol Group’s 100% stake in JFK IAT • Schiphol Group has a blocking vote with respect to a variety of important decisions which can only be taken Member LLC concerns the class A shares. by the shareholders’ meeting with a majority in excess of 90%; • Schiphol Group has the right to appoint three out of the nine members of the Board of Directors, each of whom has equal voting rights, meaning that the members appointed by Schiphol Group represent 33.3% of Schiphol Group increased its interest in JFK IAT in the first six months of 2010.JFK IAT Member LLC – an associate the votes; of Schiphol USA Inc. – raised its interest in JFK IAT from 40% to 100%.Since then, SUSA Inc. has held all the class A • The existence of a Technical Services Agreement between Schiphol Group and BACL under which Schiphol shares and Delta Airlines Inc. all the class B shares in JFK IAT Member LLC. Group has, for instance, the sole right to put forward candidates for Managing Director (Chief Executive Officer); and • The existence of an Intellectual Property Agreement between Schiphol Group and BACL under which BACL is able to share Schiphol Group’s expertise relating to the operation and development of an airport. Schiphol Group has an interest of 8% in Aéroports de Paris S.A. (ADP). Despite Schiphol Group’s interest in ADP being smaller than 20%, the company does have significant influence based on the following considerations: • It involves a long-term cooperation and a mutual shareholding; • An Industrial Cooperation Committee (ICC) has been set up which supervises the cooperation between the two parties in eight specified areas of operation. Each company has four representatives on this committee, which is chaired alternately by the Presidents of ADP and Schiphol Group; • The President (CEO) of Schiphol Group is a member of the ADP strategy committee and as such is able to exert significant influence on strategic decisions of the ADP one-tier board; • The President (CEO) and Financial Director (CFO) of Schiphol Group have a seat on the ADP one-tier board; • Joint international airport projects will be developed in the future, whereby our focus will be on reinforcing the dual hub within the SkyTeam international network. 234 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 235 The fair value of Aéroports de Paris S.A. (ADP), derived from the market price of the share as at 31 December As at 30 June 2010, Brisbane Airport Corporation Ltd (BACL) had a contingent liability on the basis of passenger 2011, amounts to EUR 5.1 billion (31 December 2010: EUR 5.8 billion). Our share in this amounts to and traffic growth forecasts to capital expenditure at Brisbane Airport totalling EUR 197.6 million over EUR 408 million (in 2010 EUR 468 million). a multiple-year period. For the coming years, major expansions have been planned in the form of a new runway and an extension of the terminals and the infrastructure. On the basis of our indirect interest of 18.72% in BACL, The municipality of Amsterdam, the municipality of Haarlemmermeer, Schiphol Group and the province of the associate’s contingent liability amounts to EUR 36.9 million. North-Holland established the land development company Schiphol Area Development Company N.V. (SADC) as a public-private partnership in 1987. SADC’s object is to safeguard and enhance the economic position of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and surrounding areas through the ongoing development of business locations Schiphol, 16 February 2012 and supporting infrastructure projects. For the consolidated financial statements for 2011: The shareholders decided in cooperation agreements (known as SADC II and SADC III respectively) to contribute their holdings in the aforesaid areas to a land bank as yet to be established, and to have this land bank acquire land in the aforesaid areas that was not yet in their possession so as to be able subsequently to develop this area Supervisory Board together. SADC may demand a maximum contribution of EUR 20 million from the shareholders for the acquisition of these lands. Since 2010, the four parties referred to above have each held 25% of the shares in SADC. Anthony Ruys, Chairman Trude A. Maas-de Brouwer, Vice-chairman Below is some financial information relating to the Schiphol Group share of the above associates: Jan G.B. Brouwer Frans J.G.M. Cremers (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Pierre Graff Herman J. Hazewinkel Total assets 1,286,742 1,181,949 Marjan A. Scheltema Total equity 275,268 271,640 Willem F.C. Stevens Revenue 414,582 417,891 Net result 178,251 166,923 Management Board The stake of JFK IAT Member LLC in JFK IAT is fully included in the above financial information. Jos A. Nijhuis, President & Chief Executive Officer Maarten M. de Groof, Member of the Management Board/Chief Commercial Officer At the time when these financial statements were compiled, Schiphol Group did not yet possess the complete Ad P.J.M. Rutten, Member of the Management Board/Chief Operations Officer financial information for 2011 (profit and loss account) or as at 31 December 2011 (balance sheet) for all the Pieter M. Verboom, Member of the Management Board/Chief Financial Officer aforementioned associates. This is partly attributable to the non-calendar financial year of some of these associates. With regard to certain associates, therefore, the above financial information has been compiled on the basis of the most recent financial data available to Schiphol Group. In nearly all cases this information is not older than three months. The fact that the above financial information relating to the associates in certain cases relies on information for different financial years plus the fact that some investments are currently stated at a value of nil mean that the above figures are not reconcilable with information contained elsewhere in these financial statements. As at 31 December 2011, Tradeport Hong Kong had a loan outstanding of EUR 14.1 million. The guaranteed part of this loan amounts to EUR 1.9 million. On the basis of Schiphol Group’s share in Tradeport Hong Kong (18.75%), the amount of the maximum guarantee attributable to Schiphol Group is EUR 0.4 million. Schiphol Group has also given guarantees for a maximum amount of EUR 4.0 million in respect of the liabilities of Tradeport Hong Kong relating to land on which the company has a concession for the operation of the logistics centre. 236 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 237 Corporate profit and loss account for 2011 Corporate balance sheet as at 31 December 2011 Before proposed profit appropriation (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Assets Note 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 (in thousands of euros) Result on ordinary activities after tax 29,467 24,248 Results of subsidiaries 165,018 144,712 Non-current assets 43 Investments in subsidiaries 2,529,596 2,492,226 Result attributable to shareholders (net result) 194,485 168,960 Investments in associates 586,462 567,096 Other financial interests 6,141 10,758 3,122,199 3,070,080 Current assets 44 Receivables 9,158 1,427 Cash and cash equivalents 20,830 19,072 3,152,187 3,090,579 Equity and liabilities Note 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 (in thousands of euros) Issued share capital 84,511 84,511 Share premium 362,811 362,811 Retained profits 2,078,989 2,003,067 Translation differences reserve – 25,291 30,973 Revaluation reserve 417,065 401,885 Other statutory reserves 37,610 35,915 Net result of the year 194,485 168,960 Shareholders’ equity 45 3,150,180 3,088,122 Employee benefits 46 1,102 1,123 Current liabilities 47 905 1,334 3,152,187 3,090,579 238 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 239 Notes to the corporate financial statements General Results on transactions with subsidiaries are eliminated Total equity in the consolidated balance sheet includes in proportion to the interest in the entities concerned, a exchange differences reserve, an other financial The corporate financial statements have been prepared except where the results arise on transactions with interests reserve and a hedging transactions reserve. in accordance with the statutory provisions of Part 9, third parties. Losses are not eliminated if there are These reserves (included collectively in the corporate Book 2, of the Netherlands Civil Code, utilising the indications of impairment of the assets concerned. financial statements under the heading of ‘Other option provided by Section 2:362, sub­section 8, reserves of Schiphol Group’) are also presented as part of the Netherlands Civil Code of applying the same Elements of shareholders’ equity of corporate shareholders’ equity since they likewise accounting policies for the corporate financial Various statutory reserves required by Part 9, Book 2, restrict the ability to distribute the reserves. statements as have been applied in preparing the of the Netherlands Civil Code have been retained in consolidated financial statements. the corporate balance sheet which form part of the Notes to the corporate balance sheet and profit and retained profits in the consolidated balance sheet. loss account Use has also been made of the provisions of Section These reserves restrict the ability to distribute equity. Where the notes to the corporate balance sheet and 2:402 of the Netherlands Civil Code, permitting They are the reserve for property revaluations, the profit and loss account are not materially different presentation of an abridged profit and loss account. reserve for intangible assets and the reserve for from the notes to the consolidated balance sheet and participating interests. The latter two reserves have profit and loss account, they have not been repeated been combined under other statutory reserves. here and the notes to the consolidated balance sheet Accounting policies and profit and loss account should be consulted for The revaluation reserve (Section 2:390.1) is maintained the items concerned. General in respect of fair value gains on individual items of The accounting policies for the corporate financial investment property (buildings and land) held by statements are the same as for the consolidated companies forming part of Schiphol Group. Additions financial statements. Where no specific policies are to this reserve are made via the profit appropriation, mentioned, reference should therefore be made to after allowing for corporate income tax. On the sale of the accounting policies relating to the consolidated investment property, the amount of the revaluation financial statements. reserve for the property in question is transferred to other reserves. Subsidiaries The reserve for intangible assets (Section 2:365.2) Companies in which Schiphol Group is able to exercise is maintained in connection with capitalised research control or which Schiphol Group effectively manages and development costs (software) carried by are stated at net asset value determined by measuring companies forming part of Schiphol Group. the assets, provisions and liabilities and results according to the policies applied in preparing the The reserve for investments in associates (Section consolidated financial statements. 2:389.6) is formed in respect of the share in the positive results of the entities concerned and in fair If the share of losses attributable to Schiphol Group value gains accounted for directly in equity. Amounts exceeds the carrying amount of a subsidiary, losses are not recognised in respect of entities whose over and above that amount are not recognised unless cumulative results are not positive. The reserve is Schiphol Group has given guarantees to the entity reduced by the amount of dividend distributions, concerned or other commitments have been entered fair value losses accounted for directly in equity and into or payments have been made on behalf of that any distributions which Schiphol Group would be entity. In that case, a provision is made for the able to effect without restriction. consequent liabilities. 240 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 241 43. Non-current assets 45. Shareholders’ equity The analysis and movements were as follows: The analysis and movements were as follows: Investment Investment Other financial Other (in thousands of euros) in subsidiaries in associates interests Total Issued reserves of Other Net Result share Share Retained Schiphol Revaluation statutory Financial Carrying amount as at 31 December 2009 2,464,046 551,542 7,308 3,022,896 (in thousands of euros) capital premium profits Group reserve reserves Year Total Movements in 2010 Balance as at 31 December 2009 84,511 362,811 1,900,853 4,054 431,629 40,818 132,123 2,956,799 Result for the year 144,712 26,400 171,112 Dividend – 140,000 – 10,846 – 150,846 Movements in 2010 Fair value gains and losses 3,450 3,450 Appropriation of result 99,499 – 27,029 – 4,903 – 67,567 Translation differences 9,696 9,696 for previous year Changes in the hedging transactions reserve 13,772 13,772 Distribution of dividend – 64,556 – 64,556 Exchange differences 9,697 9,697 Total movements in the year 28,180 15,554 3,450 47,184 Changes in fair value 13,772 13,772 on hedging transactions Carrying amount as at 31 December 2010 2,492,226 567,096 10,758 3,070,080 Changes in fair value 3,450 3,450 on other financial interests Movements in 2011 Adjustments tot the corporate 2,715 – 2,715 Result for the year 165,018 31,400 196,418 income tax rate Dividend – 76,000 – 12,034 – 88,034 Net result 168,960 168,960 Fair value gains and losses – 4,617 – 4,617 Translation differences 3,795 3,795 Total movements in the year 102,214 26,919 – 29,744 – 4,903 36,837 131,323 Changes in the hedging transactions reserve – 55,443 – 55,443 Balance as at 31 December 2010 84,511 362,811 2,003,067 30,973 401,885 35,915 168,960 3,088,122 Total movements in the year 37,370 19,366 – 4,617 52,119 Movements in 2011 Carrying amount as at 31 December 2011 2,529,596 586,462 6,141 3,122,199 Appropriation of result 75,922 15,180 1,695 – 92,797 for previous year Distribution of dividend – 76,163 – 76,163 The investments in subsidiaries concern the wholly owned subsidiaries Schiphol Nederland B.V. and Schiphol Exchange differences 3,796 3,796 International B.V. With regard to Schiphol Nederland B.V., Section 2:403 applies. Changes in fair value on – 55,443 – 55,443 hedging transactions The investments in associates concern the 8% interest of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol in Aéroports de Paris S.A. Changes in fair value on – 4,617 – 4,617 and the other financial interests concern the 1% interest in Flughafen Wien AG. other financial interests Net result 194,485 194,485 44. Current assets The receivables can be analysed as follows: Total movements in the year 75,922 – 56,264 15,180 1,695 25,525 62,058 (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Balance as at 31 December 2011 84,511 362,811 2,078,989 – 25,291 417,065 37,610 194,485 3,150,180 Corporate income tax 1,485 1,393 Group Companies 7,631 The other statutory reserves comprise the reserve for intangible assets and the reserve for investments Other receivables 42 34 in associates. 9,158 1,427 The cash is freely available. Both receivables and cash are stated at fair value, which is usually the face value. 242 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 243 Other information The other reserves of Schiphol Group comprise a exchange differences reserve, an other financial interests reserve To the General Meeting of Shareholders of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol and a hedging transactions reserve. These reserves are part of the consolidated equity and are also presented as part of corporate shareholders’ equity since, like the revaluation reserve and the other statutory reserves, they restrict the ability to distribute the reserves. As a consequence, the ability to distribute shareholders’ equity is restricted to Independent Auditor’s report retained earnings. Report on the financial statements 46. Employee benefits We have audited the accompanying financial statements 2011 of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol, Amsterdam as set out The liabilities regarding employee benefits relate to the Management Board of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol and on pages 134 to 244. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the company concern the net liabilities in respect of the (long-term) variable remuneration. Further details are specified under financial statements. The consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at the explanatory notes on employee benefits in the consolidated financial statements. 31 December 2011, the consolidated profit and loss account, the statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended and the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting 47. Current liabilities policies and other explanatory information. The company financial statements comprise the company balance The analysis is as follows: sheet as at 31 December 2011, the company profit and loss account for the year then ended and the notes, comprising a summary of accounting policies and other explanatory information. (in thousands of euros) 2011 2010 Management Board’s responsibility Group companies 11 372 The management board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in Accruals 852 788 accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 Other liabilities 42 174 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the management board report in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the management board is responsible for such internal 905 1,334 control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Schiphol, 16 February 2012 Auditor’s responsibility For the corporate financial statements for 2011: Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Supervisory Board financial statements are free from material misstatement. Anthony Ruys, Chairman An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Trude A. Maas-de Brouwer, Vice-chairman financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the Jan B.G. Brouwer risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk Frans J.G.M. Cremers assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation Pierre Graff of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not Herman J. Hazewinkel for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also Marjan A. Scheltema includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting Willem F.C. Stevens estimates made by the management board, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. Management Board We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Jos A. Nijhuis, President & Chief Executive Officer Maarten M. de Groof, Member of the Management Board/Chief Commercial Officer Ad P.J.M. Rutten, Member of the Management Board/Chief Operations Officer Pieter M. Verboom, Member of the Management Board/Chief Financial Officer 244 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 245 Proposed profit appropriation Opinion with respect to the consolidated financial statements Article 25 of the company’s Articles of Association contains the following provisions on profit appropriation: In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol as at 31 December 2011, and of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended in 1. Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 2:105 of the Netherlands Civil Code, the profit according to accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and with the financial statements prepared by the Management Board shall be added to reserves unless the General Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Meeting of Shareholders resolves to make profit distributions according to a proposal by the Management Board having the agreement of the Supervisory Board. Opinion with respect to the company financial statements In our opinion, the company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of 2. The General Meeting of Shareholders shall decide the appropriation of the amounts thus reserved according N.V. Luchthaven Schiphol as at 31 December 2011, and of its result for the year then ended in accordance to a proposal by the Management Board having the agreement of the Supervisory Board. with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Proposed profit approciation Report on other legal requirements (in thousands of euros) Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2: 393 sub 5 at e and f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination whether the management board report, to the extent we Result attributable to shareholders 194,485 can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the information as required under Section 2: 392 sub 1 at b-h has been annexed. Further we report that the management board With due observance of Article 25 of the Articles of Association, report, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements as required by Section 2: 391 it is proposed that the result for the year be appropriated as follows: sub 4 of the Dutch Civil Code. Addition to the revaluation reserve – 1,847 (fair value gains and losses on property recognised in the profit and loss account, after adjustment Amsterdam, 16 February 2012 for fair value losses below cost and after deduction of corporate income tax) PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Addition to the statutory reserve 2,927 (sum of the results of associates, less dividend distributions, and investments in research and S. Barendregt-Roojers RA development less amortisation) Dividend distribution – 97,492 (50% of the net result less fair value gains and losses on property after deduction of corporate income tax) ­– 96,412 Addition to retained profits 98,074 Events after the balance sheet date For details of the events after the balance sheet date, reference is made to the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 221. 246 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 247 Historical summary Figures as from 2004 have been restated according to IFRS. The figures up to year-end 2003 are based on previous accounting policies. (in millions of euros, unless otherwise indicated) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Profit and loss account Revenue 1,278 1,180 1,154 1,154 1,146 1,037 948 876 860 774 Fair value gains and losses on property –1 22 – 40 19 111 29 13 5 83 15 Own work capitalised 13 16 Total operating revenue 956 805 Other income, from property 1 3 3 10 10 18 Total operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment – 766 – 719 – 731 – 709 – 666 – 598 – 492 – 475 – 488 – 452 EBITDA 512 483 383 466 594 478 478 424 468 353 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment – 208 – 186 – 196 – 172 – 175 – 162 – 167 – 160 – 131 – 106 Operating result 304 297 187 294 420 316 311 265 338 247 Financial income and expenses – 91 – 115 – 91 – 54 – 35 – 36 – 34 – 26 – 43 – 39 Taxation, share in operating result of associates and minority interests – 15 – 10 37 – 54 – 68 246 – 84 – 78 – 104 – 71 Result on ordinary activities after tax 198 172 133 187 316 527 193 161 191 137 Minority interests –3 –3 Net result 194 169 133 187 316 527 193 161 191 137 Balance sheet Non-current assets 5,102 5,000 4,798 4,754 3,945 3,681 3,249 3,157 3,047 2,729 Current assets 621 506 729 655 342 483 432 399 422 209 Total assets 5,723 5,506 5,527 5,409 4,287 4,165 3,681 3,556 3,469 2,938 Equity (excl. minority interests) 2,024 1,871 Equity (incl. minority interests) 3,175 3,109 2,975 2,887 2,957 2,722 2,245 2,093 Provisions 51 65 69 50 54 63 84 115 64 41 Non-current liabilities (incl. minority interests) 1,044 523 Non-current liabilities (excl. minority interests) 1,979 1,762 2,061 1,747 914 865 1,006 958 Current liabilities 519 569 422 725 362 514 346 391 337 502 Total equity and liabilities 5,723 5,506 5,527 5,409 4,287 4,165 3,681 3,556 3,469 2,938 Operating cash flow 1) 387 351 327 421 313 362 307 327 298 293 Ratios Operating result as % of revenue 23,8 25,1 16,2 25,5 36,6 30,5 32,8 30,2 39,3 31,9 Return on average equity in % (ROE) 6,2 5,6 4,5 6,4 11,1 21,2 8,9 7,9 9,8 7,5 Return on Net Assets in % (RONA) 2) 3) 7,4 7,9 4,9 7,5 12,3 10,1 9,7 8,6 11,7 9,4 Return on Capital Employed in % (ROCE) 4) / (ROACE) 5) 6) 7,5 7,3 4,5 7,3 11,7 9,8 9,9 8,7 11,5 9,4 FFO/total debt in % 7) 8) 18,5 17,0 18,5 19,3 34,3 39,0 28,7 33,4 FFO interest coverage ratio 8) 9) 4,5 3,8 4,4 6,5 7,7 8,3 6,8 7,9 Leverage 10) 11) 37,9 37,2 40,5 38,6 23,5 24,8 29,4 32,0 34,2 28,0 Figures per share Earnings per share 1,045 908 710 1,083 1,844 3,077 1,126 939 1,117 799 Operating cash flow per share 2,081 1,780 1,756 2,439 1,830 2,114 1,754 1,912 1,738 1,710 Dividend per share 524 409 347 371 543 462 323 271 239 245 Personnel Average effective full-time equivalent employees 2,115 2,328 2,496 2,506 2,459 2,293 2,179 2,216 2,231 2,134 1) For analysis see the cash flow statement 6) As from 2006: Operating result + result and interest associates / average of equity and interest-bearing debt 2) Up to and including 2005: Operating result / average non-current assets less deferred taxes 7) Up to and including 2005: Funds from operations adjusted for working capital / total debt 3) As from 2006: Operating result + result and interest associates / average non-current assets less deferred taxes. 8) As from 2006: see calculation FFO/total debt and FFO interest coverage in the note on Financial Risk Management 4) Up to and including 2003: operating result / average of equity and liabilities less non-interest bearing short term debt 9) Up to and including 2005: Funds from operating activities adjusted for working capital plus interest income / interest costs 5) As from 2004: operating result / average of equity and interest-bearing debt 10) Up to and including 2003: interest-bearing debt / total equity and liabilities 6) As from 2006: Operating result + result and interest associates / average of equity and interest-bearing debt 11) As from 2004: Interest-bearing debt / equity plus interest-bearing debt in % 248 Schiphol Group Financial Statements 2011 249 Glossary Glossary 70 MB AREB Fund Catchment area Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) Investment Programme in the baggage system at Airport Real Estate Basisfonds C.V.: a property fund Area from which passengers travel to and from An umbrella programme under which investment-grade Amsterdam Airport Schiphol designed to achieve an located at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol in which Schiphol Amsterdam Airport Schiphol by road or rail entities can issue unsecured certificates of debt (‘notes’) annual baggage handling capacity of 70 million bags, Real Estate holds a share of 61.15% and institutional resulting in shorter connection times, greater flexibility, investors hold the remaining 38.85% CDM Excellence Parking more automation (in part through robots), enhanced Collaborative Decision-Making is part of the Single Covered car park adjoining the terminal (next to availability resulting in a lower IR rate Aviation Act (Wet luchtvaart) European Sky initiative of the European Commission. CDM Departure Hall 3) and offering greater security and governing the operation of enables all parties involved in operations at the airport convenience for frequent flyers and business passengers ACI Amsterdam Airport Schiphol to share their relevant data through a central point Airports Council International; international industry Legislation laying down the terms of the operating FFO organisation of airports licence as well as the economic regulations governing Commercial traffic Funds From Operations is the cash flow from operating the charges and conditions for using Amsterdam Airport Commercial air traffic (other than military, police etc.) activities before changes in working capital Airport charges Schiphol; in force since July 2006 Aircraft, passenger and security related charges Concession income Fixed Electrical Ground Power (FEGP) Aviation Act (Wet luchtvaart) Income from activities for which a concession (i.e. Power supply for onboard aircraft systems, situated on Aerospace Exchange governing the organisation and use a licence to conduct specific activities) has been granted, the aprons at airside Business park at Schiphol-East where Schiphol Real of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol usually in the form of a percentage of revenue Estate develops properties for companies in the Legislation laying down standards for noise, air quality FLUX Alliance aviation sector and safety at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol; in force since Concessionaire Partnership between the US and Dutch governments February 2003 A person or company with whom or which a to facilitate fast border passage. The partnership is Airport Carbon Accreditation concession agreement (= non-exclusive right to conduct expected to be extended to include Canada ACI (see above) benchmark that provides insight into Aviation Policy Document a commercial activity such as the operation of a store the measures airports are taking to reduce CO2 The government’s vision on the development and or catering establishment at a location designated by FTE growth of Dutch aviation Schiphol) has been concluded Full-time equivalent: a full-time employment position AirportCity formula An integral development of aviation and non-aviation Bas Corporate Governance Code Full-freighter activities in which businesses and users are offered all Local Community Contact Centre Schiphol (Bewoners The Corporate Governance Code for listed companies An aircraft that transports cargo only the facilities they need. The AirportCity formula is Aanspreekpunt Schiphol) is the information and as drawn up in 2003 by the Tabaksblat Committee and comprised of activities in the Aviation, Consumer complaints service centre to which local residents can renewed by the Frijns Committee General Aviation Products & Services and Real Estate business areas turn with any questions and complaints about air traffic International term for private and business aircraft at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Bas is a joint initiative CROS that seat no more than 20 passengers Airport Traffic Ruling of Air Traffic Control the Netherlands (LVNL) and The Schiphol Regional Consultative Committee (Luchthavenverkeersbesluit, LVB) Part of the Dutch Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (Commissie Regionaal Overleg luchthaven Schiphol); GFA Aviation Act (Wet luchtvaart) that governs the use a discussion platform between the aviation sector Gross Floor Area as measured in square metres of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Bird strike and region A bird strike is an incident in which traces of a bird, Global Compact Airside or dead birds (or parts thereof), have been found on De-icing United Nations initiative in which participating Area where aircraft take off, land and taxi and where a runway and in which it can reasonably be assumed The removal of ice and snow from the body and wings companies commit to ten ethical and environmental ground handling activities are carried out on aircraft that the strike occurred within the boundaries of the of an aircraft prior to take-off principles of good business airport grounds Alders Platform Departure Lounges 1 & 4 GRI Consultative body for the aviation sector and regional Business area Waiting area for passengers travelling to Schengen Global Reporting Initiative: worldwide guideline for partners, chaired by former Queen’s Commissioner A functional cluster of activities with the Schiphol countries on flights departing from Piers A, B, C, D or M Corporate Social Responsibility reporting Hans Alders and concerned with the future growth Group organisation of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Departure Lounges 2 & 3 Groenenberg site Cargo World Waiting area for passengers travelling to non-Schengen A site near Runway 18L-36R owned by the property Business park at Schiphol-Southeast where Schiphol Real countries on flights departing from Piers D, E, F, G or H developer Chipshol to which a development ban Estate develops properties for companies in the air cargo applied for a number of years. Chipshol is claiming sector and related logistics services Economic profit compensation from Schiphol Group and other parties RONA (after tax) minus the WACC, multiplied by average because of the ban fixed assets 250 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 251 Glossary Ground noise LFA Operating year Runway safety Ground noise is low-frequency noise producing Lettable Floor Area as measured in square metres Period from 1 November to 31 October inclusive Safety on or near runways vibrations that can cause nuisance. Low-frequency noise is noise that is perceived differently from ‘regular’ Liquids & Gels Regulations Passenger Journey Schengen countries noise, and is more often felt than heard. This noise is EU regulations limiting the quantity of liquids and gels Vision of the future passenger product, aimed at the Countries in Europe that have agreed to allow produced by aircraft taking off allowed on aircraft realisation of smooth and efficient passenger process unrestricted cross-border movement of people and with an optimal quality perception for passengers, and goods (named after the town in Luxembourg where Health and safety incidents Low-cost carrier incorporating the latest technological innovations this treaty was signed) Incidents that compromise the safety of the A ‘no frills’ airline specialised in offering lower air fares, airport’s employees or of users of the airport’s usually together with the option to obtain extra services Passenger Service Charge Schiphol worker infrastructure. The seriousness of incidents at an additional fee The charge that is levied per departing passenger for the An employee of one of the businesses established at ranges from ‘minor’ to ‘extremely serious’. use of airport facilities Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Extremely serious health and safety incidents are Mainport those that result in death or permanent injury A hub for air, road and rail transport which has a major Pax-combi aircraft Security scan significance for and impact on the development of the Aircraft in which both cargo and passengers are The security scan uses ‘millimetre wave’ technology. Holland Boulevard region and national economy transported on the main deck The millimetre waves, which are harmless, do not pass Area in the terminal between Piers E and F that offers through the body; instead, they bounce off the surface an attractive, modern space where transfer passengers Master Plan Permanent turning radius of the body and any objects. The scan shows the objects can pass the time enjoying a number of characteristically Directional plan which, in accordance with our A highly precise, pre-determined flight path that has that a person is carrying ‘Dutch’ catering establishments and products, the ambition to be Europe’s preferred airport, lays down the shape of (a part of) a circle world’s first Airport Library, the Rijksmuseum Schiphol, the spatial development of the airport infrastructure Security Service Charge wellness, a casino and the ‘Bols Experience’ and translates that development into an investment Preconditioned air Charge levied per departing passengers in connection programme, drawn up in response to demand for Cooled or heated air used for climate control in aircraft with security measures Hub capacity and quality, social developments and trends An important junction for continental and in the aviation industry Privium See Buy Fly intercontinental flights An exclusive service programme for Privium members. Shops selling traditional duty-free articles such as MTOW Privium membership always includes automated border perfume, cosmetics, liquor and tobacco Hub carrier Maximum Take-Off Weight of an aircraft upon which passage using iris recognition technology Main network carrier at a hub airport take-off and landing charges are based SkyTeam Randstad Worldwide alliance of airlines grouped around IFRS Night-time regime The urbanised western region of the Netherlands, Air France-KLM and Delta Airlines International Financial Reporting Standards; Period during the night when runway use is restricted encompassing the major cities of Amsterdam, the internationally prescribed and recognised and incoming aircraft must use silent approaches and The Hague, Rotterdam and Utrecht Slot Coordinator reporting guidelines applied by Schiphol Group departing flights must make use of special night routes Government-appointed organisation tasked with Retail Airside allocating available slots (licences to take-off Instrument Landing System NMa Shops located in the area accessible only to passengers and land at specific times) in accordance with Air traffic guidance equipment used during Netherlands Competition Authority; supervises the flying from or passing through Amsterdam Airport international regulations aircraft approach and landing setting of aviation charges and conditions by Amsterdam Schiphol Airport Schiphol Smart Parking IR rate ROE Online service (via www.schiphol.nl) for advance Irregularity Rate; the percentage of bags that do Noise Enforcement point Return on Equity; net result (payable to shareholders) booking of discounted parking spaces in the P3 long-stay not arrive at the destination at the same time as An enforcement point where a maximum permitted divided by average shareholders’ equity car park the passenger noise level applies as set by the central ­government. There are 35 enforcement points for the 24-hour period RONA Sternet Iris scan and 25 enforcement points for the night-time period Return on Net Assets; operating result divided by Public bus service connecting Amsterdam Airport Device that uses iris recognition to establish (11:00 p.m. to 07:00 a.m.). All the enforcement points average fixed assets, less deferred tax assets and Schiphol with regional towns and cities and with personal identity together make up the noise enforcement system receivables on derivatives older than one year all airport parking facilities and work locations Key Performance Indicator (KPI) O&D passenger Runway 18R-36L (Polderbaan) Strike Force Important indicator used to measure the performance Origin & Destination passengers begin or end their Runway in use since 2003. Runway 18R-36L is the fifth A group of people that have teamed up in order to of a company or business unit journey at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol main runway at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol bring about quick improvements in airport processes Landside Occupational safety Runway incursion Terminal The landside area (accessible to the public) of the airport Occupational safety concerns work-related safety for A runway incursion is an incident on a runway involving The airport building with arrival and departure halls or airport grounds the airport’s own employees and from third parties as an aircraft, vehicle or person not authorised to be there well as users of our infrastructure at that time 252 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 253 Glossary Transfer passenger A passenger who changes planes at an airport Transit direct passenger A passenger who arrives at an airport and continues his or her journey on the same plane Valet Parking A service allowing passengers flying from Amsterdam Airport Schiphol to leave their car at Schiphol Valet Parking outside the departure hall and arrange to have it waiting for them on their return to Schiphol Visit costs The total costs an airline pays for calling at an airport WACC Weighted Average Cost of Capital as based on the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) Work Load Unit (WLU) A term used to measure production; equal to 1 passenger or 100 kg of cargo WTC World Trade Centre Schiphol Airport X-ray A system by which security personnel can check baggage fully automated for prohibited objects 254 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 255 Published by Schiphol Group P.O. Box 7501 1118 ZG Schiphol The Netherlands www.schiphol.nl www.annualreportschiphol.com Dutch version written by Van Luyken Communicatie Adviseurs, Haarlem, the Netherlands Schiphol Group, Schiphol, the Netherlands English translation Metamorfose Vertalingen B.V., Utrecht, the Netherlands Design and Production Graphic Invention, De Meern, the Netherlands Art direction Xander Richters, Abcoude, the Netherlands Photography Xander Richters and others Maps Schiphol Group, Schiphol, the Netherlands 256 Schiphol Group Annual Report 2011 257
