2011 北京民航鹏远航空服务公司可持续发展报告 CAAC Pioneer Logistics Sustainable Development Report Sustainable Development Report 2011 目录 Content 绩效 2011 Performance in 2011 关键绩效表 Key performance form 总经理申明 Statement of the General Manager Commitment in 2012: Goal of sustainable 2012 承诺：可持续发展目标 development 关于我们 About us 公司概况 Company Introduction 公司理念、发展目标和管理体系方针 Concept, development goal and management system policy 可持续发展管理 Sustainable development management 利益相关方沟通与回应 Communication and response of stakeholders 责任实践 Duty Concept practice 共建社会和谐 Construct the harmonious society 员工关爱 Care for employees 客户服务 Customer service 公益事业 Public service 反金融犯罪 Against financial crime 支持环保节能 Support energy-saving 坚持绿色运营 Stick to green operation 安全管理 Security management 2 Sustainable Development Report 2011 绩效 2011 Performance in 2011 关键绩效表 Key performance form 指标 单位 2009 2010 2011 Indicators Unit 经济 业务收入 万元 341,130 391,276 462,768 Economy Business income RMB 10,000 车辆行驶公里数 公里 The total vehicle 317,650 298,770 290,035 kilometer kilometer 人均用电 度/人 Per capita power 722 605 565 Kwh/person 环境 consumption Environment 人均用纸 千克/人 Per capita paper 1.23 1.02 0.82 Kg/person consumption 人均用水 立方米/人 Per capita water 12 12 9.8 Cubic meter/person consumption 员工总人数 人 2,853 2,960 2,988 Total employees Person 女性员工比例 Proportion of female 44% 44% 45% % employees 劳动合同率 % 100 100 100 Labor contract rate 培训投入 元 31,000 48,000 52,000 Staff training input RMB 培训人次 人次 488 498 569 社会 Staff training Person Society 捐款总额 元 Public welfare 48,010 59,900 68,800 RMB donations 安全事故数 次 2 1 1 Security accidents 员工满意度 Employee % 95 95 95 satisfaction rate 客户满意度 Customer satifaction % 95 95 95 rate 3 Sustainable Development Report 2011 2012 年承诺：可持续发展目标 Commitment in 2012: Goal of sustainable development 责任领域 2012 年可持续发展发展目标 预计目标完成情况 积极参与联合国全球契约活动，自觉履行“十项原则”， 95% 定期发布可持续发展报告，主动接受利益相关方监督 组织社会责任学习培训和交流会，提高各级管理人员和员 责任管理 95% 工的社会责任意识 加强普法宣传，组织反腐培训，深化能源监察，培育守法 95% 合规的经营理念 加强经营管理，实现国有资产保值增值 95% 经济绩效 增强核心业务发展，加大资源利用率 95% 设立独立的安全管理委员会，全面建立公司生产安全管理 100% 体系 制定并持续更新科学、合理的管理操作指导手册与制度， 100% 全方位落实安全管理制度 安全绩效 对员工上岗前进行安全培训，并对各环节工作人员进行定 100% 期培训并实际演练 杜绝死亡、火灾、设备的重大事故 100% 时刻检查消防设备，保证完好；保证防护用品发放到位 100% 严格遵守国家相关法律法规，维护企业员工的合法权益 95% 开展员工岗位培训，完善员工晋升渠道 95% 建立健全的员工职业安全健康保障制度 95% 员工关爱 金融危机下履行对员工的责任，不裁员、不减薪，团结公 95% 司上下共同度过难关 支援困难员工克服难关 95% 规范节能减排的标准和管理，加大监督和考核力度 95% 合理组织公路物流，减少空驶率 95% 环境绩效 固体废弃物分类管理，提高废弃物的再利用率 95% 使用节能基础设施，节约水电资源 95% 增加当地采购，实现员工本地化，促进当地经济发展 95% 社会绩效 遵守商业伦理，反对商业贿赂，创造公平竞争的市场环境 95% 加强与利益相关方的和谐共建 95% 4 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Responsibility Planning Completed 2012 Sustainable Development Goal Scope Performance Positively attend the UN Global Compact, support 10 principles, release 95% the sustainable development report under stakeholders’ supervision Responsibility Organize the social responsibility training and communication meeting 95% management for developing the social responsibility awareness of each employee Organize the legal publicity, combat corruption training and energy 95% monitor for the formation of the law-abiding ideas Strengthen the operation management for increasing the value of state Economy 95% property performance Develop the core business and increase the resources utilization 95% Set up an independent safety management committee for the 100% management system in security manufacture Make and update the more reasonable operating manual and 100% regulations, and carry out the safety measures Security Educate the new employees pre-training, and arrange the regular performance 100% training and operations of the old ones Eliminate the major accidents of death, fire and equipments 100% Ensure the fire fighting equipments in good condition, and the 100% protective equipments in place Abide by the national laws and regulations, and protect the legal rights 95% of employees Organize the job training and perfect the channel promotion 95% Establish the occupational health and safety management system 95% Care of staff Under the financial crisis storm, we perform the duties over the difficulties with uniting all staff and keeping away from layoffs and 95% cutting the salaries Support the staff to pull through the difficulties 95% Standardize the rules and management of energy conservation and 95% emission reduction, and strengthen supervision and evaluation Organize the reasonable road logistics and reduce unloaded ratio 95% Environment Solid waste classification management and improve the utilization rate performance 95% of waste Use the energy-saving infrastructure to save water and electricity 95% resources Increase the local purchase quantity and employees for improving the 95% regional economy development Social Abide by business ethics against commercial bribery for the equal performance 95% market Strengthen the harmonious construction with stakeholders 95% 5 Sustainable Development Report 2011 朱明奇 总经理 Steve Zhu General Manager 总经理声明 2011 年，北京民航鹏远航空服务公司持续地认真地落实科学发展观，紧抓市场机遇。公司 不仅努力克服企业外部各种宏观条件和因素的消极作用，而且在内部紧抓每个员工的行业知 识和相关工作技能的提升，不断地减员增效，实现精益化管理和集约效应。我们通过优化流 程、提高生产效率，最大程度地减少生产和操作安全事故，不断地提高普通员工及管理层的 满意度和好评度。民航鹏远一直以国有企业的高标准来要求自己，自 1993 年公司成立以来， 目前达到了又一个新的发展阶段。公司始终以“成为客户最专业、诚信的物流伙伴”为追求， 一步步地向着“更高、更快、更强”的口号和理念迈进。 继北京奥运会、上海世博会和广州亚运会之后，西安世界园艺博览会、深圳世界大学生运动 会及上海世界游泳锦标赛是 2011 年中国承办的三个重要的国际盛会。这些盛会的交通管制 措施造成了相关地区的交通不畅，同时也增加了物流企业的车辆投入和运输成本。除此之外， 2011 年中国某些省市和地区的包括暴雨、洪水、地震、冰雪等极端天气现象频繁出现，导 致物流企业的干线和中转派送运输的时效遭受严重影响，货物晚到以及被雨水淋湿后等情形 造成的货损也使得物流企业给予客户相应的赔偿，这又在一定程度上影响了物流企业的利润 率。而且，近两年中国政府制定了一些相关政策和规定保护基层操作人员的安全等各项权益， 提高低薪人员的薪酬待遇，并且随着中国大范围油荒现象的出现，加油变得困难，燃油价格 提高，这一系列因素都使得物流公司的经营成本提高。 面对如上各项内外部因素的挑战，鹏远公司相关管理人员提前通过各种途径了解国家政策和 临时规定，并且提前与客户做好书面和口头的沟通和安抚工作，提前采取应对方案。当困难 真正来临的时候，最大程度地将不良影响降低，并且尽量地由企业自身去承担这些成本、费 用和风险，做到内部让员工满意，对外让直接客户、间接客户和下游承运商等合作伙伴满意。 鹏远公司自 2008 年经最大的客户之一施奈德电器公司的推介，立刻自愿地加入联合国全球 6 Sustainable Development Report 2011 契约组织，并在日常企业运营和管理过程中践行全球契约的十项原则。 Statement of the General Manager In the year of 2011, CAAC PIONEER LOGSITICS continued to carry out the scientific development policy and obtained market opportunities. CPL not only overcame many outer factors’ negative effects, but also focused on the improvement of staffs’ industry knowledge and working skills to cut headcount and increase the efficiency. Besides, we try to reduce the security accidents to the lowest level for better satisfaction from all the management levels and the good judges from the staff by the work flow optimization and productiveness improvement. Pioneer strictly requests herself to act as a state owned enterprise belonging to China Aviation Administration of China, and has reached a new development stage since its foundation in 1993. And Pioneer always struggles to be the most reliable and professional logistics partner of customers, and heads for the slogan and belief of Higher, Faster and Stronger. China held three large international meetings in 2011, including Xi’an World Horticultural Exposition, Shenzhen World University Games and FINA World Aquatics Championships. Government’s traffic regulations around the areas of exhibition places during the games had bad effects on the logistics companies’ vehicles investment and transportation cost. At the same time, the bad weather such as the blood, rainstorm, earthquake, and ice of this year which lead to damage and delay the cargo also impact logistics companies’ main road and delivery time around some regions of China. All factors above affected the logistics companies’ profit margin to some extent. Furthermore, in the two years, China government made and carried out some related policies and rules to protect the operators’ rights, such as work safety and the wages increase of those low-level salary staffs. Besides, the occurrence of wide range fuel shortage and increased fuel price, all the outer factors add the operating cost of the logistics companies. Facing to the big challenges caused by all the outer factors, the management team of Pioneer Logistics got to know the government policies and provisional regulations, made written and oral communications with customers, and carried out the response plan in advance. Therefore, when the difficulty really arose, Pioneer can down the bad effects to the lowest level and afforded the cost, fees and risks by herself for tried her best to satisfy staffs internally as well as partners such as direct or indirect clients and subcontractors externally. In the year of 2008, Pioneer Logistics knew the principles and the structure of UN Global Compact from Schneider, immediately and voluntarily jointed in it. And then we practice strictly accordingly to the ten principles of UN Global Compact. 7 Sustainable Development Report 2011 关于我们 About us （一）公司概况 北京民航鹏远航空服务公司（以下简称民航鹏远） ，成立于 1993 年，是中国民航总局所属的 全民所有制企业。民航鹏远总部设在北京，目前全国范围内设有 25 个分公司，36 个操作中 心和 198 个操作点，依靠专业、健全的操作网络为客户提供安全、快捷、高效的物流服务， 在海外已形成了以欧洲、中东、北美、南美、澳洲、日本及东南亚为重点的国际货运业务网 络。 民航鹏远是由商务部批准的国际货物运输代理企业，也是首批经中国民用航空总局和民航华 北管理局批准的兼有航空运输一类客、货和二类客、货销售代理业务资质的航空运输销售代 理人。国内综合物流方面，民航鹏远具备道路运输资质，公司拥有自己的运输车队，长期与 铁路运输部门保持了紧密的合作关系。公司拥有完善的第三方物流和仓储管理信息系统、 GPS 定位跟踪系统，并针对中国物流企业的实际运作特点不断开发、更新。公司的主营业务 有国际进出口运输、国际综合运输、进出口报关和紧急清关派送、商业性和政府性货运包机； 门到门限时运输、区域性及城市配送、展览运输、仓储管理和供应商库存管理（VMI）、供 应链综合管理和咨询；国际国内机票预定服务、客包机和公务机服务。 民航鹏远的客户分布在化工、电子、汽车配件、电力设施、药品、食品、展览业等领域，正 是结合了对各行各业物流需求的研究和实际操作经验，民航鹏远摸索出了完备有效的、为不 同需求客户量身定做的物流操作体系，并且在实际运作中快速调整，最大化地满足客户高质 低耗的物流需求。人才专业化、管理系统化、服务规范化、物流网络化，使民航鹏远不仅倍 受国内外客户的信赖，并且多次获得各合作航空公司及物流业界的奖项和好评，在中国物流 行业享有较高声誉。  企业性质：国有企业 Company type: State-owned  企业资质 Qualifications  首批外经贸部批准的国际货运代理人/ one of the first international forwarding agents to be approved by MOFTEC  民航总局批准的一级客货运代理人/Class-A cargo and passenger agent approved by CAAC  国际航空运输协会指定代理/ appointed agent of IATA 成立日期与注册资金：1993 年 2 月 10 日成立， 1350 万注册资金 Established Date & Capital： 1993-2-10, RMB13.5 Million 8 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Company Introduction CAAC Pioneer Logistics (Short for CPL) was founded in 1993 and is the state owned enterprise under the management of Civil Aviation Administration of China (short for CAAC). CPL is based in Beijing, owning 25 branches, 36 operation centers and 198 operation stations around China. Relying on sophisticated operation network, CPL could provide safe, rapid and high effective logistics service for customers. And in terms of its global network, CPL is leading the way in lines to Europe, Mid-East, North America, South America, Oceania, Japan and South East of Asia. CPL is the international forwarding company approved by MOFTEC, also an air transportation sales agent, one of the first agents with Class-A passenger and cargo sales certificate by CAAC. Besides that, CPL has grown as a leading provider in domestic logistics industry and truck fleet equipped with GPS, warehouses, distribution centers and state-of –the –art IT systems, etc. Furthermore, we keep close partnership with the railway operation corporate as a good supplementary to our business category. Our core business ranges from international freight forwarding, charter, domestic integrated logistics, exhibition transport, warehouse management & VMI, supply chain management, air ticket booking, passenger flight charter and business jet charter. Our customers are at the industry of chemical, electronics, auto part, electric power, medical, food and exhibition etc. Resort to the wealth of experience in various industries, CPL could tailor a viable and effective logistics management for every kind of customer, and utmost meet their need. Expert staff, systemized management, standardized service and well networked logistics enable CPL to be a reliable partner and have gained good reputation from customers in and outside China! In the last one year, CAAC Pioneer Logistics have done a lot to improve ourselves in many aspects to achieve the standard of UNGC required. Now we divide this COP by four main parts, with human rights, labor, environmental protection and corruption. 9 Sustainable Development Report 2011 （二）公司理念、发展目标和管理体系方针 Concept, development goal and management system policy  更快、更高、更强 Faster Higher and Stronger  1. “十二五”物流业发展总体目标 The development goal of the twelfth Five-Year Guideline in logistics industry 到 2015 年，基础设施网络更趋完善，结构更加合理，交通运输供给能力明显增强，运输装 备进一步改善，运输组织不断优化，运输效率和服务水平明显提升，创新能力不断增强，科 技进步和信息化水平不断提高，行业监管能力明显加强，以低碳为特征的交通运输体系建设 取得成效，资源节约型、环境友好型行业建设取得明显进展，交通安全监管体系逐步完善， 应急反应能力进一步加强，安全保障能力明显提高。便捷、安全、经济、高效的综合运输体 系初步形成，基本适应国民经济和社会发展的需要。 In the year of 2015, the basic infrastructures network will be improved and the structure will be more reasonable. And the supply capacity of transportation will be stronger and equipments will be improved, besides the transport organization keeps on optimization and the efficiency and service level of logistics obviously be developed. With the strengthening of innovation ability and the development of technology skills and information level, the industry regulations capability will be enhanced. The traffic and transportation system with low carbon emissions will get good results and the environment-friendly industry construction will develop obviously. At that time, the safety supervision system will be perfected and that strengths emergency reaction ability and security protection capacity. The Convenient and safe, economic and effective comprehensive transportation system will be initially shaped for meeting the demands of national economy and social development. 2. 民航鹏远发展目标 The development goal of CAAC Pioneer Logistics 民航鹏远作为一家全民所有制物流企业，响应国家“十二五”发展目标，努力发展核心物流 业务。 加快实施物流标准化流程的改革措施，发展物流信息化建设。建立完善的现代物流信息系统 及采用先进的现代物流信息技术手段，努力降低物流成本，为实现降低全社会物流总成本贡 献一份力量。 贯彻绿色物流的理念，将绿色环保思想传播到民航鹏远的每一个员工心中，通过优化运输路 线、减少空载、节能减排等实际举措，来达到节约能源、减少污染、保护环境的目的。 10 Sustainable Development Report 2011 As a state-owned logistics enterprise, CAAC Pioneer Logistics for responding to the state’s call of the twelfth Five-Year Guideline develops the core business. For accelerating the reformation of logistics standardization flow, CAACPL develops the logistics information with perfect modern logistics information system and advanced technology. We try to decrease the logistics cost and do the best for reducing the whole social logistics cost. Carrying out the idea of green logistics, we spread the green idea of environment protection to each employee. With the measures of optimizing the transport route, reducing the empty load and energy saving, CPL tries its best to achieve the objective of reducing the energy waste and pollution to protect the environment. 3. 管理体系方针 Management system policies 运营方针 环境保护方针 安全方针 法制方针 服务优质、运转高效、满 作业规范、节能降耗、 以人为本、健康安全、 遵守法纪、响应 足客户要求、追求卓越、 保护环境资源 风险预警控制 国家政策 绩效持续改进 Environmental Operation policies Security policies Legality policies protection policies Supply high quality service Operating follow SOP, Insist on the concept Abide by the law and efficient operating for decrease Energy of “ humanand regulations customers’ requirement Consumption and -orientation, safety for responding and continually improve protect the and healthy ” and positively to the performance environment control risk warning national policy resources 11 Sustainable Development Report 2011 可持续发展管理 Sustainable development management （一）利益相关方沟通与回应 Communication and response of stakeholders 1. 利益相关方列表 List of stakeholders 利益相关方 对公司的期望 沟通方式 主要指标 纳税总数 响应国家政策，为当地经济做出贡 研究学习法律法规、政策文件， 政府 员工人数 献，加强安全运输监管、保护环境 并按照规定要求实践 主营业务收入 保护员工权益，提供稳定的就业机 劳动合同签订率 加入工会组织，定期召开员工 会与公平合理的薪酬保障，完善员 社保参保率 员工 大会，建立通畅、透明的内部 工发展的渠道，提供安全健康的工 员工培训投入 沟通渠道 作环境 职工大会会议数 对客户保持诚信，提供优质的产品 与客户保持密切的联系，严格 客户 客户满意度 和服务，秉承共赢的合作态度 遵循合同，随时更新产品信息 遵守商业道德和法律法规，建立长 合作谈判，高层会晤，招投标， 业务合作伙伴 协议执行情况 期合作关系，实现互利互赢 日常业务交流，定期走访 提高物流服务，为公众谋求利益， 参与公益活动，关注公众对公 公众 公益投入 支持社会公益事业 司评价并保持回应 支持社会团体组织，履行组织章程， 积极参加有关会议及活动，支 参加的行业组织、协会 非政府组织 加强运营信息披露，实现共同发展 持改进，主动建言献策 等机构数 关注生态保护，应对气候变化， 采用环保措施 环境 支持环保公益事业 实现环境友好 开源节流措施 List of stakeholders Expectation to the company Methods of communication Key indicators Respond to the state’s policy, we try According to the law and Total tax to do our best for the local economy, regulations or policy Government Total staff to strength the security supervision documents, CPL puts them in Operating revenue and protect the environment practice For protecting the employees’ rights, Attend the trade union Labor contract rate CPL supports the job chance and fair organization, organize the Social insurance rate Employees emoluments; perfects the employee regular staff meeting for the Employee training cost development channel for the safety open and transparent inside Employee conference and healthy work conditions communications channel number Supply the good quality’s products Keep close in touch with and service for customer in good customers, strictly abide by the Customers Customer satisfaction faiths with the cooperation idea of agreements and update the “win-win” products’ information 12 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Abide by the business morality and Cooperation negotiations, high Partners laws, form the long-term cooperation level meeting, bids, daily visit Agreements implement relationship for the goal of “win-win” and business communications Improve the logistics service and Join in the public welfare support the public welfare activities, and care for the The public welfare The public establishment struggling for the public’s opinions and respond investments public’s benefits to them Support the social organizations, attend actively the related Attended the industry Non-governmental abide by the rules of organizations, conference and activities with organizations and organization announce the operations information the improvements support, the associations for jointly development advices and suggestions Measures of Support the public welfare Pay close attention on ecology environments, Environment establishment and environment protection, and climate change, Measures of increase protection for the friendly environment income and reduce expenditure 2. 参加的主要社会组织 Main attending social organizations 组织名称 协会任职 联合国全球契约 成员单位 The United Nations Global Compact. (UNGC) Member 中国国际运输代理协会 会员单位 The China International Freight Forwarders Association (CIFA) Member 中国报关协会 会员单位 The China Customs Brokers Association (CCBA) Member 国际航空运输协会 会员单位 The International Air Transport Association (IATA) Member 中国航空运输协会 会员单位 The China Air Transport Association (CATA) Member 中国货代联盟 会员单位 China Cargo Alliance (CCA) Member 3. 利益相关方认可 Stakeholders’ recognition 鹏远公司自 2008 年 3 月经最大的客户之一施奈德电器公司的推介，立刻自愿地加入联合国 全球契约组织，并在日常企业运营和管理过程中践行全球契约的十项原则，不断地扩充适用 范围和方面，对内逐级地向下宣讲，对外积极主动地向上下游合作伙伴介绍全球契约，号召 它们加入。 2009 年 4 月 20 日，我公司总经理应邀参加于远洋大厦举行的联合国全球契约中国网络中心 成立大会。1999 年 1 月在达沃斯世界经济论坛年会上，联合国秘书长科菲•安南提出“全球 13 Sustainable Development Report 2011 契约”计划，并于 2000 年 7 月在联合国总部正式启动。 “全球契约”号召各公司遵守在人权、 劳工标准、环境及反贪污方面的十项基本原则。 In March of 2008, Pioneer Logistics knew the principles and the structure of UN Global Compact from Schneider, immediately and voluntarily jointed in it. And then we practice strictly accordingly to the ten principles of UN Global Compact in the daily running and managing process, consistently spreading its applied scope and the principles to staffs internally, and at the same time, introducing Global Compact to business partners. The general manager joined in the conference of UN Global Compact Chinese network office established in the Ocean plaza on April 20th of 2009. In Jan of 1999, Secretary-General Kofi Annan put forward the plan of “Global compact” on the World Economic Forum in Davos and this plan was started in July of 2000 on the head office of UN. The “Global Compact” calls the ten basic principles referring to human rights, Labor standards, environments protection and anti-corruption work. 积极参加联合国全球契约活动 案例：2011 年 8 月 30 日我司派两人代表公司参加“全球契约和可持续发展座谈会 培训座谈会（第一期） ”，参加代表在接受培训后，将培训资料带回，并在会后将培 训内容和心得分享给公司其他员工。 Attend the activities of UN Global Compact positively On Aug 30th of 2011, two representatives of Pioneer to attend the sustainable development forum of UN Global Compact and after the training, they share the training content and ideas with other colleagues. 14 Sustainable Development Report 2011 （二）责任实践 Concept practice 15 Sustainable Development Report 2011 共建社会和谐 Construct the harmonious society （一）员工关爱 Care for employees 1. 鹏远的劳动用工理念为“培养人才，以人为本” Our values in human resource is training the talent, people oriented 作为著名的现代化综合性物流公司，民航鹏远以确保员工职业健康安全、创造和谐的劳工关 系为目标，坚持科学发展观，以人为本，从长期发展战略出发，进一步创新思路、改善管理、 优化结构、构建和谐，建立适应民航鹏远长期发展战略要求的一线操作员工队伍和二线经营 管理人才队伍，推进员工和文化的多元化管理，充分吸引、凝聚、激励和使用各类优秀人才， 积极推进公司人力资源的整体性开发，切实维护广大员工的根本利益，实现员工自身成长与 公司发展的和谐共赢。 作为全球契约组织的成员，民航鹏远的劳动用工理念、劳动用工所依据的法律和标准、劳动 用工的政策和制度、劳动用工的措施和行动均致力于推进全球契约组织所倡导的四项劳工原 则，即致力于推进维护结社自由和承认劳资谈判的权利，致力于推进彻底消除各种形式的强 制劳动，致力于推进消除童工，致力于推进杜绝用工歧视和职业歧视等原则。 As a modernized integrated Logistics Company, CPL aims to ensure the work safety and healthy, with building a harmony employment relationship, and insisting a scientific concept of development and people-oriented management. Beginning with long-term development strategy, CPL with the innovation idea and management improvement develops status and harmony environment and at the same time builds high performing operators and managers teams. To improve the diversification management of employees and culture, we attract more talents and encourage them for developing the manpower resources, protecting the benefits of staff and up to the common grow objective of win-win about the company and employees. As the member of UN compact, CPL’s labor force idea, related laws and standards, policies and system of manpower resources, measures and actions of human resources are devoted at the four labor force principles which are called by UN compact organization. The labor force principles are dedicated to advance maintenance freedom of association and admit the rights of labor negotiations, push to comb out all kinds of forced labor, eliminate child labor, employee discrimination and professional discrimination. 16 Sustainable Development Report 2011 2011 年员工权益保护主要措施及成效 Major efforts and achievements in protecting employees’ rights and interests in 2011  工会组建率及正式员工入会率达到 100% Labor Union was established in all branches and covered all 工会 formal employees Labor Union  参加工会组织活动，根据员工建议改善员工待遇 Attend the activities of Labor Union and develop the treatment depending on advice from employees  合同签订率 100% All staff are protected by labor contracts  制定劳动合同管理制度 劳动合同 Formulate labor contract management rules Labor Contract  按时缴纳五险一金 Pay staff insurances and benefits in full amount  保障员工休假权 Secure staff rights of taking leaves and vacation  保证农民工和其他员工享受完全一致的待遇 关注女员工、 Equal treatment for all staff including migrant workers 儿童以及农民  男女同工同酬，提供平等的职业机会 工权益 Equal pay, equal career opportunities Care for Female  杜绝使用童工，反对任何形式的强迫和歧视 Employees Eliminate the use of child labor against any form of coercion Children and and discrimination Peasant-workers’  为从外地来公司工作的有住宿需求的员工免费提供住宿 Rights Provide free accommodation for all staff from other districts 2. 员工培训 Staff training 为提高员工的自身素质和工作技能，营造学习型的工作氛围，创建学习型的工作团队，提升 公司的服务能力，增强公司的核心竞争力，公司建立了多种层次、多种形式的培训体系。对 培训时间、培训内容、培训反馈与评估都作了详细的规定。其中入职培训和岗前培训是每位 员工都必须参加的培训，入职培训时间不得少于 8 个工时；岗前培训时间不得少于 40 个工 时；由专业机构和组织举办的专业培训，一般为管理培训和业务培训，培训对象主要是各部 门主管、助理、经理及以上的人员。所有形式的培训对象均须要填写《培训记录表》和《培 训反馈表》 ，这位评估培训效果、改进培训工作提供了重要依据。 为了激发优秀员工分享宝贵的工作经验，民航鹏远还实行了内部培训师认定制度。鼓励优秀 的员工向其他员工传授工作真经，以提高其他员工的工作效率，为公司建立了重要的培训资 源，同时也为优秀的员工提供了一条职业发展的新途径，受到员工的积极响应。 17 Sustainable Development Report 2011 此外，公司每年制定培训计划，组织对员工进行职业健康安全、劳动法规、操作技能、管理 知识和公司员工手册等内容的培训教育，培训率达百分之百，切实提高了公司员工的整体素 质，促进了公司人力资源的整体性开发。 To improve the quality and work technology of staff, CPL sets up various levels and kinds of training system which rules time, content, respond and evolution of training. Besides, it creates the learning work atmosphere and promotes the service capacity for strengthening the core competence. In “CPL Training System”, all the new employees are required to take not less than 8 work hours’ on-the-job training, no less than 40 work hours’ pre-job training. All the trainees have to fill out the train record forms and train response forms which support the improvement of training work. In order to stimulate the excellent staff to share the good experience to others, CPL also brings into an inner trainer certificate system, which not only has accumulated a good training resource to the company, but also provides a new career route for the excellent staff. Furthermore, CPL makes out a detailed training plan annually, and organizes the staff to join in series of training, including occupational health and safety, labor law learning, operation skills, managing knowledge. There is 100% of training rate which helps to advance the quality of staff and promote the development of human resources. （二）客户服务 Customer service 公司成立以来，始终坚持把“广开客源，提高客户满意度”作为我们不断追求的目标，以“客 户第一，服务至上”为宗旨，借鉴国内外先进物流管理经验，内抓管理，外树形象，对所辖 部门及外派单位的各项管理实施标准化、多方位、综合一体化管理，竭诚为客户提供全方位 物流服务。 Since the establishment of the company, CPL put the “more customers and better customers’ satisfaction” as our goal. Customer and service are always on the first purpose, we promote to manage inside and establish good brand for the public though advanced logistics management and act standardized, multi-aspect and integrated management on all of the departments for supplying the perfect logistics service. 18 Sustainable Development Report 2011 鹏远物流帮助客户度过难关 案例：2010 年 12 月初，某客户设在上海的物流中心失火，造成所有进出上海的物流链条中断。而作为 该客户中国区最大的物流中心一旦瘫痪，势必影响到全国各工厂产品的发运和销售。得知事故发生后， 鹏远物流在第一时间与该客户管理层及服务的各工厂取得联系，表示深切遗憾的同时，结合客户的业务 特点，快速配置资源，为工厂提供了面向终端用户的产品直发方案。如同一场及时雨，该方案很快得到 了采纳和实施，在最短的时间内解决了事故给终端客户带来的直接影响。 2011 年 1 月，上海物流中心终于恢复使用。在这 1 个多月的时间里，鹏远物流的大力协助，为客户顺 利渡过难关提供全力保障，也为两公司的战略合作伙伴关系奠定了更坚实的基础。 CPL helps the customer to tide over difficulties In December of 2010, one logistics center of CPL’s customer in Shanghai was caught on fire to break off all the logistics chain in and out of Shanghai. As the biggest logistics center of our customer in China, the accident made a bad influence on all products of factories’ delivery and sales. After the notice, CPL expressed regret emotion to the factories and managers at the first time and help to quickly arrange the resources and support the product directly-delivery program with business characters. As the timely rain, the program was accepted and put in action to solve the problem. In Jan of 2011, the Shanghai logistics center was opened again. During the over one-month time, CPL helps the customer to tide over the accident for building stronger strategy partner relationship with each other. （三）公益事业 Public service 企业的社会责任，密切关联着企业与社会的和谐发展。公司充满着爱心，热心公益事业，关 注着弱势群体； “仁爱、敬业、诚信、贡献”是我们的实践和追求； “扶危济困、义利兼顾、 发展企业、回馈社会”是我们所追求的精神！ 公司自成立以来一直以关爱社会、热心公益事业为己任，多次参加社会各项公益活动。 The social duty of enterprises is related to the harmony development of business and the social. CPL is full of love and care for the public welfare establishment and vulnerable groups. Kindness, professional dedication, integrity and contribution are our practice and pursuit. We are struggling for helping those in distress and aiding those in peril, caring for both benefits and loyalty, developing business and responding of the social. The company from set up always caring for the social is devoted in the public welfare establishment as our duty and attends all kinds of public welfare actives. 19 Sustainable Development Report 2011 抗震救灾，鹏远在行动！ 案例：5 月 12 日，四川省发生里氏 8.0 级强烈地震，牵动了全公司上下员工的心。在公司总经理的倡 议下，全体员工纷纷慷慨解囊捐款捐物，目前累计捐赠财物折合人民币约 10 万元；公司还组织专项小 组启动物流运输的应急预案，做好了车辆、人员、后勤等相关准备工作。 在地震发生的第二天，我们受国家安全部和公安部特殊委托，紧急发往成都一批总重达 37 吨的物资， 其中包括 13 吨的帐篷和 24 吨的药品及衣物。此批救援物资于 5 月 14 日安全到达成都双流机场，另外 两批物资也先后到达，在最大程度上保证了物资及时送到每一个医务人员和受灾群众的手中。 5 月 23 日下午 2 点，我们接到修正药业集团的紧急委托，承运其捐赠给国家计生委的 10 种灾区急需的 药，共计 1492 箱，56 立方。我司紧急调配了 9.6 米货车于 2 小时后到达物资所在地，当天晚上 9 点从 长春出发，于 24 日上午 9 点到达北京，实现了仅 12 小时的运输时间。待国家计生委工作人员在每箱 货物上粘贴捐赠物资和红十字会的标识后，我司安排了最有经验的驾驶员负责北京到重灾区绵阳的整车 运输。车辆 24 日晚 9 点从北京出发，于 28 日早上 8 点顺利抵达绵阳计生委。相信这批及时到达的急 需药品会很快发挥作用，给灾区人民带来温暖。 “地震无情人有情”，在面对灾难时，每一个鹏远人心中都会升起一股强大的社会责任感，希望竭尽所能 帮助受灾的同胞们，这也是鹏远秉持的价值观和人性关怀。 CAAC Pioneer Logistics actively make contributions to the aid of Big Earthquake On May 12th, a strong earthquake broke out in Sichuan Province which drew great attention of our company’s staff. Per GM’s proposal, all our employees actively donate money and materials both of which are equivalent to RMB 100,000 until now. And company also set up a team to constitute a proper logistics plan and well prepare the vehicles, staff and all the other related work. Under the entrustment of Ministry of State Security and Ministry of Public Security, our airfreight department is responsible to transport an urgent shpt to Chengdu with total weight 37tons including 13tons’ tents and 24tons’ medicine and garments. We immediately took into action and arrange the earliest flight to guarantee all the relief cargo arrive at the disaster area soonest! Above is only one typical example of many that we participate in the aiding activities. Facing the big disaster, our employees are deeply touched and are eager to shoulder our own social liabilities, and this is also one of our company’s consistent principles. （四）反金融犯罪 Against financial crime 1. 反腐败 Against Corruption 鹏远公司作为一家国有企业，尤其注重反腐败管理工作，促进整个公司的规范运作和国有资 产的保值增值。围绕全球契约的要求，履行公司内部的相关规定，深化企业文化建设和反腐 倡廉工作，加强企业内部和外部的双重监督，发现问题，积极整改，对相关责任人进行批评 教育和处罚，提升公司的反腐败能力和腐败风险预警能力。 20 Sustainable Development Report 2011 As a state-owned company, our company especially pays attention in anti-corruption management, in order to promote the whole company under canonical operation and value adding of country’s assets. Our company focuses on Global Compact’s requirements, with fulfilling related internal regulations, and strengthening company culture construction and anti-corruption works. We also strengthen internal and external supervision and then actively correct the wrong manners once found. With the measures of educating and punishing the responsible people, we increase the ability of anti-corruption and corruption risk pre-alert. 2. 反贿赂 Anti-Bribes 鹏远公司高度重视治理商业贿赂工作。针对为取得客户的合作合同而可能向客户方决策人员 提供商业贿赂的情形，以及公司内部容易发生收取回扣、礼品、酬金等好处的部门和职位， 特别进行约束和关注。开展自查自纠、其他员工及外部人员的监督举报等方式，在最大的程 度上规避贿赂行为的产生。 Our company pays great attention in governing commercial bribe matters. We especially notice and restrict the conditions of giving bribe to the managers of customer in order to gain the contract or also some departments and positions where easily occur to take bribe, gift and money. We also carry on self-adjustment and avoid the happening of bribing behaviors to the maximum extent by staff or external customers’ supervision and report. 要求在与合作伙伴签订的合同中增加“合规与诚信”条款 具体内容包括：保证不会，直接或间接地，以违反相关法律（包括但不限于美国 《反海外贿赂法》以及适用的经合组织成员国为实施《禁止在国际商业交易中贿 赂外国政府官员公约》制定的立法）规定的方式，向其客户、政府官员、甲方的 代理、董事和员工或任何其他方付款、赠送礼物或做出其他承诺，并且乙方应遵 守所有有关贿赂和腐败的法律、法规、条例和规定。 Requirement with partners in the contract with the clause of compliance and integrity The content includes: ensure never directly or indirectly, in violation of relevant law (including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of United States and applicable regulations implemented according to the anti-bribery convention of foreign officials in international business transactions of OECD countries) in the prescribed manner, pay for its clients, government officials, party A's agent, directors and employees or any other party, give gifts or make other commitments, and party B shall abide by all relevant laws, regulations and rules of bribery and corruption. （五）支持环保节能 Support energy-saving 作为一家综合物流公司，民航鹏远以“绿色经营”为公司经营主要方针，倡导绿色物流，以 期降低对环境的污染、减少资源消耗，利用先进物流技术规划和实施运输、仓储、装卸搬运、 流通加工、配送、包装。 21 Sustainable Development Report 2011 民航鹏远期望在公司体系文件之环保程序一章指导下，实现绿色办公，绿色仓库管理，绿色 运输管理及绿色信息流。 As a integrated logistics company, CAAC Pioneer Logistics has been taking “green operation” as the main principle, reducing environment pollution and resource consumption and executing transportation, warehousing, loading and uploading, processing, distribution and packing. CAAC Pioneer Logistics expects to actualize green office, green warehouse management, green transportation management and green information flow. 环保设计理念 Design idea of environment protection 1. 仓库顶部设计为自然采光，大大节省了用电量。Warehouse ceiling can get the sunlight which causes electricity saving.  绿色仓储理念 Green Warehousing  2．仓库内部设有立体高架库区，有效提高仓库可利用率。Many ranking shelves effectively increase the warehouse utilization rate. 绿色物流是物流的发展方向。绿色物流是指在物流过程中抑制物流对环境造成危害的同时， 实现对物流环境的净化，使物流资源得到最充分利用。绿色物流源于对生态环境的保护，对 资源的节约，体现了可持续发展的战略观点。 22 Sustainable Development Report 2011 要成为绿色物流公司，主要几项工作进行实践： （1）加大投入，采用绿色技术和装备。如采 用清洁能源；提高燃料燃烧效率，减少尾气排放；选择环境良好的运输模式等。 （2）加强信 息系统建设，合理规划物流系统。如科学地进行运输线路的选择、减少或消除空返率，以求 高效、节能、低成本运作。 （3）全员树立绿色物流的观念。观念决定行动，因此，绿色物流 意识的树立是非常重要的。 Green logistics is the future of logistics. Green logistics consists in for reducing the influence in environmental aspect, at the same time to achieve the purification in the logistics environment for making full use of logistics resources. Rooting from the protection of the ecological environment and saving of resources, it reflects the strategy of sustainable development view. Being a green logistics company, CPL takes those measures in actions, (1) increase the investment of environment protection technology and equipments, such as clean energy, promoting the fuel combustion efficiency, reducing emissions and choosing the protection environment mode of transportation etc. (2) Strengthen the information system construction, rational planning of logistics system, such as the good transport route selection, reducing or eliminate empty return rate in order to the objective of high efficiency, energy saving, low costs. (3) Set up the concept of green logistics. Since thinking determines the action, green logistics concept is very important. （六）坚持绿色运营 Stick to green operation 至 2010 年以来，我司开始执行绿色办公的理念，将环保节约理念融入日常运营当中。2010 年和 2011 年，我司绿色采购比率达到 100%，并制定了节约指标并组织开展节约工作，组织 检查非工作期间用电设备的使用情况，并全面使用节能灯具。 From 2010 till now, CPL carries out the idea of green work and puts it in our daily operations. In the two years of 2010 and 2011, the green purchase rate of our office is up to 100% and it organizes the energy saving index and work. CPL checks the use status of electricity equipments during the non-work time and adopts the Energy Saving Lamps. 办公场所消耗资源 2009 2010 2011 Energy consumption in business premises 人均用纸量（千克/人） Per capita paper consumption(kg/person) 722 605 565 人均用电量（度/人） Per capital power consumption(kwh/person) 1.23 1.02 0.82 人均用水量（吨/人） 12 12 9.8 Per capital water consumption (tonne/person) 23 Sustainable Development Report 2011 绿色实践举措： 1. 打印用纸，如非正式文件都采用双面打印，增加利用率，2011 年执行率达到 90% 2. 办公室采用绿色植物清洁空气，减少开空调的几率 3. 新购置车辆时要考虑低耗油性能成品 4. 办公文具采用循环利用，笔具配备笔芯多次利用 5. 环保思想的传播：在全公司范围推广中央财经频道的“环保总动员”节目，学习日常办 公的环保实践、如何减少 ECO 生态足迹。 Green practices in the offices: 1. Printing paper, such as informal documents are used in double-sided printing for increasing the utilization rate, which ups to 90% in 2011. 2. There are green plants in the offices to clean the air and reduce the use of air-conditions. 3. New vehicles before purchased should be considered in low fuel consumption performance 4. The office stationery are recycled, the pens can be replaces by cartridges many times. 5. The environment protection idea should be spread in the company, such as the environment protection TV program at CCTV business channel which can be called on to watch and employee can learn how to practice in daily work and reduce the ECO ecological footprint. （七）安全管理 Security management OHSAS18000 职业健康安全标准 公司 2008 年导入了 OHSAS18000 标准，运行职业健康安全管理体系，制定职业健康安全管 理的相关程序、须知和操作规程，加强对劳动安全和职业健康的管理，切实维护和保障广大 员工的职业健康安全利益。 民航鹏远利用管理体系季度检查、内部审核和管理评审等手段，监督检查公司职业健康和安 全操作，以及各项相关者政策和制度的建立和实施情况，从而发现问题，分析原因，制定整 改措施，自我调整、自我完善，确保各项规定落到实处。主动接受公众和员工对公司履行相 关规定情况的监督，对涉及员工切身利益的公司重大事项和公司运营情况进行评估和审议， 对员工福利、职业健康、劳动合同和安全生产等事项进行监督评价。建立安全监督制度，对 公司各办公区、分公司和分站进行职业健康和安全管理，以及对管理体系运行情况进行监督， 并指导和落实各项劳动保护和运营安全措施。 Occupational health and safety standards 18000 In 2008, we have introduced an OHSAS18000 occupational health and safety management system, which could protect and guarantee all the employees’ benefit during their work time. We operate the standards, and make the related program and operations instructions for strengthening the management of labor health and safety. With the supervision the occupational health and safety operations, CPL carries out of polices and regulations with the use of quarter inspection management system, internal audit and review. Then we can set up the measures and adjust ourselves, self-improvement and ensure the regulation on feet after finding the problems and analyzing the cause. We can accept the 24 Sustainable Development Report 2011 supervision of the public and staff to the relevant rules, and evaluate the important events and operations status of business or employees’ benefits, occupational health, labor contract and safety. And we establish and put into practice the safety supervision for each offices, each plant and station to ensure the management system operations. 针对安全问题定期对运输、仓储等部门进行安全知识培训工作，对于新入职员工安排 专人进行安全知识讲座，做到安全第一，防患未然! For the security problem, we organize the safety training for transport and storage departments. CPL arranges the pre-job training for the goal of putting safety at the first place and taking preventive measures. 25 Sustainable Development Report 2011 *********************************** 北京民航鹏远航空服务公司 CAAC PIONEER LOGISTICS 电话 Tel: 86-10-6472 8916 传真 Fax: 86-10-6472 8916-601 地址：北京市朝阳区花家地东路 3 号，100102 Add: No.3 East Road Huajiadi Chaoyang District, Beijing, P.R.China, 100102 Wed: www.caacpl.com 26
