Republican unitar y enterprise BYELORUSSIAN STEEL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 www.belsteel.com GENERAl DIREcTOR’S AppEAl an extra capital of the enterprise and will be used for the benefit of the plant’s personnel for many years. Market outlets were not reduced, and the plant attained a big number of new business partners. 2 million 530 thousand tons of steel were produced in 2010 which is 2,4 % more than in recordbreaking 2008. During a few nearest years the plant will actively change for the better. Time has come for a more rapid innovative development! By this time we have managed to achieve good results. The program for modernization and technical revamping aimed at increase of the high-v alue-adde d product output is being implemented. The existing facilities of the main and auxiliary production are being modernized and a number of new ones will be erected and put into operation. We plan to organize joint ventures both with foreign and Russian partners. Building of a sheet mill is project No.1. The project for erection of a new section rolling mill is at the stage of implementation now. A production method for manufacturing wire for cutting of silicon wafer used in solar batteries is being developed in the steel cord and wire production. It is very important to point out that we do not only develop our production, but bear responsibility for the land on which we work and live. In the nearest future Dear friends! we will continue solving environmental issues directing investments towards processing and utilization of I would like to draw your attention to the Report industrial wastes and emissions. A contract was on social responsibility and corporate stability of signed with Water Group, a Finnish company, for Byelorussian Steel Works for 2010 so as to prove modernization of the gas and dust removing system the contribution to and the results achieved by the which will allow us to decrease harmful emissions to a enterprise in the social area. considerable extent. In the next 5 years the enterprise plans to spend approximately EUR17 million for the Being rehabilitated after the crisis that affected improvement of the environment in the region. the world economy, the enterprise’s staff managed to maintain the positive tendency which took shape We are well-know n and appreciated in the world: in the second half of 2010. The experience gained 80% of BMZ production is exported; the portion of the during the operation in very difficult conditions, new currency gains from abroad is about 15%. BMZ debars solutions and ideas born during that period became are used in the foundation of the Olympic stadium 2 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 in london. They are also used in the erection of the created, over 800 people were employed. According Olympic facilities in Sochi and one of the power units to the results of 2010, the portion of tax deductions of of the Russian atomic station. Our plant continues BMZ in the regional budget makes up 38,8%. to move forward. last year we sold products to the amount of USD 1,5 billion, by the end of the year 2011 Having occupied the leading position we we plan to reach the 2-billion level. recognize that apart from charity and sponsorship we need a new fundamental interaction with the Speaking about our results it is necessary to interested parties influenced by the activity of the mention our people whose labour makes them enterprise which reflects the enterprise’s position in possible. The plant achieved these results thanks to respect of a steady development of the society. That its personnel. Our staff is our main value. As usual, is why we consider corporate social responsibility to wages and salaries of the plant’s personnel remain be a principle of the corporate management. Starting one of our priorities because they are an important with 2008, every Social Report of the plant does not incentive driving towards self-p erfection and labour only illustrate the realization of the concept of social quality improvement. responsibility by the enterprise, but reflects the system character of social investments as well. The plant provides work for more than 12 thousand Best regards, citizens of Zhlobin and makes a weighty contribution A.M. Savianok, to the development of the infrastructure of the town and the region. In the end of 2010 vacancies previously General Director optimized were restored, 182 new work places were 3 INTRODUcTION TO THE THIRD REpORT Maintaining the tradition of reports on management and the level of competence of the sustainable development, RUE “BMZ” confirms its management, effectiveness of risk management, readiness for an open dialogue with stakeholders. cooperation with stakeholders. The report reveals Despite the economic instability on the world not only efficiency of the plant in money making, markets, the plant does not deny the undertaken adaptation of new equipment and technologies, obligations and pursues the chosen policy of but also reflects the activities in human capital improvements and transformations in all directions: formation, environmental safety and arrangements management of sustainable development, business of favourable conditions for dynamic social and activity, personnel development, social activities of economic development of the region of production the enterprise in the regions and cooperation with activities of BMZ. The report aims to inform the public suppliers and customers, environmental policy and and all stakeholders: owner, investors, personnel, industrial safety. However, it should be noted that the representatives of the district, regional and republican world economic crisis affected some effectiveness authorities, populace and product consumers. indicators in 2010. There is no considerable change of information Within the framework of the annual report all given in the previous plant reports. aspects of the enterprise’s activity in the field of social responsibility are shown. There is no information about joint-v entures and enterprises located outside the Republic of Belarus. RUE “BMZ” represents the third corporate Social Report prepared in G3 format of the Reporting Electronic copy of the report 2010 will be available Manual in the field of sustainable development on the corporative BMZ web-sit e and the principles being the basis of the UN Global compact. The report contains information about the (www.belsteel.com). activities of the plant in 2010 as well as plans, goals and commitments for future. For the development of a constructive dialogue with all stakeholders each opinion about the activities Strategic goals of the plant in 2010 are, to a large of BMZ in the field of sustainable development is of extent, significant in 2011 preserving succession and importance to the plant To that end, there is contact sustainability in the development of BMZ. Appraisal information and a feedback form in the Report of the results of the enterprise activity in 2010 is represented as a comparison with the performance of the same period of 2009 or the degree of gaining the target values. preparation of this report was based on If you have any questions or opinions and stakeholders’ opinions about the Social Report of suggestions regarding the reporting form and the 2009. content of the report, send them to: The report is based on the documents developed by the plant in accordance with the requirements of Republican Unitary Enterprise the law of the Republic of Belarus and international “Byelorussian Steel Works” (RUE “BMZ”), standards. 37 promyshlennaya str., Zhlobin, Gomel Region, 247210, Belarus. The report on social obligation and corporate Fax: (2334) 55426 sustainability informs the stakeholders about strategic priorities, potential of RUE “BMZ”, peculiarities of (secr.dpir@bmz.gomel.by) 4 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 5 METAllURGy: ATTAINMENT OF NEW GAINS World economic crisis developed in 2008 and According to the World Steel Association (WSA) started with financial perturbations made a negative global steel output grew by 15% in 2010 as compared impact on all sectors of economy. Decrease of steel with 2009 and made up 1,414 billion. Steel output grew product demand in the condition of its extremely high in multiple directions during the year. In the first halfprices in the precrisis period lead to a considerable year Asia and Middle East were the leaders in steel reduction of the production output. production growth. During that period steel output increased by more than 20%. In other regions of the A significant gap between the level of mobility world steel output still lagged behind its precrisis of different branches of the country industry, their level. And only in the second half of 2010 plants in the flexibility and ability to overcome the periods of USA, cIS and other regions started to increase their unfavourable market conditions became apparent production turnover against the background of the during the crisis. Exactly those branches focused world economy recovery. on the internal demand (construction, automotive industry and engineering in whole) appeared to be in In 2010 Asia increased its production by 11,8 % the most difficult situation in 2009. Steel consuming and reached the level of 881,2 million tons; its share in branches had to decrease their volume of production the world output grew from 63,5 % to 65,5 %. sharply and in 2008 steel industry output dropped to an unimaginable level. ЕС27 (including Germany, Italy, and France) showed production growth by 24,5% up to 172,9 Steel product demand drop and the subsequent million tons. decrease of its production made a negative impact on prices and other economic indices of the branch. production of steel in North America increased by Byelorussian Steel Works integrated in the world steel 35,7 % up to 111,8 million tons. market faced the same difficulties as the vast majority of the steel makers of other countries. In cIS countries steel making equals to 108,4 million tons, i.e.11,2 % growth. Measures taken to optimize the numerical composition, restructuring of the enterprise, In general, considerable growth of steel output in improvement of the production organization and usage 2010 as compared with the previous year was shown of the production capacity gave a positive effect from by Japan, the USA, and Germany, but they have not the point of view of labour productivity growth of the reached the precrisis level of production yet. Some steel industry in general and of Byelorussian Steel countries (for instance, china, India, Turkey and Iran) Works in particular. not only overcame the negative processes in its ferrous metallurgy and started to intensify their production World economic crisis made important output, but also exceeded the precrisis level to a amendments in the development dynamics of the considerable extent. ferrous metals market. If we assess the last year results from the viewpoint of the depth of the preceding drop, The improvement of economic indices of the they can be considered as rather positive. In the postenterprise’s operation was influenced by the growth crisis period steel demand is recovering, thus giving a of the production output, sold product price increase, possibility for the steelmaking enterprises including change of the product range, and moderate growth of BMZ to develop and set new targets. the cost value of the products sold. 6 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 In 2010 negative impact of the world crisis sequels – section market in Belarus and cIS countries continued to correct the dynamics of the ferrous remains balanced. construction market shows metals market and affect the results of the operation of stability. According to experts, amount of construction the steel plants active on the export markets. work will not decrease in the nearest future; The period of withdrawal from the recession for – existing orders exceed production capacity and metallurgy in general and for Byelorussian Steel Works this allows adjustment of the price policy; in particular depends on a regular increase of the production output and gradual recovery of demand – due to a competent marketing and sales policy for most types of the products from key customers: and in spite of a still weak demand from seamless pipe automotive industry, engineering and construction: customers, the plant managed to increase the volume of seamless pipe sale considerably; – in the middle of the year demand for billet and debars in the countries of the Middle East and North – main tire producers – steel cord consumers Africa became more active; as continental, Goodyear, Bridgestone, cooper Tire & Rubber, Apollo Tyres increase their volume of sale. – revival in engineering forms a stable demand for Their financial results of the first half of 2010 were rounds produced in mill 850; much better than expected; country 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Germany 44,5 47,2 48,6 45,8 32,7 43,8 Turkey 21,0 23,3 25,8 26,4 25,3 29,0 Russia 66,2 70,8 72,4 68,7 59,2 66,3 USA 94,9 98,6 98,1 91,5 58,1 80,6 Brazil 31,6 30,9 33,8 33,7 26,5 32,8 Egypt 5,6 6,0 6,2 6,2 5,5 6,7 Republic 9,5 9,7 9,1 8,6 7,5 8,5 of South Africa Iran 9,4 9,8 10,1 10,0 10,9 11,9 Saudi Arabia 4,2 4,0 4,6 4,7 4,7 5,0 china 355,8 423,0 494,9 502,0 567,8 626,7 India 45,8 49,5 53,1 55,1 56,6 66,8 Japan 112,5 116,2 120,2 118,7 87,5 109,6 South Korea 47,8 48,5 51,5 53,5 48,6 58,5 Taiwan 18,9 20,1 20,9 20,2 15,7 19,6 World total 1146,7 1251,2 1351,3 1307,3 1229,4 1413,6 RUE “BMZ” 1,91 2,14 2,21 2,48 2,33 2,53 7 METAllURGy: ATTAINMENT OF NEW GAINS – in the second halfyear demand for fiber among of a large investment project of a continuous caster European companies is invariably high. modernization aimed at decrease of product prime cost and increase of labour productivity. Strict control That is why primary task of the enterprise in of programme fulfillment on all levels gave a positive these conditions is forecast of the plant activity result. In general the amount of USD 53,9 million were with consideration of the results of analysis of the saved in 2010. This saving was due to production permanently changing macroeconomic conditions output growth and improvement of the technological so as to rearrange the production in the directions processes as well as power saving measures and dictated by the market. decrease of productive resources and companywide operating expenses. All efforts of the management and specialists were directed towards optimization of the existing Results of the plant operation in Januaryand operating expenses. It was not just a reaction to December 2010 leave behind last year results, and in the external environment but a continuation of the some items even exceed recordbreaking precrisis corporate strategy of the last years. figures. Financial and economic situation of RUE “BMZ” is gradually becoming stable. The existing dynamics allow adoption of work strategy on the «BMZ trade mark is well known in the world. We are external markets and transform the priorities of the among the first three enterprises from the viewpoint of mediumterm development. tire cord sales and I consider it a big success of the enterprise ». Financial state of the enterprise complicated by the N.G. Rodikov, outcomes of the crisis and a high credit load in the period Procurist, BelastahlAussenhandel of investment projects implementation at the beginning of 2010 remained complicated. Nevertheless, during the year the financial figures improved. In spite of the complicated financial situation and irregularity of the Optimization policy is intensified by special antisales receipts, all immediate payments (wages and crisis programmes. They are based on a strict policy salaries, taxes, power payments, payments under of mobilization of internal resources, reduction of nonbank obligations) were effected when due. productive expenses, decrease of product prime cost, strict adherence to the financial discipline by way of The crisis had a positive side as well. It became toughening of the control over fulfillment of the fund an incentive for the enterprise to search for new flow budget. A special section of the programme was resources, new organizational and technical solutions. devoted to issues of activation of work on the external The experience gained in very difficult operation markets, adoption of a really aggressive marketing conditions, new solutions and ideas born in this period policy of steel selling on advantageous for the plant became an extra capital of the enterprise and will be conditions, search of alternative customers and used for the benefit of the staff for many years ahead. suppliers. The personnel on all management levels Market outlets were not reduced; the plant acquired were informed about the task of fulfillment of the antia large number of new business partners. According crisis measures. Mechanisms providing structural to the results of 2010, joint efforts made it possible to reorganization were adjusted and in the personnel restore healthy proportions of the plant development: opinion allowed a less painful and less wasteful solution profit growth rate leave behind proceeds and costs of costs decrease, staff retention, and implementation growth rate. costs growth rate was 143,5%, proceeds 8 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 of USD 91,97 million, net profit made up USD 19,58 million, i.e. by USD 60,54 million and USD 17,56 million more than in 2009 accordingly. profitability of the product sold was 6,5% against 3,2% of 2009. An important result of 2010 is successful achievement of the targets set as regards the improvement of financial and economic state of the enterprise and improvement of effectiveness of its functioning which allowed the enterprise to ensure an adequate level of the personnel salaries As the analysis show, the main condition for the retention of the achieved level of the production output and its further growth in the situation of hardening competition on the world market, is a more active implementation of measures aimed at technical level and manufactured and exported product quality improvement. The latter should provide for the increase of the efficiency of material, fuel, power and human resources use which is very urgent for the national steel industry. Our plant supports the principles of social responsibility and continues to solve social problems considering the existing possibilities without decreasing its business activity. growth rate was 148,1%, sales income growth rate was 292,7%. In January – December 2010 industrial produce was shipped in the amount of USD 1493,03 million, which is practically one point five times more than in 2009. Downstream product portion (steel cord. steel wire and seamless pipes) in the shipped product structure increased considerably. 1,9 million tons of steel in the amount of USD 1 160,6 million were exported. percentage of the exported product was 78,4%. Sales income was received in the amount 9 pARTIcIpATION OF ScIENTIFIc pOTENTIAl OF THE REpUBlIc IN THE DEvElOpMENT OF THE STEEl FAcIlITy Metallurgy is one of the key production links of of Belarus. The aim of the program is to improve any contemporary industrially developed state. This quality, competitiveness and export potential of branch plays a very important role in the development the metallurgical sector through improvement of of the total national economy of the Republic of the existing and development of new technological Belarus. During a rather short period of time a large processes of casting and metallurgy including powder advanced steel enterprise was built in the republic – metallurgy, attracting the scientific potential of the Byelorussian Steel Works – which occupies a leading country. On this basis, main tasks of the program position in the industrial complex and economy of the related to BMZ were as follows: Republic of Belarus being a large supplier of scienceintensive competitive high-q uality steel products (wire • development of casting technologies and rod, reinforcing bars, tire cord, etc.) manufactured on equipment to produce high-q uality ingots and billets the basis of resource-sav ing advanced technological of special cast irons, steels and alloys; processes corresponding to the world criteria of technical novelty. To a certain extent, steel • creation of powerand resource-saving production is present practically in all large industrial processes and methods in metallurgy and powder productions of Belarus: JSc «Minsk Automotive metallurgy allowing to reduce fuel consumption and plant», JSc «Belarusian Automotive plant», pA «Minsk scale formation; Tractor plant», JSc «Minsk Heating Facilities plant», JSc «Gomel Foundry «Tsentrolit», JSc «Mogilev • development of methods of steel forming and Metallurgical plant» which use metallurgical, foundry heat treatment, principles of designing of up-t oand powder technologies and adjacent productions on date heating equipment and proposals regarding the a large or a small scale. In general, about 300 foundry, reduction of power consumption and payback period. metallurgical and thermal production shops and departments function at Belarusian enterprises today. During last five years of BMZ cooperation with the Strategy of further development of technological leading scientific establishments of the Republic of processes of steel melting, casting, rolling, thermal Belarus within the framework of the program a number production dictates the necessity of obtaining quality of important results was received both in the area of steels and alloys and creation of science-int ensive theoretical and practical developments. High scientific steel products on this basis. This supposes designing, level of the developments is evidenced by the fact that technical revamping and modernization of foundry, based on the results of the task implementation more metallurgical and thermal equipment including steel than 1000 scientific studies were published including melting furnaces, secondary metallurgy devices, 30 monographs, textbooks, teaching aids and various continuous casting machines, rolling mills, heating research methods and methodologies were created. and thermal furnaces, drawing and other equipment. The following most important and needed studies can power-e fficient methods are required. So as to solve be singled out: these issues the state program of scientific applied researches “creation of highly efficient technological • mathematical methods of modeling of steel processes and equipment for the development of the continuous casting processes at the «tundish – metallurgical complex in the Republic of Belarus” was casting mold» stage in a continuous casting machine formed in 2005. The program was approved by the and solidification of a melt in a thin-w all mould; resolution of the council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus and by the resolution of the presidium of • mathematical models and programs of the National Academy of Science of the Republic numerical modeling of heatand massexchange processes of the medium in the area of the furnace 10 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 concast billet (HMI of the NAS of Belarus). Due to the introduction of these methods stability and productivity of casting and quality of concast ingot improved, and stock-list of the produced billets was expanded; • mathematical model of steel thermal treatment in reheating furnaces. A complex of experimental researches was fulfilled so as to find optimal parameters of heating of cylindrical pipe billet diameter 150 mm up to the hardening temperature in a chamber furnace with the use of a roof flat-f lame burner and side short-f lame burners; • methods of sputtering of anti-wear coatings on complex-c ontoured surfaces of large-siz e parts of the rolling production. The technology allows recovery of functional properties of worn parts and increase their endurance 2–3 times. In 2011–2015 work in the above directions will be continued within the framework of the «Metallurgy» sub-p rogram which is an integrated part of the state program of scientific research «Development of scientific fundamentals of the technical system mechanics, methods and means of their diagnostics, creation and improvement of the technological charge and steel residue, temperature fields in a cast processes in metallurgy and engineering ». and casting mold; • static models for the improvement of the technological processes of different stages of metallurgical production. The developed mathematical models allow optimization of steel continuous casting and die casting in thin-w all moulds, melting in electric furnaces, production of casts with the set properties and structure. The following should be marked out among practical developments: • methods and means for production of 11 METAllURGy OF BElARUS The steel making complex includes 8 AImS ANd TASKS Of ThE REfORmATION enterprises the key products of which are certified in many countries of the world and produced in Of ThE BRANCh accordance with international standards. Enterprises of the branch produce steel welding round and Main forces of ferrous metallurgy are reoriented shaped pipes, steel billet, rolled sections, different from the growth of volume of metallurgical raw types of wire, steel cord, bolts, screws, nuts, nails, materials processing to the expansion of the molding materials, heating equipment. depth of their processing and improvement of the technological effectiveness (improvement of product quality and mastering of new types of products). In the nearest five years the first priority directions of the development will be: increase of production of highly technological products with a large degree of processing, improvement of the structure of manufacturing and selling of quality steel grades, rolled materials, hardware products, development of power-sav ing methods, modernization of production, as well as erection and commissioning of new production facilities. Metallurgy is one of basic branches of industry of «Sheet production at a new plant should make 600 the Republic of Belarus and the level of its development thousand tons per year. Thus, demand of Belarusian should correspond to the strategic tasks of providing industry for this type of product will be met. This plant Belarusian economy with quality products and stable will be much bigger than the existing pipe mill». position on the external markets. Vladimir Semashko, First Vice-P remier Main tasks to be solved by any steel making enterprise are: • market-ade quate growth of production; RUE “BMZ” is the largest enterprise not only in Belarus but in Europe as well and is a head • strengthening of the position on the existing metallurgical enterprise of the republic. It has been marketing outlets and new market penetration; among the reputable steel producers for two decades. Design, erection and equipping of the plant with the • high value-adde d product sale increase. advanced equipment and state-of -t he-ar t technology with subsequent commissioning of the production consequently, the worked out strategy of the facilities in the guarantee operation period was carried branch development should strengthen the existing out under the contract with European companies on a competitive advantages and create new ones. turn-ke y basis. Advanced world experience and stateIt is necessary to consider the following main of-t he-ar t technologies attracted for the erection and directions of further development of the metallurgical further operation of the plant allowed creation of a branch of the republic: unique industrial facility in the Republic of Belarus. 12 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 • further development of the existing rolled section increase of the technical and economic level of production at RUE “BMZ” and a complete refusal production due to reconstruction, modernization, from production and selling of such type of and erection of new facilities; product as marketable semi-f inished products (cast billet and bloom) which constitute 25% in • expansion of high added-v alue products the existing shipment structure of RUE “BMZ” in manufacturing; the medium-t erm perspective; • improvement of export deliveries structure in the • expansion of the pipe mill by organizing a finishing line for OcTG pipes at RUE “BMZ”; • erection and development of a new independent sheet production facility; • solving a problem of providing the steel industry of the republic with raw materials. dEvELOPmENT STRATEgY So far the strategy of steel plants development was focused on increasing volumes of steel melting. But high rate of the chinese metallurgy development, Fulfillment of the arrangements of the investment growth of competition on all traditional export markets program and implementation of investments will help lead to high risks related to this extensive way of RUE “BMZ” not only to increase production capacity development. and improve the effectiveness of its operation, but also to fulfil one of the main tasks in the area of social Main task of RUE “BMZ” development program responsibility: it creates favourable conditions for the for 2011-2 015 is arrangement of technical and development of the economy and social sector of the technological measures to remove the imbalance of area of BMZ production activity » the production capacities and creation of conditions .A.A. Sotnikov, Chief engineer for steel melting and casting growth to the level of 3 million tons per year (at present it is 2,5 mio t). Besides, the main task of mastering new capacities is complete processing of cast billet into a finished direction of increasing the portion of downstream marketable product with a high added value, creation products, development of import-r eplacing of new facilities to allow eventual reduction of the production; finished product prime cost. So as to fulfil the tasks set forth, modernization of the existing main and • further decrease of the specific consumption of auxiliary production facilities is foreseen, as well as raw materials, fuel, power, and human resources building and putting into operation of a number of new for steel manufacturing; facilities. • improvement of the environmental characteristics • On the basis of the target mentioned, the plant of the existing production (introduction of determined the following direction of development: environmentally safe methods, decrease of waste 13 METAllURGy OF BElARUS yield and specific emission of harmful substances In compliance with the growth of consumption, in the air and water basin, growth of the volumes successful competition with cIS producers, further and effectiveness of industrial waste processing); modernization of equipment. • improvement of the standard of living of the 2. In the medium-t erm outlook: growth of steel personnel. yield, erection of new production facilities and mastering of new productions. • prerequisites required for the fulfillment of the chosen strategy: 3. In the long-t erm outlook: solving of raw material problems, development of iron ore deposits, • provision with raw material resources. Availability production of sponge iron with the use of ecologically of raw material sources is a powerful lever of clean technologies of the direct reduction of iron. product prime cost control; Realization of the strategy will help to fulfil the • unified steel products marketable on export tasks determined by the program of development markets which is the basis of the production of the industrial complex of the Republic of Belarus program; for 1998–2015 and The national strategy of stable social and economic development of the Republic of • growing competition and increasing costs Belarus for the period till 2020 where provision of a demand the necessity of a fast introduction of steady high growth rate on the basis of modernization, resource-sav ing and power-sav ing methods and improvement of the sector and technological equipment, optimization of the cost composition structure of production and improvement of the (reduction of raw material and power expenses, competitiveness of the manufactured products were growth of the amortized deductions). Alternative: determined as the main aim of its development. gradual loss of competitiveness on the external Advance development of science-int ensive exportand consequently on the internal market; oriented productions is foreseen with the state support of the enterprises which are very important • efficient management; for the state and strengthening of responsibility for their efficient use. • stable economic position of the enterprises allowing to increase the level of borrowings As for ferrous metallurgy, its main attempts for trouble-f ree implementation of large-s cale will be reoriented from the increase of volumes projects. of metallurgical raw materials processing to the increase of the depth of its processing and increase Analysis of the existing situation and prospects of the technological effectiveness of production of development of the national steel industry make it (improvement of product quality and mastering of possible to focus on three problems: new types of products). In the nearest five years first-p riority directions of development will be growth 1. In the near-t erm outlook: retention of export of production of high-t echnological downstream markets and dominance on the domestic market, products, improvement of the structure of production retention of a rather high level of profitability of the and selling of quality steel grades, rolled material, metallurgical industry. Aim: retention and gradual hardware products, development of power-s aving growth of the production volume on the existing basis, methods, production modernization, and erection gradual increase of deliveries to the domestic market and commissioning of new production facilities. 14 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 15 cHARAcTERISTIcS OF KEy IMpAcTS, RISKS AND OppORTUNITIES dATES ANd EvENTS Of SUSTAINABLE • may 24, 2005 – beginning of erection of the pipe dEvELOPmENT facility. • march 19, 1982 – signing of the plant • february 24, 2006 – commissioning of a new development cONTRAcT. brass-p lating line No. 6 after modernization at wire shop No.2. • October 15, 1984 – start of the operation of the production facilities of the melt shop and melting • October 2006 – realization of the «Dnepr» and casting of the first heat. project: installation of new six-b lock and tenblock drawing machines at wire shop No. 3. • November 4, 1984 – start of the operation of the production facilities of the rolling mill and rolling of • december 28, 2006 – commissioning of a new the first lot of rolled section in mill 320/150. bead wire bronzing line No.2 at wire shop No. 1. • November 21, 1987 – start of the operation of: • december 30, 2006 – commissioning of a new ion-e xchange plant at wire shop No.1. the secondary metallurgy facilities (ladlefurnace, ladle and circulation degassers) and • July 13, 2007 – commissioning of the pipe mill ccM No.3 at the melt shop; in the presence of the president of the Republic of Belarus A.G. lukashenko. large-se ction rolling mill 850 of the rolling plant; • January 17, 2008 opening ceremony of production facilities of wire shop No. 1 and the Olympic reserve centre: a skating rink and production of the first lot of Belarusian tire cord. a swimming pool including water attractions, saunas, a solarium, a cafe and other objects. The • march 1, 1991 – start of operation of the ceremony was attended by the chairman of the production facilities of wire shop No.2, lime kiln regional executive committee A.S. yakobson, the No.2, EAF-3 and ladle degasser at the melt shop. chairman of Zhlobin district executive committee l.N. Apanasyuk, the general director of RUE • August 1, 1996 – opening of the Metallurgical “BMZ” N.v. Andrianov and the director of building technical school company No. 27 A.M. Ryabkov. • September 15, 2000 – commissioning of a • march 6, 2008 – 62nd Meeting of the Board of new complex of wire mill 150 in the presence of manufacturers and exporters of ferrous metals of the president of the Republic of Belarus A. G. cIS countries was held at RUE “BMZ”. Members lukashenko. of the Board discussed ferrous metal market opportunities, evaluated the outlooks for its • November 30, 2000 – start of operation of the development and worked out a forecast of the production facilities of wire shop No.3. average level of export prices for main types of ferrous metals. • may 19, 2002 – start of operation of the production facilities of the 2nd stage of the oxygen • June 18, 2008 – A Belarusian metallurgical station. Forum “Integration of science, production and education in the development of metallurgy in 16 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 the Republic of Belarus till 2020” was held at RUE • march 2010 – technology of shaped (square) “BMZ” premises. This event helped to determine wire production for pressure hoses was mastered a concept for further development of the steel at SWS2. making industry of RB for the nearest future. • April 2010 – Start of production of pipes from • June 30, 2008 – modernization of the sulfuric round billet diameter 200 mm cast in ccM3. acid regeneration station of the chemical plant of wire shop No. 2. • march 29, 2010– a contract for the erection of the third limekiln was signed with TEcHcOM • August 8, 2008 – modernization of the gas– (Germany). cleaning system of EAF–2. • June 2010 – realization of one of 11 projects for • december 2008 – achievement of the full the expansion of the roughintermediate drawing capacity of the pipe production. department of SWS1. Two new rough drawing machines were installed. • march 2009 modernization of the finishing line of section mill 320. • July 2010 – in the result of BMZ negotiations with Тесhcom a contract for the delivery of the • July 9, 2009 – presentation of a new type of BMZ equipment for the new limekiln was signed with product – steel fiber. Maerz (Austria). • October 9, 2009 – the plant was the first in the • July 2010– International scientific and technical country to submit its corporate Social Report for conference “Metal2010” worked at BMZ; it united hearing by the public and participants of the UN 80 plant workers and 45 representatives of the Global compact. enterprises and educational institutions of Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, lithuania and Kazakhstan. • december 6, 2009 – completion of a large investment project: reconstruction of continuous • August 2010 – mastering of the technology for casting machine No.3. flat wire production for pressure hoses. • december 14, 2009 – approval of Mr. Anatoly • September 2010 – A contract for modernization Savenok’s appointment as general director of RUE of gas recovery and cleaning system of EAF No.1 “BMZ” by the vice-p resident of the International and No.3 was signed with Water Group. The project Union of Metallurgists. was developed based on the conditions of the steelmaking furnaces of BMZ. • 2009 – the plant expanded distribution of export deliveries to more than 17 countries in spite of the • October 2010 – Team No. 4 of rolling mill 150 set crisis. up a record: 1200 tons of wire rod were produced during a shift. previous maximum production • february 2010 – Mandrel and disk saw reached 1070 ton level. preparation department started to work at the pipe mill. The department is fitted with the equipment • November 2010. – 20 years ago first steel was unique for our country. produced in EAF3. Now it produces 12 heats per shift, not 4 as before. 17 cHARAcTERISTIcS OF KEy IMpAcTS, RISKS AND OppORTUNITIES • November 2010. – a jubilee 500th thousand ton • december 2010 – the staff of rolling mill 320 of steel cord was produced at SWS-2 . produced a millionth ton of reinforcing material in 2010. • december 2010. – a million ton threshold was exceeded by SWS-2 . This is the yield of the shop in the period of 1991 2010 inclusive. STRATEgY ANd mISSION Since its start-up in 1984 the plant has successfully fulfilled its infrastructural function being an integral part of a complicated system of social and economic relations in the region where it carries out its business activity. RUE “BMZ” is reckoned among the largest companies of the republic from the viewpoint of the volume of the product sold and the scale of purchasing activity: it is the biggest employer and tax-p ayer. BMZ makes a significant contribution to the development of the economy of the Republic of Belarus. In 2010, similar to the previous periods, the «At present, the steel market is rising. Our task plant traditionally invested its profit to support and is to arrange the work accordingly and get maximum develop a steady production activity, to the rational profit from the existing situation». use of resources, creation of new work places and Anatoly Savianok, payment of salaries and wages to the personnel. General Director The created cost was also distributed for payment of the republican and regional taxes, financing of the programs of social and economic partnership, and charity projects in the region of its presence. Timely and customers, environmental and industrial safety deductions to the budgets of all levels are considered policy. by the plant as a part of its social responsibility and basis for the development of social projects (see In 2010 we continued formation of a new section «Economy»). According to the data of 2010, topmanagement team and improvement of the the plant’s share in the gross domestic product (GDp) management structure of Byelorussian Steel Works. of the Republic of Belarus was 2,9%, export share out of the total volume of the country was 4,6%. Being oriented towards effectiveness, the top management attaches great importance to The plant steadily adheres to the chosen implementation of the principles and practices of course of improvement and reforms in all directions: sustainable development on the plant scale. Strategic management of sustainable development, economic task of BMZ is to occupy leading positions among activity, work with the personnel, social activity of the metallurgical enterprises of the world in the area enterprise in the region, and interaction with suppliers of sustainable development. Aspects of personnel 18 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 support, environment interrelations with the region are • improvement of the personnel welfare; closely connected with the production and economic • conservation of health and life of every member priorities. of the staff; RUE “BMZ” top management undertook • continuous decrease of impact on the environment obligations, determined the common corporate during the production activity; policy and set common targets for the plant. The • maintenance and further development of the top management analyses the fulfillment of the corporate management standards targets every six months and every year and makes adjustments, if required. Republican Unitary Enterprise «Byelorussian PRINCIPLES Of STRATEgY REALIzATION Steel Works» is a developing and constantly revamping The plant sets measurable, achievable and organization which takes into account the changes, compatible economic, social and ecological targets tendencies and risks of surroundings. understanding its role and assuming responsibility for the outcome of its decisions and actions. The mission of our enterprise is production of advanced-t echnology products so as to increase Realization of the mission and the strategy consists profitability of the enterprise considering the safety of in: the environment and people’s health providing high standards of living for the staff and satisfaction of all • attainment of the targets of the plant activity parties concerned. set forth; BMZ vision is to be the best supplier of products • timely response to constantly changing satisfying the needs of national and foreign customers environment using the pDcA cycle (planning – in all developed segments of the steel market due disposal – control action); to the use of advanced and environmentally safe methods, rational use of resources and optimal • introduction of advanced methods during the organization of the production and management design, and development of the processes of new processes. competitive types of products aimed at improvement of product quality, decrease of dangers and risks of the BMZ values: personnel, environment and production processes, prevention of harmful impact effective use of natural and other resources, partners, of the production factors on the staff, decrease of quality, knowledge, society. emissions of contaminants in the air, discharges into the water basin, waste formation, consumption of The plant’s strategy is directed towards natural resources; satisfaction of the interests of all parties concerned in the area of: • continuous growth of effectiveness and efficiency of the management system functioning in • production of goods of the required quality, correspondence with the requirements of ISO 9001, amount and product mix; ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, SA8000 and industrial • providing of sustainable development; requirements of the automotive and petroleum industry: ISO/TS 16949, ISO/TS 29001 (ApI spec • supporting and strengthening of the positions on Q1), development and inclusion of subsection the developed markets; 19 cHARAcTERISTIcS OF KEy IMpAcTS, RISKS AND OppORTUNITIES «Management of power saving» in accordance with STB use of raw materials, auxiliary materials and power 1777, «Financial management» in accordance with ISO resources; 10014, «Information protection management system» in accordance with ISO 27001 in the management • improvement of production culture and provision system; of personal moral and material responsibility for labour quality. • prediction of risks related to the plant activity; The plant management is interested in the • continuous control of risks related to the production fulfillment of corporate policy and continuously creates processes, preventive and corrective actions all conditions required for providing an adequate directed towards prevention of occupational standard of life of the staff and their confidence in the illnesses and accidents in the production; morrow. • prevention of environment pollution, injuries and The plant management and the staff carry out personnel health impairment during the production their activity in accordance with the code of Business activity; Ethics and acquaint their business partners with it. RUE “BMZ” code of Business Ethics is worked out • activity in the area of quality, social responsibility, with consideration of key values, such as truthfulness, information protection, finance, power saving straightforwardness, and respect for interests; and in conformity with the requirements of the their fulfillment leads to mutual confidence, openness international standards, the existing law and other and transparency of relations. Trust of interested requirements; parties is one of the key values of our plant. • activity in the area of labour protection and industrial Every year RUE “BMZ” top management safety, environment protection in accordance with establishes targets on the basis of predictive figures the requirements of the international standards, the determined by the Ministry of Industry of the RB, existing law, and other requirements concerning the policy, targetoriented orders and results of environmental aspects of the activity, products, management analysis. Based on these targets, policy, and services, danger in the area of professional targetoriented orders managers of the subdivisions health, and labour safety; set targets for their subdivisions. The plant targets and goals of the subdivisions are brought to the notice of all • regular monitoring of the production and workers of the subdivision. Top management, leaders management processes; of the structural subdivisions analyze fulfillment of the targets every halfyear, every year, and adjust them, • improvement of product quality, provision of if required. Effectiveness of fulfillment of the goals labour safety and health protection, protection of is checked during internal audits and management environment, power saving including suppliers, analysis. This procedure is regulated by STp 840subcontractors and RUE “BMZ” customers KSM4.2. • task-oriented professional training of the Analysis of target fulfillment by RUE “BMZ” for personnel, creation of optimal conditions for 2010 as compared with the same period of 2009 is highquality labour, reveal of personal abilities given in Annex 1. and initiative of every worker and their interest in providing a high level of product quality, rational 20 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 STRATEgY ANd TARgETS Of SUSTAINABLE • No.1 «Improvement of business activity and dEvELOPmENT investment programs»; The plant management provides the development and implementation of technical, production, and investment programs aimed at product quality • No.2 «Measures for quality and commodity improvement and which directly contribute to competitiveness improvement» sustainable development of the plant in accordance with its policy. • No.3 «Measures for provision of safe labour A number of measures aimed at provision of high conditions»; consumer properties of the produce, is included in an annual business-p lan, the development procedure of which is regulated by STp 840-S MK-4 .1.2. • No.5 «personnel development»; For the improvement of product quality and provision of its competitiveness, increase of the technical production level a long-t erm plan of • No.6 «Advanced technologies, mastering of new introduction of advance methods and new types types of products, rationalization and invention of products for 2006-2 010 is worked out at the activity»; plant; plans of scientific research and pilot design (technological) work are approved and fulfilled on contractual basis by own force. • No.7 «Measures of environmental protection»; Key measures for quality and production effectiveness improvement are included in annual goal-o riented orders of the general director indicating time of performance and responsible person(s): • No.8 «Measures for production costs decrease». 21 cHARAcTERISTIcS OF KEy IMpAcTS, RISKS AND OppORTUNITIES TARgETS Of ThE PLANT fOR mEdIUmTERm dEvELOPmENT OUTLOOK Achievement of the following level of the key targets of the social and economic development of the plant is planned for 2011: 1. Production, finance, and economy: – labour productivity in industry, minimum, % 106 – Sold product profitability, minimum, % 10 – Decrease of the level of material capacity of products, % -1 ,5 – power saving, % -6 ,5 – Balance of foreign trade, minimum, USD mio 605 – Investments in the fixed capital, minimum, USD mio 57.0 2. Quality –level of rejects due to the production shops, maximum, % Order No 2 – level of non-c onforming products, maximum, % Order No 2 – level of expenses due to defects per $1000 of the commercial output, max., % 3,52 – Evaluation of the customer satisfaction, minimum, % 90 – Amount of claimed product in comparison with 2010 % to be decreased by10 3. Environment – Amount of stored production wastes in comparison with the level of 2010, % % to be decreased by 2 4. Labour protection and industrial safety – On-t he-j ob injury rate should not exceed the level of 2010 – Improvement of labour conditions and provision of its safety for workers people of the shops, 790 5.Social responsibility – Training of managers and specialists, people 929 – professional training if workers, people 3399 – General satisfaction of the personnel, minimum, % 72,0 – Salary growth rate, minimum, % 117,3 – Employee turnover, maximum, % 2.5 22 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 ChRONOLOgY Of NEW PROdUCT TYPES mASTERINg RUE “BMZ” is one of a few enterprises of the 2008 : Republic of Belarus which increases the volume of • reinforcing steel grades Аt800, А500С, U500, industrial production every year investing considerable S500, RB500W, etc. dierolled section No.10 amounts in reconstruction, modernization, and produced with 5 –piece slitting rolling; technical revamping. Starting with the plant commissioning in 1984, molten steel output grew • reinforcing steel grades Аt880, А500С, U500, from the estimated 700 thousand tpy by more than 3 S500, RB500W, etc. dierolled section No.10 times. produced with 5 –piece slitting rolling; Besides, increment of the output in natural terms • bare pipe, quality carbon steel (6 dimension takes place together with the growth of the percentage types and steel grades); of the new types of products in the total output. close • different constructions of super high-tensile cooperation with the national science in the first place and hightensile steel cord; with the establishments of the NAS of Belarus and educational establishments allows mastering of new • steel wavy fiber acc. to the requirements of TU types of quality steel products every year. 14155642008. The following products can be singled out among 2009: the most important types of products mastered by the • super high-tensile steel cord construction plant during last 5 years: 7х(3+9х0.245)+0.20 НТ and ultra high-tensile construction 1+5х0,185UT; 2005: • quality carbon steel pipes of different sizes. • quality wire rod С70D, C76D; 2010: • ordinary light-section reinforcing steel А500С; • die-rolled welding rebar No. 10-32 class А500C in bars; • cold-deformed die-rolled wire В500С, Вр-1 Ø 4 mm, Ø 5 mm for concrete reinforcement. • quality carbon steel pipes of different sizes; 2006: • die-rolled welding rebar No. 10-32 class B500Nc; • high-tensile steel cord 2+2х0,26 НT and super high-tensile steel cord 4+3х0,41 ST; • hot-rolled section of bearing steel grade ШХ15СГ Ø160; • reinforcing wire of 3-side die-rolled section with mechanical descaling acc. to DIN 488,Ø5÷12 • ultra high-tensile steel cord construction mm; 4+3х0,35 UT; • round section steel, quality carbon and alloyed, • steel cord construction 3х5х0,245; Ø160 mm. • galvanized steel wire for single-wire cores Ø 2007: 1,85; 2,10; 2,65; 3,05 mm; • quality carbon steel pipes; • galvanized steel wire for single-wire cores Ø 2,0 mm; • hose wire 0.33UHT (3050 – 3350 N/mm2). • microfiber. 23 cHARAcTERISTIcS OF KEy IMpAcTS, RISKS AND OppORTUNITIES STAgES Of PROdUCTION vOLUmE INCREASE considerable positive changes have taken shape in the world steel industry and in its outlook for further development. A large failure in the process of technical re-e quipment of steel industry took place in 2008-2 009 due to the world economic and finance crisis. Outcomes of its negative impact on decrease of the global market of steel consumption lead to a sharp drop of the volumes of steel production almost in all regions of the world and in countries producing «Today there exist all preconditions for sustainable rolled steel. In its turn, sharp drop of production development and prospects of modernization and volumes told on the profitability and effectiveness of construction of new stages of production, as well as the enterprises and their ability to invest in technical the existing directions of steel cord, pipe, and section revamping and production modernization. production. The plant is on the upgrade». At the same time in 2010 enterprises of the I.I. Demidovich, First deputy minister of industry ferrous metal industry paid more attention to the issues of reconstruction and technical revamping. Investment programs of the enterprises were directed spite of the fact that national enterprises are able to towards growth of steel production so as to increase implement large investment projects, the main task or maintain the market share by way of commissioning of the state is assist these investment processes of of new facilities, expansion and improvement of the the industry, create additional possibilities for its product range. It is necessary to point out that in spite participants, and undertake solving of the tasks which of the crisis the plant did not cut down any investment cannot be resolved by the enterprises themselves project. and which give a considerable multiplicative effect. considering the trends of an impetuous growth In 2010 the enterprise completed implementation of steel demand taking shape in the second half of of the projects of the State program of innovative 2009, the plant management and technical specialists development of RUE “BMZ” for 2007-2 010, including planned and implemented a number of measures the following projects and innovative technologies: aimed first of all at increasing the production output. 1. production of seamless hot-r olled pipes. Earnest of success of any modern enterprise Quality of the manufactured product is in full aspiring to occupy a leading position on foreign compliance with the requirements of the international markets is continuous renovation. Of course, standards. National, Russian, German, and American reconstruction, modernization, commissioning of quality certificates are received for the total products new production facilities is a rather expensive and manufactured in the pipe mill (TØV NORD, API 5L, etc.). important thing, but it is the only correct way of 2. Modernization of arc steel furnaces No.2 development. During last five years the enterprise and No.3. A new steel production method with the directed over USD 685,4 million to technical use of new oxygen technologies, and EAF injection revamping, including USD31,2 million in 2010. In equipment allowed intensification of steel melting. general, the metallurgical complex is a successful Within the implementation of this project window and segment of the economy in terms of investing. But in 24 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 wall manipulators (burners) were installed (together 5. Mastering of round steel diameter 5Ø22 mm with the devices to inject a carbon-c ontaining material. production of quality structural steel grades. New project implementation in aggregate with power and technological process of round steel production of material resources saving allowed manufacturing quality structural steel grades with the use of a new of steel grades with high carbon content used for Morgan block in mill 150. Method of production of the production of high-t ensile, super high-t ensile rolled coils 11,5 mm, 13,5 mm, 16 and 18 mm of lowsteel cord and hose wire. With the increase of carbon and low-al loy steel grades was developed and every furnace’s productivity up to 1 million tons a mastered. At present method of production of carbon year, specific consumption of electric power was steel wire rod diameter 20Ø22 mm is being worked decreased by 7.3% on average. Installation of series through. The implemented project of mill 150 minireactors helped to decrease specific consumption of block reconstruction increased the output of highelectrodes. quality wire rod for steel cord and wire production by more than 20%. 3. Reconstruction of continuous casting machine No.3. At present adjustment of a new innovative 6. Modernization of the packing line of mill 320 method of casting billet (bloom) 250x300 and was carried out in 2010. 300x400 mm and round cast billet diameter 200 mm is going on. Implementation of the project allowed In 2010 increase of steel yield made up 108.64%, to abandon the slitting process in mill 850 used to rolled metal – 104,46%; seamless pipe – 208,33%; provide the level of requirements to high-c arbon wire steel cord and wire – 148,43% in comparison with rod regarding segregation, thus making it possible 2009. to increase productivity of steel cord and hose wire High professionalism of the plant’s specialists, production. Fabrication of round billet used in pipe mill use of advanced technologies, organizational and without being processed in the rolling mill, will allow management solutions guaranteed high quality of decrease of the prime cost of hot-r olled seamless construction, assembly and adjustment work, and pipes. minimization of the corresponding risks. 4. Casting of square billet section 140х140 mm. Implementation of the project gave the possibility to modernize steel casting in continuous casting mEThOdS Of INvESTmENT machine (ccM-1 ) and to change from continuous casting of section 125x125 mm to concast billet PROJECTS dEvELOPmENT section 140x140 mm. Realization of the project allowed production increase of ccM-1 with casting in If we cnsider recurrence of the processes going 6 strands up to 123 t/h, as well as raise the output of on the global steel markets, it becomes clear that semi-f inished concast billet section 140x140 mm. during the recession it is most reasonable to take a At the same time, implementation of the project number of measures regarding modernization of allowed mastering of the technology of multi-st rand the existing production, creation of conditions for rolling of reinforcing thermo-st rengthened bars No. a strong start during a headlong growth of the steel 16, No. 18, No. 20 of stock billet square section market which started in 2010. 140Ø140 mm (2and 3-strand slitting) and the technology of a multi-st rand rolling of reinforcing A considerable growth of production is hardly thermo-st rengthened bars No. 10 (5-st rand slitting) possible without building and putting into operation in mill 320 of the rolling production. of new production facilities. The plant has exceeded 25 cHARAcTERISTIcS OF KEy IMpAcTS, RISKS AND OppORTUNITIES its rated capacity long ago. Increment of the The business-p lan includes: output volume and level of commodity sale can be achieved first of all due to stepwise modernization – complex, balanced development of the and reconstruction of the existing facilities by way production facilities; ofintroduction of new advanced technologies and equipment, bringing into operation of new production – provision of industrial, fire, and facilities. environmental safety, and labour protection; – introduction of progressive powerand resource-sav ing methods; – renovation of the existing production facilities; – improvement of the competitiveness on the steel markets. First of all, during the nearest five years it is supposed to implement projects ensuring steelmaking and rolling production as well as projects related with elimination of bottle-ne cks of the By 2015 total amount of investments will reach production process and solving of ecological tasks. half a billion euroes. The nearest five years will become planned general investment costs including building a period of an acceleration of innovative development of new objects in 2010-2 015 are more than USD of the enterprise. In four years we plan to reach the 650 million. Financing of the projects will be for the production of three million tons of steel per years ». account of own assets of the enterprise, long-t erm Anatoly Savianok, General Director borrowed funds, and external investors’ funds. The main aim of RUE “BMZ” investments is development of high-t ech productions, a large degree of raw material processing, replacement of It gave rise to the necessity of reformation. the outdated equipment, and introduction of new Already in 2009 the management of the plant initiated advanced technologies meeting the world level preparation of the technical revamping program of development of the steel industry. A distinctive aimed at expansion of metallurgical stages, refusal feature of the investment projects is their direction from selling of semi-f inished products with low added towards stepwise fulfillment of a complex, largevalue. Technical concept of this program is the basis scale renovation and modernization of all production of the businessplan «Innovative development of stages. They foresee introduction of technologies Republican Unitary Enterprise «Byelorussian Steel and equipment considering the latest technical and Works» for 2010 – 2015» which determines further production achievements of the steel industry and development of the main business with consideration will be carried out with the help of leading Austrian, of all aspects of responsibility. This business-p lan is Italian, German, and American companies. Besides, approved by the general director of the plant and the a transition to the production of principally new Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus. types of products with new consumer properties 26 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 preparation ИОУ-1,2 ИОУ-3 ВРУ-1,2 ВРУ-3 of production Строительство известково-обжигательной печи Строительство воздухоразделительной установки (ON-SITE) Срок реализации 2012 г. Срок реализации 2012 г. Ориентировочные затраты 18.3 млн. $ Интенсификация выплавки стали Реконструкция ПГУ-1 Реконструкция ПГУ-1 steel melting Срок реализации 2012 г. Срок реализации 2012 г. Срок реализации 2012 г. Ориентировочные затраты 2.5 млн. $ Ориентировочные затраты 11.5 млн. $ Ориентировочные затраты 11.5 млн. $ ИТОГО ПО ВЫПЛАВКЕ: Проект 1 000 000 Проект 1 000 000 Проект 350 000 Проект 2 350 000 ДСП-1 Достигнутое 847 000 ДСП-2 Достигнутое 980 000 ДСП-3 Достигнутое 776 000 Достигнутое 2 603 000 Планируемое 1 000 000 Планируемое 1 000 000 Планируемое 1 000 000 Планируемое 3 000 000 Строительство агрегатов внепечной обработки стали secondary Срок реализации 2013 2015 г. Ориентировочные затраты 50 млн. $ metallurgy ПК-1 ПК-2 Увеличение производительности внепечной обработки (ПК-3, ПК-4, RH-2) RH-1 Комплексная модернизация МНЛЗ-2 Срок реализации 2013 г. Ориентировочные затраты 30 млн. $ Проект 350 000 Проект 350 000 250х300 мм Проект 800 000 steel melting Достигнутое 955 000 140x140 мм Достигнутое 855 000 300х400 мм Достигнутое 720 000 ИТОГО ПО РАЗЛИВКЕ: Планируемое 1 000 000 Планируемое 1 000 000 200 мм Планируемое 1 000 000 140x140 мм 250х300 мм Проект 1 500 000 Достигнутое 2 530 000 МНЛЗ-1 МНЛЗ-2 МНЛЗ-3 Планируемое 3 000 000 140x140 мм 97 750 373 750 115 000 125x125 мм 417 450 485 300 Строительство сортового стана 534 750 rolling production 1 097 750 140x140 мм Срок реализации 2013 г. 250х300 мм 97 750 92 000 140x140 мм 140x140 мм Ориентировочные затраты 160 млн. $ 300х400 мм 140 мм 200 мм ИТОГО ПО ПРОКАТУ: 160 мм Проект 1 718 000 Достигнутое 2 263 000 СТАН 320 СТАН 150 НОВЫЙ СТАН СТАН 850 ТПЦ Планируемое 2 892 250 Проект 550 000 Проект 498 000 Проект 420 000 Проект 250 000 Достигнутое 1 060 000 Достигнутое 533 000 Достигнутое 570 000 Достигнутое 225 000 Планируемое 1 069 000 Планируемое 517 500 Планируемое 828 000 Планируемое 517 500 (усл. тонн) Строительство цеха (создание СП) Планируемое 250 000 Срок реализации 2012 2013 г. (усл. тонн) Ориентировочные затраты 100 млн. $ ЦЕХ ПО ОТДЕЛКЕ 100 000 ТРУБ НЕФТЯНОГО СОРТАМЕНТА 1 069 500 517 500 828 000 304 750 100 000 150 000 (усл. тонн) Annual productivity of the main production facilitites of steel melting, exisiting and planned based on the results of a complex modernization corresponding to the European and American standards and best world analogues is provided. Implementation of the business-p lan will lead RUE “BMZ” to new front-line positions, will allow introduction of most advanced steel production method, thus, will create the preconditions for highrate development of the economy and social area of the region. 27 INFlUENcE OF THE plANT ON THE SOcIAl AND EcONOMIc DEvElOpMENT OF THE REGION OF ITS BUSINESS AcTIvITy For the provision of a balanced development – training of the graduates of Belarusian of the region and uniform improvement of the living schools at Zhlobin Metallurgical college leading its standards, not only the authorities should make educational activity on the basis of the total financing attempts, but business should also display initiative by Byelorussian Steel Works; able to exert a considerable influence on the social and economic situation in the territory of its business activity. RUE “BMZ” is one of those enterprises of the Republic of Belarus which demonstrate a system approach to solving this important issue. Fulfilling the arrangements of the investment program and making investments, RUE “BMZ” not only increases the capacity of the production objects, but also fulfils one of the main tasks in the area of social responsibility, namely it creates favourable conditions for the development of the economy and social sphere of the territory of its production activity. Influence of the economic and social development of «The crisis influenced many enterprises of the the regions in the area of economic, environmental, republic, and did not avoid our region. Nevertheless, and social activity of the plant is described in detail in the budget plan for 2010 was fulfilled. To a large extent the corresponding sections of the report. it happened due to RUE “BMZ”. L.N. Apanasyuk, Chairman of Zhlobin One of the first-p riority directions of influence District Executive Committee within the framework of social responsibility is improvement of human potential which includes not only provision of favourable conditions for realization of each man’s capabilities, improvement of living conditions of the population, and quality of social – cooperation with educational establishments environment, but improvement of competitiveness of the country which allows increase of the level of of the human capital. standards and social stability in training of future specialists with consideration of own the civil society. requirements and due to organization of practical training of students on workplaces equipped with The plannned system of the region staff advanced technologies and equipment; potential development supposes not only continuous professional training of its employees during their – bringing up of the coming generation carried labour activity, but also: out by the teachers’ team of an extensive network of the pre-sc hool establishments; – fulfillment of the training program of the young citizens who want to join the plant or any other – formation of a healthy way of living and enterprise of the region by evening studies at the development of creative potential of the citizens of the corporate training centre; region which is a first-p riority direction of the activity 28 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 of the plant’s palace of culture «Metallurg» and the provides adequate salary and social guarantees for sport facility of the plant. its staff, thus assisting the formation of a higher living Active participation of the plant in international exhibitions and forums, effective promotion of its TARgETS ANd OBJECTIvES products on the world markets, creation of the image of a reliable business partner has a positive Of INvESTmENT PROJECTS influence on the development of the region. This direction supposes expansion of the possibilities of To solve the tasks of the production output growth realization of competitive advantages on markets and up to the level of 3 million tons, and to eliminate the strengthening of external economic positions of the “bottlenecks” in the existing steel production flow of plant and the country in general, formation of stable RUE “BMZ” in 2011 – 2015, technical strategy of the diversified relations with our international partners to plant supposes implementation of the projects in the provide a steady development of the economy in a following directions: long-t erm outlook. 1. formation of the required infrastructure Developing non-f inancial reporting in accordance and increase of metallurgical stage productivity with the international standards, interacting with to reach the finished product production level of organizations regarding issues of social responsibility, 3 mio tpy: participating and winning in republican and international contests, RUE “BMZ” actively facilitates • construction of lime kiln No.3 with the capacity the formation of a favourable image of the Republic of 400 tons per day. It is planned to expand the of Belarus. capacity of ferroalloys store, reconstruct the transportation systems for material delivery to the providing social guarantees, implementing melt shop, reconstruct the electrical substation programs in the area of the environmental safety of the “Stal” within the framework of the project. production facilities, labour protection, and prevention of production injuries, and sport development, RUE • Extension of the scrap preparation department “BMZ” contributes to regulation of the population size and the slag area. It is planned to cre-a te an and creation of conditions for its growth. The plant additional area for railway wagon unloading and ensures employment of about 30% of the employable installation of manipulators; expan-sion of the population involved in the economy of Zhlobin area. building of the scrap processing department, Every second citizen is connected with the activity of increase the number of slag dis-c harge points the plant in some way. Actual number of RUE “BMZ” and the capacity of its cooling. staff is 12 463 people. • Building of an air separation unit with the capacity Being the largest employer in the region, the of approximately 10 000 m3/h of oxygen. It is plant exerts a direct influence on the labour-mar ket supposed to organize a separate legal entity – a development. While implementing the investment joint-v enture with RUE “BMZ” share of 51% for program, the enterprise creates additional work implementation of the project. providing of the places for the inhabitants of the region. RUE “BMZ” plant with the products of air separation will be 29 cHARAcTERISTIcS OF KEy IMpAcTS, RISKS AND OppORTUNITIES carried out on a long-t erm basis. • creation of a logistics centre to optimize transportation flows by providing an accurate • Intensification of steel melting in EAF-1 with planning and coordination of the deliveries of the use of oxygen technologies. In addi-t ion to equipment and materials, shipment of finished productivity growth up to 1 mio tpy, the project is products and internal goods traffic. assumed to decrease the specific consumption of electric power and electrodes. • Organization of a joint-v enture for processing steelmaking slag • Increase of secondary metallurgy productivity. The project is supposed to unite the frames of • the buildings of melt shop No.1 and No.2 so as organize a secondary metallurgy and ladle 2. Provision of a raw materials base department in the new bay. 2 ladle-f urnaces and an RH vacuum degasser will be installed. of the enterprise: • Development of a scrap procurement network of «Specialists of Siemens VAI will use their the «BMZ Trading Firm» limited (Saint petersburg) competence and experience, and make efforts so as by a centralized provision of scrap deliveries from the CCM modernization will become a certain step forward for the plant in realization of the modernization Russian sites in railway wagons (including own program planned for the nearest 5 years». and rented wagons), and by way of organizing of. Nikita Mikhevich, Director of Siemens VAI subdivision in • increase of scrap deliveries from Baltic states. Organization of a firm for scrap collec-t ion and processing in lithuania on the basis of BMZ Trading Firm Baltija limited. • complex reconstruction of continuous casting • entering into long-t erm agreements (contracts) machines No. 1 and No. 2. The first stage: ccMfor the delivery of raw material re-s ources and 2 modernization to increase its productivity up to hot-br iquetted iron (HBI) in particular, from Uc 1.2 mio tpy. In the result of the modernization we «Metalloinvest» (Russian Federation). will get the possibility to cast quality billet 125x125 and 140x140 mm which will be processed in a • Detailed market study and organization of scrap new light-se ction mill. Based on the results of delivery from poland and Germany. ccM-2 modernization, a corresponding technical concept will be formed and ccM-1 modernization 3. Construction of new facilities and mastering of project will be carried out. high-ad ded value products manufacturing: • Modernization of rolling mill 320 including • Erection of a light section wire mill with the capacity reconstruction of the production process control of 700 thousand tons per year and the possibility system and main drive speed regulation system; to increase annual production output to 1 million reconstruction of the finishing area packing line. tons. Tasks of the project implementation: Transition to the usage of cast billet 140x140 mm in rolling mill 150. 30 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 • Organization of an enterprise for OcTG pipe finishing according to ApI 5cT, GOST 632-8 0, GOST 633-8 0. So as to avoid antidumping we plan to organize a joint-v enture with a large trader having a developed merchandising network. • Organization of a joint-v enture with Manuli Rubber Industries (Italy) to produce highpressure hoses. It will be organized in Orsha on the basis of JSc legmash. • Building of a shop to produce steel cord in the amount of 20 000 tpy. The project will be implemented together with the erection of the light-se ction mill. Aim of the project is to re-c eive an extra cost by processing the high-c arbon wire • complete processing of cast bloom and billet rod to be produced in the new mill. We assume residues, abandonment of semi-f inished product that this production will be organized in the form sale. Increase of RUE “BMZ” proceeds by USD 140 of a joint-v enture. million per year after the project implementation due • Organization of the production of stabilized to production of products with a high added value. rebars and pre-s tressed cables in SWS-3 of RUE • provision of RUE “BMZ” steel cord and wire production “BMZ”. and RUE “Rechitsa Hard-w are plant” with wire rod and • Organization of saw wire production department. consequently, creation of conditions for their further development. • Organization of the production of wheel axes for wheel sets of the rolling stock at JSc «Mogilev • production of rounds with small diameter for the Metallurgical plant». production of axes in the enterprises of the Republic of Belarus and West amount of approximately 20 000 pieces per year Europe. by forging, thermal and mechanical processing • Mastering of the production of additional assortment of bloom 300x400 mm produced in melt shop of rounds in rolling mill 850. No.2 of RUE “BMZ”. • Growth of the production output of OcTG pipes: • Increase of the volumes of cast billet Ø200 mm produced in ccM-3 . • Realization of measures of pipe mill equipment improvement aimed at optimization of the flow diagram and observation of international standards in pipe production. • Erection of the 3rd inspection line. 31 cHARAcTERISTIcS OF KEy IMpAcTS, RISKS AND OppORTUNITIES RISK mANAgEmENT High level of influence on sustainable development is exerted by a potential jeopardy. Its detection, analysis, systematization, and management is a part of the plant’s activity aimed at achieving progress in the area of sustainable development. The top management forms the plant’s strategy and acts on the basis of the analysis of external environment risks and risks related with the plant’s activity. Management of financial and non-f inancial risks allows decrease of potential loss and provision of additional guarantees «Fate of every business and enterprise is for achieving the strategic goals. Sustainable determined by the capability of its managers and development of the plant is exposed to the following their teams quickly to understand the essence of risks: the ongoing changes in the external environment, – decrease of steel demand and prices; determine trends and risks». E.A. Peretyagina, Quality director – growth of prices on raw materials markets; – dependence on raw material base; – changes of political and economic conditions of the RB; – improvement of the system of environment – changes of law of the RB; management; – growth of power, gas, and railway transport rates – expansion of the product range; of the natural monopolies; – product quality improvement; – fluctuation of foreign currency and interest rates; – development of the merchandize network; – breakdown in the production; – reorientation of the production towards the – accidents; types of products which are more in demand; – personnel. – development and introduction of new methods and products; Measures of risk management are integrated in the system of corporate management of the plant. – monitoring of the market of raw materials RUE “BMZ” takes a set of measures to decrease risks: resources; – implementation of the system of calculation of – development of longterm contractual relations expenditures at the place of origin; with suppliers and customers; – improvement of material support; – monitoring of rates and quotas limitations for key and prospective sales markets; – development of the system of internal audit and control; – cooperation with state authorities in the development of a balanced policy of RUE “BMZ” and – reduction of production costs; its support. 32 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 Introduction of a system of corporate standards, regulations, rules, procedures and unified approaches to their implementation became an important decision of risk management. Providing transparency and accessibility of risk information, RUE “Bmz” operatively determines the reaction strategy, develops actions of risk management and monitors their effectiveness. 33 Description of the plant General information Description of the major structural Divisions republican Unitary enterprise “Byelorussian the enterprise structure includes two main steel Works” is a state-ow ned enterprise that is productions: metallurgical (steel-m aking and rolling) located in the center of europe, namely in Zhlobin, and hardware production as well as infrastructure Gomel region, 220 km from the capital of the republic plants and departments for the works activity of Belarus – the city of Minsk. the total area of rUe management. the steel-makin g production includes: “BMZ” industrial site is 249.06 ha. a scrap yard, two melt shops, and a technological motor transport shop. the rolling production is rUe “BMZ” is subordinated to the Ministry of represented by a rolling plant having three rolling mills industry of the republic of Belarus. producing various sections and a pipe mill. legal address (postal address) of the enterprise, the hard-w are production consists of three wire head office address: shops, powder metallurgy and drawing die shop, a tare and packing shop. the works infrastructure is 37 promyshlennaya st., Zhlobin, Gomel region, represented by the plants for repairing metallurgical, 247210, republic of Belarus. power, electric and mechanical equipment, plants supplying production with media and electric not only is rUe “BMZ” the largest enterprise in power, transportation shop and other subdivisions. the republic of Belarus, but also in europe. it is the the product catalog of the plant includes such base enterprise for the metallurgy industry of the components as concast and hot-r olled billet; rolled republic. During the last two decades it has been section and shapes, concrete reinforcing bar; pipe among reputable steel products manufacturers. billet, wire rod, steel cord, hot-de formed seamless Design, construc-t ion and fitting of the works with pipes; steel anchoring and wavy fiber and microfiber, newest equipment and advanced technology with multipurpose steel wire. further putting production capacities for guarantee maintenance were based on the european firms republican Unitary enterprise “Byelorussian contracting principles involving hand-ov er of steel Works” is a high-t echnology metallurgical industrial facilities and technologies on the turnkey complex with a complete metallurgical cycle. the basis. Use of advanced world experience and overall production takes place on a single production newest technologies during the works construction site in the republic of Belarus that allows to save the and further development allowed to create a unique size and manufacture low-e xpenses products. Vast industrial complex in the republic of Belarus. choice of the productive capacities allows to organize a flexible production flow taking into account market «The plant studies and analyzes operation of conditions and to maintain stable long-t erm sales its competitors and this is a sign of a successful quantities. production». Tomas Pallagi, Representative of TÜV International s.r.o. TUV Rheinland Group 34 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 orGanizational manaGement structure the organizational structure is based on the hierarchical principle. the enterprise is headed by the Director General that acts in conformity with the republican legislation and the articles of the enterprise, sets objectives and policies, distributes responsibility and authority to the subdivision managers. as of December 31, 2010 the total number of employees was12033 people. General Director’s assistant General General Director’s for fer & sales office work Director assistant Marketing Quality production chief chief Deputy GD Deputy GD Deputy GD Deputy GD Deputy GD chief Director – Director Director specialists specialist of for technical development, for hardware for commercial for economics, for the personnel accountant head of MDpt. of the rolling the steel making chief engineer production issues finance, and sales production production MDpt. chief struct. prod. struct. specialist struct. struct. shops shops shops shops УБУОиК divisions Board divisions for financial divisions divisions issues first Deputy GD chief chief chief Deputy GD Deputy GD for hardware for lp, is & ep for deputy GD production electrical mechanical power aB for new engineer reconstruction engineer engineer technique & tech. and revamping technology struct. struct. struct. struct. struct. esB divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions D&rB tB shops shops shops shops shops s&sB competitive aDvantaGes approaches ensurinG of rue “Bmz” staBle Development Basic competitive advantages are: severe situation on the steel market resulting from the world economic crisis, long period and unstable • strong position on global steel markets; withdrawal from the recession was characteristic • favourable geographic location of the plant; of the entire year 2010, in particular its first half. these circumstances attached great significance to • professionalism of the personnel; the policy of costs reduction continued by the plant • high competitiveness of the products; as well as effectiveness of the sales and market-ing • up-t o-dat e investment program; services functioning which were mastered in new market conditions changing approaches to product • high level of reputation among customers due to selling. product quality. 35 Description of the plant supporting its presence on the most significant market outlets. starting with the middle of 2010, continuous monitoring of raw materials markets has been carried out. this helps us to procure quality materials at optimal prices. analysis of steel consuming branches of industry including engineering, construction, and tire industry allows determination and setting of optimal prices, rUe “BMZ” production output, and product sale with a rather precise degree of reliability. traditionally european and cis markets were considered the basic sales markets for rUe “BMZ” products. in the result of product delivery diversification «It took the plant a long time to penetrate Asian started in 2009, we extended distribution of deliveries markets. The decisive role was played by the high due to such regions as Middle east, north africa, quality of hose wire produced by BMZ». southeast asia, north and south america. in 2010 I.A. Charniausky, Deputy General Director first deliveries to the markets of albania, switzerland, congo, Mauritania, Brazil, Venezuela, and hong Kong were made. Most promising of the above markets are Venezuela and Brazil — main trade partners of rB in latin america. Due to electronic bids we promoted continuous monitoring of the sales market offers and sales of steel cord, bead wire, and hose wire allowed selling of rUe “BMZ” products at rather high to world leading concerns for 2011. and competitive prices taking into consideration regions and receiving countries at the same time the year 2010 was the period of a stepwise search % 45 40,6 Europe 40 32,4 33,4 35 27,4 30 24,9 25 22,7 Middle East & Africa 20,2 21,4 19,7 18,5 20 SEA 15,3 15 13,7 America 10 2,6 1,7 5 2,5 0,4 1,1 1,5 years 0 2009 2010 2 011 (Forecast) Steel deliveries by regions, % 36 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 of a way out of the crisis for Belarusian metallurgy. there talks are held with largest traders, final users of steel, were rises and drops. But consequently, it became and new partners regarding key product delivery and a memorable year and actual results appeared to be studies of issues related to possible production of much better than those predicted. new products for certain customers, and change of production methods of some types of products are in 2010 shipments to new customers made carried out. up about 14 000 tons of steel to the amount of approximately UsD 11 million. long work experience on external markets, owing to implementation of successful marketing availability of own commodity distribution network in strategies in 2010 we managed to recover the volumes different countries of the world made it possible for the of production lost during the crisis of 2009, strengthen enterprise to obtain the reputation of a reliable partner the position of the plant on global markets, and delivering hightech products. high international increase volumes of steel deliveries. in money terms authority and cooperation with international financial export grew by 31,6% and made up UsD 1159,5 establishments gave the enterprise vast prospects million. foreign trade balance of all enterprises of for obtaining profitable credit lines from firstclass the Ministry of industry was UsD 1,7 billion, UsD 414 european banks. million of which is BMZ share. high quality of the products delivered to various for promotion of the plant’s products onto world countries of five continents of the globe is evidenced markets, acquainting of wouldbe customers with by rUe “BMZ” trademark which is registered in 60 new types of products the plant pays much attention countries of the world. in the nearest future the plant to advertising, actively participates in national and international specialized exhibitions and fairs where product description region of product delivery cast billet europe, middle east and africa, sea, cis, republic of Belarus Bloom europe, cea, cis, republic of Belarus rolled steel europe, cis, middle east and sea, africa, republic of Belarus seamless pipe europe, usa, venezuela, vietnam, russian federation, republic of Belarus steel cord europe, nafta countries, cis, republic of Belarus hose wire europe, middle east, sea, cis, usa, republic of Belarus Bead wire europe, cis, republic of Belarus steel wire europe, cis, usa, republic of Belarus Distribution and structure of rUe “BMZ” product sale in 2010 37 Description of the plant plans to get registration documents for 18 countries more. efforts of the management and the whole staff directed towards increase of product competitiveness and creation of a positive image of the enterprise are marked with awards received in republican contests in the following nominations: – «Best importer of 2010» – «Best construction product of 2010 » rUe “BMZ” was designated the name of “the best supplier in 2010” among 1000 suppliers of eaton corporation for high quality of the products manufactured, supply logistics, and operative respond «In the result of a fruitful cooperation of the to customers’ enquiries . marketing and technical board measures for the total activity of rUe “BMZ” perfectly fits the development of new types of products were taken to corporative policy of the enterprise: production of allow the plant to penetrate and consolidate its position hightech products with a high added value satisfying on new market outlets». the needs of national and foreign customers, increase Y.A. Malchanau, Marketing Director of profitability of the enterprise in case of rational use of resources, protection of the environment, and in 2011 markets of europe, Middle east, and cis ensuring of a high living standard of the staff. results of will remain most capacious sales markets for rUe 2010 clearly demonstrate that it is not just a declaration. “BMZ”. perspective Directions commodity export in 2010 was 78,4 %. steel products of the plant are delivered to more than 70 of sales activitY countries of the world and its trademark is widely from the geographical point of view and taking known on the steel market. into account transport logistics of rUe “BMZ” products delivery, the most interesting countries in recovery of the world economy from the 2010 were european, cis, Middle east, and african financial recession, continuous oil price in-c rease countries. considering prospects of development of will help the oil industry to grow (implementation these regions, the en-t erprise arranges continuous of the suspended projects, develop-me nt of new monitoring of prices and participates in exhibitions deposits, commissioning of new long-dist ance lines); so as to strengthen rUe “BMZ” positions in these which allows to hope for a steady demand for octG regions and increase volumes of steel supplies. seamless pipes. rUe “BMZ” pipes were supplied to 27 countries in 2010: europe, north and south america, from the viewpoint of demand and prices for Middle east, africa, and cis; rolled material and cast products, the most attractive markets in the Middle billet are sold in 48 countries of the world, steel cord east and africa are the markets of oil producing and steel wire in 36 countries. countries. these are promising markets for rUe “BMZ” pipe products due to absence of any limitations it is necessary to point out that steel fiber, one of their supply as well as due to current growth of oil of new projects of rUe “BMZ”, is now conquering production in this region. strong positions in europe. thus, BMZ fiber was 38 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 used in the reconstruction of the panama canal. so rUe “BMZ” marketing strategy is directed as to fulfil the task of sales market expansion and towards retention and active extension of its presence fiber sales activation, an international conference on the existing sales markets as well as search for and a seminar “outlook for rUe “BMZ” steel fiber new economically profitable regions, increasing usage in the building sector” was held in May 2010. volumes of products sold through its own commodity representatives of building firms and concrete distribution network. structure producers participated in it. Free trade,% 12% Subjects of RUE BMZ CDN,% 54% End user,% 34% steel sales structure in 2010,% UsD thou. outside the republic of Belarus rUe “BMZ” our jointventures carry out logistics which interests as on 01.01.2011 are represented by 7 includes insurance of exportimport loads, organization jointventures in Germany, austria, the Usa, china, and fulfillment of export transportation from the works lithuania, and the russian federation which sell to customers, customs clearance of the documents, more than half of the products. for steel product sale organization of buffer and consignment warehouses, diversification and provision of the proper sales level coordination of supplies between the seller and its we plan to improve the operation of our own commodity customers, control of supply settlements, etc.: distribution network in 20102015 and stop working with independent traders. 39 Description of the plant 1. Jsc «Belastahl aubenhandel Gmbh», Berlin, tasks set forth for the jointventures regarding Germany, established in 1994. it sells tire cord, bronzethe promotion of hightech products of rUe “BMZ” plated bead wire, hotdeformed seamless pipes in the and expansion of the sales markets, are successfully northwest european region fulfilled. optimization of the money flow by the jointventures helps to improve the reliability of money 2. Jsc «BelMet handelgesellschaft m.b.h.», linz, proceeds from our customers and to considerably austria, established in 1996. it sells tire cord, bead reduce the period for sold product payment. wire, hose wire, and hotdeformed seamless pipes in the southeast region of europe. thus, having analyzed the basic sales markets of BMZ, we may say that the plant has strong positions 3. Jsc «Bel–Kap–steel, llc», Miami, Usa, and big prospects. established in 1998. it sells tire cord in the Usa and reinforcing bars for construction, wire rod, cast billet, and hotdeformed seamless pipes in north and south america, scandinavia, and the netherlands, italy, poland, Great Britain, slovakia, and turkey. 4. Jsc «BelMet (shanghai) trading co., ltd.», shanghai, china, established in 2004. it delivers technological and raw materials. 5. UaB «prekybos namai BMZBaltija», shaulai, lithuania, established in 2008. it sells rebars for construction, steel wire, and hotdeformed seamless pipe in the Baltic countries. 6. Jsc «torgovyi Dom BMZ», st. petersburg, russian federation, established in 2003. it was organized so as to ensure raw material safety for Byelorussian steel Works: deliveries of scrap and materials. 7. Jsc «torgovyi Dom BMZ» Moscow, rf, established in 2007. it was organized so as to sell finished products (rebars for construction, steel wire, and hotdeformed seamless pipes) of rUe “BMZ” in the russian federation. so as to increase the share of steel exports of the plant through the commodity distribution network, we first of all pay attention to the extension of the number of jointventures, distributors, and improvement of the efficiency of their activity. 40 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 WorlD marKet trenDs last half-y ear a number of macroeconomic figures demonstrate a slight strengthening of the market situation in the result of the measures undertaken by short-t erm outlook the government. Unemployment growth and slowing the outlined prospects of the metallurgical down of the growth rate of the income of the population sector development in a short-t erm outlook can will follow the announced cutoff of the budget develop in the way which foresees stagnation of the deficiency in the ec countries. consequently, there world economy and retention of the existing level of are no preconditions for consumption growth and for consumer activity and regional steel trade; the market the recovery of the pre-c risis level in this region in the is supported by the economic growth in china and the nearest future. in the situation of strengthening of the developing countries. Developing countries act as protectionist mood, european interest to imported growth drivers; economy of the developed countries goods will continue to fall. is a constraint. at that, starting with 2011 recovery of the key countries of the world is more and more price change dynamics will be characterized slowing down in the result of the discount rate level by a shorter wave cycle, but the ampli-t ude of its growth. fluctuation from the average level will rise. among other reasons of the cyclic re-c urrence character in the environment of withdrawal of the antichange we may point out universal decrease of the crisis economic incentives (credit policy, real estate level of the inventory (in this situation prices will market conditions have become tougher this year; quickly react to the emerging demand) and transition a transition to s floating yuan rate has taken place), to quarterly raw material agreements. signs of slowing down of the business activity indices have appeared: industrial output growth rate stagnation (rather absence of signs of decreased, building activity in the Usa reduced. deterioration) of the world economy will render there is no doubt that the growing budget deficiency support to the raw material and power price level in the Usa remains one of the most serious threats which means a relative stability of the budget filling for to the world stability, at the same time during the cis countries. even slow recovery of the population’s 41 Description of the plant incomes will help to expand the domestic demand. Date anD events of 2010 implementation of the anti-c risis programs of the government became an urge for the customer february: demand activation, and starting with the middle of 2011, volumes of floating assets injection into the Mandrel and disc saw preparation department key branches of economy will start to go down. it is started to operate in the pipe mill. it is fitted with the determined by limited possibilities of the budget equipment unique for our country. (high social obligations remain weak points of cis february: economies which is especially clearly seen against the background of the decreased post-c risis tax BMZ participated in the republican information proceeds). long-last ing saturation of the market with and prophylactic program «health @ work» started in liquidity together with decrease of borrowed fund cost the republic (within the project of Belarusian red cross can provoke strengthening of inflation processes with society «prophylactic of hiV in the labour sector»). the simultaneous back-of f of the demand. it is necessary aim of the program developed by the experts of the Global to point out that for the industrial production (for Business coalition against hiV/aiDs, tuberculosis, example, for the participants of the program of and malaria is to help enterprises and organizations to autoutilization) decrease of the state subventions organize training of their staff in this subject. would most likely turn into the decrease of the demand and corresponding drop of production figures. march: March 3: the first lot of round billet diameter 200mm was cast in ccM3 of eMs2. long-t erm outlook march 29: During 3-5 years recovery of the world steel a contract on the construction of the 3rd limekiln market is supposed and consequently, improvement was signed with techcom (Germany). of steel consumption, recovery of such industries as engineering, construction, motor industry, oil – at the end of the month BMZ started production, and oil processing. in the long-t erm implementation of a contract for manufacturing octG outlook rUe “BMZ” plans to recover its customers on pipes for Venezuela. traditional markets (europe, cis) completely, retain its april: customers on the developing market outlets (Middle east), and get new customers both on the existing 150th ton of pipes was rolled in the pipe mill. With this and new markets. in particular, the plant actively round number the mill practically completed production develops new products and studies sales markets for of the first shipment of octG pipes for pDVsa B. V. these products which will help to get new customers. Bariven (Venezuela). scientific and technical conference of young workers «Metal2010» united over 100 participants in 11 groups. the pipe mill started mastering of pipes produced from round billet diameter 200 mm fabricated in ccM3. 42 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 june: september: BMZ team won the 4th republican sport and at the end of september the first shipment of tourist rally of Young people organized by the hotbriquetted iron arrived at BMZ from Venezuela. its Belarusian trade Union of industrial Workers. it was volume was 5 thousand tons. dedicated to the 65th anniversary of the Victory. 17 teams from the biggest enterprises of the republic a contract for modernization of waste gas trapping participated in it. and cleaning system of eaf no.1 and no.3 was signed with Water Group. this project was developed last tons of pipes were shipped for Venezuela. exclusively for the conditions of operation of BMZ total amount of the shipment was 5863 tons of hotfurnaces. deformed seamless pipes of б dimensions for oil and gas lines. september 15: july: rolling mill 150 celebrated its 10th anniversary. the rated capacity of the mill has increased from 30 up to chemist’s shop no. 199/3 was opened in building 46 thousand ton per month. no. 2 of the headquarters. it was a request of the staff expressed during a traditional meeting of the top Byelorussian steel Works became the only management with the labour team. participant of the 8 republican environmental forum which exhibited the whole range of environmental training of a group of specialists from tenaris issues at the exhibition in Grodno. BMZ was (Mexico) was organized in the pipe mill for the first awarded a certificate for «considerable investment time. thirteen workers of one of the plants of this in the development and introduction of advanced concern were trained in technology of seamless pipe technologies in the area of wastes handling». production and acquired practical skills on workplaces. steel fiber for concrete reinforcement produced at BMZ started commercial production of concast BMZ was considered the best construction product of round billet diameter 200 mm. at the end of July the 2010. the awarding took place within the framework of first export lot of round 200 mm was cast at eMs2. the exhibition «BUDpraGres2010». international scientific and technical conference BMZ was the first in the republic to start preparation «Metal2010» was held at BMZ. this prestigious for the acquisition of a complex natureconservation forum of young people united 80 plant workers and permit. if now environmental permits are issued 45 representatives of the enterprises and educational for separate components, then a complex permit establishments from Belarus, russia, the Ukraine, considers total environmental impact of an enterprise lithuania, and Kazakhstan. as well as efficiency of usage of natural resources in the production. august: october: a delegation of continental visited BMZ. the parties discussed current issues and plans for the october 29: public hearing of the corporate social nearest future. the year 2010 was specific for the report took place at BMZ. cooperation of our plant and this German giant of the tire industry: 15 years had passed from the date of Making its debut at the prestigious competition, the signing an agreement on cooperation. scientific and technical library of BMZ was considered 43 Description of the plant the best among similar republican libraries. it was the General information only one out of 446 participants to be awarded for the aBout achievements anD aWarDs utmost use of automatic technologies in reference – bibliographic and informational servicing of its readers. staff of team no. 4 of rolling mill 150 set up a • Winner of the Competition for the RB Government record: 1200 tons of wire rod were produced during a award for Quality achievements (2001, 2004, shift. the prior record was at the level of 1070 tons. 2007); november: • Winner of the Competition for the RB Ministry of industry award for Quality achievements (2001, november 17: the third Belarusian investment 2004, 2007). forum took place in frankfurtamMein. s.s. sidorsky, primeminister of Belarus, heads of ministries, and • Winner of the competition “Best Products of the our general director participated in the forum where a republic of Belarus” in the nomination “technical memorandum on intention to build a facility for sheet industrial products” (20022010). production was signed between BMZ and Danieli • Winner of the competition “Best Products of the (italy). republic of Belarus on the russian federation 20 years ago first tons of steel were produced in Market” in the nomination “technical industrial the third electricarc furnace. now eaf3 produces not products” (2001, 20032010). 4 as before but 12 heats per shift. • Winner of The Badge of Honor Award the jubilee 500th ton of tire cord was produced at “commonwealth star” in the nomination “Best cis sWs2. this tire cord was delivered to Bobruisk tire company” (2006). plant. • Winner of the 3rd International Quality Tournament December: among cee countries, holder of efQM certificate “5 star excellence acknowledgment in europe” a new tradition was born at BMZ: December 17 (2007). a corporate calendar was presented at the palace of culture of Metallurgists. • Winner of the Competition for CIS Award for production and services Quality achievements sWs2 crossed the level of one million tons. (2006/2007). exactly this amount of product had been produced at the shop from 1991 till 2010 inclusive. • Winner of the republican competition “Best exporter2007” in the nomination “Machine staff or rolling mill 320 produced one million tons Building, Metallurgy and Metal finishing”. of reinforcing section in 2010 • Winner of the republican competition “Best Quality Manager” (20082009). • Winner of the 4th International Quality Tournament among cee countries (2008). • “5 Star Excellence Acknowledgment in Europe” by the european fund for Quality Management (efQM) – (2009); 44 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 • Winner of the national competition «Brand of the • Presidium of the Council of the Federation of the year – 2009» in the nomination trade unions of Belarus awarded nikolai anelkin, chief rolling specialist of rUe “BMZ”, a labour «socially responsible Brand» in the categories «Best laureate prize. employer» and «active social position»; • Gomel Regional Executive Committee officially «professional nomination, goods and services В2В» thanked rUe “BMZ” staff for its active foreign in the category «Brandexport». economic activity in 2010. • Winner of the competition «Best Construction • Winner of the national contest «Brand of the Year product of the Year» (2010). – 2010» in the nomination «socially responsible brand» in the category «active social position». • Certificate of the 8th republican ecological forum «for a considerable contribution to the • BMZ is awarded the name of “The best supplier – development and introduction of advanced 2010” among more than 1000 suppliers of eaton technologies in the area of wastes handling». corporation for high quality of its products, delivery logistics, and operative respond to customers’ • Winner of the 4th republican tourist rally of young enquiries. people organized by the Belarusian trade Union of industrial Workers. • Based on the results of 2010 JSC “Belarusbank”, the largest bank of the republic of Belarus, • BMZ library became the winner of the republican named Byelorussian steel Works a laureate in the competition among scientific and technical nomination «for the expansion of the international libraries of the republic of Belarus in 2010. forms of settlement». • RUE “BMZ” is awarded a diploma for the development and introduction of powereffective technologies in steel production among 200 enterprises from 14 countries of the world participating in the XV Belarusian power and environment forum. • Winner of 2010 contest «Best Goods of the republic of Belarus on the market of the russian federation» in the nomination «technical and industrial products». • BMZ steel fiber for concrete reinforcement is recognized as the best construction product of 2010. • Gomel Regional Union of Entrepreneurs officially thanked anatoly savianok, rUe “BMZ” general director, for his considerable personal contribution to the provision of efficient activity of the Union of entrepreneurs and improvement of the system of social partnership. 45 46 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 47 ManaGeMent, responsiBilities, interaction With interesteD parties corporate manaGement foreign economic relations, develop progressive forms of integration, organizes cooperation with the corporate management of rUe “BMZ” is the total corresponding organs of state administration of cis of processes providing for control and supervision of countries; within its competence it organizes and the plant’s activities, including relations between the coordinates work of state organizations and economic owner, the management and employees established associations in the area of technical regulation and for the purposes of achieving the enterprise's standardization, certification and product quality, etc. strategic aims. rUe “BMZ” considers corporate management to be a means for enhancing efficiency improved effectiveness in the field of sustainable of the plant’s activities and for raising its reputation. development is ensured by an effi-c ient corporate corporate policy of rUe “BMZ” is based on constant management system. the enterprise's top updating of the enterprise’s management system as management carries out its activity adhering to the its efficiency is a significant factor of the plant’s being following approaches in corporate management: attractive for investments. – compliance with legislation and statutory rUe “BMZ” is subordinated to the Ministry of norms of the republic of Belarus as well as with the industry of rB (Minprom). Minprom is a republican international legal acts validated in the rB;; organ of state administration and is subordinated to the council of Ministers of the republic of Belarus. – improvement of management quality; Minprom pursues scientific, technical, and – involving of all units and participants of business economic policies directed towards creation of processes; conditions for efficient work of its subordinate organizations. Minprom works out forecasts of – improvement of the system of effectiveness production and technical, financial and economic evaluation; development of the corresponding branches of industry; develops and ensures implementation of investment programs aimed at acceleration of –updating the technological level of the scientific and technical progress, growth of product production processes; competitiveness, decrease of its materials and power consumption; provides pursue of the scientific and – expanding production facilities with minimization technical policy directed towards extension of the of energy and raw material con-s umption levels; range of products manufactured, improvement of their quality; organizes and controls work to provide –disclosure of complete and reliable information rational use of raw materials, materials, fuel and power on the plant’s performance; resources, accessories, involvement of secondary material resources and local types of raw materials –making the plant attractive for investment; in the economic turnover; carries out general management of state organizations according to – enhancing of responsibilities; the established procedure providing their effective operation together with the managers of these organizations; coordinates foreign economic activity – keeping up an open dialogue with interested of state organizations and economic associations parties; within its competence, helps them to establish 48 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 – providing for the best possible output/ enterprise’s organiza-t ional structure (see section expenditures ratio; Description of the plant), the articles of association (as approved by the Ministry of industry of the republic – ensuring a reasonable balance between the of Belarus), provisions on structural Divisions of the plant’s and public interests. plant and other normative acts. strategic and operational management of the to provide for trust and mutual understanding plant’s activity is carried out by rUe “BMZ” general among all interested parties the plant follows the director anatoly savianok. below principles of the code of ethics: Management by the Director General down to the – transparency – prompt provision of reliable heads of divisions is based on the following: information; – taking decisions within one’s competence; – accountability; – establishing policies and specifying objectives – justice – equal attitude; to be recorded in the respective doc-um entation, such as business plan of rUe “BMZ”, corporate – responsibility – recognition of the rights and policy, target indices of rUe “BMZ” , objectives of obligations. Divisions. – identifying resources (labour, infrastructure and in its activities, the plant aspires to ensure production environment) as required for planning and compliance with international standards of business carrying out activities to achieve the tasks set forth; activities. rUe “BMZ” has adopted and introduced into active use internal docu-me nts providing for – determining processes of the corporate fulfillment of obligations concerning compliance management system and providing for their efficient with the corporate management principles. these functioning. documents are available to general public on the plant’s web-sit e: www.belsteel.com. Qualifications, competence and activities of the plant's top management are evaluated by the plant's our mission, as we see it, is to ensure owner — the Ministry of industry of the republic sustainable development that would account for of Belarus. fringe benefits are paid out to the top long-t erm economic interests, contribute to social management depending on the plant's performance peace, and provide for safety and well-be ing of the and compliance with the indices of social and plant’s employees and citizens in the region of BMZ economic development established for the plant. production activities, envi-r onment and human rights protection. internal control system for supervision of financial and economic activities of rUe “BMZ” comprises the to achieve high indices of long-t erm social and audit Department and the internal audit service. economic efficiency BMZ strives for maintaining of a reasonable balance of interests of all parties to ensure awareness of the top management concerned by distribution of responsibilities and of economic efficiency, performance in the fields involvement of employees in accordance with the of environmental protection, occupational safety, 49 ManaGeMent, responsiBilities, interaction With interesteD parties production quality control and to provide for interaction cMs processes were determined with the use of with employees and operational decision-making the iDefo method, which ensures their proper sequence plant arranges monthly meetings of management and interaction: executives and heads of structural divisions. • А11 marketing; Based on the global experience in the field of corporate management, the plant intro-duc ed and • А12 management analysis; is now implementing the corporate Management system, which is in compliance with requirements of • А21 human resources management; iso 9001, iso 14001, ohsas 18001 and sa 8000 international standards. • А22 maintenance and repairs; compliance of the plant's activities to iso 9001, • А23 infrastructure and production iso 14001, ohsas 18001 interna-t ional standards environment management; is validated by international audit companies, such as tÜV rheinland (Germany), BUreaU Veritas • А31 interaction with customers (contract certification (france) and others. BMZ activities analysis); confirming its adherence to the principles of Un Global compact are represented in this report. • А32 Design and development: to provide for continuous evaluation of • А32/1 Design and development of new applicability, adequacy, and efficiency of the system types of products, new methods; and updating of documentation the top management should carry out an analysis of the plant’s cMs • А32/2 equipment design and performance. the performance analysis is carried development; out once a year and once a half-y ear based on the requirements identified in the enterprise standard • А33 procurement; stp 840-K sM-5 .6 “Management analysis. self• А34 production planning and preproduction assessment of the corporate management system” activities; the results of the analysis are presented as a report on cMs performance and a report on cMs self• А35 manufacture and supplies of concast assessment. Based on the analysis results, corrective billet; measures and preventive actions to avoid unwanted events are identified so as to improve efficiency of • А36 manufacture and supplies of rolled the cMs. the procedure for identifying the above sections; actions shall be governed by stp 840-K sM-8 .5 “continuous improvement. Data analysis. preventive • А37 manufacture and supplies of pipes; and corrective actions”. • А38 manufacture and supplies of steel cord, the corporate management system existing wire and fiber; at the plant comprises documentation regulating processes, distribution of rights and obligations within • А41 internal audits; the staff, interaction of executers with all interested parties, responsibilities and powers of employees. • А42 process flow and production monitoring. 50 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 self-asse ssment in terms of corporate communication management system efficiency for the year 2010 was carried out based on efQM excellence Model with approaches in the field the use of the following evaluation criteria: of communication formation criteria characteristic of the organization capabilities: corporate management is maintained by ensuring high levels of employees' aware-ne ss. organization management's leadership; of communication rests on the following principles: good timing and regularity; organization’s policy and strategy; reliability and comprehensiveness; human resources; free accessibility; partnership and resources available; feedback; processes; operational flexibility and availability. criteria characteristic of the organization’s high level of information work provides for: performance: setting goals and assigning tasks, ensuring external customers; employees' awareness of the perfor-m ance results achieved; internal customers; feedback; benefits for the society; identifying actions for further improvement; basic performance indices. discussions of focal issues; according to the self-asse ssment, the total making proposals. enterprise rate for the year 2010 amounted to 81,6% against 71,1% for the same period of the previous information exchange is ensured by: year, which corresponds to the “reliable” rating. Based on the self-asse ssment results, corrective actions meetings according to the schedules established were determined to improve the situation. in conformity with local regula-t ions; Based on the comprehensive social and materials of the corporate newspaper “Metallurg”; psychological climate study carried out by the plant’s social service, the participating employees rated top weekly receptions on personal issues arranged by management efficiency quite high (the satisfaction the top management and heads of divisions; index was 0,74 against 0,76 of the year 2009). meetings and gatherings with participation of 51 ManaGeMent, responsiBilities, interaction With interesteD parties the top management and the plant’s employees arranging reporting activities; in accordance with approved information activities schedules; operational decision-making on current issues. negotiations and consultations; approach implementation discussions and “round tables”; the plant’s management is developing internal sociological polls; communications, using them as one of its major tools to encourage social partnership, maintain favorable correspondence; social climate among working employees and to ensure efficient information exchange between the providing information to put on the stands located enterprise's management and its employees. acting in various structural divisions, representing in accordance with the principles of the Un Global performance of the division and the plant in whole compact, rUe “BMZ” provides free access to any as well as dynamics of their activities; data, which is only limited by legislation requirements. for the purposes of efficient performance, special data transfer within the local computer network; attention is given to feed-bac k. Being an essential element of the enterprise’s policy, the feedback use of “info-BMZ ” informational system covering provides an en-h anced mutual trust, consolidates over 3000 computerized work stations; and unites interested parties based on common public objectives, values and interests. use of electronic displays with creeping lines. feedback channels comprise both traditional forms exchange of information and consultations on of communication with em-p loyees (conferences, issues related to quality control, occupational informative meetings with participation of the plant’s safety and environment protection, industrial safety top management and public authorities, meetings and sanitation, data security, energy and material of working employees, press conferences, “free resources saving, involving representatives of various microphone” events, etc.) and polls, interviews, management levels, employees and other interested “Direct lines”, when every single employee could parties, are aimed at the following: ask the management a question and would be given an irrefragable answer to it. to ensure timely understanding of one’s role and responsibility; response of the management in connection with any issue, comment and proposal raised or made by the improving awareness; plant’s employees, an automated “signal” system was introduced which is active 24 hours a day. every engaging in efficiency improvement activities; person who has anything to say could make a phone call and state their request, make a comment, a illustrating management’s obligations; proposal, and those will be considered on a daily basis with response communicated either directly saving of energy and material resources; to the requesting person or through the plant’s local newspaper “Metallurg. ensuring proper interaction of all management levels; one more tool of feedback (or it’s better to say 52 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 bidirectional communication) between the plant in the owing to the activity of the staff, the so called person of its management of different levels and the information resource (content) is formed on the staff is the plant’s web-sit e «info-BMZ » with elements corporate web-sit e which is the basic element of of a corporate social network. this tool creates multiple the corporate social network and of the knowledge and frequently new relations between the staff and management system. different working groups of the plant. these relations help to spread corporate knowledge and experience the site represents over 22 000 materials of according to the method of «cross pollination» and technical, normative, and housekeeping information. create quite real commercial advantages. Use of new on the average, 3 445 people visit the system every platforms of social software within the plant allowed day. «info-BMZ » is a plat-f orm for carrying out onthe corporate information activity factor users not line social polls among the plant’s employees which only to increase use of the information, but have a considerably enhance the efficiency of the information possibility to comment, get the feedback, create an acquisition and its results output the enterprise’s educational social network where specialists discuss development level includes not only analysis of its important issues, council, and train recruits, create financial, economic and production indices, but documents, and suggest ideas. also the outcome of social studies, which make it 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Direct line signal employee appeals employee activity. feedback. 53 ManaGeMent, responsiBilities, interaction With interesteD parties 1 0,9 0,8 0,7 0,6 0,5 0,4 0,3 0,2 0,1 0 sanitary hygienic technical equipment labour mechanization work schedule and conditions level operating condition 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (target) possible to obtain a realistic picture of the social and During last year, research fields in terms of plant’s psychological climate and working environments employees’ opinions were identi-f ied as follows: and are part and parcel of self-c onsistent internal general social and psychological climate within the communications. Knowledge of the psychological enterprise; work of the plant’s canteens, satisfaction background existing within the enterprise is of of the staff with attitudes of employees towards essential significance when it comes to the need for the conditions, nature and scope of works, their no-c onflict upgrading activities. satisfaction with the working environment, as well as evaluation of the level of readiness to maintain regular enquiries conducted in plant’s divisions order and cleanness of workplaces, provision of make it possible to obtain data on social well-be ing the production with a trained management reserve, of its employees, levels of satisfaction with the attitude of young specialists towards their working working environment and utilities within the frames activity at the enterprise, towards implementation of the production process as well as information of the plant's youth program, towards their personal on the social and psychological climate. results of development and professional growth perspectives; the above enquiries are taken into consideration promotion opportunities, employees’ career when developing social programmes, projects and aspirations, satisfaction with the wage system and identifying actions to improve employees’ working reward schemes existing at the plant. the research environment and living conditions and when taking activities also covered issues, such as satisfaction of managerial decisions concerning both employees' BMZ employees with healthcare services provided interests and interests of the enterprise in whole. by the plant and the quality of the latter, and provided 54 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 CMS analysis Top management In-plant orders (instructions) IID CMS orders Days (instructions) for reception Conferences, meetings on personal issues Intercom telephony QMD Informative meetings DEP&OC Unified information day OSD, ISD “Metallurg” newspaper Heads of divisions “Direct line” Info-BMZ web-site E-mail Internet Information stands “Signal” and “Attention: people!” systems Divisions’ employees internal communication structure recommendations on some improvements to be activities on both the in-p lant and regional scales are made in connection with healthcare activities, etc. represented in such columns as “firsthand”, “the way we work”, “in social organizations”, “Best in an important role in the internal and external profession”, “for strong Belarus!”, “creative Young communication system is attributed to the corporate Generation”, “international cooperation, “on-t henewspaper “Metallurg.” its main tasks include mitre”, and others. the fist issue of “Metallurg” was ensuring a comprehensive representation of events published in 1985 with circulation of 2000 copies. at and activities within the enterprise and consolidation present, its printing office increased the circulation of the staff working at rUe “BMZ” for the purpose to over 9 500 copies, which means that almost every of achieving objectives set for the plant. events and single family of specialists employed at rUe “BMZ” 55 ManaGeMent, responsiBilities, interaction With interesteD parties is able to get its own copy of the newspaper. the the museum has exhibits highlighting the plant's distribution area for the newspaper covers not only history and narrating about people who used to work the plant’s production region, but also rogachyov here and contributed to its development at various and svetlogorsk districts. among its readers one can times as well as about those who are still working for mention the plant's old-t imers. for their benefit, the the labour glory of the plant. the stories are illustrated plant’s trade union committee takes out, at its own by nu-me rous documents and photos scattered at cost, an annual subscription for the newspaper. stands. Much of the museum space is dedicated to awards, which the plant was honored with throughout the editorial staff includes a tV-ne ws team. every the years of its production and social activities week, local town tV channel “nyuans” broadcasts “BMZ news” program. some stories about in the museum, one can learn about all stages of Byelorussian steel Works are also shown in “region” BMZ and region’s development. there are numerous tV program broadcast across the whole Gomel biographical resources telling about famous people region. of the plant, speci-me n products, prizes and gifts. in 2010 five newsletters were prepared and issued: today the museum is a historical and cultural centre; research and outreach activities carried out elections to the local soviets of deputies of the by the museum are also constantly improving. Major republic of Belarus of the 26th convocation »; activities include excursions, exhibitions and shows of films about the plant’s history. in 2010 more than «plant’s employees – nominees to Zhlobin District 1500 employees and guests of rUe “BMZ” visited the soviet of Deputies of the 26 convocation»; museum. «results of elections to the local soviets of deputies a key role both in human resources and internal of the 26th convocation»; communications development be-long s to the plant's information and training centre – the scientific and «BMZ youth – for healthy way of living!»; technical library. «in the approach to elections: together for strong and prosperous Belarus!». «Field seminars can be held on the basis of BMZ news about events at rUe “BMZ” and about its library. Foreign delegations can make tours in the market standing were highlighted real-t ime on the library. I would like to express my appreciation to the plant's web-sit e, in district, regional and republican plant management for keeping the material base of periodicals, such as “novyi Den”, “Gomelskaya the library at the due level». pravda”, “Znamia Yunosti”, “respublika”, etc. R.N. Sukhorukova, director of the republican scientific and technical library communication functions are also maintained by the plant's museum, active since 1999, which is intended for preservation of the enterprise’s historical and cultural heritage and is actively engaged in the library is mainly intended for support of vocational guidance activities, bringing up of the the enterprise’s research activities and providing younger generation to stay loyal to the plant and the plant's innovative activities with appropriate passing on labour traditions of rUe “BMZ” to young information resources, ensuring access of the specialists. 56 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 plant's employees to all kinds of information of public sociological service carries out a complex study of the significance (legal, cultural), rendering information psychological atmosphere in the working teams of services to the plant’s employees, representatives the divisions. More than one thousand of participants of various communities and discussion groups. of this study organized in 2010 highly estimated the the scientific and technical library of rUe “BMZ” level of awareness of the personnel (satisfaction index has a reading and an internet hall. the library stock equaled to 0,73 against 0,72 in 2009). comprises 36 331 issues. according to the results of the regional contest for so as to acquaint the employees with new arrivals the best organization of informing of labour collectives the plant’s library organizes exhibitions, viewings, V.a. Dvornik, chairman of Gomel regional committee, «engineering hours». for quick information retrieval, handed an official note of thanks to the republican the method of network technologies is used. the Unitary enterprise “Byelorussian steel Works” owing library has close cooperation with other regional and to high level of information support of the staff and republican scientific and technical libraries. inhabitants of the region in 2010. Making its debut at the prestigious contest which gathered many participants from Belarus, russia, and the Ukraine in Minsk in 2010, BMZ scientific and technical library was found to be the best among similar libraries of enterprises and organizations of the republic. it was mentioned for maximum use of automatic technologies in reference, bibliographic, and information servicing of the visitors. a.n. savianok, general director of rUe “BMZ”, received a written commendation. «organizing committee of the ii republican contest announced among scientific and technical libraries of enterprises and organizations of Belarus would like to thank you for exemplary organization of the activity of the scientific and technical library of rUe “Byelorussian steel Works” and creation of favourable conditions for its development and professional growth of its staff», —the document says. from the very beginning of its activity the plant pays great attention to the issues of communication development and growth of the level of the staff awareness. arrangements aimed at improvement of the informational support of the employees are worked out on the basis of assessment of its indices and analysis of the state of this ac-t ivity. every year plant’s 57 ManaGeMent, responsiBilities, interaction With interesteD parties participation in external initiatives rUe “BMZ” has its representatives in various nationalscale organizations, including all levels of legislative bodies, which makes it possible for the • Byelorussian association of foundries plant to take part in lawmaking, influence the decisions • and steel Works; related to the regional economic development, • international Union of steelmakers; establish open relationships with authorities, thus • international Union of rollermen; providing for a steady reduction of the risks associated • Quality leaders club of central with its activities. • and eastern europe. economic, environmental and social charters joined Membership in the above organizations makes by the plant are listed in section 8 of this report. it possible for the plant to ensure a more efficient to provide for interaction with international representation of its interests on the global scale and professional community and proper representation of to develop its business activities based on the global its interest, the plant became a member of the following trends and strategic tasks. associations: interaction With interesteD parties interested parties are establishments and individuals • analyzing and planning; substantially influenced by the plant’s activities, • evolving competence to encourage interaction; whose actions could produce a certain effect on the • evaluating results, corrective actions and plant's ability to ensure efficient implementation of its reporting; strategies and to achieve objectives set. • ensuring awareness of interaction parties. BMZ corporate social responsibility is a systematic When identifying major interested parties, the plant function within the complex scheme of social and accounted for their ability to influence the activities of economic relations, which is effectively incorporated rUe “BMZ.” the plant is engaged in interaction with an in the plant's everyday activities and is performed extensive number of interested parties. among those, by ensuring interaction with an extensive number of the parties listed below are considered to be of major interested parties. significance: By providing for an efficient model of interaction with • public authorities; interested parties it is possible to ensure successful • plant’s employees; implementation of plans, strategies and to achieve any • the trade union; objectives set. BMZ forms processes of interaction • people living in the region of BMZ production with interested parties according to the stages listed activities; below: • customers and suppliers; • setting a strategic interaction task; • educational establishments. • identifying interaction parties; BMZ deems it especially important to keep up an • setting objectives and limits of interaction; open positive dialogue with interested parties and, in • designing of processes and involving in its relations with those, it is guided by the principles of interaction; the code of ethics. awareness of interested parties' opinions and due 58 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 account for those contribute greatly to the plant’s results show that the enterprise enjoys favorable and stability. respectful attitudes in terms of its activities; it has striving for a more informed decisionmaking, rUe succeeded in forming a high prestige value of being “BMZ” receives feedback from its employees, the employed by the enterprise and a scaledup social government, public authorities, public organizations, status of BMZ employees as viewed by other people and communities. in 2010, the plant’s information living in the region. services conducted a number of social studies a major event of 2010 in terms of establishing involving the plant’s employees and people living in the interaction with interested parties was preparation and region of the plant's production activities. public discussion of the corporate social report for the year 2009 this event involved representatives of public Within the frames of public hearings arranged for authorities, local communities, the owner, suppliers the purposes of social reporting, there was a poll and customers, public organizations and mass media. conducted with participation of a large number of the preparatory work in connection with the above interested parties (public authorities, suppliers and report was an opportunity for the plant to check its customers, supervision agencies, public organizations system of interaction with stakeholders, made it and representatives of communities). possible to reveal its weaknesses and strengths and to identify perspectives for its further development. external communication structure the report was presented to all interested parties of actual or prospective influence on BMZ activities or to provide for awareness of public opinions shared development, which was an important step towards by people living in the region of the plant's direct enhanced information transparency. the russian influence in connection with the plant’s production version of the report was also made available on the and social activities, its corporate policy, ways it corporate site www.belsteel.com and its english affects the surrounding communities and for a more variant – on the Un Global compact site. public efficient interaction with interested parties, there was a discussions on the reported data arranged as public special social study conducted under the title “external consultations provided for a proper feedback and influences exerted by the enterprise on general public; awareness of interested parties’ opinions related to townscale image of the enterprise.” representatives the plant’s activities, its strategic intents and its social of public communities rated actions taken by the responsibility system. outcome of interaction with plant in social responsibility field quite high. the study interested parties, key topics and concerns together Governmental Ministry Trade Unions Republican with respective response by various organizations can public associations and local authorities of industry Federation be found in sections 9.3, 9.4 и 9.5. Customers social safetY anD Discipline and suppliers; carriers and contractors RUE “BMZ” to ensure economic safety and prevent corrupt Managers practices, the plant carries out its production and Staff Organizations economic activities based on principles of responsibility Trade Union and transparency. Public in accordance with the recognized international organizations principles of unhindered economic activities Mass Communities media established by the Un Global compact, rUe “BMZ” considers fair competition a prerequisite to provide external communication structure for exercising of the right to entrepreneurial freedom. 59 ManaGeMent, responsiBilities, interaction With interesteD parties in connection with the selection of suppliers and customers of goods under severe competition observed at the trading markets, and preservation of the stateowned property managed by the enterprise. the active economic security department excludes any possibilities of unlawful acts at the enterprise, including those involving corrupt practices with regard to both newly employed personnel and current employees of rUe “BMZ.” over 90% of the security department staff are people with higher education. in 2010, over 50% of the security department staff completed training courses on policies and «Resistance to corruption which destructively procedures concerning human rights affects social and economic processes remains one of corruption counteraction program was elaborated the main directions of the state policy». and is functioning at BMZ. according to this program, G.B. Svidersky, deputy minister of industry continuous monitoring of the results of financial and business activity of the enterprise is fulfilled, local normative acts regulating the procedure of preparation tender documents and selection of suppliers are updated. a complex of measures are taken to prevent no legal sanctions have ever been imposed on the corruption and delinquency in all divisions: a closer enterprise in connection with actions violating the fair control of consumption of inventory holdings is kept, competition principle. unplanned random stocktaking of assets is carried out, information of the organs of domestic affairs in 2010 the plant continued to implement Directive regarding financial investigations as well as facts of no. 1 dd. 11.03.2004 on Measures to enhance public corruption crimes committed by the plant’s employees safety and Discipline. it was not once that issues of submitted by the public prosecutor’s office is studied. labour and administrative discipline and occupational implementation of the program is monitored by the safety were raised at administrative meetings, regular committee for prevention of corrupt practices, which conferences and head of divisions made reports in held 5 meetings in 2010. connection therewith. in 2010, the total number of open dialogue, transparency, partnership and such issues considered amounted to 12. in pursuance mutual consideration of interests of all concerned of Directive no. 1, indices of labour and administrative parties made it possible to prevent corrupt practices discipline and occupational safety were included in the immediate business environment and inside into the list of criteria used for evaluation of the the enterprise proper in the year 2010. no fines or management efficiency. Violation of the above criteria sanctions were imposed on the plant in connection is strictly punished, up to early termination of labour with violation of laws or statutory requirements in 2010. contracts. ensuring fulfillment of the assumed obligations Guided by the Directive on Measures to enhance to the investors, its employees, business partners, public safety and Discipline, the law of the republic and the society in general, the plant strictly adheres of Belarus on corrupt practices counteractions and to applicable legislation, civil regulations, business in support of the principles of the Un Global compact, code of ethics and pursues the principles of efficient the plant formed a department intended for prevention management, information transparency, financial of corrupt practices and abuse, risk optimization discipline, legitimacy and ethicality. 60 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 61 effectiVeness inDices in the fielD of social responsiBilitY 62 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 corporate social responsiBilitY • compliance with legislation and statutory norms of the republic of Belarus; the plant regards corporate social responsibility as the total of obligations and decisions taken with participation of interested parties, which are aimed at • enhancement of business processes efficiency implementation of internal and external programmes and investment attractiveness of the plant; to contribute to the plant’s development and scale its status up. • enhancement of the plant's reputation and confidence in it; social responsibility covers a wide range of actions taken by the plant in the economic, social and ecological fields and provides for a responsible • ensuring ecological as well as occupational and business conduct, which ensures its sustainable health safety in regions of active production; development with due account for expectations of all interested parties. the plant considers introduction of corporate responsibility principles into its business • minimizing financial and non-f inancial risks, practice to be an essential prerequisite for efficient enhancing competitiveness of the plant’s management. Decisions concerned with social production; responsibility can be made at each of the management levels. production and economic decisions are taken • implementation of social and charity initiatives; in the context of social and ecological consequences both for the plant and the other interested parties. • providing for positive cooperation with all interested parties (stakeholders); What impressed us most is that we saw wellorganized team work, personnel highly motivated to • availability of information, open dialogues and be more efficient, and adherence to the concepts of transparency. quality, environmental protection and occupational safety. Alexandr Nikolayevich Voinich, Chief Auditor for FILR actions which rUe “BMZ” undertakes in the “Bureau Veritas Bel LTD” economic, ecological and social fields as well as interaction with internal and external interested parties and measures taken to ensure their awareness of the corporate social responsibility is one of the most plant’s performance are the key fields of corporate important principles rUe “BMZ” relies on in its social responsibility implementation. activities. Measures taken by the plant in this field are of regular character and are intended for establishing corporate social responsibility concepts for a safe and efficient working environment, ensuring economic, ecological and social activities are professional development of its employees, providing governed by the legislation of the republic of Belarus, support for sports and culture facilities, environmental branch and corporate regulations, international protection and regional development. standards of iso 9000, iso 14000, ohsas 18000, sa 8000 series and stipulate the need for evaluation and in the field of social responsibility, plant's activities analysis of the plant’s effectiveness. are based on the following approaches: 63 econoMic actiVitY the plant’s strategic objective in its economic activities is to provide for as much stability and efficiency of development as possible and to achieve high financial results, at the same time ensuring a reasonable balance of interests of all parties concerned and satisfying social and economic needs of civil and business communities in the regions of its active production. the plant believes social responsibility to be an integral part of its business strategy and corporate ethics, with the latter based on the principles of decency, justice and honesty implemented in relations with its partners and competitors. «Spirit of your staff allows people to be in good mood and have free communication. It speaks of the in its economic activity, rUe “BMZ” relies fact that in production, economy, and social sector you on the rB legislation, stability and production “feel the pulse”. Indeed, BMZ is a flagship of the region development factors, economic feasibility as well and the country. Industrial product output at your as its responsibilities assumed before the owner, enterprise makes up 90% in the district and 15% in investors, employees and business partners, local the region. Export share for the district is 94%, for the communities and other interested parties. region — 43%. It is a significant figure. I hope that you will continue setting the pitch in the republic. You have economic development of the plant is the best employees. Small and average enterprises understood as ensuring increased profitability should follow your example». by ramping up manufacture of hightechnology B.K. Pirshtuk, products as required by the strategy and enhanced Deputy chairman of Gomel Executive Committee production efficiency. • in its economic activity, the plant implements approaches as follows: • compliance with the legislation and statutory norms of the republic of Belarus; • involvement of all production segments and an overall increase in production rates, business process participants; operational intensity and production quality, technical sophistication of the production processes, • complete and reliable disclosure of the plant’s and speed up decisionmaking set up enhanced performance information; requirements regarding the employees irrespective • enhanced responsibility; of their departments. the plant’s commercial team is composed of skilled specialists being highly • ensuring the best possible expenditure/ qualified. they are regularly trained to understand economic performance ratio; policies and procedures connected with the issues • maintaining the plant’s interests in reasonable of production efficiency and business processes balance with those of the community. effectiveness. 64 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 financial-e conomic activitY experience in implementation of strategic objectives and introduction of recent engineering solutions in the in 2010 rUe “BMZ” managed to find a way out field of stable production development and corporate of a long global financial and economic crisis of social responsibility. 2008 – 2009. increment in business activity on global markets, stabilization of steel deliveries, as well economical effectiveness as hard measures taken by the enterprise to save resources made production and sales growth stable, the plant’s performance in 2010 was influenced helped to improve economic indices and finish the by the outcomes of the global economic crisis. activity year successfully and profitably. on international markets observed starting from the second quarter, and committed internal performance the plant developed a comprehensive program of the enterprise aimed at optimization of the aimed at surmounting crisis phenomena. strict production process, resource saving, and revision of control of fulfillment of this program on all levels had the sales strategy allowed the enterprise to restore a positive effect. in general, savings in 2010 equaled healthy proportions of the plant’s development by the to UsD 53,9 million. this result was received due to end of the year: profit growth rate exceeds proceeds production volume growth and production process and expenses growth rates and as regards some of improvement as well as for the account of fulfillment the indices, it surpasses the record-br eaking preof power-sav ing measures and decrease of the crisis year 2008. process-w ide and business-w ide expenses. 2Ê 500 to obtain a substantiated expert opinion 2 027 2Ê 000 concerning reliability of financial representations, 1 567 1 418 rUe “BMZ” annually requests an internationally 1Ê 500 1 126 recognized independent audit organization to carry 1Ê 000 out an audit in accordance with the international accounting standards (ias) 500 0 top management is informed about production 2007 2008 2009 2010 and financial-e conomic activity by means of monthly Dynamics of proceeds from sales of production, works and summary reviews, economic councils, and analytical services / mln. Us dollars reporting. Measures to decrease the consequences of for the purposes of communication development the world crisis were also taken on the governmental and expanding opportunities of interaction with level. in compliance with the resolution of the council the interested parties, employees’ professional of Ministers of the republic of Belarus no. 662 “on advancement and exchange of experience, rUe depreciation charge issues” and so as to improve “BMZ” arranges annual international scientific the competitiveness of the manufactured products, conference “Metal.” apart from participants from the enterprises were given the right not to charge the cis countries, the “economics and finance” depreciation of the fixed assets. section of the conference includes specialists from the plant’s financial, economic and marketing main indices departments. During the conference, its participants Based on the results of 2010, production growth make reports on current issues and exchange their rate in comparable prices was 114,1%. commodity 65 econoMic actiVitY sales proceeds equaled to UsD 1 567,3 million which in 2010 the enterprise effected all required is 39,2% higher than the amount of proceeds in 2009. payments to its employees in the amount of UsD 5,1 prime cost of products sold and services rendered million, including payments for labour products, as well grew up by 34,6% and equaled to UsD 1 409,1 million. as compensation, motivational and social ones in the this is connected with increase of steel product output amount of UsD 0,66 million, and maintenance of social in the established price by 147,4 per cent. facilities in the amount of UsD 5,3 million. other types of business activities (financial and nonoperational transactions) resulted in losses, which payment to the owner accounts for a reduction in profitability of primary the enterprise contributed to the state budget a activities. however, irrespective of the above, the part of its profit (the socalled dividends) in the amount enterprise’s total financial and economic activities of UsD 1,1 million. for the period under consideration turned out to be profitable taxes and compulsory payments rUe “BMZ” is a responsible taxpayer and provides profit for consolidation of the state’s financial foundation by sales proceeds in 2010 made up UsD 92 million, regular tax payments made into budgets of various which is 2,7 times more than in 2009. costefficiency levels. timely and correct tax payments by the plant of sold products equaled to 6,5%, which is 3,3% higher in favor of the state determine economic stability in than the level of 2009. the region of its active production activities and, in net profit of rUe “BMZ” in 2010 amounted to particular, opportunities of infrastructure development UsD19,6 million, which 7,6 times exceeded the level of by regional and local authorities. tax payments made net profit in 2009. net returns on sales grew from 0,2% by rUe “BMZ” are of significant influence in terms in 2009 to 1,3% in 2010. profit allocation for 2009 and of the region's economy as those are key funding 2010 is given on the diagrams below. sources forming local budgets: the plant's share in in 2010 rUe “BMZ” sponsored its daughter the total budget revenues in Zhlobin district makes up company rDUae «paporotnoe», state environmental about 38,8%; on the regional budget scale rUe “BMZ” protection establishment «pripyatsky», and other accounts for 3.5% of the total revenues; as for the enterprises of the republic of Belarus to the amount of republican budget, revenues from the plant make up UsD 4,7 million. Besides, by the decree of the president 0.3 per cent. of the republic of Belarus financial assistance in the the total share of taxes and profitbased levies amount of UsD 4,8 million was rendered to the hockey in 2010 amounted to 44.2%, and, as compared with and volleyball teams for the development of sport. 2009, the above share increased by 16,6 per cent. 0% 28% 42,4% profit taxes and other obligatory payments 11% 11,3% for social services and community needs 34% to fund capital investments 26,9% 21,5% 27% sponsor support Use of profits in 2009 Use of profits in 2010 66 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 enterprise’s risks • manufacturing costs, which depend on prices investment risks for melting stock, energy resources and other materials and services essential for the production any project is associated with certain processes; organizational, technological and financial risks. however, investment projects launched by rUe • investment amounts which largely depend on “BMZ” are implemented at an operating enterprise contractual prices for equipment; which has sufficient experience in use of the process equipment and construction of new production • debt-t o-e quity ratios. facilities. that’s why organizational, technical and technological risks are of little significance in the sensitivity analysis included evaluations this case. high qualifications of the enterprise’s concerned with the ways in which the above factors employees, application of modern technological, influence the two major efficiency indices – simple organizational and administrative solutions in the pay-bac k period and internal rate of return. production activities ensure a enhanced efficiency and sustainability of the implemented projects against probable contingencies, while availability of invested Branch risks funds makes it possible to minimize any financial risks. Metallurgic industry is distinguished by its susceptibility to cyclic variations of prices for raw to mitigate and account for probable risk effects materials and steel. Demand for steel is determined in business-p lans, the plant carries out multivariant by country-sp ecific levels of economic development calculations to identify projects’ financial performance and consumption by major steel-c onsuming and efficiency indices against various variable factors industries. Variations in prices for raw materials are of (capital input amounts, selling price for products, significant influence on the financial-e conomic state manufacturing costs, debt-t o-e quity ratios). of Byelorussian metallurgy as most of raw materials consumed by steel works are imported. recently, results of the cost efficiency evaluation given steel pricing trends have been rather unfavorable. below were calculated for the basic pricing conditions, that’s why potential metallurgy-inh erent risks due to effective at the time of business plan validation. cyclic price reductions are still present. at the same however, as projects proceed to subsequent stages time, world’s market prices for primary raw materials of implementation, these pricing conditions could be and consumables used by the plant, namely for changing due to global economic changes. Based scrap metal, cast iron and ferroalloys, are exhibiting a on the above, it was important and essential to carry growth trend. reduction of prices for metal products out a reliability (sensitivity) analysis, providing for with simultaneous increase in prices for raw materials evaluation of possible effects on project efficiency significantly affects the enterprise’s operational due to variations of external factors and identification activities and its financial performance. of acceptable and critical scopes of changes. Besides the price variations, metallurgy, on a global When carrying out the sensitivity analysis, scale, faces risks of excessive production capacities. possible changes in the following factors of major currently, a bunch of new large enterprises appeared influence on economic indices were considered: all around the world, while a great number of leading producers have plans for a substantial expansion • selling price as a factor which is most susceptible of their production capacities, particularly, those to changes due to metal market variations; associated with manufacture of reinforcing bars. With 67 econoMic actiVitY a view to advances in steel production technologies efficient scrap producing companies. and transition from blast-f urnace and open-h earth furnace melting of cast irons and steels to electric so, it is possible to minimize the above risks furnace melting, giving steels of enhanced quality, by developing a scrap-p roducing network of one’s scrap metal acquires still more significance. alongside own. Branch risk management should be based with that, resource-sav ing technologies introduced on establishing long-t erm and mutually beneficial at industrial enterprises result in relatively reduced relations with major suppliers and optimization of scrap production rates in developed countries with procurement and resource management processes. simultaneous growth of demand for unused metal. consequently, europe is experiencing an unsatisfied the fact that metal production is partly intended demand for metallurgic raw materials, such as scrap for in-c ountry supplies, where prices are regulated by metal. the planned metallurgic industry expansion the state, accounts for respective risks, which, just (increases in melting capacities at the already existing like at foreign markets, are associated with possible plants, construction of new enterprises equipped with negative effects due to price variations. and this electric furnaces), first of all, in the european part of could produce a certain effect on the enterprise’s the russian federation, aggravate the situation even activities. however, with a view to gradual transition more and could result in total termination of scrap to the market-c ontrolled price setting observed in metal supplies from the russian federation. Besides, the republic, it is possible to consider this risk as supplies of this kind of raw materials in most countries negligible. are either substantially monopolized (in Belarus, for instance, these activities are represented by a single enterprise – Belvtormet) or under a stringent state country and regional risks control (licensing of activities, setting export quotas, production and business activities of rUe “BMZ” export duties levied). as a result, consumers are rather are largely dependant on cooperation with russia. dependant on a limited group of scrap suppliers and such close interaction with a single independent (or) bound by certain geographical limits of scrapregion presents certain risks associated with supplying regions. differences in legislation and regulatory framework, By consolidating, manufacturers of metal which could affect sustainable development of the products provide for a reduction of risks associated enterprise. the perspectives of a common customs with market environments, however, for Byelorussian space and further economic integration will make it enterprises the said risks still present a certain possible in time to consider such risks as negligible. hazard. concentration of mining companies and takeBesides, geographical position of the republic over of scrap-p roducing enterprises by metallurgic of Belarus will contribute to minimization of companies can result in an additional increase in regional economic risks and possible effects on the prices for raw materials with rather limited alternative enterprise’s activities resulting from them. priorities opportunities for steel raw material supplies. lately, will include flexible supply geography, ensuring metallurgic enterprises are more and more actively prompt response to the environment’s challenges engaging in modernization of the equipment installed and protection against possible regional crises. at the enterprises of their scrap metal suppliers and in activities in connection with take-ov er of the most 68 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 Winter supplies of major raw materials can be safety and environmental protection. affected by weather conditions. to minimize risks associated with interrupted raw materials supplies, it ecological requirements include compulsory is essential to provide for availability of “winter buffer” payments for air and land pollution and installation reserves of such raw materials and modernization of special pollution-c ontrol equipment. should any critical concentrations set for industrial wastes be exceeded, the enterprise will have to pay fines. possible reinforcement of legal risks environmental regulations and lowering of critical notwithstanding the state-imp lemented pollutant concentrations could result in increased policy aimed at reduction of tax burden assumed amounts of obligatory payments and fines stipulated by economic entities of the republic of Belarus, for violations of law. legal provisions on taxes and duties are constantly changing. every year, an entirely new package of tax regulations comes into force and the previous financial support proviDeD regulations are amended. at that, the amendments are partly for the benefit of taxpayers and partly – to BY the Government their disadvantage. similar situation is observed in rUe “BMZ” is listed among high tech the field of tax administration. however, taken the organizations included in the registry of high tech state’s aspiration to ensure a sustainable growth of productions and enterprises which profit received production rates and the stable political situation, from selling high tech goods (works, services) of a significant increase in the enterprise’s total tax own production (except trading and purchasing burden in the near future is highly improbable. activity) upon which an income tax is laid at the rate decreased by 50 per cent (Decree of the president also, one could consider as negligible those risks of the republic of Belarus no. 662 “taxation of high which are associated with changes in the regulatory tech organizations” dd. December 4, 2008. positive framework as related to customs control. But there are performance of the enterprise in the second and the certain risks associated with customs regulations and third quarter of the current year allowed rUe “BMZ” duties in those countries of the enterprise’s exports. to receive state support in the form of exemption from income tax at the rate decreased by 50 per cent as regards the profit gained from selling high tech products produced by the plant in the amount industrial safety, labour protection of UsD 5,6 million during 12 months of 2010. free and ecological risks surplus was directed towards financing of technical revamping of the production which stimulates the We are aware that metallurgy is a potential hazard plant’s investment activity. to the environment and people, as such production activities involve high-t emperature processes, following the resolution of the council of invasive chemicals, volatile by-p roduct emissions Ministers of the republic of Belarus no. 296 and require special arrangements in connection with “reduction of prices (rates) for gas, electrical and disposal of solid and liquid industrial waste. Due to heat energy for certain legal persons” dd. March 1, the above, metallurgic enterprises have to provide 2010 and the resolution of the Ministry of industry of for strict compliance with rather stringent regulations the republic of Belarus no. 146 “reduction of prices with regard to labour protection, industrial and fire 69 econoMic actiVitY (rates) for gas, electrical and heat energy for certain delivered to europe, 562 038 t amounting to UsD 278 enterprises of the Ministry of industry in 2010” dd. 782 thousand were delivered to Middle east and africa, March 5, 2010, electric power rate was reduced by 5% and 508 735t amounting to UsD 336 271 thousand since february 15, 2010. the amount of the support were delivered to cis. Growth of deliveries to europe under this regulation in february – December 2010 was evoked by the renewal of tire and rubber plants amounted to UsD 10,4 million. free surplus was used demand, as well as due to delivery of pipe products for replenishment of the circulating assets. for european engineering industry. recovery of the construction sector in cis countries allowed the plant in 2011 a legislative decree of state support is in to increase deliveries of construction products (fiber, force at rUe “BMZ”: Decree of the president of the reinforcing bars, wire rod). republic of Belarus no. 662 “taxation of high tech organizations” dd. December 4, 2008. in 2010 new steel markets were developed: albania, switzerland, Mauritania, hong Kong, congo, and Venezuela. the plant managed to do presence on the marKets this mainly due to availability of its own commodity traditional main sales markets for rUe distribution network. it is represented by our trading “BMZ” products are europe and cis. changed firms and joint-v entures in Germany, austria, Usa, macroeconomic situation in the world made it china, lithuania, and russia. Deliveries via our own necessary to diversify product deliveries. as a result, cDn were performed to cis, europe, america, asia, distribution of deliveries covered such regions as Middle east, and africa. 1 187 thousand tons of steel Middles east, north africa, southeast asia, north to the amount of UsD 799,3 million were sold via our and south america. from the viewpoint of demand cDn. to a considerable extent successful penetration and prices for the plant’s products, most attractive of our goods to new sales markets was facilitated by markets among Middle east and african markets are BMZ image as an enterprise which sells high-q uality the markets of oil producing countries. it is a promising products. region for the enterprise regarding deliveries of pipe steel quality won a worldwide recognition. products due to absence of any limitations for such this is a great success of the employees of the delivery as well as due to the current growth rate of oil enterprise. steel products, namely reinforcing production in these regions. for instance, hundreds bars, are one of the best in the world. tire cord is of oil wells were re-a ctivated in the Usa; the number our special pride. this type of produce is known by of reanimated oil fields is growing. all tire producing companies of the world such as similar situation exists in the world in general continental, Michelin, pirelli, Goodyear, Dunlop, including russia. it allowed the plant gradually to load nokian, etc. the plant established excellent relations the equipment of the pipe mill. By the beginning of with enterprises in Belarus and cis countries. rolled 2010 the stock of orders for pipes had been formed sections became permanent materials used by for two months ahead. By february the estimated engineering and construction enterprises of Moscow, capacity had been reached, i.e. 250 thousand tons of smolensk, Bryansk and other regions of the russian pipes in terms of conditional tons. federation. tire plants of Yaroslavl, nizhnekamsk, omsk, Voronezh, Kirov, and the Ukraine are included Most important steel markets in 2010 were those in the list of BMZ regular customers. since 1998 rUe of europe, Middle east, africa, and cis. 750 839 tons “BMZ” has been one of the leading suppliers of hose of steel amounting to UsD 505 341 thousand were wire on the european market. 70 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 meDium-t erm tarGets of the plant in accordance with the investment program for 2011 and the business-p lan for the development of the plant for 2011 the total amount of capital investment (investments in the capital assets) in 2011 will make up UsD 61,7 million, including investments at the expense of: own sources UsD 34,05 mln, innovation fund UsD1.00 mln; bank loans UsD 26,70 mln. taking into consideration the investments planned, production output growth in comparable prices in 2011 will be at the level of 106,8 per cent. rates of other main indices of social and economic development are planned to be as follows: export 136,9%, import 128,2%, specific weight 20,5%, of the innovative products in the total amount of the products shipped effectiveness of the product sold 7,2%, effectiveness of sales 6,5%, decrease of the level – 1,5%, of material consumption of the products power saving index – 6,5%. in 2011 growth rate of labour productivity in comparable prices will be 106,0%. 71 72 BYelorussian stell WorKs social report 2010 73 Ecological activity Ecological policy the plant realizes that its production activities are associated with certain environmental hazards and takes its best efforts so as to mitigate negative influences on people’s health. RUE “BMZ” takes certain steps to reduce environmental impacts and mitigate global climate change risks. these steps are a part of strategy intended to provide for a sustainable dynamics of the plant’s development. the enterprise is engaged in a large-sc ale equipment and process modernization, paying particular attention to the «Only 2 or 3 companies in the world have an enhanced ecological requirements, which enables evaporating cooling system similar to that one which is the plant to reduce pollutant air emissions and waste planned to be installed at the plant. quantities generated. The installation will allow the plant not only to solve the task of gas cleaning from dust and considerably to Byelorussian Steel Works is a state-ow ned reduce CO emission, but to decrease consumption of enterprise, which relies on one of the priority state natural gas as well ». policy strands in its activities – that of ecological Aliaksandr Sotnikau, Chief engineer safety. implementation of the state policy is ensured by an efficient Environmental Management System (the EMS). the EMS is a part of the unified enterprise management system, which is responsible for working out a systematic approach to environmental protection within entire production activities of the Efficiency of the ecological management system plant and is integrated into quality management, adopted by RUE “BMZ” is ensured with the assistance labour safety and social responsibility processes. and under guidance of the top management. official the EMS is a tool, enabling the enterprise to ensure managerial views on ecological and environmental regular monitoring and minimize ecological impacts issues are presented in the enterprise’s corporate associated with production activities in the region of Policy and other regulatory documentation of the its location. corporate management system. Within the frames of the current Environmental BMZ intends to increase the share of products Management System, the enterprise identified complying with the quality management system a number of ecological factors of environmental standards, provide its production with ecological influence and evaluated them by their significance. quality and safety data and appropriate marking. to minimize environmental impacts connected with the production activities of RUE “BMZ”, the enterprise annually introduces new environmental protection measures aimed at reducing development pressures on the environment. 72 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 MaiN pRiNciplES aNd appRoachES long-t erm strategic objectives determined by in its ecological activities, the plant relies on the the plant for ecological and environmental activities following: include: • compliance with the legislation and statutory • minimizing the plant’s impact on the region’s norms of the Republic of Belarus; vital activities; • involvement of all business process segments • minimizing the plant’s impact on flora and and participants; fauna; • EMS upgrading; • efficient use of natural resources; • minimizing impacts in connection with expanding production activities; • efficient use of energy resources; • complete and reliable disclosures of the plant’s • air basin protection; performance information; • water basin protection; • responsibility enhancement; • industrial waste utilization; • providing for optimal expenditure/performance ratios; • training; • maintaining reasonable balance between the plant’s interests and those of the community. • improvement of the personnel’s ecological culture and development of ecological consciousness; • development and implementation of resourcesaving, low-w aste and environmentally safe technologies; • monitoring of emissions, hazardous wastes and qualification testing of work places; • compliance with ecological standards and requirements in design and production, construction, reconstruction and process facilities expansion; • incident alertness. 73 Ecological activity the EMS system adopted by RUE “BMZ” was the radius of 1000 m and its area together with the certified for compliance with requirements of iSО adjacent industrial site makes up 674.1 ha. at that, 14001:2004, StB iSo 14001-2 005 standards and 55% of the areas between the enterprise’s territorial covers activities, such as production of rolled sections borders and those of the sanitary zone are taken up and structural shapes, wire rod, seamless pipes, steel by cultivated coniferous and hardwood forests and cord, wire and steel fi-be r, which is the evidence of scrub vegetation. the nearest settlement (the village the systematic approach implemented to reduce of Solonoye) is 1.75 km away from the enterprise’s ecological risk probability, minimize ecological territorial borders. Residential houses and living payments, represent RUE “BMZ” as an ecologically quarters of Zhlobin are 3-3 .5 km away from the plant. respon-sible enterprise and improve interaction with the industrial site is located on plain surface lands, the interested parties on issues of ensuring comneutral in terms of smoke contents and spread of pliance with ecological norms and requirements. smoke jets towards residential areas. Every year, the plant carries out certain actions to ensure air and Except the currently effective approved water basin protection and reduction of land-b uried medium-t erm ecological programmes, the plant industrial wastes. provides for annual development and approval by respective supervision authorities of ecological control programmes and environmental protection Minimizing the plant's impact plans, which, among other things, envisage regular on flora and fauna ecological monitoring and control activities in accordance with the instruction on Environmental in the structure of the lignose of the lands of the control of Production. forest resources of the region conifers occupy around Use of natural resources and environmental 70%, softwood – 27%, hardwood – 3 %. Dominating protection at the enterprise are managed by position belongs to the plantations of natural origin administrative control actions and economic methods. – 56,3 %. Main forest-f orming breed in the region is a pine-t ree (68,5% forest-c overed lands). as for the age structure, medium-ag ed timber-st and prevail iMplEMENTaTioN (49,2%). young growth make up 34,4 per cent. of Ecological STRaTEgy Resources of grassland plantations are rather big. the region belongs to Polesko-Be rezinsky region Minimizing the plant’s impact on the region’s rich of meadows, and a part of which is represented vital activities by a low wavy plain formed by a system of flat terraces in its production activities, RUE “BMZ” located above the flood plain of the Berezina river and accounts for its environmental impact and strives the Dnieper river. cenosis is formed by sharp sedge for minimization of its consequences as stipulated which is often combined with manna grass (9,8 %), by international legal provisions on ecology and the more seldom with mire blobs (4,8 %). Sometimes it environmental legislation of the Republic of Belarus. forms clear tangle of a monodominant type. For the purposes of minimizing its impact on the region's population, the plant was located in the Mire vegetation can be met in low parts southeastern part of the city with due account for of the relief, on the lands with a constant wind rose diagram. the established sanitary zone has excessive humidification. Miscellaneous herbs 74 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 Maiskoe Luksky Krasny Bereg Radusha Zhlobin Kirovo Malevichskaya Schedrin Solonoe Kitin Staraya Rudnya Dvorische Pirevichi a kr O Korotkovichi Mormal Streshin Shikhov Dobrogosha Kobanovka Verkhnyaya Olba Be Pribudok re zin a Map of Zhlobin region mainly of the mesohydrophytic row (types: Woodlands belong to the subzone of conifer Calliergongiganteum, Drepanocladusintermedius, lichen low bush forests. on the forest-c overed Drepanocladusvernicosus, Aulacomniumpalustre) territory located to the north-e ast of the plant, such predominate in the grass stand. tree breeds as a Scotch pine (Pinus sylvestris), a common birch (Betula verrucosa) grow. the Scotch the following types of vegetation dominate in the pines (Pinus sylvestris) and the black alders (Alnus radius of approximately 2km from the plant’s site: glutinosa) grow in the north-w est area and the Scotch pines (Pinus sylvestris) – in the south-w est. Silva of the territory concerned: lignose of both natural and cultural origin including forests Segetal vegetation is developed on the of the lands belonging to the state forest resources, agricultural lands, sowed hayfields to the south-e ast protection wood plantations along the railroad bed and to the east of the plant, in Solonoe area, and to and motorroads. the south-w est of the plant between the woodland and the Dobysna river. 75 Ecological activity Residential vegetation is developed in human are open agricultural lands. Background types on settlements, and in the areas with the apartment agricultural lands are: a field lark (Alauda arvensis), blocks and utility constructions. a whinchat (Saxicola rubetra), a whitethroat (Sylvia communis), a yellowhammer (Emberiza citrinella). on Meadow vegetation of the terraces above the swampy territories one can run across a a common flood plain. heron (Ardea cinerea). During spring migration few migrating types of birds cross the territory in transit. Ruderal vegetation near the area of ash and autumn migration is less pronounced; birds do not slag storage, concrete scrap storage, open pit, and form large clusters. other affected habitats formed in the result of the human activity. it is necessary to point out sagebrush variety of mammals on this territory is not large (Artemisiavulgaris), white clover (Trifoliumrepens), and is not characterized by habitation of rear and and couch-g rass (Elytrigiarepens) among the ruderal protected species. a brown hare (Lepuseuropaeus), types. a common fox (Vulpesvulpes), and a wild hog (Susscrofa) are met here. fauna Special protected natural territories of Zhlobin Description of the fauna of the territory concerned district are represented by a hydrological and is given based on literary data. landscape preserves of local significance (table), and by natural monuments of local and republican according to the literary data insects are significance. represented by a typical faunistic composition. there are no special protected natural territories amphibia on the territory under study are met within the sanitary zone of the plant. the existing ones everywhere in plentiful and are represented by three are located approximately at the distance of 12 km types: a brown frog (Ranatemporaria), a green toad and more from the RUE “BMZ” site. (Bufoviridis) and a common toad (Bufobufo). Sand lizards (Lacertaagilis) predominate among the reptiles. Species composition of the theriofauna is represented by a four-t oed hedgehog a (Erinaceusconcolor), a pigmy shrew (Sorexminutus), common shrew (Sorexaraneus), a root vole (Microtusoeconomus), a common vole (Microtusarvalis), and a campagnol (Apodemusagrarius). avifauna of the surroundings of the territory under study is characterized by a small variety of species diversity. Main biotypes used by birds 76 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 Total area, organization carrying operative distance from Name location administration RUE “BMZ”, km landscape reserve of 2635 ha: 2060 – Zhlobin district Zhlobin and Rechitsa District Executive republican significance 32 575Rechitsa district committees within their authority «Smychok» landscape reserve 17560 ha: of republican significance Zhlobin and Svetlogorsk District 7793 Zhlobin district Executive committees within their 20 «vydritsa» 9767Svetlogorsk district authority 55 ha, northern part of Hydrological reserve of local Radusha, Zhlobin district and Krasnoberezhsky agricultural 22 significance «Dubovka» borders with volshedubsky enterprise canal 33 ha, located in the northeast part of luvirnyansky forestry Hydrological reserve Zhlobin forestry enterprise of local significance MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 12 along the motor road gomel«aleksandrovsky Mokh» Zhlobin, 0,5 kilometers from aleksandrovka settlement 31 ha, northwest part of Hydrological reserve of local Kosakovsky agricultural Kosakovsky agricultural cooperative 17 significance «Mokh» cooperative Hydrological reserve of local 100 ha, northwest part of Dvorishchanskoe forestry of MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 29 significance «Roveki» the MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 223 ha, consists of two sectors and located in Hydrological reserve of local the northwest part of MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 22 significance «Kanavnoye» priberezinskoe forestry of and DUE «yaznach» the MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» and aEB «vperyod» 97 ha, southern part os Hydrological reserve of local Streshin forestry of the MFE MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 34 significance «orli» «Zhlobin Forestry» 54 ha, northwest part of Hydrological reserve of local Dvorishchanskoye forestry significance «Rugorova MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 35 of the MFE «Zhlobin Polyana» Forestry» Reserves in Zhlobin district 77 Ecological activity there are no hunting grounds in Zhlobin Forestry. beds. total green space area within the indus-t rial site amounts to 51.5 ha. the plant’s premises proper are a sort of a green park. at present, green spaces and lawns take up about Within the framework of the program aimed 21% of the plant’s sites used for sporadic buildings. at preservation of natural resources of the country For the most part, green spaces within the industrial and upgrading the territory of the plant’s activity site are represented by conifers and hardwood trees. specialists of the plant grew and planted a lot of plants Be-sid es, the plant’s premises include some flower and fulfilled a large-sc ale amount of works to improve land during 2010: item Work description Unit Quantity Flower seedlings grown up and planted out to improve the territory: annual pc. 128 570 1 biennial and perennial pc. 10 000 tree seedlings planted out on the plant's territory and at the headquar-t ers: conifer seedlings pc. 26 2 hardwood seedlings pc. 47 3 overhaul repair of lawns on the plant’s territory ha 1,0 4 New architectural forms installed for land improvement pc. 44 5 Flower crops seeds prepared kg 2,77 6 Mixed soil components prepared for growing flower crops seedlings m3 6 78 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 total amount spent for upgrading the territory in 2010 equals to USD 97,38 thousand Program fulfillment progress was regularly reported in the corporate newspaper “Metallurg” and regional mass media. to encourage and expand land improvement and amenity planting activities, to motivate the plant’s employees, both morally and materially, to implement the land improvement Programme, to involve the personnel in activities connected with aesthetic improvement of the plant’s appearance and that of the pre-sc hool establishments run by the plant, the enterprise arranged a land improvement competition among the plant's shops with bi-annually cast-up s. the competition involves more than 70% of the employees 79 Ecological activity Efficient use of natural resources Production of RUE “BMZ” is a complete metallurgic cycle with annual outputs amounting to over 2 mln tons of liquid steel. Major raw materials used for steel production in 2008-2 010 were as follows Quantity Material Unit. 2008 г. 2009 г. 2010 г. Metal charge t 2 793 213,5 2 672 873,5 2 917 692 Ferroalloys t 36 006,5 30 573,4 36 374 Electrodes t 5 182,5 5 078,5 5 830 Slag-f orming, deoxidizing and t 130 843,8 133 769,4 161 391 purifying mixtures carbonizers t 19 175,1 27 699 31 217 Heat insulating materials t 2 941,2 2489,9 2 204 Refractory materials t 32 305,6 27 617,3 31 080 BMZ used raw materials which were obtained from recycled or reclaimed wastes. Share of recycled materials in the total amount of raw materials in 2009-2 010 was as follows:: Quantity Material Unit 2009 г. 2010 г. Ferrous scrap % 90,1 95,9 Refractory scrap % 0,2 0,2 Electrodes % 0,004 <0,001 lime stone and lime wastes % 0,05 0,04 80 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 Efficient use of energy resources RUE “BMZ” adopts managerial and investment priorities and approaches. the Plan comprises: decisions on the basis of multi-v ariant scenarios of • actions providing for a comprehensive energy development taking into consideration environmental saving system; priorities providing for power saving, efficient use of natural and power resources. • arrangements for employees’ training, retraining and advanced training on issues of energy saving in accordance with the Programme of the and efficient use of resources; corporate management system development, RUE “BMZ” introduced the section “Power consumption • upgrading the system of equipment and control system” (PccS) developed in conformity with production processes evaluation and analysis; the requirements of the national (StB 1777-2 010) • implementing energy-sav ing procedures; and European (EN 160001) standards in 2010. the base for the development of the system approach • introduction of modern advanced technologies; is arranged on a clear documenting and control of • efficient use of existing power facilities; interrelated processes significantly influencing the effective-ne ss of power consumption, in particular: • introduction of new scientific achievements to provide for efficient energy use. • motivation of the personnel; traditional energysaving measures include: • precise determination of key roles of the staff in the management system; • installation of a sectional thermal power demand controller for central heat distribution stations • distribution of responsibility and authority starting and furnaces within buildings; with the top level; • application of frequency electric drives; • maintaining of a corresponding level and competence of the staff; • use of waste thermal energy; • provision of the staff awareness of the benefits • application of an automatic power utilities control including financial ones, which one can get system, installation of energy-s aving lighting if he/she improves effectiveness of power fixtures, and etc. consumption; in 2010 the following activities became traditional • effective information exchange; in the area of power saving: • maximum complete inventory of factors • initiative aimed at introduction of power-s aving influencing power consumption; products and methods, use of renewable power sources, reduction of needs in the result of • determination of areas of priority significant for implementation of initiatives; power consumption management; • saving of power due to conservation and • planning of activity aimed at improvement of improvement of the consumption efficiency; power consumption efficiency. • use of secondary power resources; in accordance with the national strategy of energy saving and energy security, the plant developed an • initiatives aimed at decreasing indirect Energy Saving action Plan, setting energy policy consumption and saving, and others. 81 Ecological activity Due to the introduction of an automatic system total amount of power resources saved in 2010 of technical recording (aStR), realtime monitoring equaled to 263 589 gJ. of fuel and power resources (FPR) is carried out So as to increase involvement of the staff in the with daily summingup and corrective actions processes of power and resource saving, RUE “BMZ fulfillment. this form of control allows the plant to developed and uses the following: control power intensity effectively and carry out system specification of technical actions. actually, – Regulations of «RUE “BMZ” staff competition an innovative intellectual system is created. it for best ideas aimed at increase of power uses acS of PP, SaP R/3 and the plant’s computer effectiveness of the production; network. a number of measures were taken to – Regulations of «competition for best structural transform information technologies from a tool to an division of the plant form the viewpoint of power actual scientific and technical resource to decrease saving»; expenses and as a result to collect extra gains. in 2010 the plant managed to preserve positive – active online «Power saving proposals» dynamics of reducing of FER specific consumption window in the infoBMZ information system. by the main powerconsuming productions. 36 projects were implemented in 2010. the following projects can be attributed to the most important ones: – installation of a watercooled flue duct with the use of the wastegas heat in the heating system; – installation of variable frequency drives on the equipment of steel cord and wire producing shops; – introduction of dynamic compensation at the network, substations and technical maintenance shop; – installation of a slag level control system on EaF 3 of EMS2; – installation of a powersaving lighting equipment in the plant’s divisions; – saving of gas due to combustion air heating in boiler plants. Due to the implementation of the projects power resources saved equaled to 75 705 gJ. Use of secondary thermal resources in 2010 the plant was awarded diplomas for winning the 6th and the 7th contest of power-e ffective and power-sav ing amounted to 20,5% in the balance of the boilerresources and equipment of the Belarusian industrial furnace fuel. Saving of FPR not only reduces financial Forum for its activity in power-sav ing area in 2009-2 010. load of the enterprise, but decreases negative impact of the enterprise’s activity on the natural environment. 82 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 Quantity Source Unit. 2009 г. 2010 г. thermal power gcal 183 700 241 184 Natural gas thou.t 136 401 154 982 Diesel fuel t 3 298,4 3 068,8 lead-f ree gasoline t 255,1 239,2 Direct use of power from the primary sources in 2009-2 010 Quantity Source Unit 2009 г. 2010 г. MWt/h Electric power Zhlobin 1 670 894 (6 015 219) 1 912 155 (6 883 759) (gJ) intermediate energy quantities obtained and consumed from non-r enewable power sources in 2009-2 010 Quantity Power source Unit. 2009 г. 2010 г. MWt/h Electric power 41 029 (147 704,4) 27 096 (97 545,6) (gJ) thou.m3 Natural gas 5 036,842 (168 230,5) 4 949,344 (166 043,1) (gJ) Energy saved due to measures on consumption rates reduction and efficiency enhancement taken in 2009-2 010 годах 83 84 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 aiR BaSiN pRoTEcTioN Sources of major negative environmental run on diesel fuel, 55 – on gasoline and 2 – on liquefied impacts at RUE “BMZ” are air emissions of pollutants. gas. the enterprise numbers 506 of such sources with permitted gross emissions of 6592.064 tons/year. to Railroad transport includes 6 locomotives running minimize negative impacts, major emission sources on diesel fuel. with largest contri-but ions are equipped with gas Railway transportation is only within the treatment plants, with their total number amounting enterprise’s premises; automotive vehicles are to 113 units. used for transportation within the borders of the vehicles owned by RUE “BMZ” include 125 units enterprise’s sanitary zone. using various types of fuel, out of which 68 vehicles Carbon oxide 70 % Nitrogen dioxide 13% Solid substace Sulfur dioxide 10% other 6% 1% Percentage of pollutants in gross emissions for 2010 Specific pollutant generation rates, actual emissions, [t/year] [kg/t of melted steel] Substance 2009 2010 2009 2010 carbon oxide 3239,167 3901,726 1,37 1,4 Nitrogen dioxide 613,965 724,298 0,26 0,28 Sulfur dioxide 347,760 343,774 0,14 0,13 Solid substance 535,997 584,939 0,22 0,22 total pollutants 4768,144 5589.168 2,02 2,1 transport vehicles run on ai 92, ai 95, N 80 lead-f ree gasoline, liquefied gas and diesel fuel with 0.005 per cent sulfur content. 85 Ecological activity Substance Unit 2009 2010 carbon monoxide t 524,544 488,848 Nitrogen dioxide t 121,822 113,388 Sulfur dioxide t 66,478 61,854 Hydrocarbons t 201,820 187,92 Soot t 49,629 46,176 Benzpyrene t 0,00108 0,001 total t 964,29408 898,187 air emissions of pollutants from mobile sources in 2009-2 010 When analyzing air emissions of pollutants, substances stagebystage in accordance with it should be noted that gross air emission rates appendix c of the above document. the planned of pollutants in 2010 grew by 14,7 % (821,024 g) reduction results are expected to be achieved by as compared to the previous year 2009 due to the 2020. RUE “BMZ” provides for compliance with the increase of the process equipment operating times state requirements on reduction of consumption and commissioning of new sources of emission: rates of ozonedepleting substances (oDS). oDS drying and heating stands for ladles at EMS1; water quantities used within the enterprise are constantly boiler at the RSPS; a roll shop in the pipe mill; etching decreasing. baths at the cPl. the ozonedepleting substances at RUE “BMZ” Being a major greenhouse gases emitter, the are handled as established in the license for the plant is constantly monitoring their air emission activities associated with the use of natural resources rates. in pursuance of the Montreal Protocol on and environmental impacts, and, precisely, in the Substances that Deplete the ozone layer, the part where rules for handling of ozonedepleting enterprise is reducing consumption rates of such substances are set out. сPurchased, Residuals Residuals in Purchased, Reclaimed Quantities Sold, kg in the (recycled), the end of beginning of kg kg used, kg oDS the year, kg kg the year, kg 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 R22 95,2 272,0 176,8 52,7 95,2 42,5 R-1 2 R-4 01А (R22-5 3% 67,6 55,0 12,6 55,0 55,0 R153-1 3% R124-3 4%) R-1 14В2 1117,1 709,1 408,0 23,0 709,1 686,1 Data on oDS handling activities in 2009-2 010 86 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 Fulfillment; results, year Description of oDS reduction methods reason for non-f ulfillment consumption of R-2 2 decreased by 76,7% , 62 kg replaced by ozone-s afe R407С 2009 transfer of refrigeration equipment R-1 2 withdrawn from use, available in a filled state in some to alternative cold carriers equipment, 21,3 kg replaced by ozone-s afe R-1 34А; заменено 9,6 kg of R-4 01А replaced by ozone-s afe R-1 34А consumption of R-2 2 reduced by 93.0% , 441,64 kg replaced by ozone-s afe R407С, R404А. R-1 2 withdrawn from use, available in a filled state in some 2010 transfer of refrigeration equipment equipment, to alternative cold carriers 10,4 kg replaced by ozone-s afe R134А; R-4 01a 11 kg replaced by ozone-s afe R134А Data on introduction of measures aimed at reduction of oDS use in 2009-2 010 580 570 560 550 540 530 520 124 510 2007 2008 2009 2010 122 2006 Electric 567,65 58,9 537,95 34,6 539 power, 120 kWt•h/t Specific energy consumplition rates per ton of melted steel 118 116 114 112 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 Specific СО2 6 discharge rates, kg/t 122,2 120,3 115,81 15,9 11 Specific СО2 discharge rates per ton of melted steel 87 Ecological activity 57 56 55 54 53 52 51 51 50 50 49 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 49 Natural gas, m3/t 56,485 4,9 53,9 51,6 52,2 48 SPEciFic NatURal gaS coNSUMPtioN RatES 47 PER toN oF MEltED StEEl 46 45 44 43 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Specific СО2 discharge rates, kg/t 49,7 48,3 47,5 45,5 46,3 SPEciFic СО2 DiScHaRgE RatES PER toN oF MEltED StEEl the Republic of Belarus, being a participating party Being guided by the existing environmental law under the United Nations Frame-w ork convention on and norms of the international jurisdiction including climate change and the Kyoto Protocol, provides for international agreements and contracts ratified fulfillment of its obli-g ations stipulated by the above by the Republic of Belarus, RUE “BMZ” carries international agreements. actions implemented by out continuous monitoring of the condition of the the Byelorussian Steel Works to introduce energyenvironment in the area of its production activity the saving technologies and materials and enhance main aim of which is protection of health of the citizens efficiency of the production processes result in of the territory of the plant’s presence and its staff. reduced air emissions of greenhouse gases Pollutant emissions are expected to be reduced by implementing investment projects aimed at modernization and technical upgrade, introduction of modern highly efficient equip-me nt and technologies. 88 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 WaTER BaSiN pRoTEcTioN as an ecologically responsible entity, the plant the enterprise has introduced a circulating water provides for efficient use of energy and water system to supply major water-c onsuming process resources for its own needs and strives to reduce their equipment. Water from surface sources (the Dnieper) consumption as much as possible. is used to replace irretrievable losses in the equipment cooling systems. Water required for drinking and Water for process needs is drawn off from the service purposes is obtained from artesian wells. river Dnieper, which is one of the main rivers of the Republic of Belarus. its length from its source to to reduce consumption of water drawn off from mouth is 1182 kilometers. annual runoff into the river the Dnieper, the enterprise uses rainwater collected Dnieper is 1 261 440 000 m3. annual water amounts and treated at special areas. drawn off for RUE “BMZ” make up 0.12% of the river runoff. 98,97% Circulating water 0,22% Rainwater 0,37% 0,44% River water Drinking water Water consumption at the plant Description 2009 2010 Process water, [thou. m3/year] 944, 793 1 207,398 Drinking water consumption, [thou. m /year] 3 657,0 717,0 circulating water, [thou. m /year] 3 234 791,569 272 625,884 Rainwater use, [thou. m /year] 3 535,119 607,003 89 Ecological activity Measures taken by the enterprise in 2010 to provide for efficient use of water resources resulted as 38%Ê 49%Ê follows: Off-loaded,Ê t Recycled,Ê t • increase of reclaimed water consumption – Disposed,Ê t Stored,t 37,834 thou. m3/year or 16%; 5%Ê 8%Ê • increase of rainwater consumption– 71,884 thou. m3/year or 13%. Process effluents generated by the plant are Utilization of industrial wastes in 2010 discharged into treatment facilities located at the plant’s treatment divisions and returned into the production for further recycling. off-loade d, t Recycled, t Disposed, t Stored, t the plant’s utility fluids are drained off into the 436 747,5 73 149,6 44 492,9 337 165,0 treatment facilities maintained by the town of Zhlobin. Pollutant contents (hard metals, oil products, salt chemicals, oils and fuels which could have an adverse content) in the discharged fluids were within the effect on the environment and present a potential established limit concentrations. hazard to the soil, water, air, biodiversity and human health. there are no water bodies significantly affected by the production activities of RUE “BMZ.” Production activities of RUE “BMZ” are associated with generation of the following wastes, corresponding to wastes groups as set out in Basel UTiliZaTioN convention: of iNdUSTRial WaSTES current technologies of metal production are • y1 Medical wastes resulting from patients’ care inevitably associated with generation of various provided by hospitals, health centers and clinics; wastes which belong to different hazard classes. this is a major aspect contributing to environmental • y8 Waste mineral oils unsuitable for designated pollution. the plant provides for strict compliance with use; all requirements associated with wastes utilization and disposal and seeks to limit pollutant discharges, • y9 Waste oil (water) and hydrocarbon (water) ensure re-use of natural resources and wastes based mixtures emulsions; reclamation. Depending on the hazard class of wastes • y16 Wastes associated with the production, and their physical properties, the enterprise defined recovery and application of photo chemicals and stringent requirements on each of the industrial consumables used for film development; wastes utilization stages (generation, collection, transportation, storage, handling and neutralization), • y17 Wastes generated from metal and plastic minimizing possible environmental impacts. During surface machining; 2010 there were registered no spillages of • y31 lead, lead compounds; 90 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 • y34 acid solutions and solid acids; “consultant Plus: Belarus Network” and information search systems, such as “Stroidocument” and • y36 asbestos (powder and fibre). “Standard for each of its employee.” the listed wastes are utilized by the plant as For general data on the training activities see the stipulated by the environmental legislation of the “Social responsibility” section. Republic of Belarus. Wastes of these groups were neither exported nor imported. iMpRovEMENT of Ecological Within the framework of its production activities, cUlTURE of ThE pERSoNNEl RUE “BMZ” offers and implements initiatives intended for mitigation of its environmental impacts and damage effects. also, as the major raw material BMZ uses its employees’ knowledge and used for the plant’s production is metal scrap, the experience in ecological safety and healthcare issues enterprise is capable to dispose of its production after to provide for security and welfare of people living in it is no longer in active use. the vicinity of the plant and in the whole region. the plant’s employees arrange lectures for youth and training activities on ecological requirements and TRaiNiNg aspects for subcontracted personnel, carrying out works on the enterprise’s premises. to provide for an enhanced efficiency of its ecological activities the enterprise arranges training to improve the communications system, expand courses on issues of environmental protection at all opportunities of interaction among in-t erested administrative levels. Employees’ vocational training parties, ensure employees’ individual development is continuous and is effectively integrated into the daily and exchange of experience, RUE “BMZ” annually labour activities throughout their career. it is aimed at holds international scientific and “Metal” technical gradual broadening and enhancing of professional conference. Besides, participants from ciS countries knowledge and competence in environmental the “Energy industry and Ecology” section comprises and industrial sanitation issues. to ensure efficient environmental management in connection specialists of the plant. During the conference, with the production activities, the plant identi-f ied, its participants present their reports on topics of documented and familiarized its employees with their current interest and exchange their experience with duties, responsibilities and powers. regard to implementation of strategic objectives and introduction of recent developments in the steadily training, retraining and advanced training expanding production areas and in the field of activities arranged for managers, technicians and corporate social responsibility. operational personnel on issues of ecological safety and environmental protection are as established in information about ecological activities of RUE the annual vocational training plans and programs. “BMZ” and those concerned with improvement of the environmental management system is regularly to ensure compliance with the legal and other published in the corporate and regional mass media ecological requirements, the enterprise provided free access to the current legal reference system and the republican “casting and Metallurgy” trade journal. 91 Ecological activity to evaluate environmental impacts, the enterprise dEvElopMENT aNd iMplEMENTaTioN holds public consultations, inviting representatives of of RESoURcESaviNg, loWWaSTE supervision authorities, general public and the plant’s aNd ENviRoNMENTally employees to partici-p ate in them. SafE TEchNologiES the plant takes part in environmental actions and the plant takes actual steps so as to provide has initiated such actions itself several times. for environmental protection and by imple-m enting environmentally safe technologies as well. to to provide for a systemic approach to mitigate environmental impacts RUE “BMZ” annually introduces new environmental actions. Under the improvement of employees' ecological culture the ecological program for 2010, the plant provided for plant worked out and implemented: the following: Provisions on tear tags and prevention of • installation of an automatic control system of violations with regard to environmental protection air emissions of pollutants from the heat-i ng and occupational sanitary, which are introduced furnaces of rolling mill 850. to enhance preventive work on precautionary, • installation of a water-c ooled air duct on dust recommendatory and control functions for the deducting unit of EaF-2 at EMS-1 . purposes of environmental protection. activities to • reconstruction of the rainwater station v = 16 000 prevent environmental law infringements are carried m3. out with the use of notice tear tags; • purchasing of equipment for oDS utilization and instruments for oDS leakage control, etc. – Provisions on encouraging environmental activities. this regulatory document was introduced to motivate the plant’s employees to abide by the environmental requirements set out in the legislation of the Republic of Belarus, the plant’s ecological standards and other regulations and was intended for enhancement of violators’ responsibility and encouragement of the plant’s employees, engineers and technicians to provide for compliance with regulatory requirements. 92 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 ExpENSES foR ENviRoNMENTal pRoTEcTioN aNd MoNiToRiNg Ecological payMENTS annually, the plant assigns considerable funds to nature protection activities. the funds are used for repairs, reconstruction and modernization of the end-of -p ipe facilities. total, USD thou. (at own costs) current environmental expenses 2008 2009 2010 total 24878,3 15301.8 19780.8 including: protection and efficient use of water resources 11874.6 4964.9 6750.4 air basin protection, ozone layer and climate preservation 9302.1 7925.6 10504.6 protection of the environment from pollution with industrial wastes 3595.9 2122.6 2255.5 ecological certification, ecological rating, ecological audits, ecological insurance, 73.1 76.9 44.2 ecological standardization current expenses total, rouble mln availability as of the end of the reporting year item in terms of rein terms placement costs of depreciated costs Fixed assets intended for environmental protection, total, 54579,4 28700,3 in-c luding: collection, transportation, sewage treatment, circulating and 24708,8 12644,4 recycling water supply systems treatment, neutralization and disposal 18147,4 9690,7 of air emitted pollutants collection, classification (sorting), allocation, disposal 11516,8 6978,4 and (or) utilization of industrial wastes all kinds of monitoring, environmental analytical control, control 206,3 58,3 of ozone depleting substances, air emitted pollutants, sewage discharges and land pollution Expenses for overhaul repairs of fixed assets intended for environmental protection and their incurrence as of the end of the 2010 reporting year 93 Ecological activity item 2009 2010 No. Description payment, USD payment, USD mln mln 1. Drinking and service water consumption 33,4 40,3 2. Sewage discharges 0 0 4. air emissions from stationary and mobile sources 762,8 649,3 5. Waste disposal 1563,6 1826,0 6. Waste storage 935,7 1121,8 7. Packing materials production and import 25,9 41,8 8. claims 9,2 12,0 ToTal 3330,8 3691,1 Ecological payments in 2009-2 010 in its activities, RUE “BMZ” places special • reconstruction of the dust and gas treatment plants emphasis on the interaction with the interested parties for steelmaking arc furnaces; – both with supervision authorities and communities, consumers, suppliers and contractors. information • introduction of the second stage of the automaticd exchange is as per diagram included in the section air emissions control “Management, responsibilities and interaction with the interested parties.” • increase of facilities for cleaning and recycling of MEdiUMTERM TaRgETS rainwater and meltwater. of ThE plaNT Besides production facilities expansion, the plant • construction of a line for metal scrap sorting. also plans to modernize its equipment to enhance ecological safety and mitigate negative environmental • installation of additional facilities for steelmaking impacts. investment projects to be implemented by slag processing. RUE “BMZ” include not only new production facilities but also introduction of the world’s best practices in the field of ecological safety. For 2011 there are plans to achieve the next level of the plant’s targets of the social and economic Within the framework of the investment program, development (in the ecological field): the plant also identified a number of actions aimed at improvement of ecological situation and mitigation of • amount of production wastes stored in the negative environmental impacts associated with BMZ environment production activities. as compared with the level of 2010 Major actions aimed at mitigation of negative to be reduced by 2% environmental impacts include: 94 ByEloRUSSiaN STEll WoRKS Social REpoRT 2010 95 Social activity 96 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 as far as the social sphere is concerned, the conformity with the legislation and legal norms strategic target of the works is the improvement of of the Republic of Belarus; the corporate social responsibility system with the basic principles of: observing social equality and involving all the units and business processes responsibility, nondiscrimination, ensuring safe participants; working conditions, sustaining employees’ health, creating positive socialpsychological climate in the opening of full and precise information working team alongside with keeping reasonable regarding the results of the social activity; balance of the works economical interests and social interests of the civil society including that of RUE enhancing responsibility related to the “BMZ” employees. assumed obligations and their fulfillment; the works deems social responsibility an ensuring the optimum ratio of the social activity integral part of the business conduct strategy and its expenses and the labour results achieved; corporate ethics based on the principles of decency and justice, honesty in dealing with all partners and sustaining reasonable balance of the competitors. plant’s interests and the community including the employees. in its social activity RUE “BMZ” is guided by the legislation of the Republic of Belarus, parameters Preserving life, health and human rights the of stability and production development, economic works considers of higher priority than economic expediency as well as its responsibility to the owner, results of productive activity. investors, employees and business partners, local communities and other parties concerned. Employees’ loyalty and satisfaction is the crucial factor that influences the business stability. carrying out its social activity the works adheres the personnel relations priorities are improving to the following approaches: employees’ social wellbeing, building up clear communication channels, enhancing the degree of personnel awareness and the most important thing – creating a strong corporate culture. it is essential for the works employees to feel members of one family, realize their belonging to one of the largest enterprises of the republic. in 2006–2009 the works commenced implementing the element of the single integrated corporate culture. two of them are the corporate Policy and code of Ethics. their major values – respect and collaboration, efficiency and result, leadership and dynamic development, initiative and responsibility – are formulated on the basis of the concerned parties’, primarily employees’, opinions. 97 Social activity laBoR RElationS MAIN PRINCIPLES ANd APPROAChES and adEqUatE laBoR Policy of RUE “BMZ” in the personnel management sphere is formed and realized on the Personnel management policy system basis according to the labor legislation of the Republic of Belarus. adhering to the principles laid in the foundation of the Un Global compact, RUE “BMZ” sees its employees alongside with development and continuous as the prime value and builds up the relationships with improvement the works links its success to the them on the basis of social partnership, solidarity in wellconsolidated and active team of professionals. purpose and respect of the mutual interests. one of the main targets of RUE “BMZ” is creating a “prime choice company” based on honesty, longterm strategic targets of RUE “BMZ” dedication, creative approach, optimism and selfcorporate policy for personnel management stipulate improvement of each employee. Building up RUE the following: “BMZ” management system presupposes involving of the staff into decisionmaking process, business • formation of the labor relations regulation system processes optimization, improvement of production and development of social partnership based and social activity of the company. Hence, each on the balance of interests of the works and its person feels own contribution into the common employees; target achievement. • improving employees motivation systems, Working with a numerous number of employees in ensuring the competitive level of the employees’ everchanging production conditions, development compensation package connected with the labor of a competent and efficient personnel management efficiency increase, collective and individual results system is very important. of working activity; the implemented RUE “BMZ” Personnel • personnel development (selection, recruitment, Management Policy based on the principle evaluation, training, promotion) to supply the of partnership relations of an individual and works subdivisions with the employees having organization aimed at forming integrated corporate the required professional and qualification surroundings, preserving work places, sustaining characteristics; decent salary level, optimum redistribution of labor recourses contributing to enhancing the investment • enhancement of the labor safety level, improving attractiveness and dynamic development of the social and living conditions on the production site enterprise. the plant’s employees are the main and offering supplementary health improvement element of success in reaching our goals, that’s why opportunities for the employees and their family we put particular emphasis on solving staff issues. members; High efficiency of “Personnel Management” • development of corporate culture, ensuring social process was confirmed by the successful results of stability and favorable moral and psychological certification audits of the Management System to climate in the working teams; prove its conformity with the requirements of iSo 9001:2008, СТБ iSo 90012009, iSo 14001:2004, • development of corporate social programs. 98 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 StB iSo 140012005, oHSaS 18001:2007, StB 180012009, iSo/tS 16949:2009, iSo/tS 29001 carried out auditors from Gosstandart RB, “Bureau veritas certification ” (Great Britain), “caRES” (Great Britain), “tÜv international” (czech Republic), aPi (american Petroleum institute dESCRIPTION Of ThE PERSONNEL RUE “BMZ” is the largest employer in its productive activity region and is aware of its economic and social obligation to the society influencing it by creating high level of social security and favorable working conditions for its employees, realization of efficient social and ecological programs, projects and activities in the area of personnel management. 95% of the employees and 99,5% of the managers are from local population. the segment of the works employees in the region economically active population makes about 30 percent. RUE “BMZ” is responsible in its approach to solving employment issues, collaborates with state institutions, employees unions and other organizations in the sphere of regulating labor and related relations. contributing to disclosure of professional and personal capabilities of its employees, RUE “BMZ” creates the conditions for their professional and career progress. total amount of personnel as of 31.12.2010 makes up 12463 people and grew by 331 people as compared to the corresponding period of the last year. 99 Social activity year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 number 12 891 12 409 12 445 12 132 12463 Growth of the number of employees was due to recruiting of new workers as number of orders for the plant’s products delivery increased and as a result personnel structure suffered considerable changes towards increase of the number of the following categories of employees: category 2007 2008 2009 2010 dev. total amount, people 12 409 12445 12132 12463 +331 Managers, people 1 153 (9,3%) 1127 (9,1%) 1126 (9,3%) 1159 (9,3%) +33 Specialists, people 1 784 (14,4%) 1773 (14,2%) 1717 (14,2%) 1793 (14,4%) +76 Executives, people 167 (1,3%) 167 (1,3%) 164 (1,4%) 167 (1,3%) +3 Workers, people 9305 (75,0%) 9378 (75,4%) 9125 (75,2%) 9 344 (75,0%) +219 Byelorussian Steel Works has a Managers 9,3% well-ba lanced age composition of the employees. the main contingent Specialists & Executives 15,7% is composed of workers aged 35–46 having the required knowledge and Workers 75% professional skills. category 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 average age of the employees, years 39,0 39,30 39,34 39,8 39,7 Gender composition of the workers hasn’t considerably changed as compared with 2009. as of year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 31.12.2010 RUE “BMZ” employed: • 68,3 % men; • 31,7 % women. Manpower Prevalence of male employees is due to the turnover, 1,49 1,87 1,92 1,63 2,4 serious hazard level at the production sites, specific % labor conditions in metallurgical industry. the manpower turnover in 2010 was 2,4%. 100 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 category people % people % people % people % people % Higher education 2 796 21,7 2905 23,5 3016 24,2 3045 24,2 3132 25,1 Specialized secondary 3 576 27,7 3284 26,4 3243 26,1 3156 26,1 3243 26,0 education Secondary technical 6 521 50,6 6220 50,1 6186 49,7 5931 49,7 6088 48,9 education candidates of Science 8 9 9 9 8 Postgraduates 8 4 5 6 6 18 Undergraduates 5 8 14 15 the image of a strong and continuously working enterprise makes RUE “BMZ” attractive for potential workers and solves the issue of the prospective human resource provision. in 2010 the plant recruited 837 people from the residents of the region taking into consideration the level of competence so as to satisfy the need in personnel the enterprise puts great emphasis on recruitment and adaptation of young specialists. taking account of the production output growth rate the plant placed 111 young specialists in job in 2010 More than half of the works employees have higher and specialized secondary education. in the reference year the amount of the employees year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 with higher education increased by 87 persons as compared to 2009. the number of the employees with specialized secondary education increased by 87 persons. there is a tendency for lowering the share of number of yS 121 107 188 85 111 the employees with secondary education. 101 Social activity organization of a methodical work with young «The administrative personnel of the plant are specialists is one of the priority directions of the very competent. It is a real pleasure to work with such enterprise personnel policy. availability of constantly a team! Everything is clearly and quickly solved. In my developing the potential of the personnel represented opinion, people working at the plant are its treasure. by young specialists is the most important condition Everywhere in the plant, including its shops and the of the management succession, enhancement of headquarters, we meet people who wish to work management efficiency, ensuring stable socialtogether for our mutual future». economic development of the works. one of the most D.L. Stechkevich, First deputy general director of JSC significant events within the System of work with young «Pskovvtormet» (scrap supplier) specialists is a scientific and technical conference. in 2010 the plant held doublestage conferences for the first time: – the first stage (corporative) –for determining in 2010 2491 managers and specialists of the winners among the plant’s employees in 11 sessions; works were assessed according to the fulfillment of the set targets and, 451 employees were certified for – the second stage (international) – for winners compliance with the position occupied on the basis of of the first stage and employees of educational the «360 degrees method» establishments, representatives of the organizations and enterprises of the Republic of Belarus and other in its practical activity BMZ recognizes inviolability countries. More than 120 young specialists became of human rights and takes all the required measures to participants of the 10th international conference assure and protect them. Guided by the approaches of “Metal2010” organized on the base of RUE “BMZ”. the Un Global compact in the human rights sphere, RUE “BMZ” seeks to prevent possible conflicts of interests the policy of RUE “BMZ” concerning personnel of the employees, managers and the plant itself. is aimed at discovering the individual potential of each Principles of nonadmission of conflicts of interests employee and its development in coordination with the and their settlement are given in the plant’s code of strategic goals. the existing evaluation system allows Ethics. Preventing conflicts of interests RUE “BMZ” the plant to determine compliance of each employee seeks enhancement of the efficiency of its activity, with the position occupied and create conditions for creation of the atmosphere of trust and openness in the carryingout employment duties more successfully relationships with the persons concerned, enhancing and efficiently. the founding principles in the area of business image and reputation of the works. the the personnel efficiency management are objectivity working tools for preventing possible conflicts are: and openness. direct telephone line with the works top management and representatives of the state authorities, “Signal” in order to improve the base required for the hotline and others, the work of which is performed personnel evaluation since 2008 local regulations on confidential basis. in order to ensure the feedback have been developed and are operating; they regulate the works appointed responsible persons, who review the procedure of assessment and certification of the the employees’ appeals concerning various issues plant’s management and specialists. the assessment including the safety and labor protection issues, procedure is based on the constructive dialogue environment and professional ethics. transparency between a worker and a manager. and openness of BMZ becomes one of the leading management principles that allows the plant to create 102 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 confidential relations with all the parties concerned PROfESSIONAL including its employees. ANd CAREER dEvELOPMENT Within the framework of the personnel motivation Realization of the personnel policy based on the program the sociological service of the plant carried principles of equality, justice and award depending out a study of the social and psychological climate on personal skills and irrespective of origin, age, among the employees which was participated by more gender, race, nationality and religion of an employee than 10% of the staff (1289 people). complex index of is performed in conformity with the requirements satisfaction of 2010 was 0,724 against 0,715 in 2009. of the active legislation of the Republic of Belarus, this value characterizes positivity and steadiness of universally acknowledged norms and principles of the the social and psychological climate in the personnel international law including the Un Global compact and team. the staff is satisfied with its work and with the the convention of the international labor organization. plant in general. So as to maintain the high level of satisfaction of the staff, a corresponding program was RUE “BMZ” ensures equal possibilities for all worked out. employees to realize their potential in the process of their working activity, fair and unbiased assessment the works activity concerning the implementation of the work results, selection of the personnel during of the principles of social responsibility in the work with recruitment and career promotion according to the human resources, creation of new working places, professional skills and knowledge. ensuring employment of the population of the region was distinguished with a gold medal of “Brand of the the works scale allows the employees to realize year2010” in the nomination “active Social Position”. their professional ambitions, gain new experience and enhance their qualification degree. Realizing the approaches in social sphere, the works places special emphasis on the internal human recourses potential during selection and appointment of managers and specialists. in order to implement the longterm strategy of the enterprise’s development, RUE “BMZ” formed a multilevel personnel reserve of the management. the reserve is meant for meeting the requirement in management employees having a range of basic administrative competence. in order to develop the competence necessary for a manager and create a real perspective for professional and career promotion of the workers, staged training of human resources was organized according to the existing System. the training programs stipulate education of the reserve from the level of a foreman to the topmanager level considering the specific character of the work fulfilled (“young Manager School” and “Management School”). the programs and trainings for developing corporate 103 Social activity and manager competence were aimed at the personnel motivation factors. Besides, the rotation contributes to reserve as a priority category of human resources. acquiring a more diverse practical experience required Specialists of the leading educational establishments for being promoted to one or another management of the Republic of Belarus are engaged in the training position. process under the concluded bilateral contracts. in 2010 temporary appointments took place For the accounting period over 90% of management in order to increase the specialists’ qualification, appointments from among the employees included determination of their potential abilities for putting into into the works Personnel Register and certified after the personnel reserve as well as for the purpose of passing the training took place. promoting careers of the young workers having higher education: The plant pays special attention to the selection of its own staff. No single possibility to improve employees qualification is missed, their development is stimulated in every possible way, professional and career development of the best employees is promoted». David Faktor, vicepresident of Stemcor UK Limited (UK) Fulfilling the personnel potential development programs and enhancing the efficiency of the structural subdivisions activity, RUE “BMZ” annually organizes rotation of specialists. the staff rotation is used as a method of decreasing labor monotony and routine, and enrichment the work activity content due to a greater variety of the functions and as one of the labor 104 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 Factor 2007 2008 2009 2010 number of the rotation program participants 4 34 27 56 Rotation results: promotion to a specialist position 1 17 10 20 appointment to a manager position 3 4 2 qualification enhancement 3 14 13 34 during the annual integrated study of the socialBy carrying out the efficient operation of the psychological climate in the teams of structural continuous professional education system the subdivisions held by the sociological service of the training center solves the following objectives in the works the respondents give an average estimate personnel management system: regarding the promotion and career opportunities (the satisfaction index made up 0,64 against 0,59 in providing the subdivisions of the plant with 2009). professional staff of the required qualification level; providing the personnel support of innovative TRAININg ANd EdUCATION processes; the works sees its personnel as its major asset retaining and development of the professional and takes the corresponding measures regarding its potential and staff competitive ability; retaining and development creating conditions for professional growth and education. RUE “BMZ” gives providing the subdivisions with the management all its employees the right for professional education staff reserve with a developed corporate and on different stages of labor activity orientating at longmanagement competence; term relations with еру personnel and considers the education to be an investment into the human capital organizing training of the specialists, assets. management staff and their reserve; in present conditions of severe competition RUE creating the system of tutorship and transfer of “BMZ” aims at searching for current sales markets, knowledge; technologies of the future, cost-sav ing reserves and other optimization possibilities. creating the personnel reserve of the required qualification with regard to nonprofessional the personnel quality became a determining occupations from among the region residents; factor of the works competitive ability. Ensuring personnel quality is one of the priority targets of the – organization of experience and knowledge corporate Social Responsibility Policy. it is impossible exchange in the course of rendering of educational without the developed internal training system. services to organizations and enterprises of our Guided by the labor and education legislation, the republic, neighbouring and far foreign countries. professional education system is controlled by the corporate training center. 105 Social activity in order to solve the above tasks the training a differential approach to the education center is equipped with the newest training aids. programs formation is applied depending on a Everything is arranged in such a way that the trainings worker’s qualification level. Programs of continuous are maximally efficient. availability of the training professional training stipulate studying the issues aids and multimedia applications developed by the of special technologies, civil, political, economic, teachers and masters of the training center based social and cultural human rights, requirements on the technologies and equipment implemented at of environment protection systems, quality the enterprise facilitates learning the material. the management, labor and industrial safety, energy education process applies both traditional forms and saving issues. modern education technologies. the main form of the education process organization is dual that means a continuous education is ensured by rational well-ba lanced combination of acquiring theoretical combination of professional education in educational knowledge and practical skills. a particular attention establishments, systematic self-e ducation as well as is paid to the modular education technology that lays studying in the training center and on working places. stress both on acquiring particular knowledge and in 2010 6273 employees of the works, or 50,3% of developing the personnel’s ability for self-e ducation the total personnel amount, took varied types of and self-imp rovement. education, which is 4% less than in 2009 Education and development of the personnel in recent years each employee took one type of is carried-out in conformity with the current and education. average number of education hours per perspective demands of the plant. one employee in 2010 made up 40,5 hours. number of people trained, % of the total % of the total number people number trained of this category category of the trained employees difference difference difference 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Managers 1762 1139 1133 -6 26,2 17,3 18 +0,7 156,3 101,2 97,8 -3 ,4 Specialists 1354 1434 953 -4 81 20,2 21,8 15,2 -6 ,6 76,4 83,5 53 -3 0,5 office workers 24 5 24 +19 0,4 0,08 0,4 +0,32 14,4 3,0 14,8 -1 5,2 Workers 3574 4015 4163 +148 53,2 60,9 66,4 +5,5 38,1 44 44,5 +0.5 total 6714 6593 6273 -3 20 100 100 100 -0 ,08 53,9 54,3 50,3 -4 106 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 year 2008 2009 2010 average number of hours 43 38 40,5 investments, $ 338,30 283,3 145 despite lowering the investments in the 1133 professional education, achievement of the target values in 2010 became possible due to the reduction of the volume of cost-int ensive education on external sites and fuller usage of the plant’s internal potential for organizing in-se rvice training 977 as far as the personnel education is concerned, RUE “BMZ” builds long-t erm relationships with a range of leading educational establishments that have 4136 good reputation for rendering educational services: educational establishment “institute for advanced training and continuing Education in the new lines of Facilities, technologies, and Economics development of BntU”, state educational establishment “institute for advanced training and continuing Education of Management and industry Specialists “industry Education of the personnel in 2010 Staff”, noncommercial educational establishment of supplementary professional education “northWest Educational center”, 5000 Educational center of MS&ai, state educational establishment 4000 “Republican Higher School 3000 institute”. 2000 RUE “BMZ” continues active development of international 1000 cooperation in the area of preparation and enhancement 0 of qualification of its employees. 2008 2009 2010 in connection with its large investment program the enterprise Managers Office workers Workers expands training of the employees able to operate modern worldnumber of people trained in 20082010 level equipment. Education 107 Social activity and training in educational centers and enterprises Solving medium-t erm strategic goals in the sphere of austria, italy, Germany, china, USa, and other of preparation of highly-p rofessional personnel is countries to adopt best practices was organized. connected with the State Educational Establishment “Zhlobin Metallurgical college”, which conducts its in 2010 international cooperation started a activity at the expense of RUE “BMZ” investments. new round of development. RUE “BMZ” exchanged For organizing the college activity in 2010 the works the accumulated experience and knowledge in the sent USd 309,5 of the consumption means. the area of steel making processes employees training college conducts preparation of technologists for with specialists working at similar enterprises in basic production subdivisions from among the best neighbouring and far foreign countries. representatives of the region young generation, who passed competitive selection according to the Within the framework of the existing agreements educational programs coordinated with the works. training of 60 specialists from ccM (Strazsk, Slovakia) in rolling production methods was organized. in-de pth at all times corporate social development and training in seamless pipe production was organized social investments remain sources of enhancing for 12 specialists from tenaris (Mexico). the works competitive abilities. Possessing modern educational base and highly-q ualified specialists, the plant is open for a dialogue with the interested RUE “BMZ” makes its contribution to the development parties concerning issues of professionalism of community helping in training of qualified workers and scholarship improvement and employees for the industrial enterprises of the town, the region, competence development. Specialists of the plant and the country. shared their steel making experience with the participants of the interplant School representing 11 metallurgical companies of Russia held at RUE “BMZ” under the aegis of chermet corporation. Formation of the reputation of the most appealing employer is an essential condition for involvement in alongside with solving the issues regarding the works operation creative, active and technically the personnel qualification improvement, the competent personnel. By rendering assistance to the collaboration with higher educational establishments younger generation in receiving modern education and is aimed at reaching long-t erm strategic objectives strengthening the material and technical foundation of the works. this cooperation is beneficial both for of the region educational establishments the works educational establishments and RUE “BMZ”. the creates own promising personnel reserve. For these works offers students the opportunity to undertake purposes the corresponding means were directed to manufacturing practice at the enterprise. during pre-sc hool educational institutions, schools, creativity the manufacturing practice the students are guided centers for the kids and the boarding-s chool. by experienced workers and specialists. detailed acquaintance with production takes place on a Special emphasis is placed on the work regarding working place. a student can feel being of the working pupils and students vocational guidance that is team, try his skills and adopt the mentors’ experience, carried-out on a regular basis with direct participation thus RUE “BMZ” openly demonstrates its potential of RUE “BMZ” employees. Within this course a range employees the possibility of acquiring interesting of the following programs is implemented: work and personal realization. 108 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 pupils participation in “open day” feast in basic according to the data available as of 31.12.2010, educational establishments; 64 employees took extra-mur al courses in higher educational establishments on a contractual basis excursions to the works’ museum; having a letter of referral from the works, and about four hundred workers were educated independently. organizing youth competitions, cultural events engaging school and specialized educational according to the results of an integrated establishments students. study of the social and psychological climate in the subdivisions, satisfaction with the perspective RUE “BMZ” ensure the right of the employees of qualification enhancement, professional and tor education and deems intellectual potential and educational level obtained was assessed as professionalism of its employees an essential factor satisfactory (the satisfaction index made up 0.69 required for own development. against 0.67 in 2009) 109 Social activity MOTIvATION SYSTEM based on accounting and encouragement of the labour contribution of each division and individual Material stimulation employees, the plant developed a bonus system to RUE “BMZ” acknowledges the right of the stimulate their labour. employees to decent, economically sound award for in the existing economic situation it is most timely their work results, strives for providing its employees to observe the lowest limit of labour payment for with work and salary that raise their living standards. weakly protected groups of workers. according to the requirements of the Belarusian labor Salary is the major source of income of the legislation and principles of the Un Global compact workers and the main factor for ensuring a certain the plant stands for decent remuneration of labor, standard of wellbeing. RUE “BMZ” policy in the abolishment of forced and child labor. area of remuneration of the personnel including top the main objective of one of the strategic lines management of the plant and its divisions foresees of the enterprise’s policy is constant increase of association of labour remuneration with joint and productiveness and quality of the personnel labor, individual key efficiency indices. in order to achieve efficient application of the existing norms and unity of interests of all categories of workers in wage systems aimed at manufacturing high-q uality insuring high final results of the works production competitive products based on the rational use and commercial operations in general based on of each worker’s labor potential and enhancing accounting and encouragement of labour contribution personnel welfare gains. of every division and a single worker, the enterprise one of the most precise indicators of the works developed the bonus scheme for labor stimulation. social policy effectiveness is the salary level. in 2010 the annual average salary at the enterprise made up USd 724,2. average salary of workers and office employees made up USd 408,1 in the Republic So as to achieve unity of interests of all of Belarus in 2010 which is 1,8 times lower than the categories of employees in providing high final results salary paid at RUE “BMZ”. of the business activity of the enterprise in general 1000,0 904,1 900,0 800,0 720,4 724,2 681,2 700,0 600,0 500,0 424,1 BMZ 408,1 363,5 RB 400,0 334,9 300,0 200,0 100,0 0,0 average salary paid at RUE «BMZ» as compared with average salary of workers and office employees in the Republic of Belarus, USd 110 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 Salary accounting is made according to the as far as men and women are concerned, legislation existing in the Republic of Belarus. the according to the work done or position held in enterprise realizes the following principle: the conformity with the unified wage tariff system and accrued salary of a worker, who fully completed the collective agreement. labor hours and working norms, cannot be lower than the established amount of the minimal salary in the average salary of the enterprise clerks is 7% Republic of Belarus that made up USd 134,3 in 2010 higher than workers’ salary. average salary of the management is 47,8 per cent higher than workers’ RUE “BMZ” improves the normative base in the salary. this correlation is explained by the complexity area of labor relationship and informs every single of the performed obligations stipulated by the job employee of the labour remuneration conditions. descriptions as well as the organization (separate according to the principles of the Un Global compact structural subdivisions) activity efficiency, quality of the enterprise realizes the principle of equable award the performed works (services), efficiency of the set for equally valuable labor. targets and objectives fulfillment. the enterprise ensures the job evaluation and gives qualification to the workers, specialists and Management of the enterprise adheres to the clerks according to the existing uniform wage rate socially-o riented policy in its work and considers book of workers’ jobs and professions as well as wage increase of the living standard of every person one of rate book for management, specialists and clerks. its main tasks». A.V. Demidovets, Deputy chairman of Gomel regional this approach allows the plant to avoid a biased and Executive Committee subjective attitude to workers in the process of their career promotion and contributes to inadmissibility of the workers discrimination of any kind. the tariff part of the salary is determined based Stimulating payments to the top-m anagement on the monthly tariff rates established by the unified are effected depending on the efficiency of the workers wage tariff system of the Republic of Belarus enterprise performance and fulfillment of the plant’s and the collective agreement in conformity with the social-e conomic development factors. job evaluation in the organization according to the categories as follows: Women have the same salaries and tariff rates as men, if they occupy equal positions (professions). as far as workers are concerned, it is determined Women are given and guaranteed the same rights by multiplying the first tariff rate by the tariff multiplier as men and have additional benefits and guarantees of the corresponding tariff rate established for a aimed at their health and maternity protection. worker in compliance with the general provisions of the Uniform Wage-Rat es and Skills Handbook based thus it is prohibited to use women’ labor in: on the tariff-q ualifying characteristics of the workers professions; heavy operations and operations with harmful and (or) hazardous labor conditions; as far as clerks are concerned, it is calculated by multiplying the first tariff rate by the tariff multiplier of jobs related with lifting and manual handling of the corresponding tariff rate of the unified wage tariff weights; system established for a worker with reference to its position; 111 Social activity some separate professions and positions it is important that in these challenging times (steelmaker, steelmaker’s assistant, farrier, battery the enterprise worked for decreasing the labor assembler, etc.) coefficient of the manufactured products. in 2010 the implementation of this approach lead to the decrease Pregnant women are given easier jobs excluding of the labor coefficient of the operations fulfilled the impact of harmful and (or) hazardous labor factors in basic and auxiliary shops by 141.98 thou. n/h. but their salary remains equal to the average amount the economic efficiency made up over USd 345.9 of their previous salary. thousand. a mother (farther) of two or more children aged as far as the salary level is concerned, the plant under 16 (or having a disabled child aged under takes a decent place among the gross-out put-m aking 18) are given one extra day-of f in a week at her/his enterprises of the Ministry of industry of the Republic request which is paid for in the amount of the average of Belarus, which is shown in the diagram: daily payment. all technical-e conomic development programs a mother bringing up two or more children under of the enterprise are worked out for one year and sixteen is given an additional day-of f a month at her are reported to the personnel. their results of their request; this day is paid for in the amount of one basic implementation are summarized monthly during payment. a year and are reported to the employees during forums, meetings and by the plant’s newspaper. a mother bringing up children under eighteen is given one extra day-of f a month at her request; this day is not paid for. average salary of men at the enterprise is 50.1% higher than that of women. the difference between the average salary of women and the average salary of men is explained by the increased payment for the heavy service work, works with harmful and dangerous labor conditions, where women’ labor is prohibited. Planning of labour remuneration expenses is based on the salary level reached and the output per one employee. alongside with the labor productivity growth, the average salary increase is planned accordingly it is necessary to point out that with the labour productivity growth rate in USd equal to 136,8% in 2010, the salary growth rate was 106,3 per cent. So as to eliminate the existing imbalance, the top management of the enterprise attempts to restrain drop of the welfare of its employees. 112 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 average salary at RUE «BMZ» for men and women, US dollars 200000 177478 150000 140091 121814 102392 100000 50000 0 average monthly salary at RUE «BMZ» dynamics of the personnel productivity at RUE «BMZ» in existing as compared with the gross-out putmaking enterprises prices for 2007-2 010, US dollars of the Ministry of industry of the Republic of Belarus in 2010 labour productivity growth rate by metallurgical plants of neighbouring foreign countries in 2010 as compared with 2009, % 113 Social activity Immaterial stimulation a significant element of the enterprise corporate culture is the system of immaterial stimulation of the employees which comprises social-p sychological, staff and professional aspects. 31 types of the production competitions and contests are held in individual and collective forms. Byelorussian Steel Works puts a particular emphasis on stimulating and involvement of the personnel for saving material and energy resources, improvement of the labor productivity, increasing the responsibility «Social protection of Zhlobin steelmakers for the quality of the manufactured products, raising includes a wellcomposed system of forms and the production efficiency as well as development methods of social support». of the creative incentives by holding production Vladimir Florizyak, Deputy general director competitions (“Best in profession”, “Best shop”, for the personnel “Best canteen”, “Best in profession among affiliated companies”, “Professional olympus”, “Best innovator of the year”, “Best young specialist”, “contest of plant teams and structural subdivisions of the works in conformity with the system “BE aWaRE oF a in 2010 году 326 employees of our enterprise HUMan!”, etc.). were awarded. one of the main constituents of the corporate it grew into a tradition to congratulate the culture and efficient way of enhancing the workers employees with anniversaries, birth of a child, wedding, motivation is corporate awarding. For the purpose and to organize parties dedicated to recruitment for of moral stimulation, strengthening glorious labor the armed forces or retirement. traditions, increasing the role and strengthening of a Man of labor the works conducts festive events Since 2008 the plant organizes celebration in dedicated to initiation into young metallurgist, honor of work dynasties of RUE “BMZ”. assignment celebration in honor of work dynasties, entering the of an honorable title of ”Work dynasty of RUE “BMZ” names of best employees’ names in the works Book is based on the principles of succession, continuity of of Fame or placing their photos in the Hall of Fame, generations from older to younger one, and continuity honoring the winners of the productive competitions of labour activity (at least three generations of the at the annual labor Festival “Professional olympus”. relatives of the first-de gree kinship should work at the all categories of the plant’s employees who attained plant at the same time). better results in their production activity, actively participate in the enterprise social life, gained in 2010 a new tradition was born at BMZ: authority and are respected by their working team presentation of a corporate calendar takes place at members, are granted the honor to have their the Palace of culture of Metallurgists in the form of a pictures posted in the Hall of Fame of RUE “BMZ”. all brilliant and colourful celebration. Pages of the 2011 structural subdivisions of the works have “alleys of calendar contain the best pictures drawn by the future Glory”, “Foremost Workers” stands with the pictures metallurgists chosen according to the results of the of the best workers. 114 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 regional contest and photos of the women working at • General satisfaction of the personnel, the plant. not less, % 72 • Salary growth rate, %, min. 117,3 the possibility of professional education and increasing the workers qualification is of a particular • Personnel turnover, %, max. 2,5 importance for motivation of the staff. Professional training organized and carried out at the enterprise by the training center ensures execution of the three LABOR PROTECTION motivating functions: ANd ENSURINg Of INdUSTRIAL SAfETY production-e conomic (the competitive ability RUE “BMZ” sees a human life as the supreme growth, enhancing the quality of duty performance value. the works does not accept any compromises and manufactured products); between the health of its employees, safety and profitmaking. labor safety and health are the key priorities administrative (providing with qualified personnel, of the corporate labor protection management its formation, reproduction, adaptation and personnel system. Realizing its mission the works ensures development); the employees’ labor protection, takes measures for reduction of accidents risks and occupational social-c ultural (personality socialization, diseases, strives for creation and sustaining of such labor conditions that do not harm health and human provision of occupation, social confidence, offering dignity of the employees. equal opportunities for professional and career growth). the works puts particular emphasis on sustaining Using dangerous industrial facilities in the favorable social-p sychological climate in the working production process, the enterprise management team, organization of professional celebrations, bears responsibility for conservation of the sport and cultural events for the employees, their employees’ life and health. the existing labor family members and the population of the region (see protection and industrial safety management system section “Social package of benefits and guarantees is built according to the requirements of Belarusian for the staff”). the approaches in planning of the legislation and considering international practice. corporate events are determined based on the analysis of the results of annual integrated study of creation of a labor protection management system never has a zero starting point. RUE “BMZ” has social-p sychological climate of the working teams. already had a certain experience in labor protection management: it arranged the required activities, Short-t erm targets in the field developed and used corresponding documentation. of social responsibility one of the directions in the labor protection • achievement of the following level of the main management system improvement (lPMS) of RUE target values related with the works social“BMZ” was its coordination with the requirements of oHSaS 18001 international standard and StB 18001 economic development is scheduled for 2011: state standard. • training of the executive employees and specialists, pers. 929 a significant effort was made in order to coordinate the existing labor protection control system with • Employees professional training, pers. 3399 the requirements of oHSaS 18001 and StB 18001. 115 Social activity the enterprise developed guidelines, company implementation of this system allowed our works standards, carried-out a full-sc ale identification of to: hazards and risks. in parallel with that, the enterprise subdivisions performed the work for coordinating decrease the costs due to a more efficient use of the working documentation, and working places in labor recourses; diminish the expenses related with accordance with the requirements of the rules and traumatism and morbidity; regulations for labor protection, which, in its turn, increased the level of personnel safety, competence and awareness. training of the management and • increase legal safety, guarantees of specialists in implementation and certification of the correspondence to the changing legislative labor enterprise compliance with the oHSaS 18001 and safety requirements; StB 18001 requirements was organized. in the result of the training internal lPMS auditors were educated. and management awareness regarding the aspects • minimize the risk of judicial punishment; of the implementation and advantages of observing oHSaS 18001 and StB 18001 requirements was enhanced. • respect the interests of the parties – the employer and working team in the process of the enterprise in 2010 RUE “BMZ” successfully passed productive activity; reaccreditation audits for compliance with the requirements of oHSaS 18001:2007 international standard “Professional safety and health management • improve the enterprise image on product and systems” and StB 18001-2 009 state standard “labor labor markets as well as in the eyes of government protection management systems. Requirements” authorities as a socially responsible organization; auditors of the certification agency “Bureau veritas certification” and the state educational • aim the management team at detecting and establishment “Republican Higher School University” decreasing the basic risk types related with the confirmed the compliance of the management system negative impact of the production activity and the implemented at the enterprise with the international released products on the health of its employees, and state standard. population and consumers; after implementation of the standards at the enterprise we accept contemporary, universally • to simplify the system approach to problemacknowledged international safety technologies. solving, achieve greater responsibility, more this allows RUE “BMZ” to speak the same language distinct responsibility distribution; with its international partners and organize cooperation more effectively. at present, in many cases for signing collective contracts the enterprise • enhance tof time and labor. needs to confirm the availability of the certified labor protection management system. it is evident considering western partners’ mentality. availability RUE “BMZ” constantly improves the labor of the certificate confirming the conformity with the protection and industrial safety system and international standards characterizes the enterprise coordinates it with the requirements of international as a reliable partner, increases its prestige, and the standards. this allows considerable reduction of products competitive ability. the production costs due to lowering the specialists incapacitation related with accidents, occupational illnesses, emergencies and fires. 116 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 2178333 item no. 2009 2010 1763461 Figures 1435738 1322232 number of recorded 889476 1 8 7 accidents 478064 573221 number of the injured 8 7 including 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 mortal 1 1 investments in labour safety, USd 2 severe 0 3 Improvement of work conditions group 0 0 Under the technical Revamping Program 3 Frequency coefficient, Fc 0,7 0,61 multiple operations for decommissioning of the outdated equipment and commissioning of modern one 4 Seriousness coefficient, Sc 21,5 36,14 meeting all international labor safety requirements are being carried-out . 5 lost days of working ability 172 253 these measures allowed considerable improvement of the employees’ labor conditions and diminishment of the health impact of harmful and in 2010 investments into the labor protection hazardous production factors. made up USd1 763,4 thousand. the occupational Every year the enterprise develops “Plan of traumatism level depends on several factors; one measures for ensuring labor safety and improving of them is the volume of investments into labor labor protection conditions”. in 2010 90 measures for protection. during recent years considerable means were invested into the labor protection measures that allowed decrease of the traumatism level from 13 in 13 2004 to 7 in 2010 12 11 10 9 8 7 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 occupational traumatism, number of cases 117 Social activity ensuring labor safety and improving labor protection Training and competence conditions, stipulated by the plan, were scheduled. evaluation 71 of them were fulfilled, 2 were excluded, and 17 were put off due to different reasons. after the the integral part of the labor protection and measures had been implemented, the workplace industrial safety system of the enterprise is teaching labor conditions were improved for 787 people (in of safe operation of hazardous production facilities, 2009 – for 1353 people). occupational sanitation and labor hygiene. an employee’s labor safety greatly depends on the thoroughness of his/her professional training. Sustaining the high standard of knowledge is insured the enterprise aspires to continuous by conducting an obligatory labor safety instruction, improvement of its labor protection factors due to periodical knowledge check and personnel increasing the production process safety, personnel certification regarding safe operation. motivation and employees’ interest in observation of the labor protection requirements. in order to fulfill the educational training of the personnel that service and operates high-r isk facilities, the employer’s obligations related with ensuring the corporate training center was audited to check its safe and healthy labor conditions are documented in conformity with the republican legislation and received “labor Protection” section of the Enterprise collective the consent of the department for Supervision of Safe agreement. according to the items of the collective operation in industrial and atomic Power Engineering agreement the workers are fully and promptly of the Emergency Situations Ministry of the Republic provided with quality certified specialized clothing of Belarus for the right to train employees required by and footwear, personal protective and hygiene the works and other organizations. equipment, undergo periodical medical examination. 2010г Particular categories of the employees are provided activity % with milk. Plan actual fulfilled So as to improve social security of the plant’s 1. Enhancement of staff and to provide for comprehensive insurance the administrative protection, the plant entered into an agreement employees’ and on insurance of the employer’s responsibility for specialists qualification, total: the induced to the health and life of the employees working according to the labour agreements and – Pan RB 326 385 118 contracts at account of the employer with the joint– designated oHSaS 200 652 326 stock insurance company “Promtransinvest” on courses September 1, 2010. the insurance agreement was signed in favour of all employees of the plant. 2. Professional training of the workers: – training of new employees 0 50 – retraining 703 1033 147 – qualification enhancement 482 548 114 – designated courses 2366 2532 107 118 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 SOCIAL CONTROL fOR OBSERvANCE Of hUMAN RIghTS IN ThE fIELd Of LABOR PROTECTION all the concerned parties including the employees were detected and 148 notations were issued to the are actively involved in the process of managing management. the labor protection and industrial safety system. the works created a system of the two-st age public during the annual integrated research of socialcontrol. psychological climate in the structural subdivisions working teams the respondents give a high estimate at the first stage daily control of observation of to the employees’ labor safety level (the satisfaction the legislation of the Republic of Belarus in the sphere index made 0.79 vs 0.74 in 2009) and an average of labor protection, ensuring the employees right estimate to on-s ite sanitary-h ygienic conditions (the to safe labor and health maintenance is fulfilled by satisfaction index made up 0,68 against 0,65 in 2009). the public service of health and safety executives. the service of public executives in the amount of achievement of the following level of the basic 404 persons consists of the reputable employees target values regarding the works social-e conomic selected by the working team members by way of development (in the sphere of labor protection and open voting. the executives’ activities and their industrial safety) is scheduled for 2011: authorities regarding the control of compliance with the labor protection legislation are regulated by – prevent the occupational traumatism growth to decree no.179 of the Ministry of labor and Social the level of 2010 Security of the Republic of Belarus “on the procedure of public control of the compliance with the labor – improvement of labor conditions and ensuring protection legislation carried-out by the persons labor safety authorized to control an organization employees’ labor protection” dd. 28.11.2008 and the articles of for the plant’s workers, pers. 790 association of the Belarusian Federation of trade Unions. the executives proceed to individual work after taking a special training course at the private unitary enterprise “Educational-Me thodic center of Gomel Regional trade Unions”. at the second stage the control of compliance with the legislation and checking operating safety organization in conformity with local regulations is carried out by 36 public commissions including representatives of the structural subdivisions management. their activity is specified by the decree of Presidium of the Belarusian trade Unions Federal council no. 59 dd 24.04.2003. in 2010 public labor safety formations carriedout 57192 inspections. 76029 non-c onformities 119 Social activity Social PRoGRaMS contributing to the social development of workers and local community Bylorussian Steel Works follows the principles of the responsible business practice formulated in the Un Global compact and other international acts. nowadays the enterprise stability is determined by both economic efficiency factors and parameters of the corporate social policy effectiveness. All our achievements became feasible due to the people working at the plant. They are our major value. it is understood that long-t erm business stability It is not an exaggeration to say that one of the most depends on the social and economic stability in the professional teams work at BMZ. The employees love region. Pursue of the policy of the corporate social their plant and put their heart and sole in their work. responsibility as regards own employees and local That is why we are able to resolve the most ambitious communities is a strategic direction of the plant’s tasks ». activity. Anatoly Savianok, General director the personnel are a major society resource for obtaining competitive advantages. considerable means are invested by the plant of reproductive health, health improvement in the formation of interested and responsible staff, and vacations, promotion of healthy lifestyle improvement of work conditions, and provision of standards, improvement of living conditions and social protection of the employees. cultural service; in 2010 RUE “BMZ” social programs were fulfilled on the basis of a union agreement and according to • rendering of social and voluntary support for the social budget for the account of the plant’s own pensioners, the disabled, children, the works funds and means granted by the social insurance employees having large families; found of the Republic of Belarus. RUE “BMZ” fulfilled all its obligations concerning main directions of the social programs in 2010. total of USd 10,9 million • offering of a sponsorship and beneficent aid were use for financing of the social programs. for sport organizations and organizations representing other spheres of public life; the priority directions of RUE “BMZ” social policy are: • offering of a wide scope of quality services for the • creation of favorable conditions for the workers inhabitants of the town and surrounding area by and their families for solving all the welfare the social services. issues: treatment and medical service, saving 120 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 SOCIAL PACKAgE the works implements its social policy in the Of BENEfITS ANd gUARANTEES following priority directions: fOR ThE STAff • labor protection; medical care • rest and health promotion of the employees and 16% cultural-mass work their family members; 12% • physical culture and sport development; other social • cultural life of the works employees; payments 52% children health • solving of the living conditions issues of the promotion living conditions 5% employees; improvement 12% sport-mass work • support of large families; and promotion of healthy life style • social support of unemployed pensioners, 3% invalids and other categories of lower-i ncome citizens; RUE “BMZ” makes considerable investments into • child care. education and personnel qualification enhancement, labor conditions improvement, ensuring employees social security; it participates in solving socially health significant issues in the region considering this activity a constituent part of its business and social investments into the inherent element of corporate Protection of the plant’s employees is the most responsibility. in order to stimulate labor productivity important constituent part of the social policy of RUE enhancement and personnel management cost “BMZ”. optimization, in addition to salary the works uses a social package that made up over USd 540 per each the plant’s medioprophylactic assistance employee in 2010. rendered to the employees is organized in accordance with the state program of ambulatory assistance The social package includes: to the population and fulfills the tasks related with health protection, medical and sanitary support of • medical care – $1,1 mln the production process, disease prevention, and follow-up care, and ensures cooperation of the • living conditions improvement – $0,8 mln plant’s divisions in solving issues of labour safety and • cultural-m ass work – $0,8 mln protection of the employees health. • children health promotion – $0,35 mln Formation of strategy and tactics in the area of health protection is stated in the comprehensive • sport-mass work and promotion of healthy life program «HEaltH-2 010» which coordinates the style – $0,2 mln interaction of the administration, medical staff, • •other social payments (supporting 9 preschool industrial safety board, personnel of the community institutions, 8 works canteens, a recreation and consumer facilities, trade union in the area of center, etc.)– $3,5 mln disease and traumatism prevention, promotion of a healthy lifestyle. 121 Social activity the major items of the works social policy and the 4 obstetrician-g ynecologists receive women “HEaltH -2 010» program are: at the polyclinics. Women are serviced on the shop principle. • enhancing the preventive medical aid level; in 2010 the medical centre was visited by 193 515 • orientating the medical aid system at increasing people. 69,6 % of the total number of visits are due the ambulatory segment efficiency; to illnesses. Free and voluntary vaccination against influenza is a positive feature in prevention of seasonal • coordinating the on-sit e work places with the diseases. technological and sanitary-h ygienic norms; the structure of the medical centre includes a • improvement of ecological events and clinical and biochemical laboratory, an X-r ay room, environmental protection norms; ultrasonic and functional diagnostics rooms equipped with a stress-t est system for a detailed study of the • creating living quality improvement conditions; state of the respiratory and cardiovascular system of a man, physiotherapy department, daily hospital, • development of the works personnel’s strong four dental rooms, and two drug-s tores. availability orientation at healthy lifestyle. of an up-t o-da te equipment and highly professional staff allow laboratory, functional and instrumental the plant develops and improves its own medical diagnostics examination. doctors of narrow facilities aimed at bringing medical assistance close specialization render a wide range services. the employees and rendering medical assistance to the citizens of the town and inhabitants of the region. continuous attention is paid to disease prevention, their timely detection and medical treatment. Periodic the plant used USd 1,11 mln for its medical medical examinations remain the basic mechanism centre financing in 2010. of workers’ health control. Examinations give a possibility immediately to detect presence of harmful the clinic of RUE “BMZ” is the largest among and dangerous production factors and take measures the town enterprises and includes a polyclinic for for their elimination thus allowing prevention of 250 visits per shift, plant aid posts, plant recreation professional disease development and helping to centers and is the main medical care base. prevent production traumatism. Workers who are influenced by dangerous and harmful factors on their work places are additionally thoroughly examined including instrumental laboratory studies and Specialists qualified in 12 medical specialties consultations given by narrow specialists considering receive patients. 78,8 % of the medical centre industry peculiarities and profession of a worker. specialists are certified for the first and second Within the framework of this project in 2010 over 3500 qualification category. 70 per cent are certified for a employees including 1100 women were thoroughly category. examined. not a single professional disease was detected in 2010. there are 7 theraupeutic divisions in the shops, average number of the people served by each of them Production-de tached treatment procedures equals to 1780. were given to over 340 people in 2010. Medical and physiotherapeutic procedures are carried out close 122 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 indices Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 temporary disability cases 11 739 10 898 12745 12 345 (diseases and traumas) days 113 672 107 986 128 945 125 649 to production and are based on rehabilitation centres during 2010 1203 people were registered. number are located in the shops of people observed increased by 5,6% as compared with 2009. So as to make treatment of patients at the medical and sanitary department simpler, provide operation RUE “BMZ” take part in implementation of the of the medical rooms and services in the automatic national program of demographic safety aimed at mode, an electronic ambulatory chart of a patient was improvement of the condition of pregnant women formed. and those who gave birth to children, preparation for childbirth, and upbringing. due to countrywide distribution of chronic diseases, demand for more effective and convenient Specialists of the medical centre directly methods of treatment grows. this problem can be participate in a purposeful sanitary educational work solved only subject to the principal emphasis being related to prevention of tuberculosis, aidS. Special placed on prevention of diseases and popularization attention is paid to prevention of Hiv/aidS. of healthy lifestyle. Since november 1, 2009 Belarusian Red cross Society (BRcS) started to implement an innovative Effectiveness of medical project “Prevention of Hiv in the area of labour” under and sanitary programs the motto “We are for health @ work». the project is supported by international federation of Red cross the means invested in the works employees and Red crescent Society, German society for health, medical service quality enhancement and technical cooperation (GtZ) and is implemented at implementation of modern treatment methods RUE “BMZ”. during 2010 a number of events were together with successful realization of the employees arranged under the program «Health @ work» at the health promotion program in sanatoriums and vacation plant including training of the employees, voluntary houses allows to sustain the positive dynamics of testing, installation of visual information boards, lowering the employees disease incidence. photo exhibitions, installations, and a performance, informing of the employees with the help of mass in the result of prevention and early detection of media. diseases indices of the employees’ health improved at RUE “BMZ” as well as quality of their life. diseases For monitoring the quality of medical-p reventive with temporary disability made up 1023,03 days per aid and target programs we use the practice of 100 employees in 2010 whish is 35,4 days less than interviews with the specialists of the medical centre in 2009. and the recipients of the services. the management of the medical centre takes their recommendations in 2010 the plant continued medical examination into account. to prevent and early detect diseases of the employees. 123 Social activity Rating of the medical centre work is higher than Besides, in 2010 the works used the children’s in 2009, but it is still at the average level (satisfaction health improvement possibilities under the program index was 0,66 against 0,65 in 2009). Studies showed of children’s vouchers distribution by the social that number of employees informed about the insurance fund. the health-imp roving services of the “HEaltH” program existing at the plant grew; this is republican sanatoriums were used by 189 children the evidence of a growing interest of the employees to their health and methods of its preservation as well as improvement of the employees’ information about the work of the medical centre Physical culture and sport development Sanitation and rest time Physical culture and sport is one of the constituent parts of healthy lifestyle, hence forming the demand of the employees and their families in regular sport activities with workers is a priority direction of RUE “BMZ” social policy. this type of RUE “BMZ” strives for improvement of the activity is specified by the corresponding provisions conditions for health promotion and rest of its and clauses of the collective agreement with direct employees as well as all volunteers in Zhlobin and participation and financial support by the RUE “BMZ” region. at present the works offers the high-q uality trade union committee. services that can satisfy any client. “dneprovskiye Zori” recreation center is located on a picturesque bank of the dnieper river, in a pine forest; it has houses for accommodation of 24 people and is meant for organizing sport and cultural events. in 2010 USd 3,1 thousand were received for the services of this recreation center. annually over 1 800 employees of the works and their family members spend holidays in the sanatoriums and vacation houses of the Republic of Belarus. Financing of health improvement programs and sanatorium-r esort therapy is fulfilled on the principles of a solidary participation at the expense of the works budget, state social insurance and I am impressed by the concern for people. Be it employees’ means. in 2010 over USd 0,34 million at the enterprise or in the sport complex one can feel were used to compensate the voucher costs for the concern for a man everywhere. Here they understand employees and their family members. that it the most important thing. For organizing the vacations of the employees’ Inguna Sudraba, children RUE “BMZ” compensates the major part State inspector of the Latvian Republic of the expenses. in 2010 1 377 children spent their vacations in the children’s health centers of the republic. Health improvement of more than 1500 children is scheduled for 2011. 124 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 at present, the works offers its sport and • sport-mass activities according to the schedule recreation center for the employees and the town established for 2010 in collaboration with RUE residents to do sports and conduct outdoor activities. “BMZ” trade Union: over 630 workers and their the realization of the works social mandate regarding family members took part in 12 traditional sport the development of the mass physical culture and activities. sport and following healthy lifestyle are assigned to this complex having three gyms: for exercising, 58 sport activities visited by over 43,4 thousand playing games and tennis. people including 24 thousand children were held in the sport and recreation center in 2010. the priority work directions of the sport and recreation center are: the level of conducting health-im proving and sport-mass work in RUE “BMZ” sport and recreation • organizing sport and healthimprovement as well center allowed the center working team to win the as sport-mass work at RUE “BMZ”; honorable i place in the republican review competition held by Belarusian trade Union of industrial Workers • strengthening the works employees’ health, in 2010. enhancing their working efficiency, stress resistance, healthy lifestyle promotion; the works employees support the honor of the enterprise at the competitions of various levels; some • satisfying the works employees’ needs for of them are acting participants of the championship systematic sport and physical culture activities, of the Republic of Belarus in major league in minithe works employees’ health promotion, football team “MFK Zhlobin” and are participants of formation of physically developed and healthy Gomel regional teams. citizens; Efficiency of healthy lifestyle policy • engaging children and teenagers in regular sport implementation at the works is confirmed by sport activities. achievements of the assembly teams consisting of RUE “BMZ” employees: • the works spent over $ 0,11 thousand for maintenance of the sport and recreation center in 1st place in the regional trade sports contest; 2010. the allocated funds are directed to: 2nd team place in the regional sports contest; • conducting sport-mass activities: under the annual all-t he-y ear-ar ound olympics of RUE 3rd place in republican sports contest of the “BMZ” employees the competitions were held in Belarusian Union of industrial workers. 16 kinds of sport, 43 sport events were organized with participation of 36 teams; in order to organize the workers’ leisure time and promote healthy lifestyle the works implemented • physical-h ealthimproving work among the the program of collective visits to the town sport and employees and their family-m embers: 8 amateur recreation center, ice Palace, swimming pool and clubs and 9 sporting sections for varied kinds of aqua-p ark, sport complexes and facilities of the sport were created and successfully function, republic: Silichi, Raubichi, and others. where over 780 people were engaged in regular physical culture and sport activities; Engaging the works employees into sport activities contribute to both their health-im provement 125 Social activity and forming specific corporate spirit of the enterprise age groups take place at the Palace of culture. a list that helps to solve the most challenging production of events is varied: different parties, discotheques, issues. the sport and recreation center services are performances and shows, concerts dedicated to demanded by the region population. holiday and jubilees, contests, amateur arts festivals. 356 events visited by over 37,7 thousand people were Services of the sport and recreation centre are held at the Palace of culture in 2010.. in demand of the population of the region. Proceeds form physical and sport services made up USd19,5 the Palace of culture does not only cheers thousand in 2010. people but develops talents, gives people the possibility to be occupied with their favourite hobby, RUE “BMZ” takes active participation in solving make the leisure of steel makers and the inhabitants issues on the territories of the presence carrying-out of the town spiritually rich, and interesting. over 500 the financial support of “Metallurg” volleyball team, people are members of hobby groups and creative “Metallurg-Z hlobin” hockey-c lub. the total amount teams 400 of them are children. in 2010 a brass band of USd 4,8 million was transferred for this purpose in was organized for children. 2010. By financing these teams the plant supports the development of the sport of high achievements, sport 20 creative teams and amateur associations work popularization in particular among young people. at the Palace of culture: 9 for grown-up s and 11 for children. 5 collectives were given the honorable title of in 2010 the enterprise spent USd 2,4 million for «People’s» and «classic» in the Republic of Belarus. financing of the erection of the sport centre and a rowing canal in Zhlobin which is being carried out by a great emphasis of its activity is placed by the plant since 2005. the Palace of culture on the professional level enhancement. Guest performances, participation in prestigious festivals and contests support professional skills growth. the following awards received in 2010 Cultural life of the plant employees are the result of a laborious work of the creative team one of the main tasks of RUE “BMZ” social policy of the Palace of culture: is creation of conditions for promotion and distribution of modern culture, effective social practice for the –ii prize – awarded to the classic dance group development of the creative potential of its employees. «Feierwerk» for the participation in the regional festival during 20 years the key role in the organization of the of choreographic art named after А. А. Rybalchenko; cultural life of the region and the town has been played –i prize of the v regional festival of children works by the Palace of culture of Metallurgists. By right the «Russian portrait in Belarusian interior» awarded to Palace of culture is considered the centre of cultural yana Konovalova, a soloist of song theatre «april»; and educational work directed towards satisfaction of cultural and intellectual needs of all categories of the –3 prize of the v regional festival of children works population. «Russian portrait in Belarusian interior» awarded to the classic folk song group «Skomoroshina». in 2010 the amount of USd 0,53 million was spent for cultural arrangements. Formation of the reputation of the most attractive employer in the region is a precondition for attracting various cultural events of educational, aesthetic, creatively active and educated people to the plant. the entertaining character for different audiences and 126 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 enterprise invests funds to arrange events for aesthetic day of the Republic of Belarus, labour day, yputh day upbringing of children and younger generation at the and professional feasts. Palace of culture. thematic discotheques, parties, festivals, performances, contests for people of the culture center teams also participate in different ages became regular: «Small Miss», «come regional and republican events. the brass band of the on, boys!», «dance while young», «Miss Zhlobin» and Palace of culture is the adornment of key festivals in many others. the cultural life of the town. the high estimate of its creative activity was given by the chairman of Zhlobin one of the important activities of the Palace of regional executive committee l.n. apanasiuk: “the culture is the work directed towards prevention of brass band is a heritage of our town. the music of the the youth asocial behavior, struggle against drugs, band gives a specific, elevated mood to our life”. promoting healthy lifestyle and aidS prevention. different forms of such work are used the main idea an important role in the work of the Palace of of which is: “creativity is the alternative to drugs and culture is played by events arranged to strengthen the alcohol”. relations with the production, development of pride in their enterprise an important direction of the activity Realizing social programs in the local community of the Palace of culture is organization of events the team of the Palace of culture closely cooperates strengthening the relations with the production, with Zhlobin regional organization of “Belarusian cultivate pride for the enterprise. Board of officers” public association, “Belarusian Republican youth association”, etc. RUE “BMZ” in the center of all the activities is the man of veterans’ Board, Women’s council and other public labor, demonstration of the importance of every organizations of the work teams hold their activities single team member, establishing and support of the under the roof of RUE “BMZ” Palace of culture. these corporate spirit for the efficient activity of the entire are joint events – concerts, meetings, gala nights and enterprise. the work modes are: annual ceremonial celebrations. presentation of professional premium “Professional olympus”, “Miss Zavodchanka”, “initiation into Such joint projects of the Belarusian Republican Metallurgists”, “youth Ball”, cultural-sp ort feasts, the youth Union and the Palace of culture as “Miss events dedicated to the Metallurgist’s day, the works Zhlobin”, “BMZ Superman”, “lady Perfection”, and birthday, competition of the teams of club for the “Business lady” are very popular with the young lightheaded and quick-w itted “the Entire Works and workers of the plant. Supporting the state youth Every Plant will be Made Friends by the Humor, Joke, policy the Palace of culture arranges such traditional laughter”. projects as «Sport! Health! Beauty!”, “Family gives start to everything!”, youth festival «dare while the activity of the Palace of culture is organized young!», etc. in such a way that allows the majority of the workers to disclose their abilities and talents, enjoy the beauty the Palace of culture promotes implementation and highly spiritual. it is proved by the annual amateur of socially-or iented projects on the regional and local arts festival. this creative work unites people, level. its activity is aimed at improving social climate raises their spirits, creates mood for successful and and habitat. creative teams of the Palace of culture productive work. constantly participate in town and region festive events, annual republican festival-f air “dazhynki”, gala along with the events based on modern genres, concerts dedicated to the victor day, independence the palace of culture contributes to the development 127 Social activity of national folk arts, spiritual revival and preservation impression are concerned, it is equal to festive events of the best traditions of Belarusian national culture. of the republican scale. Belarusian and Russian active work in this direction is carried out by Krynitsa entertainment stars can be seen performing during choir, and creative collective “Skomoroshina. Events the feast. organized by these teams are very popular with the people of different ages. Work of the team of the Palace of culture completely justifies its high mission. Being the centre the Metallurgist’s day is the main feast of RUE of the cultural life of the plant, town and region, the “BMZ” work team and the entire town. as far as Palace of culture is an important constituent part of importance, attendance, impressions brightness the corporate strategy of RUE “”BMZ”. 128 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 Solving of employees’ in 2010 a 108-f lat house was commissioned for housing problems the employees of the plant and construction of a 36flat house was started. 216 employees improved their an important part of the social policy of RUE living conditions in 2010; 60 people were registered as “BMZ” is engaging and promoting young highlythose who need their living conditions to be improved. professional production staff. on the balance of RUE “BMZ” there are six dormitories for the workers’ family members, Support of large families where 680 families (or 2051 people) reside, and implementation of the target-or iented social one dormitory with 340 beds provided for single support of RUE “BMZ” employees is carried out by way employees. living conditions in the dormitories are of a flexible system or benefits and compensations. constantly improved due to scheduled capital repairs: Based on the principles of the state policy declaring modernization of engineering network and heat points that children have the right to a special care and which helped to decrease municipal expenses. assistance, that a family should be provided with the required protection and encouragement as the main the plant spends considerable funds for the social unit and natural environment for growth and maintenance of the objects of the housing and wellbeing of all its members, RUE “BMZ” arranges communal area. in 2010 the works spent USd 0.8 events to support of complete and incomplete families million for these purposes. and those having four and more children under 18 so as to continue the development of the maternity in the existing situation discharge of assets by and childhood support. the aim of the activities is way of disposal of non-c ore objects is one of the increasing the status of families and improving their directions of the plant’s activity. thus, according to life quality. according to the provision regarding the law the status of a 60flat house was change from health-imp rovement and sanatorium-r esort therapy a dormitory to a house and the flats were taken over at RUE “BMZ” the families are provided privileged and by the employees in accordance with the queue. partially paid vouchers to sanatoriums and vacation description 2008 2009 2010 177 women/ 160 women/ 132 women/ Payments for birth of a child /lump sum allowance 106,2 84,3 72,8 562 women/ 546 women/ 509 women/ Payment for nursing a child under 3 / $ thou. 472,9 411,1 490,6 Payments for purchasing school uniform. $ thou. 14,8 10,9 11,9 Providing one day-of f, $ thou. 24,2 22,6 20,3 the means for children’s health improvement, $ thou. 385,9 326,7 341,2 Payments for the families raising the disabled children under 18 / 100 children/ 100 children/ 97 children/ $ thou. 4,7 3,6 5,1 arrangements for the workers’ families support 129 Social activity houses. one of the events for the workers’ families a special place in the social program is occupied social support are annual payments for purchasing by providing the unemployed pensioners with school uniforms and monthly provision of paid daytreatment in the plant’s clinic, the sport and recreation off for mothers of more than three children center services, the services rendered by the Palace of culture at a reduced charge. Social support of unemployed pensioners, invalids and other categories of people Concern for children not sufficiently provided for Being a socially-or ientated enterprise, RUE Business initiatives have great impact on the “BMZ” renders free preschool services satisfying a processes of social development in the country and social order of the society and the state. it puts great their results change the public ideas of the living emphasis on retaining and improving health of the quality norms. a pensioner, who receives a corporate younger generation of metallurgists, creating safe pension in addition to the state one, is better protected living environment and personal development of a when he/she gets old. Work with veterans, invalids and child. the realization of this objectives is assigned other categories of the needy is carried out at RUE to 9 pre-sc hool establishments under the auspices “BMZ” based on “recipient-or iented” social support of the enterprise attended by 1 871 children (72% – both in the form of financial payments and using a children of the works employees, the others – of the wide range of social facilities: the clinic, the Palace of region residents). in 2010 financial investment in the culture of Metallurgists, sport and recreation center kindergartens amounted to $1,84 million. of RUE “BMZ”. Modern material facilities of the pre-s chool in 2010 the sum of this support made up over establishments allows provision of sanitary and USd333,1 thousand. hygienic conditions for the children providing a positive emotional state of children, satisfying need of there are five forms and directions of rendering every child in psychological comfort through a flexible social support which were used by over 1200 people. system of the educational process. in kindergartens children have equal starting possibilities for the an important line in the social support policy is transition to the next, higher level of education. a monthly material aid for unemployed pensioners. at present the amount of the monthly pension For many years of the work of these establishments supplements varies from $6,7.to $84 depending loving and tender care of each child, enthusiasm and on the record of service and awards. in 2010 these conscientiousness, initiative and sincere interest of supplements made up $296,2 thousand. the employees in the well-be ing and health of every single child remain the unchanging values of their the financial aid is provided in connection with working teams retirement. in 2010 the amount of this aid was over $12,56 thousand. Besides, there is an annual financial For efficiency of the educational process in the aid dedicated to the international day for the Elderly. kindergartens, up-t o-dat e educational and healthits amount made up $19,54 thousand in 2010.. saving methods and integrated classes and scenariopaying complexes are used and counselors and Material support is rendered to the employees physiologists are involved. a significant attention is having invalid children. in 2010 the amount of such paid to protection of a child’s rights. in addition to aid was $ 5,1 thousand. 130 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 sport activities thematic matinees and ecological one of bright events in the life of pre-s chool education is organized for the children. in the establishments is a gala-c oncert organized at the kindergartens there are colorful stands, creative Palace of culture of metallurgists within the framework playgrounds, pets' corners, sculptural compositions, of the festival of children’s creative work “How ecologic rooms; birdfeeders are suspended in the wonderful is the world”. children and adults have a nice playground areas. in a word, everything is arranged opportunity to demonstrate their creative abilities and for the children to grow in unity with nature and try talents in the visual arts, dramatic art, and music. this to adorn the earth, preserve its beauty. Ecological event is highly appreciated by the Educational Board education presupposes both caring attitude to nature of Gomel Regional Executive committee and general and being responsible for own health, conformity public. RUE “BMZ” trade union and administration with certain moral standards and rules of conduct in rendered its assistance in arranging this event. they a forest, in a meadow, small wood and garden. this support pre-s chool establishments in every possible attitude to the world to be protected is raised in the way. children from early age. its very urgent for the system of pre-s chool Since 2008 all kindergartens arrange creative education to improve professional competence of sites for the children in summer time: playgrounds, the pre-sc hool teachers. the system of pre-s chool creative, ecological, and ethnographic sites; 58 education unites over 480 employees including 226 sections and studios work which are visited by over teachers. improvement of pre-s chool education 650 children; in some kindergartens adaptation sites quality is provided for by organizing conditions for selfare arranged for the newcomers. realization and improvement of professional level of the legal education work is carried-out among the teaching staff, organization of work of methodical children and their parents. associations. Specialists summarize and share teaching experience at the republican and regional the pre-sc hool institutions implemented a seminars. teachers took part in the international system of therapeutic and educational events for scientific and practical conference «Management children’s health improvement which is directed of pre-s chool education quality: state, problems, towards creating optimal ecological, sanitaryoutlooks». Work of K.v. Rzhaev, physical training hygienic conditions in order to ensure creation of teacher, «Swimming: diagnostics and realization of positive emotional condition of children, satisfaction skills of the children of pre-sc hool age» was published of every child’s need in psychological comfort via the in the republican scientific – methodical magazine flexible educational process system. «Praleska». Professional achievements of the plant’s preEfficiency of the educational process at preschool establishments are awarded in various contest: school establishments is determined by the growth • «Best Pre-sc hool Establishment» contest of the level of the all-r ound development of the arranged by RUE “BMZ”, «Professional olympus»; personality of a child together with the decrease of the • “olympia land” arranged by the regional level of the children’s morbidity rate. in 2010 the figure authorities to determine the best work for of total morbidity rate per 1000 children dropped by implementation of the olympic education. the more than 13% as compared with 2009; number of results will be summarized in July 2011. days when children stayed at home due to disease one of the pre-sc hool establishments decreased by over 11%. Health index reached 30% participates in the republican contest «Best Preagainst 23% in 2009. school Establishment». 131 Social activity Monitoring of public opinion contracts, social and economic rights established concerning social programs effectiveness by the existing legislation of the Republic of Belarus; the results of the integrated study of social• following labor and technological discipline, labor psychological climate in the structural subdivisions protection requirements, industrial safety and work teams held at the end of 2010 speak of the production sanitary; positive assessment of BMZ activity in social responsibility sphere. over 12% of the employees, • strengthening social-le gal security of the who took park in the study, expressed their opinion enterprise workers; of the quality and level of the works canteens, social security and protection, medical services at the • stabilization of the social-e conomic situation enterprise, leisure-s pending conditions, conditions in the working teams and subdivisions of the for doing sport and conducting the works cultural enterprise. activities (the satisfaction index according to the evaluation criteria made up 0,66 to 0,80 against 0,59 Guided by the Un Global compact principles 0,76 in 2009. the works sees ensuring and protection of human rights as a priority as compared to the economic results of the production activity and guarantees their EMPloyEES’ RiGHtS implementation. RUE “BMZ” opposes all the forms of carrying-out its practical activity, RUE “BMZ” discrimination and builds its activity on the basis of acknowledges the immunity of human rights and generally recognized principles and norms of the takes all the required measures for their provision and international law, standards and conventions of the protection. international labor organization, legislation of the Republic of Belarus. in 2010 the enterprise didn’t Being a socially responsible enterprise, the register any cases of gender, national, religious and works respects the interests and rights of the workers political discrimination as well as cases of using based on the social partnership principles. these forced and child labor. principles are laid in the social partnership paramount agreement – the collective agreement for 2008– Having in its structure productions with enhanced 2011 concerning all the employees and having the danger level BMZ is responsible for ensuring the following objectives: production facilities safety for the employees and the population. the works creates healthy and safe work • development of contract relations between the conditions by replacing out-da ted equipment and enterprise and its employees being the social technologies and complies with the labor protection partnership parties; legislation, international industrial safety and professional illnesses prevention standards as well • coordination of the works and employees as internal regulations. the issues of the employees’ interests during elaboration of common principles health and safety are set forth in the collective of regulating social-labor relationships; agreement. • providing the workers with working places and the works recognizes that its production activity salaries in conformity with the signed labor is connected with negative environmental impact and 132 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 takes all possible measures for minimization of such and work teams. the commission objective is impact on the population’s life activity. competent consideration of individual disputes that arise between any employee and the management RUE “BMZ” guarantees the right of trade unions regarding the issues connected to labor relations. to carry out their activity without encumbrance and during the year the commission performed continuous any restrictions as stipulated by the legislation. the work acting as an arbitrator. in 2010 13 applications of right of the employees and trade unions to participate the works employees were considered. in the result in contract regulation of labor relations is realized in of considering the applications by the commission the procedures of preparing and signing the collective 6 of them were rejected due to inconsistency of agreement, in the employees’ right to participate in the submitted claims, with reference to another 6 creation and improvement of labor conditions and the commission satisfied the employees demands occupational environment and one application presented by a work team was withdrawn because the arisen issue was solved by the management. legal regulation of labor relationships at RUE For the purpose of following and ensuring human “BMZ” is performed in conformity with the labor rights at the enterprise in conformity with the existing code of the Republic of Belarus and the collective system of the employees’ continuous training and agreement of the enterprise: personal development a great emphasis is placed on increasing the awareness level and legal literacy of conclusion of collective agreements, working all the employees. over 90% of the employees, who contracts is fulfilled taking into account the undertook professional training in 2010 studied the substantiations of production, organizational and fundamental principles of the legislation referring to economic reasons; economic, ecological or social responsibility. an employee should be informed about changes Strict and rigorous observance of human rights in the labor conditions not later than one month prior and freedoms is the foundation of modern socially to contract signing; responsible business aimed both at profit-ma king and stable development of the plant and the entire region. an employee should be informed about the RUE “BMZ” intends to comply with the legislation contract expiration, or the intent to prolong/terminate requirements and international social responsibility the contract for a new term not later than one month principles in the future prior. the notification period was increased two times since 2009. Social the works strives for prevention of labor disputes and contracts, and if there are any, it participates in PaRtnERSHiP open negotiations with the employees recognizing in order to improve moral and physiological mutual responsibility of the social partnership climate of the work team, solving the issues regarding parties. in order to ensure equal rights of the works the collaboration coordination of the management employees, conformity with the legislation of the and organizations representing the interests of various Republic of Belarus, and solving disputes, a labor categories of the employees, the works implemented disputes commission was established. it includes an «Be aware of a Human!» system since april 2005. equal number of representatives of the management in collaboration with the trade union organization 133 Social activity I see a normal social partnership of the trade RUE “BMZ” TRAdE UNION union organization and the employer, because all ORgANIZATION ideas and proposals of the trade union committee are fulfilled. Social benefits and guarantees are much wider in your Collective Agreement than at other the works establishes mutually beneficial enterprises ». relationships and develops a collective agreement L.I. Khovansky, deputy chairman Belarusian trade with the trade union organization based on the union of industrial workers norms and principles of the tariff agreement concluded between Belarusian Professional Union of industrial workers, Belarusian Professional Union of Metalworkers, the Ministry of industry of and other social organizations the works creates the the Republic of Belarus, Republican association social partnership system that is a foundation for of industrial Enterprises. the agreement sets the mutually beneficial cooperation. principles of regulating trade and socialeconomic relationships as well as guarantees and privileges for Sustaining close relationships with the the employees, mutual responsibilities and liabilities management, the Public organizations council of the parties. the aim of the agreement is joining conducts its activity at the enterprise. it acts in the together the efforts of the parties for attaining socialinterests of the employees forming an active public economic stability and competitive ability of the position of each work team member. industry organizations, increasing the employees’ the council includes the representatives of: living standard, observance of their legal rights and • trade Union organization; interests and creating the system of the employees’ • primary organization of “Belarusian Republican comprehensive social protection. youth Union” public association; the plant recognizes that the objective of the • veteran’s Union; trade union is not limited to protecting the employees’ rights and influencing labor relationships. it is also a • primary public organization “Belarusian Women’ certain indicator of the public mood. the trade union Union”; expresses the working teams’ reaction to the social • international soldiers’ organization; and economic policy implemented by the enterprise • young Specialists’ Union; and contributes to its timely adjustment. the dialogue • Foremen Union; of the management and representatives of the working • Physical culture team’s Union teams is especially important to be established in the situation when the works, as a part of the world in order to ensure the efficient realization of financial and economic system, experiences difficult the employees’ rights and establishing confidential times and seeks for the opportunities to enhance relations with all parties concerned, the Public their efficiency. organizations council keeps an active collaboration with the representatives of the regional social service centre; region and district law enforcement agencies; in their practical activity the parties are guided central regional; hospital and RUE “BMZ” clinic; legal by the principles of social partnership, such as services of the works, region and deputy of the House legal equality of the parties, compliance with the of Representatives of the national assembly of the legislation norms, considering real opportunities for Republic of Belarus elected to the parliament from performance of the assumed obligations, obligatory among the plant’s employees fulfillment of the arrangements and responsibility for the obligations assumed. 134 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 RUE “BMZ” trade Union organization unites «Today there are practically few collective 12109 people or 97.17% of the trade union agreements in our region which foresee such a membership scope. in order to observe the rights vast spectrum of social guarantees. There are 2858 and legal interests of the workers the employees collective agreements in Gomel region, but there is represent RUE “BMZ” in the regional association not a single one similar to yours ». and in the Republican trade Union committee being P.S. Shilov, members of the Regional trade Union association Deputy Chairman of Gomel Regional Trade Union council, members of the Belarusian trade Union Association Federal council. the social partnership document which • sport events allows strengthening of social-le gal security of the $88,31 thou. enterprise employees is the collective agreement. • presents for the employees’ anniversaries the agreement regulates social benefits and lump$18,80 thou. sum benefit payments, additional payments and financial awards, the size of which directly depends on • retirement presents the results of production-f inancial activity of the entire $12,09 thou. enterprise work team. this document establishes • supporting veterans supplementary, as compared to the active legislation, $18,05 thou. provisions regarding labor conditions and payment, • material support (4477 people) social and residential provision of the workers, $192,74 thou.. compensations and other privileges. the collective agreement stipulates various forms of financial payments, bonuses, awards following the results of the work during the year, for the service record, sums of the bonuses for high qualification, professional skill and others, sets guarantees and privileges for the families with children. Besides, a person is not left alone in a challenging life situation; this aid is also stipulated by the main document. despite economically challenging year 2010, the trade Union organization has significantly increased financing of the charity programs and personnel expenses. in order to comply with the collective agreement, in 2010 the trade Union committee financed the following: • allowances to parents for the birth of a child $13.43 thou.; • New Year’s presents for children $93,01 thou.; • cultural events $200,13 thou. 135 Social activity in 2010 sport staff of RUE “BMZ” became Belarus, international and regional competitions. the the winner of the republican contest for the best trade Union committee spent $20,15 thousand for organization of sport activity among primary trade financing the work of the sport school. according to union organizations of Belarusian trade Union of the results of the regional competition among sport industrial Workers. schools for children our school took the iii place. a continuously operating body of social in compliance with the program of working with partnership is the collective agreement commission younger generation, for sustaining and improvement that controls fulfillment of the obligations assumed. it of relationships between the family, school and local consists of representatives of the management and community, strengthening the family, protection of the trade Union committee. the constant dialogue maternity and childhood under the auspices of the results in reaching the agreements regarding salary trade Union committee a commission for family and issues, optimization of the management structure, school assistance has been working since 2005. ensuring healthy and safe labor conditions, Under the auspices of RUE “BMZ” trade Union implementing privileges for the employees that have committee the trade union library operates with a determined social targeting. Mainly all sections of the fund of 41 640 books. the library is a unique the collective agreement were fulfilled in 2010. one because the plant’s employees, their children, charity and sponsorship is one of the activities of and citizens of Zhlobin can always find the required the works. Being an active member of the charitable literature, or their request for a certain book can be campaign “trade unions – to children” it granted accepted, and they may get a professional advice. $10,75 thousand in 2010 to: USd 22,50 thousand from the trade union budget • Zhlobin boardingschool; were spent for purchasing new literature and decoration of the library and for subscription of 1200 • sponsored schools; veterans to periodicals. in the preceding year the 39 • “Zhlobin Regional Social Service centre”; 826 people visited the library and 140 829 books were • regional festival for handicapped children “do given out. Good”; Every year the role and influence of the trade union • disabled people union; grows. this is evidenced by a positive assessment of • other organizations. its activity in 2010 made by the plant’s employees during a comprehensive study of the social and For organization of cultural-mass events for the psychological climate in the subdivision teams. index employees, visiting theatres, concerts, trips to other of satisfaction with the activity of the trade union towns of the Republic of Belarus the trade Union organization is growing from year to year and in 2010 spent $200,13 thousand. it made up 0,59 (in 2009 0,58). one of the priority directions of the trade Union activity is creating conditions for full-f ledged physical and moral development of the works employees and younger generation. RUE “BMZ” the trade Union PRIMARY ORgANIZATION BRYU committee is a founder of a sport school for children Realization of the state youth policy by the works and young people and the children's club “Fakel”; is built on the principle of mutual cooperation with which sections are attended by over 150 children in the primary organization of “Belarusian Republican 2009 65 pupils of the sport school for children and youth Union” young Specialists’ Union, trade Union young people became winners and awardees of committee and other public organizations acting at championships and competitions of the Republic of the enterprise. the works corporate program “youth” 136 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 is carried out by conducting an open constructive «BMZ primary organization of BRYU is the biggest dialogue with the parties concerned and continuous one. It is also the largest in our country. Its work is improvement of the methods of informing, feedback organized in such a way that every young man has the and cooperation. possibility to work at the production and have a good rest, as well as take part in social activity. The system in conformity with the state strategy in youth arranged at the plant gives good results. The success policy the program implemented at RUE “BMZ” achieved by the plant allows the youth organization to sets the priorities and cooperation directions for the hold its banner high up». parties concerned with regard to creating favorable A.E. Belyakov, conditions for the development and realization of the First secretary of Gomel Regional youth’s potential in various spheres of the activity via: BRYU Committee • information support of the state in youth policy; • civil formation, spiritual and ecological education of the youth; informing and engaging young employees of • support of research and technology creativity; the plant in realization of the state youth policy of the Republic of Belarus is carried out using all available • youth cooperation and creative potential means of mass media: corporate, republican, regional development; newspapers and other sources of information. • healthy lifestyle and tourism development; Having the priority right regarding the realization of the “youth” program, the works primary organization • improvement of the youth social security of Belarusian Republican youth Union prepares protection. the photo-r eports, posters, information materials reflecting the issues of realizing state youth policy. • traditional meetings of young specialists to exchange work experience with the with the youth at present the organization has 1368 members and representatives of: that make 47% of the youth aged under 31 who work at the plant. • state agencies; number of the members • regional, town veterans’ unions of Gomel region; • young employees of RUE “Pa “Belaruskali”; 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 P r i m a r y • primary organizations of Belarusian Republican organization youth Union, establishments, organizations and of the Belarusian enterprises of the region; Republican youth Union 1132 1308 1336 1313 1368 • youth of the industrial enterprises of the Republic 439 561 of Belarus and ciS countries as part of scientific and technical conferences. 137 Social activity the most significant activities conducted by RUE vETERANS’ UNION “BMZ” youth organization in 2010 were charitable campaigns: the organization unites 1241 ex-e mployees and present-t ime pensioners, who made their contribution • “BMZ youth – to veterans”. the veterans received into establishment and development of the Belarusian congratulations and presents, they are assisted metallurgy industry. in improving of living conditions. all the organization activity was directed towards • «all children are ours». clothes were collected for enhancing the status of the elderly, social recognition the pupils of the boarding school of Zhlobin. of their destinies and life experience, participation in social life, overcoming their isolation, changing the • «Meet new year with a Kind Heart!». tickets for a idea of ageing, understanding the story of their life comic show “Pupil, study were bought by Zhlobin owing to the dialogue of generations. the veterans’ primary organization of the public association Union cooperates with the youth organizations of the of assistance for disabled children and young plant during various events: admission to membership disabled people». in BRyU, initiation into metallurgist, giving-out diplomas and premiums to the best young specialists • «We – to children» – aid to the social – pedagogical participating in scientific and technical conferences. centre of assistance for families and children in purchasing stationeries, detergents, equipment it has become a tradition to render material for the children’s room at the district hospital. support to veterans, visiting them at home, conducting the gala nights of honoring the heroes of anniversary, • «Pure nature». cleaning of the territory adjoining organization of exhibitions of gardening season the virsky artificial pond. gifts “Golden Sunflower” and work of the amateur clubs: “needlewoman”, “Music Saloon”, “chess and draughts”, “veteran choir”, “Sport club”. at the 4th republican sport rally of the trade union organizations RUE “BMZ” team won the first team the organization members don’t stand aside of place. mass events, such as works-w ide olympics in various according to the results of 2010 the BRyU kind of sport; amateur talent groups competition primary organization of RUE “BMZ” received “Song and Work Go Side by Side”; campaigns for commendation of Gomel regional BRyU organization providing material support to lower-inc ome families, for many years of cooperation and support of the handicapped children, visiting evening parties, social association Belarusian Republican youth Union concerts, hockey matches of the favorite team in the and was awarded an official letter of commendation ice Palace. of Zhlobin district BRyU for active participation in the implementation of projects and programs of Zhlobin WOMEN’S UNION BRyU organization in 2004 on the basis of the free union the works women established a primary organization “Belarusian Women’s Union” public association. the organization unites 1216 women which makes up 30,9% of the total number of RUE “BMZ” employees. the association acts considering their will and interests, cooperates 138 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 with other public organizations standing on the platform humanitarian aid in the form of clothes, foodstuffs, of democratic reforms in the Republic and contributing syringes and bandaging material. the Women’ Union to strengthening social justice and protection of the tell the stories about the women with active life stand, population, defending women’s interests and rights, who unsparingly devote a lot of time to social life, on increasing a woman’s role in social, economic, public the pages of newspaper “Metallurgist” and tv channel and cultural life. “nuance”. the Union continuously encourages the works women’s initiative in the social life sphere, make the Union priority activities are: regular proposals regarding the issues of health, labor security and conditions, promoting health of women • “Woman and production”, and their children, production and welfare culture; takes care of the family strengthening, protection • “Woman and family”, of maternity and childhood, lowincome families or families with many children, raising handicapped children. in its activity the Women’ Union applies • “Healthy lifestyle”, modern technologies. Regular sociological studies on diverse subjects are held. the site of the Women’ • “Organizational and informational work”. Union was created in the workwise computer network “inFo BMZ”. the organization has a significant work experience and many good and useful activities. they are: proposals to the collective agreement, solving UNION Of SOLdIERSINTERNATIONALISTS problems together with the town authorities, meetings with interesting people. 130 soldiersinternationalists work in BMZ structural subdivisions. issues of their labor, welfare, Members of the Women’s Union participate in health improvement are reviewed at Union meetings inspecting the production culture and labor conditions; involving the participation of the management activities for maternity and childhood protection, and trade Union committee representatives. the children health improvement and strengthening of the union works in close collaboration with international family, take part in charity campaigns. organizations giving assistance in patriotic education. the works soldiersinternationalists annually take the Women’ Union works in closely cooperates active participation in regional festival of afghan with the Regional Social Service centre. the women Songs and the activities devoted to the Memory day of of the works receive qualified legal and psychological Soldiersinternationalists assistance; there are a trust telephone line and young Family club; teacher editions, booklets and brochures regarding the issues of child upbringing and women’s issues are developed and given out to the works UNION Of YOUNg SPECIALISTS women. in collaboration with the center campaigns “do Good” for collecting soft toys, “Mothers of the over 300 young specialists work at the enterprise. town – to village children” for collecting clothes and the union considers all the issues related with young school supplies were held. collaboration with regional employees: their adaptation at the production, organization “Red cross” resulted in compilation of professional growth, research and technology activity, social passports for lowincome families and offering laborsaving work. the important part of the work is 139 Social activity enhancing business and creative activity of the youth, organizing scientific and technical conferences, young employees’ participation in such forums held at other enterprises, exchange of experience. in 2010 the young employees of the enterprise took part in the scientific and technical conferences of metallurgical industry of Russia and the Ukraine. young employees demonstrated their developments which were awarded at these events. one of the ways of realization of the longterm strategy of the staff potential development is selection and direction of young specialists to establishments to «The International scientific and technical get postgraduate education so as to train its own highconference of young specialists acquired the grade scientific staff able to successfully implement reputation of an innovative site for interested thinking the promising program of technical revamping of the people able to suggest a concrete idea aimed enterprise. improvement of the steelmaking production, solution of technical and organizational tasks, manufacturing UNION Of fOREMEN of competitive products with lower expenses ». A.N. Savianok, General director of RUE “BMZ” the Union organizes its work in close contact with the personnel services and solves urgent issues of 556 foremen of the works. the Union holds public discussion and development of recommendations regarding the enhancement of the foremen role; participation in the activities for organizing professional, ideological and economic training of firemen; considers the issues of labor and moral education of the workers, strengthening labor and performance discipline, promoting the young workers reserve implementing the program of the development of human resources and training of the manager reserve the union of foremen participated in the organization and conducting of the seminar “Efficient Foreman”, probation work of the young specialists who graduated in 2010, conferring the title of «1st and 2nd class foremen» – 82 people, summary and popularization of the best experience of the foremen – nominees and winners of the professional olympus contest. Supporting the principles of social responsibility and developing charity initiatives of the plant foremen of the plant took an active part in the campaign “doo Good – 2010” dedicated the day of disabled people. 140 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2010 UNION Of PhYSICAL TRAININg ANd SPORTS the Union solves the issues of planning, organization and conduct of sportmass work in the enterprise work team. the Union confirms the schedule of conducting sports contests, tournaments, competitions and sportive healthimprovement programs; considers the issues of their material and financial provision MONITORINg Of PUBLIC OPINION Of ThE SOCIAL PARTNERS assessment of the work of the public organizations acting at the enterprise, their influence on the working team life was given by the employees during the annual study of the social and psychological climate (the satisfaction index according to the criteria made up 0,61 against 0.59 in 2009). 141 Responsibility foR the goods pRoduced «BMZ takes care of the quality of the goods produced. General provisions This is especially impressive because quality is the priority for Michelin. During 8 years of cooperation the the products manufacturing and packaging are Belarusian plant became one of the key raw material safe for human health and environment. suppliers for us ». Laslo Istvan, the plant’s director general and its deputies Purchasing director, Michelin ensure that the liability aspects, as regards the production, are as follows: • ensuring of security and health of customers when in contract with the products; Rue “bMZ” presumes that an efficient business of steel and steel structures production should be formed on the basis of continuous enhancement of • relevant production labeling and marking; quality management, thereat providing for production with the quality meeting customers’ requirements and expectations. supporting and implementing • marketing communication with customers and the principles of social responsibility for the goods suppliers; produced, byelorussian steel Works became an active member of the central and West europe Quality leaders club since 2008. the club unites winners, • privacy of the customer employees; laureates, and finalists of the international quality tournament. • compliance with the established requirements. in order to meet the requirements of its customers both on the domestic and international markets, the during production and sales, the plant’s plant processes various grades of steel and produces management implicitly follows principle 1 of the en the following material: concast billet, sections and global compact. in compliance with principle 8 of structural shapes, pipes, steel cord, wire and steel the un global compact the plant’s management fiber. the feedstock for the production is secondary undertakes initiatives and holds activities aiming raw materials is steel scrap. at reduction of the production l impact on the environment which is covered in the section the plant’s production is in demand with the “environmental protection”. consumers, and competitive; and over 80% of the plant’s production is exported to all continents of the the plant’s management’s standpoints as per world. liability aspects are outlined in: • corporate policy; • documentation of the corporate Management system listed in this section; • code of ethics. 142 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 prodUCT life CYCle project implementation. first piercing of a hotгrolled seamless pipe took place on June 29, 2007, and at structurally, Rue “bMZ” is composed of three the end of 2008 the mill approached its designed basic production lines (steelmaking, production of capacity. rolled material and steel cord and wire manufacturing), infrastructure shops and subdivisions of the hardware production is composed of three steel enterprise’s activity management. the steelmaking wire shops, powder metallurgy and die shop, and a production includes a scrap yard and two electric container and package shop. melt shops. Acceptance, storage, classification and processing of scrap are performed in the scrap yard. the scrap yard is equipped with overhead cranes and racks used for loading material into charging baskets which are delivered to the melt shops by scrap trucks. the steelmaking production is represented by three powerful electricгarc furnaces with the capacity of 100 tons each. the steelmaking process is intensified by the application of gas and oxygen technologies. deoxidization and alloying of steel is performed in a ladle. finishing of steel chemical composition is performed in special ladle furnaces and vacuum degassers. steel is cast by three continuous casting machines; two of them being sixг strand units producing billet crossгsection 125x125 mm and one – a fourгstrand machine with 250х300 Today BMZ reached such a level of quality that allows and 300х400 mm billet crossгsections. the high tech it to compete with world steel producers of high price rolling production is represented by a modernized range. We are quite optimistic regarding the expansion smallгsection rolling mill 320, wire rod mill 150, duo of sales prospects». reverse rolling mill 850 with a set of equipment for Vyacheslav Kushnaryov, production of rolled sections, structural shapes, wire Director of BELKAPSTEELLLC. (USA) rod for various applications, and reinforcing steel against standards of germany, holland, great britain, finland, sweden, norway, Austria, poland and Russia. certification of the above products was performed by steel cord production is a most complicated the national agencies of the stated countries. slittingг scienceгintensive process which presupposes process when a product is divided into several strands production of brassгcoated steel wire diameter 0.15 was mastered which, actually, represents a new and mm out of cast billet size 250х300 mm, capable of promising direction in rolling production methods. sustaining high mechanical loads. the plant is the main supplier of such worldгrecognized tire manufactures June 2007 witnessed commissioning of a pipe as continental, Michelin, goodyear, etc. mill the equipment for which was supplied by sMs Meer, a german company. the designed capacity of Another important hardware product enjoying the pipe mill equals to 252 thou. tons per year; the keen demand is the wire for highгpressure hoses finished pipe size range varies from 21.3 to 168.3 (hose wire). With respect to automation and mm. the amount of $270 mln. was spent for this equipment level, wire production is one of the highly 143 Responsibility foR the goods pRoduced developed in the world. the plant’s specialists are of wire production output is not limited by the successfully developing and implementing new steel abovementioned assortment. the plant produces cord constructions taking into consideration global bead wire, welding copperгcoated and nonгcopperг development tendencies and tire requirements of the coated wire, dieгrolled coldгdeformed reinforcing automotive market. More than 60% of the produced wire for concrete reinforcement, spring, spoke, nail, steel cord is dispatched into 18 farгabroad countries. general purpose wire and steel fiber (anchor, wavy, the export share of the hose wire delivered to the microгfiber). farгabroad countries has always remained high and today it makes up about 90%. in order to satisfy the the plant’s infrastructure is represented by requirements of the consumer companies, Rue repair shops for power, electrical and mechanical “bMZ” specialists have developed a wide range of equipment, production provision with fluids and hose wire types beyond the project scope, including electric power, railway and transport shops, and such highгtensile and ultra highгtensile types. the range other auxiliary departments eMsг1 eMsг2 Rolling mill 320 Rolling mill 150 Rolling mill 850 pipe mill steel wire shop № 1 steel wire shop № 2 steel wire shop № 3 scheme of the main technological cycles of Rue “bMZ” 144 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 CUsTomers’ healTh and safeTY Main customers of Rue “bMZ” are machineг Quality management system of wire production building and motorгcar construction enterprises, is approved by the representatives of wire consuming hardware, tire, pipe and reinforced concrete structure companies: Michelin (france), continental plants of the neighboring and farгaway countries and (germany), goodyear (luxembourg), eaton (usA, those of the Rb. germany), Manuli (italy), parker (italy), diesse (italy), Alfagomma (italy), Knapheide (germany) and others, Rue “bMZ” is aiming at production of quality which perform the counterparty audits. goods and services, advantageous and safe for the consumers’ health. the best quality assessment of the central plant laboratory is accredited for the the plant production is its high competitive ability and compliance with iso/MeK 17025 requirements. continuously increasing sales turnover. in 2009 Republican unitary enterprise in order to provide the inner market security, «byelorussian steel Works» together with belmet safety of the citizens and environmental protection, handelgesellschaft m.b.h. (linz, Austria), its the Republic of belarus, Russia, ec countries and representative in ec countries, and in accordance some other states do not allow to import products with ReAch regulation no. ec 1907/2006 arranged which are not certified for the compliance with the the procedure of preliminary registration of the requirements of their national standards chemicals contained in its products delivered to ec in the amount exceeding 1 ton per year. production certification in compliance with the requirements of national and international standards concast billet was preliminary registered as the was commenced at Rue “bMZ” in 1991, and has product which chemical composition is considerably been successfully performed thereafter. Quality changed during further processing. All the remaining and security of the Rue “bMZ” products complying products of our enterprise refer to products not with the requirements of the national standards of subjected to chemical composition changing and not its customers is certified by conformity certificates emitting any substances during further normal use, issued in Russia, belarus, usA and most of the eu and thus not requiring registration (sVhc). All “bMZ” countries. following the results of 2010, Rue “bMZ” products do not contain substances of increased holds 47 compliance certificates for various types hazard (sVhc) of products. Quality and security of the Rue “bMZ” products and their compliance with normative the main goal of the ReAch system is to documents is systematically checked in the course of provide high level of human health and environment supervisory audits with the frequency established by protection, including promotion of alternative methods the certification rules of every certain country (1, 2, 3 of substance hazard assessment, and free turnover times a year). of substances within the domestic market of the european union, thereat enhancing the competitive confidence in the stable quality of wire ability of chemical industry of the Member states and production is ensured by the quality system existing facilitating innovative technologies introduction. at the enterprise and certified for the compliance with standard iso/ts 16949:2009. in order to inform product consumers on safe application during further processing, safety data 145 Responsibility foR the goods pRoduced 35 32Ê 30 24Ê 25Ê 25 19Ê 20 15 10 5 0 external QMs and product audits data 82 80Ê 80 «Organization of hardware production and 78 76Ê effectiveness of the quality management system are 76 highly estimated». 74 73Ê Pavel Naroda, 72 71Ê Representative of TÜV International s.r.o. TÜV Rheinland 70 Group 68 66 sheet for serial production are executed in compliance share of certified products in the total with gost 30333 and such other technicalгregulatory production output, % legal acts as established by the organization’s standard stp 840гKsMг7.5.1.2 “Management prodUCT marKinG facilities of production process. special processes. WiTh appropriaTe informaTion special characteristics of the production and special parameters of the process”. in compliance with the customer requirements, the production inspection All products supplied to the customers are with respect to radioactive safety is performed at the marked and accompanied by a quality certificate. the plant with the subsequent delivery of the relevant product marking is performed in compliance with the certificates to customers. plant regulations on the marking requirements, and includes information on the manufacturing country, packing, storing, handling operations and trade mark of the plant, supply contract number, delivery of products is performed by the personnel in consignment number, country of destination, weight compliance with the requirements of the enterprise’s and other quality information. standard stp 840гKsMг7.5.5 “production and maintenance. ensuring the production compliance. packing and shipment are in accordance with the procedure of the finished product dispatching”. requirements of the existing process documentation Materials ecologically sound and harmless for human with consideration of the requests and requirements health and environment are used for packaging. of the customers stipulated in the contract. in August 2006 a permit to use the “cЄ” mark on structural steel rolled section under the requirements of directive 89/106/СЕ and bs en 10025г2004 was for the first time received from cARes. in february 146 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 2008 tÜV noRd systems (germany) issued a new 2,5 2,1Ê compliance certificate for the right to attach the “cЄ” 2 1,85Ê marking to: 1,5 • hotгrolled seamless hollow profiles of structural 1 0,87Ê steel grades with strength groups ranging from 0,5 s235 to s355 in compliance with the requirements 0 of annexes А and b of din en 10210г1:2006 and directive 89/106/eec of the ec council for percentage of products with ce mark construction production amended by directive 93/68/eec of the european council; 89/106/ec of the ec council for building products amended according to directive 93/68/ЕС of the • hotгrolled steel bars from structural steel with ec council; the strength groups ranging from s235 and s355 in compliance with the requirements of the • steel wavy fiber for reinforcement of group i european standard din en 10025г2:2005 and concrete in accordance with the requirements of directive 89/106/eec of the european council for din en 14889г1 and plant’s specifications 993г construction production amended by directive 0/ccг2010 to 1000г0/ccг2010 and directive 93/68/eec european council. 89/106/ec of the ec council for building products amended according to directive 93/68/ЕС of the in 2010 tÜV noRd systems (germany) issued ec council. certificates for the right to apply cЄ mark on: • seamless pipes s 195t series Н and М, as well as l, l1 and l2 type at Ø 21,3mm to 165,1mm of unalloyed steel for welding and threading in accordance with the requirements of din en 10255:2004+А1:2007 and directive 89/106/ec of the ec council for building products amended according to directive 93/68/ЕС of the ec council; • steel fiber with end anchors for reinforcement of group i concrete in accordance with the requirements of din en 14889г1 and plant’s specifications 1001г0/ccг2010 to 1014г0/ccг «Quality is our basic advantage. Quality activity, 2010 and directive 89/106/ec of the ec council improvement of the management systems help RUE for building products amended according to “BMZ” be and remain a continuously developing directive 93/68/ЕС of the ec council; and renewing organization considering all changes, tendencies and risks of the environment». • steel microfiber for reinforcement of group i E.A. Peratsiahina, Quality director concrete in accordance with the requirements of din en 14889г1 and plant’s specifications 1015г 0/ccг2010 to 1018г0/ccг2010 and directive 147 Responsibility foR the goods pRoduced percentage of the goods with the cЄ mark in the mUTUallY BenefiCial production output in 2010 was 2,1 per cent . CooperaTion WiTh ConsUmers during the accounting period two remarks were of The planT’s prodUCTs received from the customers regarding labels fixed to our consumers are the most interested parties spools with bronzeгplated bead wire and errors steel for us because such cooperation is profitable for the construction indicated on spool labels of several lots. plant. Rue “bMZ” is guided by needs and expectations so as not to have similar remarks in future, additional of its customers, strives for the fullest satisfaction of control of label fixing is arranged. the above remarks the partners’ requirements in its activity. were discussed with the responsible personnel. in order to study and specify customer requirements, the plant constantly arranges meetings with its customers, studies domestic and foreign developments in the field of production quality marKeTinG CommUniCaTions improvement and work quality optimization, performs analysis of market development tendencies. Marketing strategy for the years of 2010г2015 organization of periodic meetings and discussion is aimed at maximum export buildup in all directions of problems with its partners allow the enterprise to and product groups while preserving traditional find efficient solutions of the existing and potential distribution markets and assimilating new ones, problems, realize possible product development and adhering to the maximum possible aggressive foreign optimization directions. trade policy, using established trade and economic relations, widening presence on traditional markets Work with customers is organized in compliance with absolutely new product types. with the code of business ethics and enterprise approaches to marketing standard stp 840гsMKг7.2 “processes associated with customers. procedure of the plant’s product strategy implementation: sales” 1. improvement of export infrastructure and every year following the annual work results, the diversification of export geographic structure; plant undertakes an assessment of its customers’ satisfaction with the help of feedback. customer 2. new productions development; satisfaction assessment is a part of Rue “bMZ” business and is aimed at basic problems detection concerning 3. participation in exhibitions; cooperation with customers, determination of priority directions of its activity and production optimization of 4. cooperation with international marketing networks, further development. advanced training of experts in foreign economic activity of Rue “bMZ”; it is carried out in accordance with goalгoriented order no.2 «Measures of improvement of quality and 5. pricing policy diversification competitiveness of the marketable products» and methods of processing the assessment results uM 840гsMKг04г2005 developed on the basis of tK 148 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 Rb 4.2гРг07г2002. so as to get high reliability of the «Our company is known as one of the most exacting results, the assessment if performed with consideration customers. All Michelin suppliers are best producers of the level of our customer satisfaction with similar in their branches of industry and this statement is goods produced by our competitors on the market applicable to BMZ». concerned. Laslo Istvan, Procurement manager, Michelin the diagram shows that 100% of cis customers assessed the hardware product technical documentation as «excellent» and pointed out that at present the documentation meets the requirements of the customers. 120,0 100,0 80,0 60,0 40,0 20,0 0,0 bMZ ,% competitor ,% bMZ target, at least 89,0 % Assessment of customer satisfaction with product accompanying technical documents (completeness, content and execution quality) fo 2010, % bMZ ,% competitor,% bMZ target, at least 89,0 % 120,0 100,0 80,0 60,0 40,0 20,0 0,0 Assessment of customer satisfaction with hardware products quality (functionality, technical characteristics, reliability, packing, marking) delivered to cis market, % 149 Responsibility foR the goods pRoduced 94 91,6 91,7 92 90 88,8 89,2 89,0 88 86,5 86,0 86 85,0 84 82 80 2007 2008 2009 2010 Assessment of castomer satisfaction with the metallurgical products delivered to the market of far foreign contries, % 94,0 93,0 92,0 90,0 90,0 89,0 88,0 88,0 86,5 86,0 86,0 84,0 82,0 Assessment of customer satisfaction,% BMZ target, at least, % Assessment of customer satisfaction with the pipe products delivered to the market of far foreign countries, % effectiveness of the corrective actions developed our plant came into this market a positive tendency is based on the results of 2009 assessment is proven observed in assessment of the customer satisfaction by the growth of the evaluation of the customer with our products. satisfaction with hardware product (91,7%) delivered by the plant to the far foreign country market in 2010. cooperating with its customers in accordance with the principles of the un global compact the plant stable work of the staff aimed at production does not collect any information about private life and output increase, quality improvement, product range personal data of the customer staff. there haven’t extension, and new pipe market development is been any claims related to privacy infringement since adequately appraised by our customers. since the time the plant erection. 150 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 mUTUallY BenefiCial CooperaTion WiTh The sUppliers Another equally important party concerned is our suppliers providing the plant with stock and raw materials for our production. the procurement procedure is regulated by the following acts of law: «procedure of selecting a supplier (contractor, executor) to perform state purchases in the Rb» approved by decree no. 618 of the president of the Rb dd. 17.11.2008; by the decision of cM of the «Our cooperation with BMZ counts more than 5 years. Rb no. 1987 «some issues of the state purchases» During this period strong partnership relations were dd. 20.12.2008, by general director’s order no. formed between our companies». Aleksei Vladimirovich Saratov, 85 “formation of a commission for purchases commercial director of Petromaks (St. Petersburg) arrangement” dd. 30.01.2009. (scrap supplier) Rue “bMZ” establishes honest and unbiased relations with suppliers based on reasonable pricing, • supplier consent to follow the consumer Quality recognizing license and trade rights. cooperation with Manual of Rue “bMZ”. suppliers is organized in compliance with the code of ethics and enterprise standard stp 840гKsMг the activity of customers is assessed according to 7.4 “procurement. procedure of cooperation with the following criteria: suppliers”, and supplier Manual. • meeting volume and terms of product delivery selection of suppliers is performed based on: (logistics); • study of market and supplier questioning. • compliance of the delivered product with the established requirements and calculation of the • Rating on the commodity and services market. delivered goods quality index (iQl) considering Quality of the acquired resources (services) the existence of the suppler quality system, share with consideration of data on consumer’s quality of supplies with deviations in the total number management system functioning and its efficiency in of deliveries and consideration of deviation the form of: significance coefficient (loyalty); • results of mass regular supplies without • degree of the consumer loyalty to the plant and reclamations or claims; corrective actions execution. • compliance certificates for the management supplier quality assessment is reviewed at the system and products of the supplier; plant quality meetings. • supplier obligations to respect the rights and the plant’s experts conduct supplier audits with freedoms of the citizens in compliance with the the aim to develop partnership relations, improve the principles of the un global compact; supplied products quality by means of optimization 151 Responsibility foR the goods pRoduced delivery quality logistics, loyalty to Actual data, % supplier assessment index, % % the plant % 2009 2010 excellent iQl=95,1г100 100 100 28,5 37,20 Reliable iQl=75,1г95 100 100 64,09 50,24 Acceptable iQl=30,1г75,0 85г100 80г100 4,26 4,45 unsatisfactory iQl ≤ 30* <85 <80 3,14* 8,11* *the procurement from the given suppler should be stopped criterion 2008 2009 2010 percentage of certified suppliers (supplier 44,5 58,2 44,2 assessment bulletin data ), % the results of the supplier assessment of the acceptable suppliers’ management system belarusian, Russian, german, italian, chinese, british, according to the supplier Assessment bulletin for the polish, latvian and finnish enterprises took part in the previous period. conference. general director of bMZ welcomed the participants. he pointed out that such conferences following the cooperation results and are not only a way to solve current issues, but a nice assessments, a “list of Approved suppliers” is drawn possibility to establish and strengthen personal up and agents performing deliveries are specified. contacts, get acquainted with our enterprise, and use this event for constant exchange of opinions the results of the supplier assessment are given in so as to develop and establish longгterm relations. the table below. establishment of open and transparent relations with construction of an effective model of supplier clear joint aims is an essential condition for successful cooperation and interaction allows the plant to and mutually advantageous cooperation between our implement plans and strategies, and achieve the companies. being a highly technological company targets set forth. Rue “bMZ” is guided by generally accepted business principles based on observation of ethic, legal, and so as to perfume its activity successfully, special social norms in its activity. that is why we have the right attention is paid to feedback. being an essential to expect similar business approach from our supplier». component of the plant’s policy, arrangement of feedback strengthens mutual trust, joins and unites Within the framework of the conference Rue the parties concerned from the point of view of unified “bMZ” managers made reports on directions of further public aims, values, and interests. interaction with the parties concerned and Rue “bMZ” development. Rue “bMZ” implements the principles of openness, involvement and balancing of interests and best suppliers of 2010 were awarded diplomas being guided by them it organized the first in its history and special prizes international conference of suppliers which evoked a warm response of the suppliers. Representatives of 152 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 153 coopeRAtion of the pARties • observance of the legislation and legal norms of the Republic of belarus as well as principles of the un global compact; • involvement of all elements and participants of cooperation; • disclosure of a complete and reliable information on the results in the field of economic, ecological and social activity; At present the enterprise pays much attention to the social sphere. Citizens who are not members of the • promotion of responsibility for the assumed plant’s staff also feel it. They are active participants obligations and their execution; of the events organized by Byelorussian Steel Works, and are grateful to the plant ». V.V. Khodorenko, • observance of universal norms and values; Deputy Chairman of Zhlobin District Executive Committee • formation of favorable internal and external environment; • maintaining of reasonable balance of interests of the plant cooperates with an extensive number the plant and society. of the parties concerned, which goes beyond the frameworks of its production activity. Rue “bMZ” sets forth a unified approach to the social activity Rue “bMZ” is a part of the society and it supports management, including a great majority of various civil initiatives in the field of economic, social and instruments; thereat, the principle of targeted and cultural development of the region of presence, individual approach is always preserved with respect preserving cultural heritage, national originality, to every group of the parties concerned. successful environmental protection, healthcare and welfare of business is impossible without favorable socioг the population and employees. economic environment both internal and external. investing into the development of the region of our CooperaTion presence now, we are currently creating potential for economical, social, material and spiritual growth WiTh The Civil soCieTY of thousands of people. it also means that we form a byelorussian steel Works is a townshipгforming stable and free society confident in tomorrow. enterprise defining not only the appearance but also the character of Zhlobin. throughout its history the being a socially responsible enterprise, Rue plant was involved into construction creating industrial “bMZ” cooperates with the parties concerned and social infrastructure of the town. the first facility adhering to the following approaches: built by “bMZ” was the boiler house “severnaya” commissioned in 1983. 154 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 due to “bMZ”, Zhlobin takes advantage of 5 Rue “bMZ” is searching for optimal correlation of educational schools, 9 nursery schools, 7 stores, a its social obligations and actual potential, maintaining restaurant, a hotel, children's department for 120 balance between the needs of the region and people and surgical building for 240 patients of the business concerns. What for its practical activity, the regional hospital. for a convenient highroad service, plant creates relationship with the civil society with a viaduct over the rail track was build connecting two due consideration of the results of the comprehensive parts of the town. research “plant and its employees as viewed by the townspeople”. Annual multidimensional research is carried out with the purpose to study the opinion of the townspeople within the region of the plant’s there was time when we had no stable reception presence as concerns the degree of bMZ influence of the republicans and regional tV programs. this on the vital activity of the region. problem was solved with the help of a relay station installed by the plant. liberators’ square became a steady development of the region of presence real adornment of the town. A new building of school is an important component of the plant development no.1 was built by the plant as well as sport centre with strategy aimed at solving of priority tasks within the a skating rink and an aquaгpark. field: the town streets were renewed, convenient • assistance to the steady development of the transport communication of the developing territory of presence; “metallurgic capital” is assured by 3 viaducts. today Zhlobin is a rapidly developing town with modern districts, various sport and cultural facilities. • maintaining stable social and economic environment in the local communities; the plant’s management realizes that social and economic stability in the region of its presence affects the longгterm stability of business. that is why it is strategically expedient to abide by the • development of partnership relations with the corporate responsibility policy both with respect to the regional authorities and local administration; employees and with respect to the local communities. investigating the peculiarities of the social and economic development of the region of its presence, • creation of comfortable living conditions for the the plant defines the priority directions and forms of plant employees and population of the region; social activity. besides fulfilling tax obligations, Rue “bMZ” initiates cooperation with regional partners and supports programs and projects aimed at social infrastructure development. • establishment and maintaining the image of conscientious and attractive employer. helping the region, the plant thereby establishes effective relations with the local authorities and community opening opportunities to develop its business over the certain territory, to implement new projects and engage qualified personnel. 155 coopeRAtion of the pARties Charity and sponsorship bMZ policy in the field of charity and sponsorship actually helps those in need to raise their level of living is aimed at facilitation of the formation of the socially and solve major problems. accepted image of the efficiently operating and socially responsible enterprise, to affect the public Rue “bMZ” actively participates in the process recognition of the social importance of metallurgy, to of resolving of the socially important tasks on the consolidate its standing and enhance the loyalty to regional and nationwide level. the priority directions Rue “bMZ” on the part of all interactive groups and of the corporate charity and sponsorship activity are the civil society. defined as follows: ecology, support of education, sports and social objects on the territory of the plant’s charity and sponsorship performed by the plant presence. the distribution of funds allocated by the not only facilitate the formation of its image but plant for this purpose is given in the table. category 2009 2010 sponsorship, total ($ thou.), including: 8 894,1 9 485,9 financial aid to the development of physical culture and sports in the Rb, total: 4 822,8 7 168 financing of a sport center construction in Zhlobin 269,5 2 350,5 Aid to the “hockey club cJsc” “MetallurgгZhlobin 4 163,2 3 978,0 Aid to the se “gomel Volleyball club, ltd” 363,11 839,5 Aid to outside organizations, total: 4 071,2 2 317,9 construction of the national park “prypiatsky 3 761,1 1 936,2 organizations of Zhlobin and Zhlobin district, in particular: г complete repairs of the rural cultural centre in the village of paporotnoye 310,1 г Zhlobin central Regional hospital 53,7 г Zhlobin center of hygiene and epidemiology 7,2 г repair of highways in Zhlobin 19,7 г district pc «belarusian union of Veterans of Afghanistan War» 35,8 4,7 г dAuAe «paporotnoye» 377,0 organizations of other towns within the region of presence 423,6 0 distribution of finance, directed the plant 156 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 A new direction is developed at Rue “bMZ”: of stakeholders: authorities, civil society, ecology personal participation of the personnel in charity community employees. it helped to strengthen bMZ activity. the main result of this work is mastering of reputation as a socially responsible enterprise and the mechanism of operative assistance to people. achieve the highest social and economic efficiency in 2010 plant’s workers actively participated in the from the money spent on charity and sponsorship following charity actions: «All children are ours», «do purposes. good», «We to children», etc. Results of personal participation of the employees in charity activity are According to the results of the professional contest given in the table below. “brand of the year – 2010”, Rue “bMZ” was awarded a golden medal “Active social position” in the Realization of the scheduled activities had a favorable nomination “socially Responsible brand”. impact on the plant cooperation with the main groups Amount collected name of the action (в $ США) 2009 2010 belarusian peace fund 206,3 3 533,8 Red cross society 1 229,5 1 519,1 ОСВОД 409,7 Republican public cultural action «belarus is us!» 1 007,4 «We to children» 35,5 671,6 (for the children of Zhlobin comprehensive boarding school) «do good» (dedicated to disabled people day) 2 113 396,9 «All children are ours» (funds for purchasing school accessories collected together with 105,6 the social service centre) «help our mom» (collection of funds for surgery) 4 033,2 «help lena sinilo» (fundraising for medical treatment) 532,8 for the construction of the church 1 683,1 of Martyr John the Warrior in Zhlobin for the reconstruction of the building of the local history 1 800,0 museum in Zhlobin total 9 939 9 338,5 the results of the personal involvement of staff in charity 157 coopeRAtion of the pARties CooperaTion WiTh mass media • Rue “bMZ” strives for informational openness and transparency of its activity as it understands the plant closely cooperates with the regional the importance of interaction and exchange of mass media informing the public of the results of experience with all parties concerned. in 2010 its production activity, major actions and events the following arrangements were organized and providing relevant and truthful information including took place on the basis of Rue “bMZ”: the corporate webгsite. interviews with the plant’s management are published in newspapers and • lecture “Main directions of formation of healthy magazines of the Republic of belarus. the most lifestyle in labour collectives” delivered by V.V. important events of the enterprise’s activity are all Kirilenko, professor, doctor of sociological the time covered by television. Rue “bMZ” is striving sciences, proгrector of gomel state university for informational openness and transparency of its named after p.o. sukhoi; activity realizing the exceptional importance of the interaction with mass media. • lecture “urbanization and health” delivered by e.n. chertko, deputy head doctor of the medical inВ 2010 the enterprise’s activity was covered in and sanitary division of the plant; 79 publications of printed editions (in 2009 г in 66) and in 44 video reports (in 2009–18). information • lectureгseminar «belarus in geopolitical area of the plant was given in the following newspapers and activity of the political parties and public and magazines: «sovetskaya belarussia», organizations in the Republic of belarus» «Respublika», «7 dnei», «Zvyazda, «narodnaya delivered by V.f. gigin, editorгinгchief of the gazeta», «gomelskaya pravda», «Znamya yunosti», magazine “belaruskaya dumka”; «novy dzen», «ekonomicheskaya gazeta» and magazines: «naviny tydnya», «Metallгcourier», • international scientific and practical seminar «casting and metallurgy»; as well as on the channels «outlook of Rue “bMZ” reinforcing steel fiber of state television and radio companies: «belarusian application” participated by representatives of television», «public national television», «capital scientific and business community of our country television», «lAd», «MiR», «gomel Radio». and near and far foreign countries; two times a month information about the plant • training seminar “study of leading experience performance is published on the republican webг of Rue “bMZ” in organization of ideological sites. work and work with personnel» organized for the representatives of Mozyrsol Jsc; 3 press conferences were held with representatives of mass media dedicated to: • assize board of the Ministry of industry of the Republic of belarus; • outlook of Rue “bMZ” fiber application; • ceremonial visit of a delegation of continental • Rue “bMZ” solution of environmental issues; (germany) dedicated to the 15th anniversary of the cooperation agreement; • Modern belarus: a detached view within the V belarusian international Media forum in gomel • scientific and practical seminar «stb 1777г2009 region. – the basis for power saving»; 158 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 • assize session of the standing committee on residential housing, trade, and privatization of the chamber of Representatives of the national Assembly of the Republic of belarus; • international school of studying the leading experience of steel making. belarusian steel makers and representatives of the largest Russian steel enterprises participated in the work of this school. in accordance with the principles of the un global compact Rue “bMZ” ensures free access to «In a difficult period the plant’s employees managed the information, develops external communication, to unite and keep its production. People work and get and acknowledges its readiness for open dialogue adequate salary. The enterprise makes profit and sells with the parties concerned. so as to exchange all its products. It means a lot for the region». experience in preparation of Rue “bMZ” social L.N. Apanasyuk, Chairman of Zhlobin District report in accordance with the international standard Executive Committee of the global Reporting initiative, arrangement and provision of efficient functioning of the social responsibility system in the structure of the plant’s corporate management system, representatives of of the plant development with the general social and the enterprise took part and made a presentation economic direction and interests of the country and at the regional forum of the representatives of the region of the business activity is a highly important business community of gomel region «corporate task facing the plant employees. constructive social responsibility as a factor of competitiveness interaction with the governmental bodies helps Rue and a tool of a steady social development « and at “bMZ” to find solution of this rather complicated task. the iV general Meeting of the members of the local decisions on burning issues of the social and network of the un global compact in belarus. economic development of the region, work with the youth, holding joint events, and optimization of medical care for the population are taken by the CooperaTion plant’s management and local authorities in the WiTh GovernmenTal Bodies course of monthly business meetings. Rue “bMZ” builds up cooperation with all the prospects of gomel region development, parties concerned on the basis of the following progress of the socially important programs, basic principles: respect and consideration of extension of the plant’s export policy, plans for interests, opinions and preferences, openness and designing and construction of sheet production are transparency, trust and sincerity, implicit abidance regularly discussed by the director general with the by the legislation, international and belarusian region governor A.s. yakobson and deputy primeг standards, responsible fulfillment of the assumed Minister of the Rb V.i. semashko during their frequent obligations, respect of the history, culture, traditions, visits to the plant. way of living and heritage of the people residing within the plant’s management believes that the business territory. participation of its representatives in the work of ensuring compliance of the activity and strategy elected authorities would be important for the 159 coopeRAtion of the pARties formation of parity relationships with the governmental CooperaTion WiTh sCienCe bodies and formation of the state policy. the loyalty of the region population to the plant and its employees innovative development of industry is a guarantee is proved by the outcomes of the election campaigns of economic security of belarus. the plant follows resulted in 12 plant employees being elected to local, the route of innovative development courageously regional and republican regulatory bodies: implementing new projects. the by the decision of • Zhlobin Regional deputy council – 109 persons; the state committee on science and technologies • gomel Regional deputy council – 1 person; of the Republic of belarus adopted in 2008 bMZ was included into the register of highгtech enterprises of • house of Representatives г 1 person. our country. Alongside with that, Rue “bMZ” did not provide donations in favour of any political parties or individual byelorussian steel Works established strong politicians. relations with the national Academy of sciences of the Republic of belarus. the enterprise cooperates with the institutes of powder metallurgy, hotгrolled «In spite of the crisis and difficult conditions RUE BMZ” metals, metal technology, and polymer system management finds a possibility to finance research and mechanics. scientists do a lot for bMZ developing practical works related with the development of one of special technologies. the economic effect of such the most important directions the area of construction. cooperation results in billions of roubles. Due to the funds assigned (we have been cooperating specialists of the institute of energetics of the with BMZ for two years), technical specification of 17 national Academy of science of belarus are finalizing types of fiber were developed ». their study of the enterprise from the point of view Nikolai Pavlovich Bleshchik, of power consumption. the result of this work will Honoured Science Worker off RB be formed as a perspective program of the power consumption efficiency improvement till 2013. the plant’s cooperation with science has a multifaceted character. the preparation of advanced specialists in engineering is performed together with the leading higher education establishments of the country. the affiliate of the department “Machines and technologies of foundry production” was opened together with belarusian national technical university. With the purpose of further development of the interaction with educational establishments in the field of development and realization of personnel training programs on the basis of Rue “bMZ” in 2010г 2011, it is planned to establish an affiliate of gomel state technical university named after p.o. sukhoi. 160 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 161 AnneX analYsis of TarGeT indiCes aChievemenT for 2010 2010 indices 2009 planned actual 1. pRoduction And econoMic indices 1.1 commodity growth rate in comparable prices min., % 89,6 110 114,0 1.2 level of profitability of products sols and services rendered, min., % 3,7 5,0 6,6 1.3 export, min., % 51,4 132,8 131,5 1.4 import, max., % 61,8 117 138,3 1.5 percentage of new products in the amount of industrial output, min., % 28,9 28,0 32,3 11.6 power saving index, % г3,4 г8,0 г8,0 2. QuAlity indices 2.1 level of rejects die to production shops, % fulfilled by all production shops 2.2 level of nonгconforming products 2.3 level of expenses due to defects per $1000 of the commodity output, max. % 1,63 3,7 1,92 2.4 portion of certified products in the total output, min. % 79,7 73,0 76,0 2.5 Assessment of satisfaction of external customers, min. % 93,3 89,0 93,0 to be decreased 18 2.6 Amount of claimed products as compared with 2009 by not fulfilled (10,455t) 10 % 162 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 2010 indices 2009 planned actual 3. enViRonMentAl indices 3.1 percentage of production wastes allocation in the environment per one ton of not fulfilled to be steel made as compared with decreased (1,8 % decreased by 15,8% by 2 % growth) the level of 2009. to be 3.2 Amount of recycled water supply as compared with the level of 2009 г increased 16% growth by 3 % 4. lAbouR pRotection And industRiAl sAfety indices growth 4.1 level of production traumatism with serious outcome as compared with 2009. 8 is not fulfilled allowed 4.2 improvement of conditions and provision of labour safety for the workers of the 1352 780 787 shops, persons. 5. sociAl Responsibility indices 5.1 training of managers and specialists, persons. 2578 1487 2110 5.2 professional training of workers, persons. 4015 3551 4163 5.3 general satisfaction of the personnel, min., % 72 72 72,4 5.4 salary growth rate, max., % 98,2 107,6 113,5 5.5 employee turnover, max., % 1,63 2,5 2,4 163 AnneX lisT of aBBreviaTions Api American petroleum institute – nonгgovernment us organization carrying research works in oil and gas sector. gRi global Reporting initiative – independent nonгcommercial organization which mission is development and distribution of unified principles of accounting in the area of stable development in the world first of all with the help of stable development Accounting Manual. the organization was formed in 1988 and has its headquarters in Amsterdam and is managed by international experts of different organizations worldwide. efQM european foundation of Quality Management iso international organization for standardization ohsAs professional health and labour safety management systems sA 8000 social Responsibility 8000 standard bMZ byelorussian steel Works bntu belarusian national technical university bRyu belarusian Republican youth union gnp gross domestic product gost state industry standard see state educational establishment pcM “Metallurg” palace of culture ДСП electricгarc furnace cyss children and youth sports school Еu european union uWRb unified WageгRate book ZMf Zhlobin Meat factory hb housing board infoгbMZ bMZ information system кg kilogram cMs corporate management system pc purpose cources MAZ Minsk automotive plant MsAi Moscow steel and Alloy institute ccM continuous casting machine min million bin billion mm millimeter Medical dpt. МТZ Minsk tractor plant ifAs international finance Accounting system nAs national academy of science np national park 164 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 iid information and ideological department uno united nations organization osd labour protection dpt. isd industrial safety dpt. ods ozoneгdepleting substances QMd Quality management department dust removal unit Mpl Maximum permissible level pA production Association Rb Republic of belarus M&s Managers and specialists Rue Republican unitary enterprise “byelorussian steel Works” “bMZ” Rf Russian federation СМ council of Ministers MM Mass media cys union of young specialists cis commonwealth of independent states Rss Rolling section shop ste plant’s standard stb belarusian standard sWs steel wire shop eMs environment management system lsMs labour protection system usA united states of America tR typical regulations ts technical specifications t.e.t. ton of standard fuel thou. thousand feR fuel and energy resources dep& oc department for environmental protection and occupational sanitation pthc physical training and healthcare centre ceu central and eastern europe Rsps Refractory scrap processing shop efs electric furnace shop 165 AnneX TaBle of sTandard Gri reporTinG ComponenTs (G3) gRi Reference description item in the report, page 1. strategy and analysis declaration by the director general and the chairman of the board of 1.1 2г3, 18, 26 directors 2, 3, 6г9, 18г19, 25г27, 64, 66, 67г69, 71, 72, 74, 91г92, 1.2 description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 94, 101, 108, 115, 119, 120г 132, 154г157, 158г159, 160 2. entity’s details 2.1 entity’s name 34 2.2 Major brands, types of products and(or) services 2г3, 12, 34 entity’s functional structure, including major divisions, operational 2.3 35, 143 companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 2.4 entity’s head office location 4, 34 countries (regions) of entity’s activities, which have most significance in 2.5 34, 39 terms of sustainable development issues covered within the report 2.6 pattern of ownership and form of incorporation 34 Markets entered by the entity (including geographical breakdown, service 2.7 3, 36, 37, 70 sectors, consumer and beneficiary categories) entity’s scope: • number of employees; 2.8  • net sales (for private sector entities) or net proceeds (for stateг  owned entities); 3, 23, 29, 35, 39, 66, 99г103  • total capitalization with breakdown by borrowed and own funds (for  private sector entities);  • quantitative details of production or services provided; • total assets cost Major changes in entity’s activities and(or) its property structure which occurred within the reporting period, including: 2.9 • establishing, closing and expansion of enterprises;  2, 36, 37 • changes in share capital structure and other actions implemented to  form, maintain or alter share capital (for private sector entities) 38, 43, 44г45, 82, 103, 111, 2.10 Awards for the reporting period 125, 126, 139, 157 166 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 gRi Reference description item in the report, page 3. report parameters 2.geneRAl RepoRting dAtA 3.1 Reporting period (i.e. financial/calendar year) for reported data 2, 4 3.2 publication date for the last of previous reports (if any) 4 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biannual, and etc.) 4 3.4 contact details for issues in connection with the report and its contents 4, 59 RepoRting scopes And liMits Reporting content identification procedure, including decisions on reporting 3.5 relevance and priorities as well as specification of interested parties to be 4, 51г52, 58г60, 133г141 considered as potential report users Reporting limits (countries/ regions, divisions/ facilities/ joint ventures/ 3.6 4 subsidiaries) 3.7 specify any scope restrictions or reporting limits 4, 52 grounds for inclusion of data on joint ventures, subsidiaries partially owned by the entity, production facilities lease, partial transfer of functions to З.8 4 outside contractors and other circumstances of substantial influence on consistency with previous reports and/or reports by other entities Measurement and calculation methods, including proposals and methods 3.9 4 used to obtain indices and other data incorporated in the report details of nature and meaning of any amendments to information contained in previous reports together with grounds for any such amendments (i.e., 3.10 4 mergers/acquisitions, changes in reporting periods, nature of business, evaluation methods) significant changes as compared to previous reporting periods with regard 3.11 4 to scope, limits and measurement methods applied within the report tAble of gRi contents 3.12 A table indicating arrangement of standard reporting components 4, 166г176 167 AnneX gRi Reference description item in the report, page VAlidAtion policy and practical approaches applied for independent validation of the 3.13 report (if validation record is not enclosed to the report) 4. management, responsibilities and interaction with interested parties MAnAgeMent entity’s management structure, including principal committees forming senior management bodies, which are responsible for specific tasks, for 4.1 35, 48г51, 52 example, strategy development and general supervision over the entity’s activities specify whether the chairman of the top management body is simultaneously the company’s executive manager (in case the answer 4.2 52 is “yes”, define the manager’s functions within the entity’s management structure and reasons for circumstances as above) for entities with unitary boards of directors specify numbers of independent 4.3 members in senior management bodies and/or member not included into 52 the company’s executive management Mechanisms which could be used by shareholders or entity’s employees 51г57, 74, 91, 92, 119, 132, 4.4 to direct activities of senior management bodies or to give any 134, 135, 136, 140 recommendations to those dependence of payments (including termination benefits) to members of 4.5 senior management bodies, top managers and executive managers on the 49, 52, 110, 111 entity’s performance (including social and ecological effectiveness) Active senior management body processes intended for prevention of 48г51, 52, 58г60, 74, 97, 4.6 conflicts of interests 102г103, 133, 136, 142 Qualifying and competenceгdefining procedures for members of senior 4.7 management body essential to determine the entity’s strategy on economic, 49, 52, 102, 142 ecological and social issues 3, 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 18г19, 26, Message, declaration of values, corporate governance codes and 49, 51г52, 56, 60, 64, 72, 73, principles elaborated inside the entity, which are of significance in terms 4.8 74, 78, 81, 82, 92, 97, 98г99, of its economic, ecological and social effectiveness as well as their 102, 103, 110, 112, 114, implementation stages 115, 116, 120, 122, 145, 151 procedures used by the senior management body to supervise evaluation 4, 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 19г 20, 32, and management of economic, ecological and social effectiveness by the 38, 48г51, 51г52, 59г60, 65, 4.9 entity, including activities concerned with identification and management 67, 72, 74, 78, 81, 97, 98г99, of risks and opportunities and adherence to or providing compliance with 102, 103, 104г105, 109, 112, international standards, corporate governance codes and principles 116, 132, 137, 142, 143, 145 168 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 gRi Reference description item in the report, page 6, 7, 8, 10г11, 12г14, 19г20, 23, 32, 38, 49, 51г52, 57, procedures for evaluation of its own effectiveness by the senior 58г60, 63, 65, 66, 67, 72, 74, 4.10 management body, in particular, with regard to entity’s economic, ecological 78, 81, 98, 102, 109, 112, and social performance 116, 141, 142, 145, 148г150, 151г152 pARticipAtion in eXteRnAl initiAtiVes 2, 6, 7, 10г11, 12г14, 18, 25г27, 28г29, 32, 35, 52, 58, explanations as to whether the entity applies the precautionary principle and 4.11 59г60, 67г69, 72, 74, 78, if yes, then how 111, 112, 115, 148г150, 152, 154г160 Voluntary economic, ecological and social charters, sets of principles and 10г11, 12г14, 18, 52, 78, 4.12 other initiatives elaborated by third parties and joined and supported by the 86, 90, 134, 148г150, 152, entity 154г160 10г11, 12г14, 16г18, 52, 58, Membership in associations (e.g., industryгspecific) and/or national and 4.13 134г136, 137, 148г150, 152, international organizations for interest protection 154г160 6г9, 10г11, 12г14, 18, 52, 4.14 list of interested parties interacting with the entity 58, 107г108, 133г134, 148г 150, 152, 154г160 6г9, 10г11, 12г14, 16г18, 52, grounds for identification and selection of interested parties for further 4.15 58, 70, 78, 99, 108, 133г134, interaction 148г150, 152, 154г160 2, 6г9, 10г11, 12г14, 16г18, Approaches to interaction with interested parties, including interaction 28г29, 52, 54, 58, 63, 64, 78, 4.16 frequency by forms and interested parties 108, 133г141, 148г150, 152, 154г160 2, 6г9, 10г11, 12г14, 18, Key issues and interests raised and revealed in the course of interaction with 28г29, 54, 58, 59г60, 78, 4.17 interested parties and the way the entity accounted for these issues and 107г108, 133г141, 148г150, interests 152, 154г160 indices of economic effectiveness econoMic effectiVeness produced and distributed economic value, including profits, operating 9, 65, 66, 108, 110, 112, 114, expenses, payments to employees, donations and other communityг ec1 120, 129, 135, 136, 138, designated investments, undistributed profits, payments to capital suppliers and states (basic) 154г157 financial aspects and other risks and opportunities for entity’s activities in ec2 6, 7, 19, 24, 67г69, 82, 88 connection with climate change (basic) ec3 securing entity’s obligations concerned with pension schemes (basic) 122, 130, 135, 138 169 AnneX gRi Reference description item in the report, page ec4 financial support provided by public authorities (basic) 69 MARKet pResence Reference wages to established minimum wages ratio in major regions of ec5 110г111, 112г113 entity’s activities (basic) practical approaches to purchasing from local suppliers and share of such ec6 151 purchases in major regions of entity’s activities (basic) procedures for employment of local population and number of senior 29, 98, 99, 101, 103г105, ec7 managers employed from locals in major regions of entity’s activities (basic) 108 nonгdiRect econoMic iMpActs development and impacts of investments into infrastructure and services 18, 25г27, 66, 82, 108, 117, ec8 provided by the entity for the society’s benefits in the form of commercial, 121г132, 136, 138, 143, natural or charitable participation (basic) 154г157, 160 18, 25г27, 66, 82, 108, 117, ec9 details of nonгdirect economic impacts, including impact areas(additional) 121г132, 136, 138, 143, 154г157, 160 indices of ecological effectiveness MAteRiAls en1 used materials, with mass or volumes indicated (basic) 34, 80 en2 share of materials which are recycled or reclaimed wastes (basic) 80 eneRgy en3 direct energy use with indication of primary sources (basic) 81, 83, 88 en4 nonгdirect energy use with indication of primary sources (basic) 81, 83, 88 energy saved by implementation of energyгsaving actions and measures on en5 81, 83, 88 enhancement of energy efficiency (additional) initiatives on provision of energyгefficient products and services or products en6 and services produced with use of renewable energy and resulting reduction 26, 81, 83, 88, 92 of energy consumption initiatives on reduction of nonгdirect energy consumption and results en7 26, 81, 83, 88, 92 achieved (additional) WAteR en8 total water takeгoff with breakdown by sources (basic) 89г90 Water sources significantly influenced by the entity’s water takeгoff en9 89г90 (additional) 170 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 gRi Reference description item in the report, page en10 share and total volume of recycled and recirculated water (additional) 2, 89г90 biodiVeRsity location and acreage of lands owned, rented or managed by the entity, en11 which pertain to natural areas of protection and areas with biodiversity of 74г79, 80 appreciated value beyond or adjacent to those (basic) details of significant impacts on biodiversity at natural areas of protection en12 and areas with biodiversity of appreciated value beyond those, resulting 74, 76, 80 from activities, production and services (basic) en13 preserved or restored wildlife habital areas (additional) 74, 76, 80, 92, 138 strategies, implemented actions and future prospects with regard to en14 74, 76, 80, 92 biodiversity impacts management number of species included into the Red list of the international union for conservation of nature Resources and the national list of species under en15 74, 76, 80 protection whose habital areas are located within areas of entity’s impacts, with breakdown by hazards to species existence (additional) eMissions, dischARges And WAstes total direct and nonгdirect greenhouse gases emissions with their masses en16 85г88 (basic) Miscellaneous significant nonгdirect greenhouse gases emissions with their en17 85г88 masses (basic) initiatives intended for reduction of greenhouse gases emissions and results en18 2, 26, 85г88, 92 achieved (additional) en19 ozoneгdepleting substances emissions with their masses (basic) 85г88 Air emissions of nox, sox and other pollutants of significance with types en20 85г88 and masses (basic) total discharges with indicated waste water quality and the receiving n21 89г90 facility(basic) en22 total waste with breakdown by types and utilization methods (basic) 90г91 en23 total quantities and volumes of major spillages (basic) 90 Masses of transported, imported, exported or treated waste referred to as en24 90 “hazardous” as per Annexes i, ii, iii and Viii to basel convention (additional) 171 AnneX gRi Reference description item in the report, page ownership, size, protection status and biodiversity value of water bodies en25 and associated habital areas which are significantly influenced by entity’s 89г90 discharges and land runгoff from facilities within its premises pRoduction And seRVices initiatives intended for mitigation (reduction) of environmental impacts en26 26, 86, 90, 92, 146 associated with products and services and results achieved (basic) share of sold production and its packing materials returned for recycling by en27 90 producer with breakdown by categories (basic) coMpliAnce Monetary value of major fines and total nonгfinancial sanctions imposed for en28 94 incompliance with ecological legislation and regulatory requirements (basic) tRAspoRt Major environmental impacts associated with shipments of products and en29 other goods and materials used in entity’s activities as well as with personnel 85г88 transportation (additional) geneRAl total environmental expenses and investments with breakdown by types en30. 92, 93г94 (additional) effectiveness indices for approaches to labour management and establishing of good working environments eMployMent total labour forces with breakdown by employment types, employment lA1 99 contracts and regions (basic) total employees and labour fluctuations with breakdown by age groups, lA2 100 sexes and regions (basic) payments and bonuses provided for fullгtime employees, which are not lA3 110, 135 available to partгtime or temporary employees (additional) eMployeesгAdMinistRAtion RelAtions lA4 share of employees covered by trade union contracts (basic) 132г133, 134г136 Minimum notice period (periods) with regard to major changes in entity’s lA5 activities and information as to whether the above was established in the 132, 133 trade union contract (basic) 172 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 gRi Reference description item in the report, page heAlth And occupAtionAl sAfety total share of personnel in official joint healthcare and safety committees involving administration and entity’s employees, who participate in lA6 117г118, 119, 139 monitoring activities and work out recommendations on healthcare and occupational safety programs (basic) occupational traumatism, occupational diseases, lost days and absence lA7 from work ratios, and total workгassociated lethal cases with breakdown by 117 regions (basic) current educational, training, consulting, prevention and risk monitoring 55, 106, 118, 119, 122, 127, lA8 programs and programs intended for support of employees, their families 130, 139 and community representatives with regard to serious illnesses (basic) Representation of healthcare and safety issues in official agreements with lA9 122, 132г133, 134г136 trade unions (additional) tRAining And educAtion Average annual training hours per employee with breakdown by employee lA10 105, 107 categories (basic) skills development and educational programs intended for employment lA11 91, 99, 102, 103г105, 118 motivation of employees and their retirement support share of employees regularly involved in evaluations of effectiveness and lA12 102 career progress diVeRsity And eQuAl oppoRtunities Management bodies makeгup and entity’s personnel with breakdown by lA13 sexes and age groups, indication of minority groups and other diversity 100, 111, 112 indices (basic) Men’s to women’s wages ratio with breakdown by employee categories lA14 111, 112 (additional) 173 AnneX gRi Reference description item in the report, page effectiveness indices: human rights inVestMent And pRocuReMent pRActices share of major investment agreements involving provisions on human rights hR1 93 protection or evaluated with regard to human rights (basic) share of major suppliers and contractors evaluated with regard to human hR2 145г148, 150 rights (basic) forms of personnel training on policies and procedures concerned with hR3 human rights protection aspects essential in terms of entity’s activities as 106, 118, 130, 133 well as quantities of employees involved in those (additional) nondiscRiMinAtion hR4 total discrimination events and actions in connection therewith (basic) 111, 132г133 fReedoM of AssociAtion And collectiVe bARgAining Activities in terms of which rights to freedom of association and collective hR5 bargaining can be subject to substantial risks and actions taken to ensure 120, 132г133, 134 those rights (basic). child lAbouR Деятельность, в рамках которой имеется значительный риск случаев hR6 использования детского труда, и действия, предпринятые для участия 132г133 в искоренении детского труда (основной) foRced And coMpulsoRy lAbouR Activities in terms of which there is a substantial risk of possible child labour hR7 132г133 use and actions taken to eliminate child labour (basic) secuRity AppRoAches Activities in terms of which there is a substantial risk of forced and hR8 compulsory labour and actions taken to eliminate forced and compulsory 132г133 labour (basic 174 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 gRi Reference description item in the report, page Rights of nAtiVe populAtion And MinoRity peoples share of security service employees who completed training courses on hR9 policies and procedures in connection with human rights associated with 111, 132г133 current activities (additional) effectiveness indices with regard to interaction with interested parties coMMunity programs and practical approaches to evaluation of impacts on local 59, 73, 78, 81г83, 90, 91, 92, so1 communities associated with entity’s activities and impact management, 136, 138, 155 covering initial, implementation and final stages (basic) coRRupt pRActices share and total number of business units evaluated with regard to risks so2 59г60 associated with corrupt practices share of employees who completed training courses on the entity’s so3 59г60, 106 anticorruption policies and procedures (basic) so4 Actions taken to prevent corrupt practices (basic) 59г60, 102 stAte suppoRt Attitude towards the state policy and participation in its formulation and so5 59г60, 148г150, 152 lobbing (basic) total donations (in physical and money terms) to parties, policies and their so6 160 associated organizations with breakdown by countries (additional) hindeRing coMpetition practical approaches to prevention of monopolistic practices and respective so7 59г60, 148г150, 152 achievements (additional) coMpliAnce 60, 64, 65, 66, 69, 74, 78, 90, so8 compliance with legislation and regulatory requirements (basic) 91г92, 105, 115, 119, 132, 133, 136, 145, 154 175 AnneX gRi Reference description item in the report, page effectiveness indices: responsibility for production consuMeRs’ heAlth And sAfety product life cycle stages at which product associated health and safety pR1 impacts are evaluated to identify improvement opportunities and share of 115г117, 142г145 major products and services subject to such procedures (basic) compliance with regulations and voluntary adopted codes concerned with pR2 115г117, 142г152 health and safety impacts by products and services (additional) MARKing of pRoducts And seRVices types of information on properties of products and services as required pR3 by procedures and share of major products and services covered by these 142г152 information requirements (basic) Regulations and voluntary codes concerned with informing about properties pR4 142г152 of products and services and their marking (additional) practices relating to consumer satisfaction, including results of evaluation pR5 142г152 studies on consumer satisfaction (additional) MARKeting coMMunicAtions programs intended to provide for compliance with legislation, standards pR6 and voluntary codes in the field of marketing communications, including 37, 66, 126, 142г152 advertising, product promotion and sponsorship (additional) compliance with regulatory requirements and voluntary codes concerned 37, 108, 126, 142г152, 154, pR7 with marketing communications, including advertising, product promotion 155, 158г159, 160 and sponsorship (additional) consuMeR’s pRiVAcy total justified claims concerned with violations of consumers’ right to privacy pR8 142г152 and loss of consumer data (additional) coMpliAnce Monetary value of major fines imposed for incompliance with legislation and pR9 regulatory requirements concerned with provision and use of products and 142г152 services table of compliance with gRi components and indices was prepared based on guide on Reporting in the field of sustainable development by the global Reporting initiative (edition 3). 176 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 dear readers!  you have just familiarized yourselves with the social Report of Rue ”bMZ.” your opinion of this document is very important to us, and in subsequent Reports we will do our best to take into account your remarks and proposals. please, fill in the form and send it by fax: + 375-2 334-5 -5 4-2 6;+ 375-2 334-2 -4 2-6 1; + 375-2 334-3-16 -35 or by mail marked “social report 2010” to the following address: 37 promyshlennaya st., 247210, Zhlobin, Gomel region you can also send this form by eгmail to the following address: (secr.dpir@bmz.gomel.by) 1. To which group of stakeholders do you belong? г public authorities  г community representative  г investor  г partner  г client г employee   г other group of stakeholders ___________________________________________________ 2. how do you rank the social report in terms of its completeness? high  Adequate  low  3. how do You rank the social report in terms of reliability and objectivity of the data represented in it? high  Adequate  low  4. how do you rank the social report in terms of convenience of search of the required information? high  Adequate  low  5. how do you rank the design of the social report? high  Adequate  low  6. has the social report provided for a comprehensive picture of the activities carried out by rUe “BmZ” in the field of sustainable development from your point of view? yes, completely  yes, partially  no, not completely  no, not at all  7. please, give your evaluation as to what extent the following sections of the social report drawn up  by rUe “BmZ” were interesting to you, up-t o-d ate and complete (rate from 1 (low) to 5 (very high)) bMZ and global economy’s instability  `plant description  belarusian metallurgy  economic activity  details of key impacts, risks  ecological activity  Management, obligations and interaction with interested parties  social activity  Responsibility for produced goods  interaction of parties  8. has the social report changed your attitude to the activities of rUe “BmZ”? yes, my attitude has substantially improved  no, my attitude has not changed  yes, my attitude towards Rue “bMZ” has changed for the worse  9. What information presented in the social report is most interesting for you? ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ 10. What activities of rUe “BmZ”, in your opinion, require improvement in terms of social responsibility enhancement? ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ 11. What information would you like to see in social reports of rUe “BmZ” in the future? ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ Thank you for your cooperation! rUe “BmZ” 177 Remarks content 1. general director’s Appeal 2 2. introduction to the third report 4 3. Metallurgy: attainment of new gains 6 4. participation of the scientific potential of the republic in the development of the steel making facility 10 5. Metallurgy of belarus 12 Aims and tasks of the reformation of the branch 12 development strategy 13 6. characteristics of dominant influences, risks and opportunities 16 dates and events of sustainable development 16 strategy and mission 18 principles of strategy realization 19 strategy and targets of sustainable development 21 targets of the plant for mediumгterm development outlook 22 chronology of new product types mastering 23 stages of production volumes increase 24 Methods of investment projects development 25 influence of the plant on social and economical development of the region of its business activity 28 targets and objectives of investment projects 29 Risk management 32 7. description of the plant 34 general information 34 description of the major structural divisions 34 organizational management structure 35 competitive advantages of Rue «bMZ» 35 Approaches ensuring stable development 35 perspective directions of sales activity 38 World market trends 41 dates and events of 2010 42 general information about achievements and awards 44 8. Management, responsibilities, interaction with interested parties 48 corporate management 48 communication 51 Approaches in the field of communication formation 51 180 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 Approach implementation 52 participation in external initiatives 58 interaction with interested parties 58 social safety and discipline 59 9. effectiveness indices in the field of social responsibility 63 corporate social responsibility 63 9.1 economic activity 64 financialгeconomic activity 65 economical effectiveness 65 Main indices 65 profit 66 payment to the owner 66 taxes and compulsory payments 66 enterprise’s risks 67 investment risks 67 branch risks 67 country and regional risks 68 legal risks 69 industrial safety, labor protection, ecological risks 69 financial support provided by the government 69 presence in the markets 70 Mediumгterm targets of the plant 71 9.2 ecological activity 72 ecological policy 72 Main principals and approaches 73 implementation of ecological strategy 74 Minimizing the plant’s impact on the region’s vital activities 74 Minimizing of the plant’s impact on the flora and the fauna 74 efficient use of natural resources 80 efficient use of energy resources 81 Air basin protection 85 Water basin protection 89 utilization of industrial wastes 90 training 91 improvement of the ecological culture of the personnel 91 181 content development and implementation of resourceгsaving, lowгwasted and environmentallyгsafe technologies 92 expenses for environment protection and monitoring. ecological payments 93 Mediumгterm targets of the plant 94 9.3 social activity 97 labor relations and adequate labor 98 personnel management policy 98 Main principles and approaches 98 description of the personnel 99 professional and career development 103 training and education 105 Motivation system 110 Material stimulation 110 immaterial stimulation 114 shortгterm targets in the field of social responsibility 115 labor protection and ensuring of industrial safety 115 improvement of work conditions 117 training and competence evaluation 118 social control of observance of human rights in the field of labor protection 119 social programs 120 social package of benefits and guarantees for the staff 121 health protection 121 effectiveness of medical and sanitary programs 123 sanitation and rest time of the employees and their families 124 physical culture and sport development 124 cultural life of the plant employees 126 solving of employees’ housing problems 129 support of large families 129 social support of unemployed pensioners, invalids and other categories of lowгincome people 130 concern for children 130 Monitoring of public opinion concerning social programs effectiveness 132 employees’ rights 132 social partnership 133 182 BYelorUssian sTell WorKs soCial reporT 2010 Rue «bMZ» trade union organization 134 primary organization bRyu 136 Veterans union 138 Women union 138 union of soldiersгinternationalists 139 union of young specialists 139 union of foremen 140 union of physical training and sports 141 Monitoring of public opinion of social partners 141 9.4 Responsibility for the goods produced 142 general provisions 142 product life cycle 143 customers’ health and safety 145 product marking with appropriate information 146 Marketing communications 148 Mutually beneficial cooperation with the customers of plant’s products 148 Mutually beneficial cooperation with the suppliers 151 9.5 cooperation of the parties 154 cooperation with the civil society 154 charity and sponsorship 156 cooperation with mass media 158 cooperation with governmental bodies 159 cooperation with science 160 AnneX 162 Analysis of target indices achievement for 2010 162 list of abbreviations 164 table of standard gRi reporting components (g3) 166 feedback questionnaire 177 Remarks 178 183
