2010 Baosteel CSR Report Overview About This Report This is the third report on social responsibility ever published by Baosteel Group Corporation (Baosteel or Corporation for short). The Report has been compiled in accordance with the Guidelines for Social Responsibility Performance by Central Enterprises (Document No. 2008-01) issued by the StateOwned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3 version) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, the theoretical research achievements of the Guidelines of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences for the Compilation of Social Responsibility Reports by Chinese Enterprises, and Baosteel’s practical conditions. Coverage Unless otherwise specified, this Report mainly describes Baosteel’s corporate governance, value creation, environment, employee, community and supply chain from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010. This Report covers the business segments of iron and steel, resource development and logistics, extended steel processing, engineering and technical services, coal chemical industry, finance and investment, and production services (see the following part for details on business sections and company profile). Language and Format This Report is published in Chinese and English. If the two versions differ, the Chinese version shall prevail. If you has any question about this Report, please call or write to us in the following ways: Corporate Communication Dept Baosteel Group Corporation Room 2105, Baosteel Tower, 370 Pudian Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China Postcode: 200122 Tel: +0086 21 58350000-1064 Fax: +0086 21 68403773 Email: csr@baosteel.com This report is published in the formats of print and electronic document. The electronic document can be downloaded from Baosteel website (http://www.baosteel.com). Address by Leaders Supply-chain Performance TABLE OF CONTENTS Address by Chairman 2 Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) 45 Address by President 4 Environment-friendly Products 45 Develop with Suppliers 46 Company Profile Customer Relation Management and Quality Service 47 Brief Introduction 6 Corporate Leadership 7 Baosteel Contributed More Than Iron & Steel to Organization Structure 9 the World Expo 48 Corporate Vision and Goal for the New-round Development Strategy 10 Key Performance Indicators in 2010 10 Subsidiaries’ CSR Social Responsibility Management Primary Operation: Iron & Steel Responsibility Governance 12 Baoshan Iron and Steel Co., Ltd. 52 Responsibility Promotion 13 Baosteel Group Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. 53 Responsibility Communications 14 Ningbo Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. 54 Foundation of Social Responsibility Resource Development & Logistics Baosteel Resources Co., Ltd. 55 Faithful Operation Corporate Governance 19 Extended Steel Processing Overall Risk Management 20 Baosteel Metal Co., Ltd. 56 Sound Audit System 20 Anti-corruption Campaign 21 Engineering & Technology Services Baosteel Engineering & Technology Group Co., Ltd. 57 Value Creation Direct Economic Performance 23 Coal Chemical Industry Merger & Reorganization 23 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Chemical Branch 59 Promote Economic Construction and Development through Major Projects 24 Technological & Management Innovation 25 Financial Investment Industry Fortune Trust & Investment Co., Ltd. 61 Environmental Performance Environmental Management System 27 Production Services Construction of Key Energy-Saving and Environment-Friendly Projects 28 Baosteel Development Co., Ltd. 62 Environmental Landscaping 28 Baosteel Group Shanghai Meishan Co., Ltd. 63 Major Tasks in 2010 28 Environmental Management Performance 31 Baosteel Group Corporation Subsidiaries 64 Priorities of Social Responsibility Appendixes Employee Performance Employees’ Performance Indicators 33 Highlights 2010 Awards 65 Remuneration & Welfare 34 Major Events 66 Employee Development & Training 35 Communication between Employees and the Company 36 Harmonious Relations 37 GRI Indicators 69 Social Performance Feedback Form 70 Social Contribution 41 1 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Address by Chairman Chairman: Xu Lejiang 2 Address by Leaders 2010 is the last year of the national Administration Commission of the State construct the environmental management Eleventh Five-year Planning and also Council, in particular in response to the mechanism, and the objective to construct the year for Baosteel to start the new international financial crisis, Baosteel a world class steel enterprise.With capacity round of planning. Facing the complex carefully implemented the package stimulus building at the core, Baosteel will adhere macro-environment and furious market plan and a wide range of policies and to the strategic thought of “competitive competition trend, the employees of measures, accelerated the response speed product + scale” and develop the serviceBaosteel met the challenge bravely, to the market, intensified the internal led manufacturing on the basis of leading Baosteel, with the care and support from synergy operation, conducted the activity technologies, so as to build a digital all relevant stakeholders, has ranked top of cost improvement, which curbed the Baosteel and become the pioneer driving among the domestic counterparts in terms downslide of the benefit indicators, took the green industry. The Corporation will of the operating result and took a front the leading position among the domestic give full play to the integration of industry rank in the world’s steelmaking sector counterparts by the operating result, and finance, and explore an operation in terms profitability. In 2010, Baosteel achieved the new significant progress road with Baosteel characteristics, and realized a business revenue of RMB273 in the reform and development, further thus propel the Corporation from good billion and a total profit of RMB24.2 billion, enhanced the vigor, control and influence to excellent. complete the production of 44.5 million of Baosteel and accordingly made The grand blueprint has been drawn tons, the Corporation ranked the 276th considerable contribution to the economic out and the route to realize it has been among the Fortune 500 in 2010, the and social development of China. Over clear. It can be forecasted that we will seventh consecutive year for such honor it the past five years, Baosteel witnessed the confront many challenges, pressure and has received, it was awarded as one of the rapid growth in the yield, profit, paid tax and restraints on the way to advance, but if “World’s Most Admired Companies”. other indicators; the accumulative yield of we take the appropriate measures, the The period of the Eleventh Fivesteel hit 169.92 million tons with the profit challenges will become the chances, the year Planning represented the extremely of RMB 121.2 billion and paid the profit pressure the power, and the restraints unusual five years for the economic and tax of RMB179.4 billion, Baosteel the space. Seizing the opportunity and development of China and also the reform realized the leaping development in terms pushing the development is not only the and development of Baosteel. Over the of the business size, variety structure, general requirement put forward by the past five years, we hitched the train of special distribution, technical innovation overall context and climate of the “Twelfth China’s rapid economic development, and soft strength and greatly enhanced the Five-year Planning” to us, but also the shared the enjoyment of successful comprehensive competitiveness. requirements posed by ourselves. Let’s hosting of the Olympic Games and the 2011 is the starting year of the closely hold together with the stakeholders World Expo, underwent the huge waves Twelfth Five-year Planning and also the first to work hard for a new leap. of the international financial crisis and complete year for Baosteel to implement encountered the severe natural disaster; the new round of development plan. Over the past five years, we firmly The new round of development plan followed various decisions made and will, under the guidance of the Scientific arrangements formulated by the Central Outlook on Development, regard it as the Government, adapted to the changes in foothold to propel the industry structure the external environment and met the adjustment, promote the transition of challenges actively under the leadership the development mode and lead the of State-owned Assets Supervision and industry development, the requirement to 3 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Address by President Director and President of Social Responsibility Committee: He Wenbo I shared my understandings to the it can go ahead on the road of sustainable nature, then utilizes and finally conquers corporate social responsibilities in the development. the nature, and the production method CSR report of last year: value creation, As we all know, the turn and change accordingly evolves from the primitive age, credible operation and environment of the times is either the substantial the agricultural age to the industrial age in improvement are the three bases, and adjustment of the “nature and human” succession. In particular, at the industrial employees, community and supply chain relation or the revolutionary change of age, new knowledge, new technology and three priorities. This year I am willing to the “human and human” relation. The new product emerge in an explosive way. discuss the thought on the future of the global warming and other environmental The amazing wealth created at an amazing steel industry. Because the globe has problems are becoming the global hotspeed also results in the sharp consumption entered a new era, the industry must make spot issues, which are actually those on of natural resources and various world adjustment in a timely manner to adapt to the relation between the nature and environment problems one after another, the requirements of the new era, so that human. The human first admires the such as the deteriorating ecological 4 Address by Leaders environment, greenhouse effect, ozone strong and high and which present broad a creative part. In Baosteel, the thought hole, and acid rain. The relation between and far views are the masterpieces of steel of environmental operation has been the human and nature comes into acute and iron. It is unnecessary to describe the accepted extensively, and it is being opposition, which causes the crisis in both role of steel and iron with flowery rhetoric. transformed into the actions of various material and spirit for modern people. In It is no exaggeration to say that steel and operation systems step by step. such a new era, the steel industry is one iron not only props up the world but also In the corporate vision announced that highly aggregates the material quality changes the world. Increasingly rigorous to the society, we promise to become the and energy. Therefore, the people always environmental requirements are indeed driver of green industry. It does not intend misjudges that the steel industry just a huge challenge for the steel industry. to show how great we are, but rather means high energy consumption, heavy Not only courage and wisdom, but also what an essential role the steel industry emission and serious pollution. unfaltering action and enough strength plays in the whole national economic However, this is not true; the are required to cope with the challenge. system, especially in the operation of the steel and iron products boast high Can steel enterprises meet the social whole manufacturing sector, as well as environmental value. Currently, the steel requirements for energy conservation what an extensive relationship it keeps and iron are indispensable basic materials and emission reduction in the future? with both the upstream and downstream for our production and life, and they are This will surely be a watershed for steel industries. We will firmly continue the way irreplaceable materials with economical enterprises to either become prosperous of sustainability, and we also hope that efficiency considering its excellent or fall down. The fact will prove that not more stakeholders can join us and make utilization performance. In a word, if we all steel enterprises can become the contribution to the technical advance of cut down the production of steel and iron winner selected by environment because, the society and improvement of the living in large scale and guarantee the modern as required by the market, only those environment of human being. Let’s witness life state with other materials, it does not enterprises with obvious advantages both together! mean the reduction of carbon emission for in cost and environment can become the the whole social and economic systems; final winner. Now, we often mention the on the contrary, this will bring much more corporate social responsibilities, but in fact, carbon emission. We can directly feel the the social responsibilities and economic value of the steel industry in our daily life: responsibilities are actually consistent and high-rise buildings constructed one after indispensable. We seek for the unification another, safe, convenient and wonderful of the two and strive for extending large-span bridges, majestic airport building our business space while meeting the complexes accessible in all directions, social requirements. Baosteel chooses rapidly developing and increasingly fast the “environmental operation”. In the high-speed railway networks, cars dashing environmental operation system, it is not on highways and oceangoing ships traveling a burden but rather a chance to satisfy the around the world… It can be said that all requirements the society for environment, buildings and man-made structures which and it is a part of the operation, probably 5 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Company Profile Brief Introduction Baosteel Group Corporation (“Baosteel” for short) is the most competitive iron and steel complex in China.The construction of Baosteel commenced in Shanghai on December 23, 1978. In 1998, Baosteel, Shanghai Metallurgical Holding Group (SMHG) and Shanghai Meishan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. were reshuffled and consolidated; In February 2000, Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (“Baosteel Co., Ltd.” for short) was founded and went public at home in December. In April 2005, the major business was listed at the stock market as a whole, and the major assets of the steel and iron were operated on an integrated basis. In the same year, Baosteel implemented the reform of equity division. Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel was reorganized in 2007. In 2008, Baosteel, Guangzhou Iron & Steel Enterprises Group and Shaoguan Iron & Steel Group were reorganized and Guangdong Iron & Steel Group Corporation was established; and Zhanjiang Steel Manufacture Base was built up at the same time of discarding backward production facilities. In March 2009, Baosteel concluded the agreement with Hangzhou Iron & Steel Group to reorganize Ningbo Steel Company. The steel business of Baosteel was based on producing hi-tech steel products with high added values. The three major product series, namely straight carbon steels, stainless steels and special steels, are widely used in industries such as automobile, home electrical appliances, petrochemical, machine building, energy and transportation, construction and decoration, metalwork, aerospace and aviation, nuclear energy and electronic devices, etc. Baosteel's products are selling well in domestic and foreign markets through the sales network around the world. It not only dominates the domestic steel plate market but also exports the quality steel products to more than 40 countries and regions including Japan, Korea, American and European countries, etc. By the end of 2010, the total assets of Baosteel hit RMB 432.1 billion and the owners’ equity was up to RMB 260.2 billion. In 2010, Baosteel registered an operation income of RMB 273 billion and the total profit was RMB 24.2 billion. By the end of 2010, Baosteel boasted 118,500 employees in total. In recent years, focusing on the chains of steel supply, technique and resource utilization, Baosteel has strengthened the integration of internal and external resources, raised competitiveness and status in the industry. It has created a business structure incorporating steel production as the main part and other related sectors like the steel & iron, resource development and logistics, extended steel processing, engineering & technology services, coal chemical industry, financial investment industry and production services. In 2010, Baosteel produced 44.5 million tons of steels, ranking the third in the steel industry in the world. Baosteel ranked the 276th among the Fortune 500 in 2010, the seventh consecutive year for such honor it has received; it was also awarded the title of “World’s Most Admired Company”. 6 Company Profile Corporate Leadership Board of Directors Chairman: Xu Lejiang Vice-Chairman: Liu Guosheng Director: He Wenbo Outside Director: Victor K. Fung Outside Director: Stephen Lee Outside Director: Wu Yaowen Outside Director: Xia Dawei Outside Director: Gan Yong Outside Director: Jing Tianliang Worker Director: Wang Jinde 7 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Senior Managers Chairman & Member of Party Standing Vice-Chairman & Secretary of Party Director, President & Member of Party Deputy Secretary of Party Committee: Committee: Xu Lejiang Committee: Liu Guosheng Standing Committee: He Wenbo Ouyang Yingpeng Vice President & Member of Party Member of Party Standing Committee: Secretary of Party Discipline Committee Vice President & Member of Party of Standing Committee: Zhao Kun Ma Guoqiang & Member of Party Standing Committee: Party Standing Committee: Fu Zhongzhe Liu Zhanying Vice President: Dai Zhihao Vice President: Zhao Xia Vice President: Zhou Zhuping Vice President: Zhao Zhouli Board of Directors Secretary: Wang Li 8 Company Profile 9 Human Resources Service Center Financial Service & Data Sharing Center Board of Directors Offices Economic Management Research Institute Vice President Talent Development Institute Capital Operating Department Safety and Security Supervision Department Energy & Environmental Protection Board of Directors Supervision Department President Audit Department Legal Affairs Department Corporate Culture Department (Corporate Communication Department) Development & Reform Development Board of Supervisors Specialized Committees Operation Improvement Department Human Resources Department Organization Structure Operating Finance Department Planning Development Department Administrative Office 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Corporate Vision and Goal for the New-round Development Strategy from 2010 to 2015 It is a new-round planning period for Baosteel from 2010 to 2015. Guided by the Scientific Outlook on Development, the new planning takes the foothold to propel industrial restructuring, promote the transformation of development mode and lead industrial development, and regards the building of environment operation mechanism as the requirement, and the building of a world-class enterprise as the goal. With competence building at the core, the planning emphasizes the robust development and actively seeks the development opportunities in the process of industrial restructuring. Core Values Integrity and Synergy Corporate mission Corporate Vision It is vision of all Baosteel people to become a world-class enterprise with first class performance based on the iron and steel industry. Become the leader in the iron & steel technology; In this respect, Baosteel is committed to: Become the driver of green industry; Become the paradigm for companies where emBecome a world-class supplier of steel products, ployees grow together with their enterprises. technologies and services. Realize Technical leadership Enhance From iron & steel to materials Service first From manufacturing to service Digital Baosteel five capabilities three transformations From China to the world Environmental operation Combination of industry with finance Key Performance Indicators in 2010 We are the leader in the Chinese iron & steel industry. The output of crude steel is 44.5 million tons, ranking top 3 in the world. The total profit is RMB 24.2 billion, accounting for 27% of the entire Chinese iron & steel industry. Baosteel is appraised as the “Most Admired Enterprise in the World” by the Fortune One of every two automobiles uses the cold-rolled automotive plate produced by Baosteel. 10 Company Profile We create an innovative stage for our employees Investment in R&D Up to 1,774 patents were applied (accepted) Chinese Top 100 RMB 5.1 billion More than 4 patents are generated in Baosteel each day, Innovationoriented Enterprises among which 70% come from the economic and Top Three technical innovation of employees. We drive the development of green industry We guide the suppliers to build the green We cherish the valuable water We cooperate closely with production system and encourage them resources on the earth and continuthe users to develop new to pass the ISO 14001 certification. ously reduce water consumption in the products. process of production. ISO14001 certification rate of suppliers New water consumed per ton steel Sales rate of new products Baosteel Co., Ltd. 1.3% than last year 18% 7% 17.6% Bayi Iron & Steel 18.7% than last year 59.0% Materials & spare parts Bulk materials Ningbo Steel than last year What we contribute to the World Expo 2010 is not just iron & steel. 93,200t superior steel products support the framework of Expo landmark building 54% of the Expo Pudong Site is built on the former site of Baosteel Group Shanghai Pudong Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. 450,000t blast furnace slag (solid wastes in the process of iron & steel production) are recycled and used for the roads and venues in the Expo Park Baosteel employees contribute to the World Expo in an all-round way, and 40 departments and 353 persons were conferred with honors. 11 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Social Responsibility Management Responsibility Governance In 2008, based on reviewing and summarizing the practices and experiences in sustainable development for many years, Baosteel proposed the guiding philosophy of “incorporating the performance of social responsibility into daily corporate business activities”, and built its social responsibility system in a systematic way.The social responsibility committee was established in the top management of the Corporation, with four promotion groups in terms of economy, environment, employee and society responsible for the specific promoting activities in various professional fields under the social responsibility system framework, and the committee formed a management system focusing on classified management and supplemented by hierarchical management. In the meantime, Baosteel Economic Management Research Institute was responsible for the sustainability strategy of the Corporation, providing cutting-edge theory research for the Corporation to perform social responsibility and achieve sustainable development. The research results were provided to the functional departments for reference, realizing the organic combination of offline research and online promotion of Baosteel’s social responsibility. This was called the Baosteel Mode. Organization Structure Social Responsibility Committee Office of Social Responsibility Committee Baosteel Economic Management Research Institute Economy Environment Employee Society Primary operation: Iron & steel Economic group Environmental group Employee group Social group Resource development and logistics Extended steel processing Engineering & Technology service Coal chemical industry Financial investment industry Production services Accepting the leadership of various promotion groups in the longitudinal direction and being subject to the business block coordination in the lateral direction. Process of preparing the CSR Report Investigation on the concerns Understanding the concerns of stakeholders Devising the topic Creating the report Discussion by Training on of report framework internal experts preparation of report 12 Social Responsibility Management Responsibility Promotion Fostering the Culture of Responsibility Driving Forward CSR of Subsidiaries Each year, Baosteel devises the internal social responsibility training sysIn 2010, the first excellent CSR practice case appraisal of Baosteel was tematically and sets up the training of different contents in light of the managheld and dozens of enterprises under the group actively participated in the acers and CSR contact persons. tivity. It aims to select a batch of excellent CSR cases and guide the subsidiaries that started CSR lately to further establish and strengthen the awareness of In 2010, social responsibility was incorporated into the job training corporate social responsibility and propel the CSR work at a higher starting courses of medium-level managers for the first time, aiming to have in-depth point; the companies in the front ranks of CSR could enhance communicacommunication regarding the concept of social responsibility and infuse the tions among each other, strengthening the management of CSR. concept into the management team of the Corporation. In December, the CSR contact persons from various functional departStudy on CSR ments and subsidiaries of Baosteel participated in the CSR training, which In 2010, Baosteel conducted the research into the theme of Baosteel focused on helping the report writers to systematically understand the basic CSR Evaluation System Construction to continuously promote the construcknowledge of CSR and sustainable development, grasp the tools and methtion of CSR system. The project team was composed of experts from the ods for preparing the report, improve the level of preparation and guide the Economic Management Research Institute, relevant functional departments, functional departments and subsidiaries to promote the CSR management. and subsidiaries at various blocks, as well as external experts. On the basis of fully borrowing ideas from external evaluation system and existing research findings and combining the actual situation of Baosteel, the evaluation system established for the theme covered seven blocks including the primary operation of iron & steel, production service industry, extended steel processing industry, etc. The system includes the 5 class-I indexes (responsibility management, economy, environment, employee and society), 13 class-II indexes, and 48 class-III indexes, covering the main topics of corporate social responsibility. Baosteel CSR evaluation system, as the scientific basis for evaluating the implementation of CSR work in various blocks and the reference system for propelling CSR work, is favorable to the further improvement of Baosteel CSR system. Promoting the CSR Concept Baosteel actively promotes its CSR concept. In November 2010, Baosteel’s experts were invited as lecturers to introduce Baosteel’s CSR theory and practice for the course of “Corporate Social Responsibility” of the MBA program of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. The MBA program of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences was the first one listing corporate social responsibility as a compulsory course for MBA program. Material Report Management （Report design） Seeking opinions Report revision Report release collection preparation review 13 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Responsibility Communications Communication Channels for Stakeholders Sticking to operation as per the law and honesty and integrity; continuously Laws and improving profitability; maintaining and adding regulations; publishing of values of state-owned assets; promoting industrial policy and directives; conferences development; improving product quality and service of the state and the ministries and Adhering to the people-oriented level earnestly; enhancing resource conservation and commission’s and implementation of ideology and scientific development, environmental protection; propelling independent conference spirit; issuance and being responsible for stakeholders and innovation and technical advance; guaranteeing implementation of documents; environment when pursuing economic production safety, maintaining legitimate rights and periodical work report; daily work benefits to realize the coordination and interests of staff; participating in social public communication; report and unification of corporate development, welfare, rewards to the community. statement; visit. society and environment. Government, investor (SASAC) Expanding the cooperation fields and furthering cooperation depth in the process of Baosteel’s merger and Achieving win-win result with Baosteel Contract performance; mutual visit acquisition through the close strategic cooperation and meeting of senior executives; periodical conference. Strategic partner Carry out user satisfaction investigation; take the method of early intervention to Satisfaction investigation; user forum; meet users’ needs. Providing quality products and services that are mutual visit of senior executives; daily continuously improved communication Career planning; green apple and Users golden apple talent training programs; briefing of situations and tasks; Baosteel Education Material of Situations and Tasks; Information on Baosteel Youth Demands and Focus; Submission of the Monthly Report of Bridge Forum on a monthly basis; employees’ symposium, and internal journals. Labor contract; reasonable The staff grows as the enterprise develops; proposals; collective negotiation; improve benefits and fair promotion learning materials; meeting; staff forum; opportunities; good working environment. conference of employees’ representatives. Employees 14 Social Responsibility Management Agreement Agreement and contract; and contract; GrowGrowtogether with Baosteel, together establish with Baosteel, a a establish Implement the sunshine Implement purchase the sunshine plan, plan, purchase periodical visit; conference; periodical visit; conference; long-term long-term cooperation stablestable relationship cooperation and and relationship long-term build abuild and stable a long-term supplysupply chain,chain, and stable negotiation. negotiation. gain reasonable returns. gain reasonable returns. establish an open establish and transparent an open and transparent purchase ambience, purchase and support ambience, the the and support development developmentof medium and small of medium and small suppliers. suppliers. Supplier Supplier Volunteer service; Volunteer residents service; symposium; residents visit visit symposium; of residents to factory; of residents new rural to factory; new rural construction; conducting construction; poverty conducting alleviation poverty in in alleviation Yunnan and providing Yunnan aid toaid and providing Tibet. to Tibet. Support community community Support construction; support construction; cultural, cultural, support Community develops Community develops withenterprise; with the the enterprise; and arts sports,sports, of theof the arts activities andactivities ensureensure to provide a safety to provide and healthy a safety and healthy community; protect community; protect community community environment for theforcommunity. environment the community. environment; environment; conductconduct volunteer volunteer activities. activities. Community Community Actively participate Actively in environmental participate in environmental protection, economic protection, development, economic development,social social Join associations, hold hold Join associations, active Play anPlay role torole an active promote the the to promote progress, and other progress, activities and other involving activities involving positions, positions, andthe and pay pay the performance of social performance responsibilities of social by by responsibilities social social responsibility. responsibility. membership fee; provide membership fee; provide associations and organization associations in special and organization fields. fields. in special sponsorship; positively sponsorship; participate positively participate in theinorganization of activities. the organization of activities. Non-governmental Non-governmental organization organization Try to Try hard develop hard as a “respected” to develop as a “respected” enterprise, and release enterprise, the information and release the information relatedrelated to thetoperformance of social the performance of social responsibilities in a timely responsibilities manner. in a timely manner. Stakeholders’ Stakeholders’ expectation expectation toward toward Baosteel Baosteel NewsNewsrelease; mediamedia release; briefing; briefing; Stick to thetoroad the of Stick roadsustainable development of sustainable development information communication information communication activity; activity; and become and become an example in respect an example to performing in respect to performing information contact information by telephone, contact by telephone, social social responsibilities as a representative responsibilities enterprise as a representative enterprise email,email, and fax; andregular correspondence, fax; regular correspondence, in China’s iron and in China’s ironsteel and industry. steel industry. incoming call, visit; incoming call,portal website. visit; portal website. Way Way of communication of communication Baosteel’s Baosteel’s practice practice Media Media andand the the generalgeneral public public 15 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Release of CSR Report On July 6, 2010, Baosteel Group held the 2009 CSR report release Opinions Seeking for 2010 Report ceremony at the theme pavilion in Expo site, Liu Guosheng, vice chairman of Baosteel Group and Secretary of the Party Committee, Peng Huagang, In order to improve the quality of 2010 CSR director general of Research Bureau of SASAC of the State Council, and Report of the group and help stakeholders to learn representatives of community, users, suppliers, employees and other stakethe corporate information, Baosteel conducted a holders attended the ceremony. Over the years, the representatives of the survey regarding CSR concerns through its official people in such counties as Pu’er and Jiangcheng of Yunnan who were assisted website, questionnaire, phone call and other ways by Baosteel, and the representatives of orphans in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous before the preparation of this CSR Report. Prefecture who were aided by Baosteel were invited to visit Baosteel and In the survey, 494 questionnaires (visits) were Expo Shanghai as the first guests of “Baosteel invites you to visit Expo”. issued in total, among which 456 were recovered. According to the result of survey, we adjusted the proportion of information disclosure and increased the disclosure of data so as to satisfy the stakeholders’ requirements on related information. Scope of Survey Internal employees 40.3% External stakeholders 59.7% Composition of Stakeholders Visited Investor 4 Partner 62 User 104 Employees 184 Supplier 62 Community 5 NGO 12 Media & the general public 23 16 Social Responsibility Management Survey Result of Concerns Company profile Management reform and organization adjustment Prospect Transparent governance Faithful operation Prevention and management of risk management system Communication between the Corporation and stakeholders Indicators of economic data like profit and sales amount Propulsion of key projects Economic indicators Table for economic contribution of enterprises Preparation of new industrial standards, propel industrial progress Merger, acquisition and restructuring, and eliminating backward production capacity Technical innovation Composition of employees Employee recruitment and career development Salaries and benefit Safety and protection of rights and interests Associations and other leisure activities Indicators of environmental data Environmental protection strategy and measures Management of environmental protection system Energy auditing Resource utilization Recycling economy Reduction of carbon emission Charity Community relations Anti-corruption Volunteer activities Baosteel education scholarship Management of Suppliers Green purchasing chain Strategic partnership Green technology and environment friendly products User management and superior service Product lifecycle 0 100 200 300 400 17 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Foundation of Social Responsibility Faithful Operation 18 Faithful Operation Corporate Governance Board of Directors Under the second board of directors, Baosteel newly established a risk management committee with a view to further fortifying its management of major risks. A majority of or the entire members of all the special committees set up under Board of Directors of Baosteel were outside directors. Executive Committee Nomination Committee Compensation & Audit Committee Risk Management Evaluation Committee Committee Guide and supervise Discuss criteria, Establish perforDeliberate on the Check and guide the implementation of procedure and method of mance management annual audit working plan the efficient operation of resolutions made by selecting senior executives system and compensation of Baosteel; supervise all-round risk management Board of Directors; review and put forward proposals management system for internal audit quality as system; examine and dissignificant schemes includto Board of Directors; senior executives; set up well as financial informacuss annual working plan ing investment & financing assess candidates for performance objectives tion disclosure; review the as well as annual report of subject to deliberation Board Secretary recomwithin the service term Corporation’s financial all-round risk manageof Board of Directors; mended by Chairman, of President and annual statement, discuss the ment system; examine and by virtue of special and candidates for Vice performance objectives; Corporation’s accounting discuss risk management authorization by Board of President as well as make suggestions on compolicies as well as their strategy and solutions for Directors, make decisions Financial Administrator pensation, assessment and variations and provide major risks management. with respect to matters recommended by General rewards & punishment suggestions to Board of concerning Baosteel. Manager, and bring forsystems for President; Directors; put forward ward appraisal opinions to listen to and appraise proposals as to appointBoard of Directors; assess suggestions on such ment and dismissal of senior executives after systems as compensation, persons in charge of the their probation periods assessment and rewards internal audit organ within expire and bring forward & punishment made the Corporation; guide appraisal opinions to by President for Vice the internal audit organ Board of Directors; search President and Financial within the Corporation in for candidates for available Administrator; study implementing equal level positions from talent marcompensation distribution auditing; supervise emkets both at home and system of Baosteel and ployment, substitution and abroad as well as from put forward suggestions. remuneration payment of inside the Corporation. such intermediary organs as social audit organs of the Corporation. The members of Board of Directors assume the following positions of special committees: Compensation & Risk Management Directors Executive Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Evaluation Committee Committee Chairman Xu Lejiang √ (Director) √ (Director) Vice Chairman and Secretary of Liu Guosheng √ (Director) Party Standing Committee Director and President He Wenbo √ √ √ Outside Director Feng Guojing √ √ √ Outside Director Li Qingyan √ √ (Director) Outside Director Wu Yaowen √ √ √ √ Outside Director Xia Dawei √ √ √ (Director) √ Outside Director Gan Yong √ √ √ √ Outside Director Jing Tianliang √ √ √ √ Board of Directors Executive Committee Other Special Committees Number of Number of Number of Number of meetings held Number of meetings held Number of meetings held matters reviewed matters reviewed matters reviewed 2008 6 40 3 12 10 17 2009 8 37 3 10 9 16 2010 8 43 1 6 10 19 19 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Overall Risk Management Sound Audit System Board of Directors approved eight major Baosteel has always upheld the principles of independence, objectivity and impartiality in its internal risks and ten important risks that were given top audit so as to help increase value, enhance operational efficiency and eventually realize corporate targets. priority during the whole year in respect of such Internal audit has played important roles in improving the corporate governance structure, strengthenaspects as strategy, operation, finance, law and ing risk control, preventing the loss of state-owned assets, standardizing operation and management and market, specifying the controlling goal and responpromoting management efficiency. sibility system for each risk. Each responsible unit established its own detailed control plan so as to Improvement of Audit System promptly deal with various emergencies. Due to Baosteel basically realized the goals of “systematic planning of audit items, unified allocation of audit the joint efforts of Board of Directors, the manresources, extension & perfection of audit function and effective support of strategic governance” in 2010. agement team and all employees, major risks and It expanded the efficiency audit function represented by audit management and formed a systemic planning important risks both were kept under effective model for audit items focusing on strategic control key points; it established a preliminary “result-oriented” control. mechanism to which audit results apply, thus effectively pushing forward a shift from “book audit” to “efficiency For the purpose of guarding against deciaudit” as well as a shift from “priority in result attestation” to “equal focus upon result attestation and process sion-making risks regarding strategy and investimprovement”, and realizing a shift of function from “priority in monitoring” to “equal focus upon monitoring ment, Baosteel further optimized the establishand service” at the premise of ensuring “overawing power” of traditional audit. ment mode of Board of Directors as well as Board of Supervisors of subsidiaries, reinforced manageBook audit Efficiency audit ment of assessment & argumentation processes, and enhanced the scientificity of decision-making; Equal focus upon result attestation in order to control supply chain risks, Baosteel Priority in result attestation and process improvement intensified environment analysis & prediction and increased predictability of decision-making. Equal focus upon monitoring and serPriority in monitoring Baosteel propelled its subsidiaries to focus upon vice” under the premise of ensuring important risks of supply chain and established a working mechanism of risk identification, handling The audit system completed altogether 341 items, identified 1897 audit problems and proposed 1755 and pre-warning. Nickel procurement risk aversion suggestions in 2010. The audit items mainly focused upon eight aspects including “operation responsibility”, and credit risk management had basically formed “investment management”. “decision-making of governance”, “grass-roots management”, “function managelong-acting mechanisms; for the sake of controlment”, “risk management”, “information system” and “planned budget”. ling internal pure risks, Baosteel motivated each department to perfect inner control standard, to carry out audit monitoring, and to identify as well as promptly rectify problems, thus enhancing the Operation Investment overall risk governance capacity of the group. Responsibility Management Planned Decision-Making of Budget Governance Key Audit Areas Information Grass-roots System Management Risk Function Management Management Results of Main Audit Items of 2010 2008 2009 2010 Audit of financial revenues (item) 34 37 66 Audit of economic accountability (item) 81 83 64 Audit of property right alteration net asset (item) 37 41 40 Audit of project completion settlement (item) 43 37 43 Audit of project investment cost (item) 76 23 12 Reduced project sum after examination (RMB 100 million) 1.42 8.31 3.36 Items of management audit (item) — 50 116 20 Faithful Operation Efficiency Supervision Anti-corruption Campaign The Corporation improved working mechanism of efficiency supervision so as to further promote efficiency, effectiveness and benefits. Centering upon cost Baosteel was committed to boosting construction of punishment & prevention system, responsibility system centerimprovement, environment operation and assets disposal, ing upon realization of responsibility mechanism as well as responsibility investigation system based on accountability regulaefficiency supervision had been further intensified. The tions so as to promote on the whole five tasks including education, system, monitoring, punishment and source control. 492 projects on efficiency supervision were initiated in 2010, forming 425 efficiency supervision reports and 813 Various units signed 1,407 copies of Party Conduct Construction and Anti-Corruption liability letters in 2010; and totally suggestions on efficiency supervision; and sending 197 su11 leaders were to account for failing to implement competently par ty conduct construction and anti-corruption responpervision proposals. sibility system, thus reinforcing the political responsibility of leading groups at various levels to focus upon Party conduct construction and anticorruption campaign, facilitating the realization of “dual responsibilities of one position” (Note) and providing formidable guarantee for the continuous and healthy development of the Corporation. Strengthen Complaint Reporting Treatment & Case Investigation By means of offence reporting from the public, projPerfect the Anti-corruption System over RMB 5 million each and that had acquired approval, been under construction and completed ever since 2008 ect audit and cooperative investigation by third party, the The Corporation established such rules and reguCorporation intensified special investigation so as to idenwith a total investment of RMB 112.5 billion, identifying lations as Rules of Accountability System for Baosteel Leadtify as well as organize case clues and takes stern actions 96 problems during self-examination and self-correction. ers (Trial), Integrity Undertaking System of Baosteel Group against violations of laws and regulations. Through such The Corporation formed 4 special inspection teams and Corporation and Measures for Implementation of Report of measurement, 3 supervision proposals were issued, 22 degave priority to the inspection of 32 projects, rectified Individual Related Matters by Leaders of Baosteel Group fects were rectified and 39 persons were approached for some problems such as lack of standardization and strict Corporation, and had been constantly improving systems admonishing conversations so that the ultimate treatment disciplines in management, formulated Guidelines for Key regarding circulation of important cases and work report, function of investigation was further reinforced. Control Points of Engineering Project Investment Managethus further regulating operating management and cleanment, and improved the long-acting mechanism of engihanded conduct of leaders and managers. Opinions on Implementation of Publicizing the List of neering construction management. Bribery Units and Related Ex-Serving Personnel was vigorously enforced. The 6th and 7th banned name lists were Reinforce the Anti-corruption Education Special Treatment of “Little Coffers” released successively in 2010 and a total of 168 units and The Corporation carried out such educations In line with the opinions of the State-owned As1076 people were forbidden to carry out business transacas clean-handed conduct education, warning education, sets Supervision and Administration Commission of the tions with Baosteel, purifying the operation environment. demonstration education and risk informative education State Council regarding further implementation of “Little of job integrity, shot warning films, established a case liCoffers” regulation and on the basis of comprehensive Reinforce Construction of Discipline brary and incorporated the anti-corruption education self-examination & self-correction of “Little Coffers” carinto the training of leaders, reserve leaders and newly ried out by each unit, the Corporation organized 16 inInspection & Supervision System recruited graduates. spection teams so as to focus on inspecting nearly 100 In 2010, the Corporation formulated and promulunits. Weak points have been identified in presents, cash gated Opinions on Implementation of Intensifying and ImprovIntensify Supervision and Inspection gifts and bank account management during the special ing Construction of Baosteel Discipline Inspection & Superinspection and 14 notices demanding rectification & vision Organizations, put into practice the working system Special Tackling of Prominent Problems in reform have been issued so as to urge related units to by virtue of which the Discipline Inspection Commission the Field of Engineering Construction improve internal control, eliminate management defects of Baosteel Group Corporation reported to the Entire The Corporation performed comprehensive inand establish sound long-acting mechanism of clearing Committee of the Discipline Inspection Commission and spections for 592 engineering projects that are worth “Little Coffers” . secretaries of discipline inspection commissions at grassroots reported to the Standing Committee of the Discipline Inspection Commission of the Group Corporation; in 2008 2009 2010 accordance with the assessment method of “four in one”, the discipline inspection & supervision work of second-tier Number of direct leaders to whom the major issues are reported (person) 149 197 146 units and the duty performance conditions of secretaries Amount of part time remuneration handed in by leaders (RMB 10,000) 148 142 187.8 of discipline inspection commissions were evaluated and Number of people reporting their work and their efforts to perform duty honestly (person) — 1,300 1,518 linked to individual annual performance and grass-roots party organization performance. Number of people who took initiative to hand in cash gift, presents and securities (person) 1,908 1,420 1,781 Amount of cash gift, presents and securities that were handed in initiatively (RMB 10,000) 190 159.5 194 A total of 46 secretaries of discipline inspection commissions and discipline inspection & supervision Times of anti-corruption education (time) 281 917 1,051 personnel were organized to attend systematic training Number of people attending anti-corruption education (10,000 person-times) 2.1 5.2 4.6 held by the Central Discipline Inspection Commission Number of petitions and offence reporting (pieces) 306 282 245 of the CPC, the Discipline Inspection Commission of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Number of cases placed on file for investigation (pieces) 27 28 27 Commission of the State Council and Shanghai Discipline Number of wound-up cases (pieces) 27 24 23 Inspection Commission; in accordance with the theme Number of people given disciplinary punishment by the Party(people) 14 13 10 of “strengthening risk prevention and promoting duty performance capacity”, training & study classes for grassNumber of people given disciplinary punishment by the Government (people) 12 12 16 roots secretaries of discipline inspection commissions and Number of people whose labor contracts were cancelled (people) 12 9 3 persons in charge of supervision departments were held; each unit intensified practice training of discipline inspecNumber of people who were transferred to a judicial organ (people) 8 11 3 tion & supervision work and a total of more than 760 Number of people who were imposed criminal punishment (people) 13 8 4 people received such training. Note: “Dual Responsibilities of One Position”—The leader undertakes dual responsibilities for business work and party conduct construction & anti-corruption work of its unit. “One Position” refers to the corresponding position held by the leader; “Dual Responsibilities” mean that the leader is responsible not only for specific business work of its unit but also for party conduct construction and anti-corruption work of the position assumed thereby. 21 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Foundation of Social Responsibility Value Creation 22 Value Creation Direct Economic Performance Merger & Reorganization Baosteel consolidated and expanded the achievements of combating financial crisis in 2010, the last year of the “Eleventh Five-year Planning” period, maintaining the most remarkable operating performance Baosteel Reorganized Fujian Shengde within the industry. Baosteel achieved an annual iron output of 38,960,000 tons and an annual steel output Nickel Products Co., Ltd. of 44,500,000 tons, and realized gross revenue of RMB 272.984 billion and profit of RMB 24.23 billion durBaosteel signed with Fujian Wugang Group ing the whole year of 2010, fully demonstrating the strong competitiveness of Baosteel. an agreement to reorganize Fujian Shengde Nickel Products Co, Ltd. on December 9. The reorgaTotal operational revenue & cost (RMB 100 million) nized Fujian Shengde Nickel Products Co., Ltd was renamed as Baosteel Desheng Stainless Steel Co., 3000 Ltd, with the shareholding ratios of Baosteel and 2500 Wugang Group being respectively 70% and 30%. This was another significant trans-regional reor2000 ganization move taken by Baosteel following Bayi 1500 Iron & Steel, Guangdong Steel and Ningbo Steel. 1000 Located in the area of Luoyuanwan of Fujian, 500 the stainless steel manufacturer Desheng Nickel Products Co., Ltd is blessed with such advantages 2008 2009 2010 as material cost, technology and geographic location, and it has sufficient space for expansion. Total operational revenue 2,468.39 1,953.07 2,729.84 The nickel alloy project with an annual output of Total operational cost 2,372.62 1,867.05 2,546.80 920,000 tons and the hot rolling stainless steel coil project with an annual output of 820,000 Total profit (RMB 100 million) tons of Desheng Nickel Products Co., Ltd were completed and put into operation.The production 400 lines of 15-40 nickel alloy with an annual output of 250,000 tons, cold rolling stainless steel with 300 an annual output of 400,000 tons as well as hot rolling nickel alloy plate with an annual output of 200 2,000,000 tons are currently under preparation. 100 For the sake of implementing the development outline of steel industry adjustment & promotion as well as the development strategies of 2008 2009 2010 economic zone on the west coast of Taiwan Strait, Total profit 238.13 149.13 242.30 Baosteel seized the opportunity of Fujian Shengde Nickel Products Co., Ltd to develop stainless steel industry in Luoyuanwan of Fujian by adherTotal assets & owner’s equity (RMB 100 million) ing to the cooperation principle of “bringing into 5000 play respective advantages of both par ties and realizing mutual benefit”. On the one hand, this 4000 move enabled Baosteel to actively get involved in the construction of economic zone on the west 3000 coast of Taiwan Strait while on the other hand, 2000 Baosteel, as “motivator of green industry”, would integrate sources in an appropriate and intensive 1000 manner, increase input into energy-saving and environment-friendly facilities and promote har2008 2009 2010 mony between the development of stainless steel Total assets 3,524.97 4,019.96 4,321.30 industry in Luoyuanwan of and the local ecological environment. Owner’s equity 2,194.35 2,429.71 2,601.75 23 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Promote Economic Construction and Development through Major Projects Stainless Steel Cold Rolling Special Metal and Alloy Steel Plate & Follow-up Project Strip Project of Special Steel Division Stainless steel cold rolling follow-up project Based on its abundant experience in special consists of two units stainless steel and carbon steel production for many years, Baosteel estabsteel. The stainless steel unit focuses upon devellished a complete production line of special metal oping the brand of “Baosteel Stainless”, adheres and alloy steel plate & strip from smelting to rollto orientation of user demand, enhances competiing which is the only one in China and features tiveness of products while at the same time acinternational top-class level. Special Metal and tively popularizes environment-friendly products, Alloy Steel Plate & Strip Project targets at such conveys to users the concept of energy conservaproducts as titanium alloy, nickel base alloy, stainPhase II Relocation Project tion and sustainable development, guides users to less and special stainless steel plate coil that are in (Luojing Plot) of Pudong Iron & Steel use such means as technical support and enables short supply. Products are oriented in super alloy The relocation project of Pudong Iron & users to get adapted to and be familiar with green such as titanium & titanium alloy, nickel base heat Steel Co, Ltd. phase II (Luojing plot) is oriented products more quickly, thus realizing cyclic develresistant alloy, nickel base corrosion resistant alloy, in production of steel products for shipbuilding, opment of society. The new products of this unit and precision alloy, as well as plate & strip prodbridges, abrasion-resistant steel, extra-high tensile mainly include: high-end group represented by anucts such as special stainless steel, tool-die steel, steel for engineering machinery, extra-high tensile tibacterial series products, recyclable steel for aralloy constructional steel, abrasion resistant, heat steel plate for container, corrosion resisting steel chitecture and steel for solar energy. resistant as well as low magnetic products, capable plate, steel plate for ocean platform, steel plate for of manufacturing special steel materials that meet The unit of carbon steel is mainly engaged in military use and so on that meet the market dethe requirements of key areas including national the production of common cold rolled as well as mands of numerous industries including shipping, defense and energy and feature advanced cold hot galvanizing products such as auto sheets and petroleum, chemical, electricity, bridge and machine working extensibility. steel sheets for home electrical appliances which manufacture. COREX technology replaces tradiare in urgent need in China. The unit of carbon tional blast furnace in producing molten iron dursteel adopts an open and integrated innovation Bayi Iron & Steel New Area Project of ing iron making process. A reaction of molten iron method which is mainly completed by Baosteel. Bar Production Line with coal occurs and melting reduction is realized Various links of unit construction from preliminary Bayi Iron & Steel New Bar Production Line through combustion-supporting high purity oxydesign, equipment manufacture to commissionProject consists of one bar production line with an gen, cutting down significantly the usage of coking ing throughout the line and hot & cold operation annual output of 600 thousand tons and one high coal in short supply, canceling two major processes across various disciplines from technology, machinspeed wire rod production line with an annual of “sintering” and “coking”, and fully satisfying the ery to electricity, instrument and computer are all output of 600 thousand tons, with a total investrequirements of cleaner production. Heat value completed by Baosteel independently, realizing ment of RMB 560 million. For the new high speed gas which is one of the by-products of COREX breakthroughs from unit capacity expansion to wire rod production line project, the construction iron making is used for CCPP power generavariety and quality. was started on May 20th, 2008 and linkage trial tion, realizing comprehensive recycling of energy run implemented on July 14th, 2009, with the total COREX — CCPP — oxygen making — COREX; Adjustment & Reforming Project of construction period being 13 months; for the new Meanwhile, complementary energy, waste heat Cold Rolling Type Structure bar production line project, the construction was and solid wastes are also utilized in a highly efficient started on May 28th, 2009 and the linkage trial run of Baosteel-NSC Automotive Steel and comprehensive manner. This project further implemented on March 22nd, 2010, with the total promotes environmental protection and cleaner Sheets Co., Ltd. construction period being 10 months. The project production of Chinese iron & steel industry. Based on the accumulated experiences for is contracted by Beijing MCC Equipment Research many years in auto sheet manufacture of Baosteel, & Design Corporation Ltd. the cold rolling product structure adjustment project of Baosteel-NSC Automotive Steel Sheets Co., Zhanjiang Project Ltd. has established a production line of alloying hot galvanizing hot rolling auto sheet that ranks the Ever since the approval by National Develmost advanced level in China and the international opment and Reform Commission of preliminary leading level, further optimizing cold rolling prodwork of Zhanjiang Steel Base Project in March uct structure of Baosteel and remarkably promot2008, the construction headquarters of Baosteeling production capacity of auto sheet which feaZhanjiang Project has been continuously carrying tures high surface quality, high mechanical property, forward various preparation work of preliminary high dimensional precision and high added value. phase of project. By the end of 2010, feasibility The alloying hot galvanizing hot rolling auto sheet study of this project had come to an end; land acmanufactured by this production line is characterquisition and relocation work within the red line of ized by excellent corrosion-resistance, formability, the main plant area on site had been completely weldability and paintability and it possesses high finished; projects like ground leveling, temporary strength steel production capacity, fully achieving water for construction, electricity, road engineer“replacing imported products with self-producing, drainage channel and so on had been basically tion” and can satisfy the material localization and completed or simultaneously under construction. weight-reduction & energy-saving requirements of Currently, all preliminary work has been advancing materials for Chinese automobile manufacture. as planned. 24 Value Creation Technological & Management Innovation Technological Innovation Technology Exchange and Popularization Targeting at the market demand of Bayi Iron & Steel and in Innovation System Construction combination with its production line capacity, Baosteel Co., Ltd., Corporation has fully initiated system construction and optimization work of technowith product transplanting & development as the principal line, logical innovation, launching 10 schemes of system optimization & perfection in 10 aspects consolidated process control, improved quality management and including R&D system construction, utilization of technology policy, talent encouragement, transplanted & developed a total of 25 marks of products in 2010, strategic cooperation of production, study and research and so on; meanwhile, with a view forming capacity of producing key products in batches. Concento enhancing technology popularization within the Group, Opinions on Technology Populartrating on starting instructions of the new project of Ningbo Steel ization Mechanism has been released, specifying mechanism and requirements of technoland assisting Ningbo Steel in realizing successful operation of 1# ogy popularization in terms of four aspects including unified planning, technology sharing, coke oven, slag treatment project and slab spray marking machine. cooperative support and support of key areas. In accordance with the technology supporting requirements of Shaoguan Iron and Steel Group Co., Ltd., Baosteel planned sys2008 2009 2010 tematically and organized the implementation of exchange and Ratio of R&D [note] input (%) 1.1 1.2 2.0 investigation of various aspects including production, manufacture, equipment, procurement, energy, project management and so on. Amount of R&D input (RMB 10,000) 271,946 233,800 509,794 In line with demands of steel enterprises both at home and Sales ratio of new products (%) 18.4 18.6 17.6 abroad, Baosteel Co., Ltd. output a series of energy-conservation Number of authorized patents 785 914 1426 & environment-protection as well as quality control technologies Economic efficiency of research projects (RMB 10,000) 123,300 151,125 226,300 related to sintering desulphurization, comprehensive use of used refractor y materials, control model of slab continuous casting, Contractual value of technology trade (RMB 10,000) 57,461 11,345 9,485 opening or hole inspection and so on, realizing new trade growth points. By virtue of the engineering platform of Baosteel Group, Main Innovation Achievements Baosteel output related technology services matching complete →→ Adhering to the strategy of technology leadership and carrying out continuous innovation of sets of units such as slag treatment, RH refining, spray marking high-end products and R&D of core technology. Auto sheet R&D has made breakthrough again machine, full hydrogen bell type annealing furnace. and the success of the third generation advanced high-tensile steel (Q&P) enabled Baosteel to become the first enterprise to have trial production around the world and the construction of Baosteel established the middle phase boosting scheme of “The State Key Laboratory of Automobile Steel Development & Application Technology” by strategic cooperation among enterprises, universities and research Baosteel has been approved by the State; It supplies steadily Three Gorges Dam Project with institutions centering upon the main line of “project promotion, high magnetic induction silicon steel for large scale transformer in bulk. Thin strip continuous problem coordination and plan arrangement”, gave full scope to casting unit realizes whole furnace casting and coiling. The construction of Ningbo steel indussynergy and integration of scientific research and production in trialized production line with an output of 500 thousand tons has been started. terms of function and resources, reinforced and propelled guide →→ Diverse industries improve constantly innovation capacity and attach high importance to fosterprojects of cooperation among enterprises, universities and reing significant proprietary technologies. Coal series needle coke industrialized production line search institutions. The international science and technology cohas achieved technology connectivity and produced qualified needle coke products; the first operation management mechanism of “demand driven, project autonomously integrated large scale continuous annealing unit and ladle refining furnace of linkage and unified management” has been further intensified and 300 tons (Hyundai Corporation) have been put into operation smoothly; 100 thousand pieces the international science and technology project cooperation with of hydro formed components and parts have been supplied stably and the development of three blocks overseas have been boosted. hot stamping die has achieved breakthrough. Corporation has taken the lead in mastering hot Baosteel Group Corporation participated in dozens of imstamping die technology of front & rear bumpers as well as components like automotive door portant academic exchanges both at home and abroad and held impact beam in China. many conferences such as Baosteel BAC 2010, China Stainless Steel Annual Conference, and National Titanium & Titanium Alloy Technology Innovation Cases Academic Conference. Resorting to its profound R&D foundations and technology superiorities, auto sheet of Baosteel achieved a market share of more than 50% and maintains its leading position in domestic market. International Cooperation R&D of new products has made outstanding breakthroughs and the success of the third generation advanced high strength steel (Q&P) enabled Baosteel to become the first enterprise to have trial Baosteel Co., Ltd. stood out from numerous large and reputed production around the world and the construction of “The State Key Laboratory of Automobile Steel enterprises to become the project partner of UNEP. Baosteel Co., Development & Application Technology” by Baosteel has been approved by the State; 100 thousand Ltd. cooperated with UNEP in research and practice of green propieces of hydroforming parts and components have been supplied stably and the development of hot stamping die has made breakthrough. Baosteel has taken the lead in mastering hot stamping die curement, and formed “Maturity Degree Model and Self-Assessment technology of front & rear bumpers as well as the components like automotive door impact beam. Framework for Sustainable Development of SMEs” with product lifecycle management process of supplier as a characteristic element, enhancing systematic management level of Baosteel supply chain and Technology Trade Cases at the same time facilitating fast and highly efficient transition of SMEs to sustainable development. As a state-of-the-art and environment-friendly slag treatment technology that has been developed by Baosteel after 10 years of incessant exploration, the technology of Baosteel slag treatment by rotary cylinder (BSSF) not only resolves the problem of environment pollution in slag treatment but also In 2010, Baosteel Co., Ltd. actively got engaged in the testing of works out a solution to the problem of recovery & recycling of slag resources. In addition to impleGHG Protocol which was developed jointly by World Resource Instimentation within Baosteel, this technology has also been transferred to steel plants both at home and tute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development abroad such as Ma Steel, Jiuquan Iron & Steel, Handan Steel, Indian JSW and so on. Two sets of BSSF units settled successfully in POSCO in 2010 with each technical index fulfilling international standard (WBCSD) and provided such discharge methodology as involved in requirement, obtaining the high compliments of POSCO. the entire lifecycle of one single product and in the entire value chain of an enterprise, and proposed related suggestions.This work signifies that Chinese enterprises no longer accept passively carbon criteria of foreign countries but instead get involved in the formulation of criteria. Note: R&D – Research and Experiment Development 25 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Foundation of Social Responsibility Environmental Performance 26 Environmental Performance Environmental Management System Management Guidelines Energy Management System has Made Breakthrough Progress For the sake of adapting constantly to national energy management policies and Baosteel environment operation strategic requirements and improving operation level of the ·· Strictly comply with state laws, regulations and stanCorporation’s energy management system, the Corporation decided to carry out energy dards on energy conservation and environmental management system certification pilot projects in Baosteel Co., Ltd (HQ) and Baotian New protection and implement international environBuilding Material Co., Ltd under Baosteel Development in 2010.Through implementation of mental conventions; internal audit and self-improvement and with the assistance of external verification & certification organs, Baosteel (HQ) became the first enterprise of its kind to pass the national ·· Introduce stricter internal control standards and Environmental Management System Requirement (GB/T23331-2009) certification while Baocontinue to reduce energy consumption and envitian Company also became one of the first companies to be certified as in conformity with ronmental impacts in the course of corporate pronational energy management system within the domestic building materials industry. duction and product use; Baosteel Co., Ltd. incorporated energy management into manufacturing flow, value ·· Improve production technologies, optimize enflow, energy flow and dynamic analysis environment of equipment status, implemented ergy structure, reduce energy consumption, and cut level-to-level management of energy consumption source by means of identification and down energy costs; management of energy efficiency factors in “three flows and one status” affecting energy ·· Systematically transform newly-acquired production saving goal and energy utilization efficiency, and broke down and put into practice energy units in energy conservation and environmental proconsumption source management responsibility level by level. tection, and maintain the Corporation’s overall level Baosteel Development formulated Management Process of Energy Saving Goal, Manof energy conservation and environmental protecagement Methods of Contractual Energy, and Energy Consumption Source Identification and tion; Important Energy Consumption Source Control & Management Methods; the three-tier energy ·· Promote waste reduction, reuse and recycling, and management network has been established and energy consumption source and energy raise recycled use efficiency; efficient factor identification has been implemented; internal audit and monitoring & review by a third party of environment systems of 21 first-class business units has been completed. ·· Care about stakeholders’ opinions and demands and continuously improve the quality of community Baosteel International has finished self-examination and re-assessment of Evaluation environment; Criteria of Foundation Management (energy and environment) for 28 production units. ·· Encourage partners to continuously improve in Other steel manufacturing enterprises of the Corporation has also carried out prepaenergy and environmental management and perration works for energy management system certification. formance; ·· Care about climate change, actively participate in domestic and foreign exchanges and cooperation on Continuous Improvement of Environmental Management System energy conservation and environmental protection, Baosteel Co., Ltd. was the first enterprise in Chinese iron & steel industry to be promote research, development and application of certified in conformity with ISO14001 environmental management system.The steel manuenergy-saving and environment-friendly technolofacturing unit subordinated to Baosteel Co., Ltd. has all been certified in conformity with gies, and improve the global ecological environment; ISO14001 environmental management system. Through reinforcement of environmental ·· Enhance employee awareness and ability in energy protection management area responsibility system, Baosteel Co., Ltd. established area reconservation and environmental protection and sponsibility system for the rivers around factor y in the headquarters factor y area; launched motivate all employees to participate in energy concomprehensive environment special treatment of slag storage yard; constructed environservation and environmental protection ment risk prevention system of the Corporation in 2010. Bayi Iron & Steel was certified in conformity with ISO14001 environmental management system in 2005. Bayi Iron & Steel formulated Environment Monitoring Management Methods in 2010, implemented the system of daily environmental pollution observation & notification and monthly environmental protection problems analysis; organized and completed the environmental protection acceptance check & monitoring work of medium plate, lime, 40,000 m3 oxygen making, B blast furnace, and 3#120 converter; completed the initiation & follow-up work of contingency plan for wind through intensifying control of stock ground dust raising. Ningbo Steel strengthened the management of main pollution sources, prioritizing control of raised dust of stock ground and transfer station and enhancing civilized construction as well as road transport management. It spares no efforts to improve environmental management system so as to make preparations for the upcoming ISO14001 environmental management system certification. 27 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Construction of Key Energy-Saving Major Tasks in 2010 and Environment-Friendly Projects Carry out examination & verification of cleaner production The Group focused on promoting 214 energy-saving and and promote energy—saving & environment protection environment-friendly projects, including 101 energy-saving ones and 113 environment-friendly ones in 2010. 59 major energy-saving and improvement environment-friendly projects were completed in the year, includA total of 34 leaders of the main production units within Baosteel Group Coring 22 energy-saving ones constituting an energy-saving capacity of poration were organized to participate in training of propaganda and implementa10.8K tons of coal equivalent and 37 environment-friendly ones. The tion. A total of 40 people from various units of the Group Corporation (in Shanghai) Group input RMB 1.4 billion into energy-saving and environmentwere organized to attend an internal auditor training lasting 3 days, to form a team friendly projects, RMB 620 million for energy saving and RMB 780 of internal auditors. million for environment protection in 2010. The Corporation also formulated the Working Plan of Cleaner Production Review and Promotion with the goal of completing cleaner production review of 20 Environmental Landscaping enterprises during 2010~2012. The units that carried out and passed cleaner production review include Baosteel-NSC/Arcelor Automotive Steel Sheets Co., Ltd and Shanghai Baoyi Can Co., Ltd. The units that are in the process of cleaner production In 2010, Baosteel Co., Ltd. put the landscaping efforts by focusing review include the plants directly under Baosteel Co., Ltd., Shanghai Baosteel Chemion the construction of ecological garden mills so as to further elevate cal Co., Ltd., Shanghai Baosteel Packing Material Co, Ltd., and Shanghai Baotian New the landscaping of the mills, improve the environment of the plant areas Type Building Material Co., Ltd. and pursue coordinated and sustainable development between corporate production and natural ecology. In the compound of Baosteel Co., Special audit work such as energy environment protection Lt.d. HQ, twelve landscaping projects were completed and 93,000 square For the purpose of expediting efficient operation and capacity promotion of energy meters of areas were landscaped. In the developing areas and mudflow environment protection system, Baosteel organized and implemented a series of special areas, the efforts focused on the construction of shelter forest belts audit works: around the boundaries of the mill so that landscaping could reduce noise and dust. In all, 18,000 square meters of landscaping areas were added. In terms of completing special auditing of solid waste disposal management, BaoIn the stainless steel division, an additional area of 90,000 square meters steel carried forward constructions of slag and iron containing metallurgical dust projects was landscaped. In the special steel division, an additional area of 2,000 within the scope of the plants directly under Baosteel Co., Ltd., propelled Baosteel Develsquare meters was landscaped and 6 sporadic landscaping projects were opment’s industrialization projects and finished slag production line construction scheme, implemented with the overall landscaping area reaching 708,000 m2 and organized and consummated management methods of solid waste transportation and a greening rate of 28.52%. In Meishan Steel, a total of 100,000 square implemented environment improvement scheme by outsourcing units; meters was landscaped. Baosteel also completed rectification and reforming of primary energy measureIn 2010, Bayi Iron & Steel approved and completed altogether 13 ment problem during special auditing of primary energy management, especially the greening and environment improvement projects during the whole year, problem of natural gas measurement, specified the criterion of solid energy conversion planting 395,138 various trees, transplanting 8,369 various trees, establishcoefficient and unified conversion coefficient criterion of secondary energy source meing 23,516m2 lawns. The newly-added landscaped area is 987 thousand dia, improved purchase quality management process and objection treatment criteria of m2 with plant greening ratio of 46.15% and living quarters greening ration primary energy source. of 54.4%. Energy auditing of Bayi Iron & Steel as well as 3 pluralistic enterprises subordinated By the end of 2010, the landscaping area of Ningbo Steel had to Baosteel Group, and electricity balance of 5 enterprises were implemented. In addition, reached 600,000 m2, among which the landscaping area of its main mill in order to routinize energy auditing process, Baosteel Co, Ltd released Management was about 516 thousand m2. Meanwhile, Wufengtang Coke Mill had Methods of Auditing of External Resources and Internal Energy Efficiency Inspection, building about 86,800 square meters newly landscaped, thus enhancing its landa platform for various key energy consumption units to independently carry out energy scaping ratio up to approximately 21%. There are about more than 50 auditing and energy efficiency testing of energy consumption equipment. breeds of landscape plants which are mainly evergreen shrubs featuring Selective examination of energy auditing of four non-steel enterprises were orgaremarkable pollution resistance, dust suppression and high livability. nized and post assessment inspection were carried out. 21 items of the overall 28 items of reformation suggestions proposed by the four companies in aspects of reinforcing energy utility process management, implementation of energy quota management, cultivation of power-saving capacity and enhancement of combustion efficiency were completed and the remaining 7 items are now under reforming.The energy management level of enterprises has been increased remarkably. In 2010, internal audit of Baosteel strengthened auditing of energy management, planned and completed auditing item of solid waste management. Through investigation and analysis of comprehensive utility of a variety of solid wastes and operation status of disposal business and in accordance with requirements of solid waste return to production utility maximization and environment management and through analyzing defects in current operation management, 7 main problems identified by auditing were analyzed in As the first national industrial tourism demonstration site in terms of solid waste management system, slag management, iron containing metallurgical Shanghai, Baosteel’s plant zone boasts of fabulous scenery and redust management, dangerous waste management and so on and suggestions were made ceived a total of approximately 42 thousand tourists in 2010. with respect to tendentious problems identified during auditing. 28 Environmental Performance Special auditing targeting at the energy management of Bayi Iron & Steel, Baosteel Chemical. Steel was carried out from seven aspects including energy management Baosteel Co., Ltd. Solid Waste Management System: Phase I of the projmechanism establishment & perfection, energy production & operation, ect was completed and this system covered all the production sites of iron energy-saving management & implementation, energy monitoring managecontaining industrial solid waste within the plant directly under Baosteel Co., ment, energy metrological management, energy statistical management, Ltd. 280 kinds of solid wastes had realized online management and 10 pieces and energy-consumption equipment efficiency monitoring & assessment of material flows of iron making procedure, iron making procedure, steel rollat the end of 2010. This special auditing conducted thorough investigation ing procedure, overall procedure, slag, blast furnace slag, iron containing metal& survey analysis regarding the energy management operation of Bayi Iron lurgical dust, iron scale, overall varieties and so on had been generated, real& Steel, based upon which comprehensive auditing assessment and sub izing online management of the in-plant overall process logistics information item auditing assessment of the energy management operation of Bayi Iron from production site to reworking site or leave factory. & Steel was formed. The problems identified during the auditing was extracted and screened and summed up in accordance with the “systematic, structural, slightly touching and compliant” management audit framework, Carry out relevant management research providing the energy system of Bayi Iron & Steel with reference for improvWhole life cycle assessment (LCA) of the large categories of products ing related work. such as NSGO and CGO had been completed. LCA as well as can environment statement of Shanghai Baoyi Can Making Co, Ltd. had been completed. Propel contractual energy management and multiply Environment-Friendly Statement schemes for 5 key products including hot energy-saving input approaches rolling, common cold rolling, tinning, electro-galvanizing and hot galvanizing had been completed; LCA in cooperation with the transformer industry had The State promulgated and promoted policies for contractual energy been carried out. management as a new energy-saving service mechanism, thus clearing away obstacles regarding management system so as to facilitate implementation Launch research on CO2 emission list. Adopting the carbon balance of contractual energy management system by enterprises. Baosteel Group method and based on two apertures of emission, that is, with and without carresponded actively, formulated promptly Guiding Suggestions on Enhancing bon emission from power generation, the yearly CO2 emissions of the plant Implementation of Contractual Energy Management and Promoting Developdirectly under Baosteel Co., Ltd., Stainless Steel Division, Special Steel Division ment of Energy-Saving Service Industries and established Shanghai Baosteel and Luojing District were calculated; employing the CO2 calculating template Energy-Conservation Service Company, developing energy-conservation of the International Iron and Steel Institute, the full aperture CO2 emissions and environment-friendly technical service business. Upon the basis of of the plant directly under Baosteel Co., Ltd. (including Luojing), Stainless Steel completing pilot projects, Baosteel Co., Ltd. formulated Management MethDivision, Special Steel Division, Luojing District, Meishan Iron & Steel, Baotong ods of Contractual Energy Management Projects. By the end of the “Eleventh Iron & Steel, Bayi Iron & Steel and Ningbo Steel respectively in 2001, 2008 Five-year Planning” period, 4 among the 10 contractual energy manageand 2009 were calculated. ment projects had been completed within the Group. Besides, the Group For the purpose of implementing the environment operation and deundertook 2 contractual energy management projects as the service provelopment strategies of the Corporation, Baosteel set up the project of “Envider. vironment Accounting Theory and Practice” and SASAC, Ministry of Finance as well as National Accounting Institute jointly got involved in its research Informatization construction of energy-conservation work. By means of arrangement and analysis of existing literature, the workand emission reduction ing theme of carrying on research on environment accounting as part of the entire accounting system instead of as an independent system was verified, Projects of Baosteel Co., Ltd. Mega-Energy Center: par t of the projwith the priority of environment management accounting given to confirmaects had been finished. Giving play to the guarantee function of energy tion of such environment items as featuring clear boundaries. This project media mutual supply among steel units in Baoshan District and via the uniobtained the approval of SASAC, Ministry of Finance as well as National Acfied management of energy distribution, system indices had been optimized counting Institute which, according to the existing national finance standards, and mega-energy system had achieved a profit of RMB 120 million in 2010. consider the project of Baosteel to be an effective, practical and to an extent forward-looking environment cost statistical method summarized in practice. In combination with the finance work of the Corporation, this project team would further optimize environment cost statistics practice. Education and training of energy environment protection In order to strengthen the professional team construction for energy environment protection, to promote the professional quality as well as ability of energy environment protection management personnel at various levels and to maintain the Corporation’s level in terms of cost reduction & efficiency increase and energy environment protection management, Baosteel Co, Ltd. organized and implemented training of 18 items including National Standard Baosteel Co., Ltd. Environment Automatic Monitoring and InformaGB/T 23331-2009 Management System for Energy-Requirements, Rules on the tion Management System: Phase I and II had been completed and post Implementation of Energy Management System Attestation in the Iron and Steel project system design for phase II had been initiated. Online inspection of Industry, clean production, environment operation, environment accounting, main environmental protection indices (the entire air quality and waste wacomprehensive utility of resources, qualifications of energy management post, ter discharge, emission of primary pollution source exhaust gas and noises with the number of training classes totaling 21 and the number of trainees within factories and etc. ) as well as video monitoring of key areas (areas totaling 923 person-times. for steel making and iron making, storage yard as well as smoke emission and fugitive emission areas of Stainless Steel Division and Special Steel Baosteel Co., Ltd. held 4 sessions of qualification trainings of energy Division) had been realized for the plant directly under Baosteel Co., Ltd. management jobs in 2009 and held 2 sessions of the training in 2010, with the (including Luojing), Stainless Steel Division, Special Steel Division, Meishan number of trainees totaling 280 person-times. This project adopted the train29 2010 Baosteel CSR Report ing mode of theory training in combination with seminar, onsite communicabenchmark, in establishing environment protection evaluation process and tion and management practice. Constructions of 12 courses were completed in setting up team & evaluation guarantee mechanism; master and guide the and training resources including curriculum, training textbook & exercises, market demand for green & environment protection products, performstudy instructions, teaching staff as well as test database had come into being, ing product planning; implement popularization of green & environment forming process control and appraisal methods for training quality. protection products by means of their full life cycle evaluation results and develop in a systematic manner full life cycle evaluation of green & enviBased upon the summary of “Qualification training for energy manageronment protection products; proceed systematically utility effects tracking ment jobs of Baosteel, Co, Ltd.” in 2009, Baosteel devised the project of “Trainand technology evaluation of steel products and attach importance to mating of overall quality of energy management personnel” geared to the needs ters to the benefit of popularizing environment protection product, reducof the main business of iron & steel of the Group Corporation and integrated ing processing technique of user and reducing long-term troubling quality this project into the key training projects of the Group Corporation so as to dissent; promote environment protection products brands of Baosteel in fortify construction of professional technical team of energy management of domestic and overseas markets; develop 5 categories of new environmentthe Group Corporation and expedite the promotion of professional quality friendly products (carbon steel sheet, carbon steel plate, stainless steel, speas well as ability of energy environment protection management personnel cial steel and steel pipe & tube) with altogether 283 grades and produce at various levels. The focused training of energy management staff of Ningbo 1,860,000 tons of newly trial products. Steel was firstly organized in 2010 and the main training contents mainly included: Baosteel environment operation and energy conservation & emission When it came to the selection of ocean transportation ships, Baoreduction, status of energy-conservation & emission reduction, energy consteel, taking logistics into comprehensive consideration, prioritized the apservation policies & regulations, basic energy management and energy statistic plication of energy-saving ships so as to reduce fuel consumption during analysis, Baosteel energy control system and national energy management shipping transportation and lower pollution of environment. Among the system, new mechanism for energy conservation, contractual energy manageoverall ocean transportation ships in 2010, such energy-saving ships as built ment, fundamental knowledge and case study of energy auditing and so on. after 2005 (including 2005) accounted for approximately 43%. Meanwhile, management training and operation training in terms of The in-plant logistics pattern under the fixed process capacity and energy environment protection for pluralistic industry were also organized. production organization mode was established while variance analysis of process standard logistics plan and actual performance was realized. The Carry forward thorough environment operation and management mode integrating logistics transportation and production was carried forward gradually and control of environment factors during logispractice as “Motivator of Green Industry” tics was intensified. Safety disposal and minimization of packing materials “To become a motivator of green industry” constituted one of the three were actively explored so as to simplify packing and realize environment development visions proposed in another new round of development plan protection. of Baosteel. Baosteel had always been committed to achieving this goal and strove steadfastly to build a green industry chain in cooperation with various Develop green industry stakeholders, encouraging green and sustainable development of the overall society. Via implementation of green procurement, green marketing and green In terms of promoting industrialization of comprehensive resources logistics, the Corporation conveyed to the upstream and downstream enterutilization, the reclaimed oil project of Baosteel Development entered the prises its concept of green operation, motivates related industry chains to phase of trial production. 4-phase blast furnace levigation project of Baotian carry out effectuating standards of environmental management system and Corporation subordinated to Baosteel Development came into operation regulates environmental management of suppliers. and its iron oxide red project settled in Haimen, Jiangsu. Baosteel Co, Ltd. signed with Shanghai Automotive Industry CorporaIn terms of boosting industrialization of Baosteel energy-saving tion (Group) Framework Agreement on Automobile Lightweight Strategic & emission reduction technologies & equipment, 1# and 2# rotary cylCooperation and both parties would make joint efforts to research, develop inder slag processing devices of POSCO No. 2 Steel Works completed and apply the technology of automobile steel lightweight, generating positive successfully hot testing in October, 2010 in accordance with EP General demonstration effect for facilitating the automobile lightweight technology deContracting Mode; Baosteel won the biddings of the projects of Chengde velopment and deepening industry chain cooperation in China. Steel Energy Management & Control Center and Shaoguan Steel Energy Management & Control Center. Shanghai Baosteel Energy-Saving Service With life cycle increase, consumption reduction, energy conservation, Company was established in order to develop energy conservation and emission reduction and cycle use as the guiding principles, Baosteel Co, Ltd. environmental protection technology service businesses. established preferential, limiting and prohibiting procurement catalogs and seventy thousand code catalogs were arranged. Green Procurement Proposal to the Entire Suppliers was released and the 4+1 mode of “quality, cost, delivery, and service” plus “environment factor” was adopted for evaluation of suppliers. Green procurement guide was compiled, 36 “production, supply and research” projects of green procurement such as green illumination for plant were popularized, and green procurement spot meetings of refractory material auxiliary material were convened for exchanging green procurement experiences and practices. Centering upon environment operation and oriented at user needs, Baosteel Co, Ltd. established the action plan of green product & technology marketing, that is, to take initiative in carrying out the responding work of environment protection laws & regulations as well as user green procurement 30 Environmental Performance Environmental Management Performance Baosteel Co., Ltd under Baosteel Group, the former Pudong Iron & Steel Co., Ltd, Shanghai Meishan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd, Baotong Iron & Steel and Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel Co., Ltd all outperformed the overall goal of energy savings for “action of one thousand enterprises” signed with the National Development and Reform Commission respectively. Wherein, the aggregate energy savings of Baosteel Co., Ltd., the former Pudong Iron & Steel Co., Ltd., Shanghai Meishan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd and Baotong Iron & Steel exceeded the quota by 21% and the energy savings of Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel exceeded the quota by 99%. The SO2 and COD of Baosteel declined by 63% and 86% respectively in the “Eleventh Five-year Planning” period. In 2010, the energy environment performances of the iron and steel enterprises of Baosteel Group are shown in Table 1: Table 1: Energy environment changes of iron & steel enterprises Rate of decline in 2010 compared to 2009 Baosteel Co. Ltd. Bayi Iron & Steel Ningbo Iron & Steel Comprehensive energy consumption per ton of steel (%) 3.4 10.1 9.1 New water consumption per ton of steel (%) 1.3 18.7 59.0 Atmospheric dust deposition (%) -0.9 39.4 4.4 Note: due to negligence, the data related to environmental protection performance indicators of Bayi Iron & Steel were mixed with that of Ningbo Iron & Steel in the report 2009, and the unit of total wastewater discharge was miswritten from “10,000 ton” to “ton”. It is hereby corrected and explained. Rate of decline of SO2 emissions per ton of steel in 2010 compared to 2009 Rate of decline of COD emissions per ton of steel in 2010 compared to 2009 10.3% 3% 26.5% 38.1% 35.9% 46.6% Baosteel Co., Ltd. Bayi Iron & Steel Ningbo Iron & Steel Baosteel Co., Ltd. Bayi Iron & Steel Ningbo Iron & Steel The solid waste resource utilization performances of the iron & steel enterprises of Baosteel Group in 2010 are shown in Table 2: Table 2: Solid waste resource utilization performances of the iron & steel enterprises Baosteel Co., Ltd. Bayi Iron & Steel Ningbo Iron & Steel Comprehensive utilization rate of solid waste resource (%) 98.6 84.7 90.3 Utilization rate of solid wastes returned to production (%) 26.0 16.3 26.0 31 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Priorities of Social Responsibility Employee Performance 32 Employee Performance Employees’ Performance Indicators In the new round of development plan, Baosteel firstly incorporated the philosophy of “being a model corporate growing together with the employees” into the corporate vision, which further highlighted Baosteel’s determination and confidence of seeing the employees first, relying on the employees with complete devotion and fostering the employees. 2008 2009 2010 Total employees 128,408 124,132 118,500 Total female employees 28,966 27,267 25,199 Ratio of management jobs (%) 9.1 8.7 8.9 Newly-recruited employees 5,390 1,212 2,292 Ratio of newlyrecruited employees (%) 4.2 1.0 1.9 Resigned employees 1,158 1,175 1,378 Ratio of resigned employees (%) 1.1 1.1 1.3 Ratio of senior female managers (%) 8.3 8.3 10.0 Ratio of local employees in overseas affiliates (%) — 33.8 37.8 Externally-dispatched personnel — 87,557 68,443 Total employees remuneration (RMB100M) 91.9 88.9 96.1 Age structure (%) 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 Under 35 36-45 46-55 Above 56 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 36 34.8 33.2 39 37.3 36.5 24 26.1 27.7 1 1.7 2.6 Education structure (%) 60 50 40 30 20 10 Postgraduate University College Technical Secondary School and Lower 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 3 3.5 4.5 16 18.6 19.4 24 26.2 27.3 57 51.7 48.9 33 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Structure of professional titles & skills (%) 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 Personnel with middle & senior titles Personnel with senior skills Other persons 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 11 12.5 13.0 27 26.7 26.2 62 60.8 60.8 Personnel with senior skills – the persons with the skills level of senior worker and above. Remuneration & Welfare Remuneration & Welfare Policy Employee Health Plan In compliance with the market rule, Baosteel actively built the internally fair, externally To meet the requirements for fitness of many more emcompetitive and normative remuneration management mode integrated with the market; ployees and make full use of the sports facilities of Baosteel, the moreover, pursuant to the distribution principles of “the incomes and welfare of Baosteel Baosteel sports center, the No. 1 Iron & Steel sports center employees will be accordingly improved in a sustainable manner along with the continuous and the Baosteel Wusong employee sports center were linked improvement of the corporate operating performance and employees’ labor efficiency”, to share the resources, which highly improved the utilization Baosteel witnessed an obvious improvement in the performance in 2010 and the incomes of fitness venues of Baosteel and facilitated the employees to of Baosteel employees were raised substantially. The Corporation promoted the “sunshine” participate in the fitness activity. According to the distribution compensation and benefit management to track and analyze the whole process of the and actual demand of the employees, Baosteel continuously distribution of remuneration, investigated against noncompliant behavior of distributing the optimized the layout of cooperative sports and fitness venues, remuneration and thus realized the closed-loop management for the classification, distribucurrently, 16 social fitness venues have signed the cooperation tion, statistics and monitoring of the remuneration. agreement with Baosteel. In keeping with the related national and local policies and laws, the company timely By the end of 2010, Baosteel Group had 11 subsidiaries paid in full all the mandatory social insurance premiums and welfare for all employees. They in Shanghai with around 80,000 employees, among which eight mainly included basic pension insurance, basic medical insurance, unemployment insurance, subsidiaries have introduced the employee health plan, covering industrial injuries insurance, maternity insurance, housing reserve fund, and strictly complied 48,000 employees. A total of 30,176 employees have particiwith the paid annual leave system. In light of the unique features of the enterprise, the pated in the fitness activities through the employee health plan, company also bought casualty group insurance and other supplementary benefits for its accounting for 63%. employees, like annuity and employee health program. To reasonably guarantee value retention and appreciation of the corporate annuity fund, the annuity management institution established the reasonable, prudent and effective investment strategy and created good results. In 2010, although A-share market suffered a significant drop, Baosteel got the annual yield of up to 5.6% and enabled 4,249 persons received their due rights and interests due to retirement and other reasons. To effectively alleviate the housing loan and repayment pressure, after thorough survey and discussion and hearing the opinions from the majority employees, the supplementary housing reserve fund was created. Total employee remuneration (RMB 100 million) 100 80 60 40 20 2008 2009 2010 91.9 88.9 96.1 34 Employee Performance Employee Development & Training “Golden Apple” Initiative The “golden apple” initiative is designed to use 8~10 years to promote the continuous optimization of the products structure and ensure the leading position of the core products in the market, create independently innovative technology that can leave the mark of Baosteel in To implement the outline for the medium-term and long-term developthe development of the world steel & iron, and bring up 10-15 leading persons in technology ment plan as an opportunity and revolve around the strategic development innovation with the scientific and cultural spirit, outstanding professional contribution, obvious leading effect and sound ethical quality, good performance in the international arena and intarget of steel & iron industry and diversified industry, the Mid-term and Longternational influence. The method of “first pilot and then promotion” was taken. Through early term Development Planning for Talents Team Building of Baosteel Group (2010selection, 21 core members were selected from such five pilot fields as the technology for the development and use of auto sheet products, the steel smelting technology, the hot rolling 2020) was compiled. Based on the new round of development strategy, the technology, the cold rolling technology and the cold rolling post-treatment technology, these Planning analyzed in depth the demand for talents and determined the develfive Golden Apple R&D teams were evolved to be the example for R&D teams of Baosteel. A contingent of skilled R&D personnel was brought up, Baosteel accordingly got a big step ahead opment target for the total size of talents, quality structure of talents, talents in terms of the technical level, quality & capability and influence in the industry, enhanced the utilization efficiency, talents work evaluation in the coming ten years, and the synergy capacity of production, sales and research and obtained the periodical achievements. specific development target like the team of three types of talents (operation & management, technical business and operating skills), special group talents (team of directors & supervisors, CPC-mass work staff) and strategic scarce “Green Apple” Initiative talents. At the same time, eleven talents fostering programs were launched, Revolving round the fundamental high-potential talents team building, the “green apple” including the building and development of team of directors & team of superinitiative was promoted in rotation. Based on the Phase I “green apple” initiative, the overseas training named “Singapore view” was conducted by means of domestic-overseas linkage visors, future leaders fostering, “four-in-one” fostering of CPC-mass work staff, lecture, overseas field survey, cross-cultural exchange and other methods, which enabled the golden apple initiative, green apple initiative, professionals partnership plan, excellent member of “green apple” initiative to conceive the international vision, understand the transnational culture, establish the global decision-making thoughts and reach a basic level highly-skilled talents development plan, internationalized talents development of overseas operation. Meanwhile, 66 members were selected to participate in Phase II “green plan, functional business talents development plan of the head office, highapple” initiative through the short-term training and evaluated by the talents testing center. In the short-term training, these newly-selected members deeply perceived the corporate end talents development plan of steel & iron core products and professional culture, development strategy and leadership of Baosteel and gained an insight into the career talents development plan for the diversified industry. life through the lecture of HR specialists. Promote the sunshine recruitment and staffing. The construction of recruitment and staffing system was strengthened, Procedures for the ManageEmployee Development Report ment of Leadership of Baosteel Group Corporation, Procedures for Performance Appraisal of Leadership and Directly Controlled Staff in Baosteel’s Subsidiaries In 2010, the employee development reporting system was promoted in the whole group and included into the HR management standards of Baosteel, so that the connotation of “the and other systems were formulated and amended to deepen the manageemployees develop with the enterprise” was fulfilled in a concrete way, the management layer ment of the leaders and their candidates, strengthen the adjustment, selection, and the employees got actual feeling and realized the “feeling management”. recruitment and employment of the leaders and promote the competitive To treat the employees as VIP customers and focus on the actual achievement of HR management according to the true demands of employees’ development, let the employees evaluate talent promotion. HR management by means of report release, and accordingly enable the implementation results of all relevant management policies, systems and measures to be evaluated and inspected by the employees and create a truly people-oriented system environment and culture atmosphere. Employee Structure Employee Ability Employee Service Employee Employee Incentive Development Employee Employee Spirit Communication Training investment (RMB 10,000) Person-times trained (10,000) Per capita training investment (RMB) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 13,077.3 9,364.5 10,038.8 34.8 38.6 45.0 1,200 885 929 35 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Communication between Employees and the Company Employees’ Congress In the course of developing and reforming corporate governance, BaoEmployees’ Congress, which can been formally implemented after the demosteel has actively explored and improved the system of Employees’ Congress. cratic procedure was implemented by all units, Baosteel has amended the In 2010, Baosteel has the employees democratic management included into Procedure for Management of Retirement of Baosteel Group Corporation to “imthe management system of corporate development. On January 15, 2010, prove the delayed retirement system of experts and specialists”. In addition, adopted by the Employees’ Congress, the Board of Directors of Baosteel prothe “establishment of plan for graduates housing subsidy plan” was under mulgated the Basic System for Employees Democratic Management of Baosteel survey and research. Group Corporation (Trial). In March, Baosteel formulated and distributed the Opinions on Implementing the Basic System for Employees Democratic ManageEstablish Communication Channel with Young Employees ment of Baosteel Group Corporation (Trial), which defined the requirements and In 2010, Baosteel Group Corporation held the corporate leaders and organizational structure for the implementation. young employees workshop of “face to face by heart” quarterly, quarterly submitted the Baosteel Youth Demands and Focus Information and Monthly Open Management of Corporate Affairs Report of “Bridge” Forum to the leaders and all departments, timely gathAt the beginning of 2010, the Labor Union of Baosteel headed the ered and reflected the thoughts and appeals posed by the young employees Disciplinary Inspection Committee, Party Committee organization departthrough the organizational system and network platform. ment and other relevant departments of Baosteel, Baosteel drafted and adopted the Essentials of the Work of Baosteel Group Corporation on the Open and On December 18, 2010, the employee online forum — “Bridge” foDemocratic Management of Corporate Affairs in 2010 (the Essentials for short) rum was officially launched and operated at the second anniversary after the based on the production and operation of Baosteel, it was implemented actrial operation. Xu Lejiang, Chairman of Baosteel Group Corporation, and Liu cording to the document issued by the Disciplinary Inspection Committee Guosheng, Vice Chairman and Secretary of the Party Committee of Baosteel and Party Committee. This document specified work concept of fostering Group Corporation made the interactive communication with 800 netizens the employee democratic management, smoothing the work system of emof the “bridge” forum in all through the online real-time communication and ployee democratic management at all levels, strictly regulating the democratic offline face-to-face interview, heard the needs and wishes of the grassroots procedure in the course of industry adjustment and development to ensure employees and received warm welcome from the employees. the work priorities in five areas like the stability of employees team during the World Expo 2010. In 2010, Baosteel strengthened the open and fair mechanism construction with respect to the human resources, materials, financial resources and other key fields, adhered to deepening the regularity and transparency of various managements, promoted the construction of five “sunshines”, like the sunshine recruitment and staffing, sunshine management remuneration, sunshine utilization of public funds, sunshine purchase sales and sunshine promotion project. Care about “Three Greatest” Employee Concerns At the time of improving the development and striving for better achievements of Baosteel, attention must be paid to caring about the employees, and the benefit of absolute majority of the employees must be guaranOperating Data of “Bridge” Forum teed to realize common development. 2009 2010 In 2010, Baosteel and its subsidiaries listed a total of 152 problems to Registered Users 22,350 31,641 be solved, of which eight were incorporated into the 4D [Note] of the Group, 69 for the Corporation, 75 for other units under the Group, 94.7% of these Suggestions and Complaints 1,444 1,629 problems were resolved by the end of December. For the eight problems Reply and Settlement Rate of Problems 100% 100% of the group company, the President took the position of responsible leader of the project and the President of Labor Union acted as the General ExIn addition, Baosteel entrusted the “bridge” forum to conduct the disecutive. By the end of 2010, the problems like the “establishment of honor cussion of “monthly major topics”, questionnaire survey of hotspot issues, incentive project planning system of Baosteel”, “establishment of grassroots automobile group purchase of Baosteel youth, free distribution of wedding team construction expenditure”, “establishment of incentive for perception exposition ticket, launched the special area of “Green Baosteel” and spared of grassroots employees”, “improvement of the standards for serious diseases no efforts to create an active, healthy and interesting network cultural life. relief and difficulty assistance” and “reduction of payment costs for single dormitory in Guoyuan” have been resolved; the “establishment of supplementary housing provident fund system” has been adopted by the joint meeting of Note: 4D — 4D was derived from the major links of the operation and management work — the initial letters of Discussion, Deliberation, Decision and Doing, which corresponded to the virtual meeting, prereview of proposals, list of proposals and work priority of the collaborative office system of Baosteel, which was an innovative attempt of the project management. 36 Employee Performance Harmonious Relations Improvement of Collective Contract Employee Activities Management System In 2010, Baosteel signed the collective conRich Sports Activities tracts with employees through equal consultation. Baosteel participated in the 14th Shanghai Sports The collective contracts covered all employees, Games, Baosteel Delegation achieved an excellent record and the contractual terms such as remuneration through tough struggle by over 60 athletes and coaches, and welfare, labor protection, education and traineight of them won the title as sports ethics award athletes. ing, and rest and recreation were all honored. This helped safeguard the interests of both employees The 8th employee sports meeting themed “Dynamic and enterprises. Baosteel and Vigorous Employees” was opened on June 1, 2010 and successfully closed on September 15 after all competitions were finished within four months. The sports Female Employees Forum meeting set up four divisions: Shanghai, Nanjing, Xinjiang and On March 5, 2010, the female employees Ningbo to facilitate the wide participation of the enterprises forum under the theme of “leading the tide, sipin all regions and the employees of all ethnic groups. This ping the lowcarbon life and becoming a lowsports meeting created five sports and intelligence expancarbon female” was held in Baosteel to celebrate sion programs that enabled the meeting to be of a more the 100th anniversary of Women’s Day. Eight interesting and mass character. female representatives, from the perspective of female, delivered the knowledgeable, deliberate and introductory keynote speeches with respect Care about Retirees to such eight themes as clothing, food, shelter, travel, health, beauty, education and love, etc. and i. Universities for the Aged University for the aged targeted “the aged should be trained, employed, acted and entertained” guided the employees to make the discussion and to expand the schooling thoughts continuously. In 2010, over 5,211 persons attended 126 classes for 37 thought, and advocated the low-carbon life style. courses, there were only 145 trainees and five classes at the beginning of establishment. The initiative posed by all female employees in Baosteel responded to the environmental operat2010 was the 20th anniversary of the establishment of Baosteel Senior Citizens College. Baosteel ing concept of Baosteel, started with every trifle hosted a series of activities (celebration meeting, praise for advanced individuals, rehearsal & performance, to have a wonderful and thrifty, happy and true results display, promotion and report, album publication and theme film shooting) to present the attention low-carbon life. and care of previous leaders of Baosteel. As the concerted efforts of vast teachers and students, Baosteel Senior Citizens College continuously pursued exploration and innovation, sought the truth and achieved Safeguard National Unity rich fruits. The College won the title of advanced group of aged cadres system in Shanghai. In May 2010, the Bayi Iron and Steel conducted 28 national unity education monthly activiii. Sports & Art Life ties and 33 players took part in the final contest The Baosteel Songtao Art Troupe was made of Baosteel’s retired people in April 1992, which comof speech themed “tell the story about national prised of the chorus, dance troupe, opera troupe, band and composition team. In 2010, the Baosteel Songunity around me”. tao Art Troupe participated in the serial performance of World Expo, including the square performance, performance inside the park and community. Baosteel holds a sports game for senior citizens every three years. From June to October, 2010, the 7th sports game was held, many competitions like the Taiji (sword, fan), Mulan boxing, stick operation, hands shaking, Chinese chess, hop chess, gate ball, basketball shooting and other competitions suitable for senior citizens, a total of 2850 aged people attended the sport meeting. Baosteel additionally conducted the activity of “respecting senior citizens and caring for the young to live a harmonious and cultural family live”, 43 families of senior citizens won the commendation. iii. Support of Associations Development In 2010, Baosteel Care Association was granted the national honor of advanced group caring about the next generation, Baosteel grandly held the 20th anniversary of establishment of Baosteel Care Association. In the 20 years following the establishment of Baosteel Care Association, “five elders” adhered to deepening the publicity and exchange of socialist core value system, attended the spiritual and ethics education, technology and business instruction to the youth in Baosteel and the community, cooperated with the community to do a good job in caring about the special youth and care for the healthy growth of the youth by heart. Baosteel has supported the work of the branches of the senior citizens sports association and conducted various activities based on the prerequisite of ensuring the safety of senior citizens. In 2010, the stick operation team ranked the first place at the competition of Shanghai “Changfeng Cup” Stick Operation Competition, the fitness dance team won the first prize at the fitness dance competition organized by Shanghai Sports Institute of Old People. 37 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Employee Safety & Protection Upholding the principles of people first and safety development, Baosteel in 2010 continued to deepen the “Year of Safe Production” activity, proceeded from the fundamental consideration of ensuring the occupational health and safety of its employees to control the safety production work by the view of scientific development as the guideline. Baosteel focused on the “Secure World Expo and Safe Production”, promoted OHSAS18001 occupational health and safety management system to deploy the industrial safety and management plan in an all-round way and effectively pushed its implementation. As a result, Baosteel’s industrial safety has been stable on the whole. Baosteel continued promoting the study work of safety managers. Based on the original branches Frequency of injuries for iron smelting, steel smelting, hot rolling, cold rolling, energy media, servicing, and technical transforma(number of injured persons per million working hours) tion, another three professional branches for chemical industry, tube, pipe & bar and transportation were established, 15 special studies on the safety hotspot problems and difficulties were conducted to promote the site practice and improvement of independent safety management. Baosteel has enhanced the pertinence and efficiency of safety training to promote the visualization of safety, outlined the safety procedures and requirements by means of visual caricature, flow chart and other methods combining with the actual situation of the production and servicing field, and formulated the Safety Guideline for Fire Operation and Visualized Display Board of Safety for Closed Space Operation to facilitate the learning and mastering by the grassroots employees. 2008 2009 2010 Baosteel has promoted the informationization construction of safety management, optimized the 0.13 0.29 0.17 existing safety information development system and surrounding business management information system according to the changes of field demand, share the safety information at all levels based on the standardized, normative and coding data to intensify the response speed of emergency and real-time Rate of serious injuries nature of safety supervision. (number of working days lost per million working hours) Baosteel has established the occupational health archive management system, summarized and refined the experience of treatment and management of occupational disease hazards, utilized the standardized management method and principle, explored the organic combination of occupational (disease) hazards control and archives to aim at intensifying the occupational health dynamic management by the archives management and ensuring the employees health and safety. Baosteel trained the safety and independent employees team to conduct various safety activities, organized and released the independent safety management topic, rated the “Top Ten” rationalized suggestions and conducted the safety production month activity themed “Safety-based Development, Preven2008 2009 2010 tion Foremost”, organized and attended the national education and popularity of occupational safety and health knowledge and industrial safety emergency knowledge contest. 61.54 106.94 117.93 Difficulty Assistance Baosteel helped the employees in living, educational and medical difficulties, by establishing a multi-level and multi-dimensional longstanding mechanism. Living allowance Educational assistance Medical relief 2008 2009 2010 Total 2008 2009 2010 Total 2008 2009 2010 Total Amount (RMB 10,000) 945 1,282 1,182 3,409 Amount (RMB 10,000) 100 104 91 295 Amount (RMB 10,000) 521 511 847 1,879 2008 2009 2010 Total 2008 2009 2010 Total 2008 2009 2010 Total Person-times helped 25,153 24,037 24,203 73,393 Person-times helped 1,896 1,401 902 4,199 Person-times helped 2,360 2,283 2,070 6,713 38 Employee Performance Establish System for Employee Democratic Management In January 2010, Baosteel's Employees Congress adopted the Provisional Basic System on Employee Democratic Management of Baosteel Group (the Basic System for short). In March, Baosteel distributed the Opinions on Implementation of Basic System on Employee Democratic Management of Baosteel Group (Trial) (the Implementation Opinions for short), which defined the requirements and organizational structure for the implementation, and required all subsidiaries to seriously follow the requirements of Basic System and Implementation Opinions. Baosteel accordingly set up the leadership team of the Basic System. In 2010, Baosteel formulated and issued the Procedure for Management of Employee Directors and Employee Technology Innovation Supervisors of Baosteel (Trial). On the basis of learn2008 2009 2010 ing and mastering the Basic System, all subsidiaries Number of rationalization proposals (10,000) 12.3 11.9 19.1 streamlined their original professional management system and flow according to the requirements of Number of implementation effect (RMB 100 million) — 20.2 23.34 the Basic System. In 2010, all units totally streamNumber of technical secrete formed (Item) 2,069 2,375 3,101 lined around 1000 systems, newly formulated 69 Application (Acceptance) of Patent (Item) 859 1,545 1,774 systems and amended 164 systems. Number of self-management results 2,482 2,464 7,500 In the list of 2009 national scientific technology award recently released, Baosteel was eye-catching because of Relevant Activities of Employees Innovation Studio its “three prizes”. It was worth notice that these three prizes covered such three layers as the scientific research Baosteel has 40 innovation studios and 332 standing innovation teams, 100 innovation volunteers mechanism, new product research and development, and and 100 employees technical innovation teams to conduct the “dual hundred” activity and realize the “couemployees invention. Director of science and technology development of Baosteel said iconically: “the seed will pling” between innovation base and corporate site, opened the “direct channel” to the innovation by grasssprout once there are appropriate soil, water, sunshine and roots employees; sets up the “small platform” crossing the plants and processes; creates the “short process” air”. “The innovation system of Baosteel presents the feature of establishing the integrated mechanism and platform of sharing knowledge and transforming achievements and builds up the “new platform” of cultivating mass for the enterprises, universities, research institutions and innovation pioneers for the purpose of better exerting the function of employees innovation base, and let applications, catalyzing the innovation atmosphere by effective evaluation and incentive means. So that the scientific more employees present their cleverness and caliber in the economic and technologic innovation activity, research talents would realize their value and reflect their effect either in the position of R&D or of production. and promote the realization of strategic target of “secondary startup” at an early date. …… Baosteel fully exerted the function of the “instructor, information, interaction, pilot and publicity” Innovation extends to the “nerve ending” of enterprise of the employees innovation base, inspired and guided the vast employees to conduct independent inIn general, the operation positions at the production site are always the “fringe area” and “nerve ending” of the novation activity. In 2010, the innovation base organized 40 forums, 209 innovation result releases and 10 scientific research, the operation in compliance with the exchanges of cross-plant operating skills. criteria will be enough. However, the operation positions in Baosteel are the “promising land” of technical innovation, a great many excellent operation and maintenance employees are promoted to the skill experts and chief Employees Innovation Laboratory operator officer. A relatively separate space is left for the development of “site experts” in the technical innovation Lu Jianghai, inspector and system of Baosteel — to continuous improvement system characterized by focusing on the production site and raissenior mechanical technician of ing the stable and precise operation. Ironmaking Plant, Stainless Steel The national award for technological advance set four successive achievement awards for the grassroots emBusiness Division. In 2008, Stainless ployees, and Baosteel won three times. Many enterprise Steel Business Division of Baosteel management specialists believe “it is not accidental but the inevitability of system and environment . “This time Wang established the “Lu Jianghai InnoKangjian, skill expert of Cold Rolling Plant under Baosteel vation Studio”, which was the first Co., Ltd. won the title, he is the one of the first major operators and people evaluate him a devoted and unselfinnovation studio created by the ish master ”. The award-winning project conducted by him Stainless Steel Business Division. is the “multifunctional online testing technology of highspeed cold rolling band steel”, that is to say, a pair of “sharp Lu Jianghai committed himself to eyes” is installed on the outlet of rolling mill, which fills the blank of online testing of rolling mill. the vanguard of site innovation as Wang Kangjian said the many innovative talents emerged Kong Liming, played his leading and from the grassroots posts on the production site of Baodriving role, gave the lecture to all steel mainly benefited from the innovation mechanism and atmosphere created by the enterprise and fully released business divisions in his spare time, the employees’ innovation potential. The space is left for imparted the approach of innovation, reducing cost and increasing efficiency and shared the experience the grassroots employees among a wide range of channels for talent fostering, the chief operator officer, skill experts of innovation by means of “giving a class” in the department. Under the guidance of Baosteel Technician and employee inventor, etc. The grassroots employees Association, he actively participated in the innovation volunteers activity held by Baosteel and take the made the innovation and improvement in the operation, these operations can be named by the operators’ name “leaders platform” as the carrier to impart the innovation concept. Lu Jianghai also made great contribuonce they are recognized and fixed by Baosteel, and tion to the improvement of site. He was granted the honor as the advanced individual in the contest of included into the annals of history of Baosteel. January 11, 2010, released by Li Rong, Xinhua News Agency “Pursuing the Ideal to Become Top Dedicator” by Baosteel in 2009 and was named the new star of the 2nd technology innovation in Shanghai. 39 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Priorities of Social Responsibility Social Performance 40 Social Performance Social Contribution General Information about Donations In 2010, Baosteel conducted the donation management in strict compliance with the Regulations on the Management of its Donations and Sponsorships (Second Version), the donation totaled RMB 42.543 million. Education Difficulty assistance Disaster relief Culture & art Environmental protection Others 2008 2009 2010 Total donations (RMB 10,000) 17,509 8,847 4,254.3 Wherein: 6,080.2 6,107.0 4,254.3 regular donation amount (RMB 10,000) Baosteel is dedicated to the continuous and effective public welfare programs; in principle, the annual external regular donation amount is 2‰ of the audited net profit in the latest fiscal year. The regular donation does not include such special circumstances as donation for sudden disasters, including the donation for the 2008 Wenchun Earthquake. Social Contribution Qinghai Yushu Earthquake Resistance and Disaster Relief After Qinghai Yushu Earthquake happened, Baosteel responded quickly and prepared the overall and systematic disaster relief plan. Baosteel donated the moveable plank house, tent and other disaster relief materials valuing at RMB 1 million, the moveable plank house can be installed and transported swiftly, and put into the region affected by earthquake fast so as to solve the accommodation of the people affected by earthquake, the emergency approval flow was initiated promptly and RMB 5 million was donated to install the artificial limbs for the disabled. Afterward, the employees of Baosteel actively made a donation to the disaster area, these donations were specially used for the construction of Baosteel Children’s Welfare Home in Chengduo County to build a warm family for the children affected by earthquake. Chengduo County is one of the counties with the most orphans among the six counties of Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture of Qinghai Province, the total area of Children’s Welfare Home supported by Baosteel covered 4,000m2 containing 200 beds, of which the construction has been commenced in late July 2010. 41 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Baosteel Education Found In 2010, 1,195 teachers and students from 108 colleges and 16 research institutes under China Academy of Sciences won the Baosteel education award of 2010. Baosteel Education Found utilized the funds of over RMB 12 million in the education award and other education welfare project of Baosteel. By the end of 2010, Baosteel Education Found used a total of RMB 130million more as the education award and subsidy. Youth Entrepreneur Found In 2010, Baosteel continuously promoted the “Youth Employment and Entrepreneurship Base” and implemented the allowance to the probationers. Moreover, Hwabao Trust became one of the investment operation units of RMB 200 milReconstruction after Wenchuan Earthquake lion under China Foundation for Youth Entrepreneurship and Employment. After the occurrence of Wenchuan Earthquake in Sichuan on May 12, 2008, Baosteel employees made their donations one after another, and the people and materials were organized at the first time for emergency rescue and disaster relief, actively participating in the reconstruction after disaster: National Iron & Steel Natural Science Found of China Dujiangyan “Xingyan • Yiyuan” Baosteel Sanwa Assisted Dongfang Turbine Steel Structured Houses in Post-Construction On August 28, 2000, Baosteel and National After Wenchuan Earthquake happened on Dongfang Turbine Co., Ltd. (the “Dongfang Natural Science Foundation of China signed the May 12, Baosteel Living Steel Project Team hurTurbine” for short) is one of major enterprises Agreement on Establishment of Iron & Steel Joint ried to the disaster area at the first time, rendered engaging in the post construction of “5•12” earthResearch Found in Beijing. The Found gives priordiversified residence design scheme free of charge quake. Shanghai Baosteel Sanwa Door Co., Ltd. ity to the new metallurgical technology in urgent and constructed the whole steel structure flats (the “Baosteel Sanwa” for short) under Baosteel need of the steelmaking industry in China and the named Dujiangyan “Xingyan • Yiyuan”. The house organized the excellent design, manufacture and basic research projects having important scientific project was smoothly delivered and put into usconstruction management masters to set up the significances and application value with respect to age in July 2010, which solved the accommodation special reconstruction team and stayed in Deyang the process, material, energy, environment, equipproblems of 800-odd people affected by earthproject site of Sichuan Province for about one ment and information. The Found encourages quake. In view of the lots of resources waste and year and a half, made and installed 3,009 electric innovation, disciplines crossing and the combinawhite pollution arising out of the discarded masliding doors, electric roll-up doors, color-coattion of industry, academy and research and places terials, Baosteel raised the proposal of renovating ed board doors and other doors for Dongfang priority on the young scientific talents. By 2010, the permanent residence of colorful planks after Turbine. On May 12, 2010, Baosteel Sanwa sucthe Found has totally supported 215 projects and systematic research and demonstration, and comcessfully completed all reconstruction projects of become the bridge and important platform linking bined the discarded color-coated steel sandwich Dongfang Turbine after the disaster according to the foundation and application research. board with other wall materials to employ as the the overall layout. Dongfang Turbine thus granted new-type wall system for the construction of rural the second-grade award of progress cooperation residence. This Proposal was employed in Guankof reconstruction to Baosteel Sanwa and presentou Town, Qingchengshan Town, Hongkou Town ed the banner and completion monument. and Shiyang Town of Dujiangyan City. At present, Baosteel has completed 26 steel structured houses with a total building area of 2,227m2 and recovered 5,000m2 discarded color-coated steel sandwich board.The company effectively explored a new approach of recycling the discarded plank house, and thus avoided the waste of resources as it converted wastes into resources. Moreover, Baosteel incorporated the compound enclosed concept and saved 50% energy, raised the level of house energy saving and residential quality of people affected by earthquake. 42 Social Performance Poverty Alleviation and Draught Resistance in Yunnan In 2010, Baosteel further strengthened the regular support to Pu'er City of Yunnan Province in terms of the project, fund and personnel, actively conducted the support and elaborately organized the project implementation based on the basic and urgent demand of the mass. In April 2010, the Labor Union of Baosteel conducted the counterpart aid with Baosteel, Baosteel International, Meishan Iron & Steel, and signed the 2010 aid agreements respectively with Ning’er County, Mojiang County, Jiangcheng County and Zhenyuan County. The total funding was RMB 8.55 million and covered 33 projects, including 19 for overall village improvement, two for education and training, four for industrial development and “1+1” pairing, seven for sponsorship for poor university students and one for public welfares. At the beginning of 2010, Pu’er City, like other places of Yunnan province, suffered the abnormal climate and the winter and spring draught which was severe in the past 80 years. Baosteel made an in-depth understanding to the draught, donated the special fund of RMB 10million to construct the Support Hope Schools drinking water project of draught resistance, including three drinking water projects, 528 newly-built pools (water cellars), one riverway construction Under the support of Baosteel Education Foundation, Baosteel Comproject, one water diversion canal project and four water wells. The draught mittee of the Chinese Communist Youth League continuously promoted the resistance project spread over four counties, 18 towns (villages) and 67 adBaosteel Hope Scholarship for the hope schools project. ministrative villages, satisfied the water demand of 16,355 people in 5,425 In 2010, the Baosteel Education Foundation and Baosteel Committee families and 12,079 cattle, and irrigated the agricultural field with an area of of the Chinese Communist Youth League further expanded the aid scope on 171.07 hectares. the basis of 2008 and 2009, increased the aid amount, distributed the education scholarship award to 10 hope schools supported by Baosteel in Yunnan, Help Cataract Patients Hunan and Jiangxi and granted the award to 188 teachers and students, the prize amount totaled RMB71,600. In 2010, Baosteel again donated RMB 0.6 million to cure 600 cataract patients in such five districts and counties as Pu’er, Zhenyuan, Jinggu, Mojiang In November 2010, the Baosteel Education Foundation and Baosteel and Lancang in Yunnan Province. The implementation of “helping cataract paCommittee of the Chinese Communist Youth League jointly visited Dukezong tients” achieved the purpose of “curing one patient, liberating one family and Hope School situated in Jiantang Town, Shangrila County, Diqing City, Yunnan affecting a contingent of people”, which alleviated the burden of the governProvince and donated 260 sets of stationery supplies valuing at RMB 19,320 ment and society and created excellent social benefits. including schoolbags, pencil boxes, erasers, rulers, pencils and exercise books. Total aid-Tibet funds 2002 2004 20 million 2004 2007 37.05million Aid to Tibet 2007 2010 Baosteel injected a total of RMB 20 million as the first-batch aid-Tibet funds (2002-2004); Baosteel injected a total of RMB 37.05 million as the second-batch aid-Tibet funds (2004-2007); Baosteel injected a total of RMB 45.69 million as the third-batch aid-Tibet funds (2007-2010); 45.69million Baosteel injected RMB 102.74 million totally and supported 76 aid-Tibet projects, including the medical treatment and health, education, tourism, office condition, housing project, vegetable basket project, infrastructure, life improvement and other aspects, which gave a great contribution to the rapid development of Zhongba county and improvement of rural and urban appearance. 43 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Priorities of Social Responsibility Supply-chain Performance 44 Supply-chain Performance Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Environment-friendly Products Baosteel has continuously conducted the life cycle asEnvironment-friendly products refer to the products that can save the resources, sessment (LCA) of steel & iron products since 2004. In 2010, lower the consumption and reduce the pollutants emission, and have a small negative influBaosteel injected RMB 10 million to deepen the research of ence on the quality of environment and health of people. Judging from the manufacturing LCA evaluation approach and platform construction, which was process, the environment-friendly products made of steel & iron have the characteristics designed to evaluate the resources and energy consumption of low comprehensive energy consumption and low carbon emission; judging from the and pollutants emission in making different types of steel & iron application, these products have the characteristics of light weight, easy processing, easy products, fix the direction for the energy saving and emission maintenance, nontoxicity and innoxiousness, prolonged service life and improved efficiency, reduction, and explore the ecologic design of auto sheets, tin etc. In the year 2010, Baosteel again developed a number of green products like the steel for plates and silicon steel based on the typical products. liquefied petroleum gas tank and the steel for high corrosion resistance railway. In 2010, Baosteel joined hands with the two downstream transformer →→ In view of the demands for materials of downstream industry, Baosteel developed the steel with manufacturers to conduct the whole-process LCA, analyzed and fixed the the features of high strength, high toughness, high corrosion resistance, solderability and formabiltarget and roadmap of carbon emission reduction of silicon steel products, ity, converted the traditional two-dimensional design of cost and quality to the three-dimensional which provided technical support for the design, production and employment of environment-friendly silicon steel products. Besides, Baosteel took the design of cost, quality and environmental protection, and thus realized the ecological design and production and green manufacture of products. application 9000 of Baosteel’s →→ Focused on the key materials for automobile, ship and marine platform, efficient & cleaning Jiangbian power generation, special materials for aerospace and aviation, key materials for construction transformer 8000 2# as the case and machinery, key materials for light industry & home appliance chemical industry, jointly deto analyze the 7000 veloped the technical research for material application, provide the overall solution and crated environmental the green value chain. function of new 1000 products made →→ Focused on promoting the research of data platform and evaluation method system of LCA of B30P110 silicon steel. including the production and manufacture process, Baosteel had the ability to make LCA on all The research products and completed the LCA on all relevant products of 95 types of steelmaking products 0 revealed that B30G130 B30P110 and 14 types of energy products of Baosteel. from the perspective of the life cycle, when the B30P110 silicon steel, rather than B30G130 silicon steel, is →→ Integrated the technical strength, formed the cross-process technical synergy team, strengthened used to produce the transformer, their carbon emissions are equivalent in the the special technical research, concentrated on promoting and developing the auto sheet prodproduction process while 15% carbon emission was reduced in the process of ucts, tinplate products, silicon steel products and environmental protection coating technology, operation. laser incision and other special technologies. Automobile Food & Beverages Home Electrical Electrical Power and Construction and Others Appliance Energy Civil Engineering Reduced weight and Reducing the weight of Simplifying customers’’ Improving the efImproving the effiSimplifying users’ increased safety beverage cans processing technology ficiency of power ciency of construction processing High-strength sheets, wires Reducing the thickness of DI Pre-painted steel sheets for home generation High-strength high-ductility technology and bars materials electrical appliances High-temperature high-pressure thick plate Non-quenched and Electrical steel with self-bonding boiler Thick steel plate for high heat tempered steel Preventing global Simplifying customers’ coating pipe input welding warming processing technology Hot galvanized steel sheet with Saving energy and reducLaser tailor welded blanks self lubricating film Improving the efing CO2 ficiency of energy emission Improving motor transpor efficiency High-strength high-ductility High-efficiency non-oriented pipeline steel electrical steel Environment-friendly Materials containing materials no environmentally Lead-free hot galvanized steel hazardous substances sheet Lead-free hot galvanized steel Lead-free easy-cutting steel sheet Reducing workload Chromium-free galvanized sheet Chromium-free hot galvanized of environmental for automobiles sheet for home electrical risk management appliances Reducing workload of Reducing noise and Chromium-free electro-galvanized environmental vibration sheet for home electrical protection and workload of Composite damping plate appliances management Chromium-free hot Al-Zn of hazardous chemicals coated sheet for home electrical appliances Chromium-free pretreated prepainted sheet for home electrical appliances Prolonging service life Prolonging service life Improving the efProlonging service life and reducing wastes and reducing wastes ficiency of power High-strength enameled steel Hot galvanized high-strength Hot-dip Al-Zn coated series generation High-strength structural steel steel (DP) products High-pressure boiler pipe for buildings Electro-galvanized high strength Hot galvanized series products High-strength steel pipe High-tensile-strength wires Creating a society steel (TRIP, DP) Electro-galvanized series products Tubes for nuclear power Self-cleaning pre-painted steel of circular economy Stainless steel for automobile Pre-painted series products generation sheet Prolonging service life exhaust Antibacterial stainless steel service High-ductility high-strength through recycling systems structural steel pipe High-strength fire-resistant Prolonging service life weathering Steel for chemical storage tanks steel Steel for petroleum storage tanks High-durability pre-painted High-sulfur-resistance tubing steel sheet and casing 45 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Develop with Suppliers “Sunshine” Procurement Policies Baosteel vigorously propelled the construction of electronic information platform and formed the standard online transaction mode of public bidding, price check bidding, comprehensive bidding and bill collaboration, focused on promoting the online procurement of general materials, spare parts, engineering materials, chemical materials, ferroalloy, steel scrap, office supplies and labor protection equipment, which increased the purchase scale substantially, strengthened the online sales and online bidding strengthen, and promoted the online bidding sales of genuine steel, idle assets, waste materials, steel scrap, recycling materials and chemical products. Baosteel intensified the process supervision on sunshine procurement sales, formulated the Measures for Management of Bidding Supervision, acceptGreen Procurement ed over 10 complaint letters and phone complaints raised by the suppliers →→ In selecting the ocean transport ship of bulk raw materials, Baosteel gave priorand customers by three-tier rescue system, call center and electronic bidding ity to the energy-saving new ships to cut down the fuel consumption, reducing pollution to the environment. Among the total ships of ocean transport in 2010, monitoring system, investigated against and notified the noncompliant behavabout 43% were the energy-saving ones built after 2005 (included). iors. It released the sixth and seventh list of banned firms, and a total of 1,076 persons in 168 units were forbidden to have economic business relations with →→ Baosteel promoted the recycling of clean steel scrap and made active efforts Baosteel, which purified the operating environment. to promote the integration of steel scrap, accordingly realized the coordinated management of steel scrap stock and logistics in Shanghai, vigorously pushed the trial operation of directly distributing to the steel scrap base, reduced the “exterSuppliers Admission Policy nal cycle” of steel scrap trading and intensified the reuse of steel scrap. Baosteel The market fluctuation range became stable in 2010, Baosteel, upholdin 2010 focused on promoting the establishment of homemade crushing materiing the value concept centering about the “faith and honesty”, established als procurement and quality inspection standards, and actively developed the the scientific evaluation system, continuously strengthened and promoted the domestic suppliers and supply channels of crushing materials, effectively raised cooperation with the supply chain by means of standardizing the admission the application proportion of clean steel scrap and reduced the environment conditions. pollution. In 2010, Raw Materials Procurement Center totally developed and utilized the homemade crushing materials of 225,000 tons. Besides, the Corporation perfected the materials and spare parts procurement and strictly carried out the supplier admission/elimination system, Communication with Suppliers suppliers collective review system, second party site audit, annual evaluation Upholding the long-term stable supply of raw materials, Baosteel deeply on supplier and other systems, managed the suppliers team by the competipromoted the win-win cooperation with the strategic suppliers, continuously tive mechanism, created an orderly, efficient, normative and uncorrupted busideepened the supplier management and improved the cooperation relation ness environment in an equal, fair and open manner. with the supply chain based on the principles of sharing the profits and risks, developing jointly. The Corporation additionally organized and held various Requirements for Environmental System Certification professional meetings and kept good communication with the suppliers. For Baosteel in 2010 formulated the green procurement action plan for instance: materials & spare parts and bulk raw materials, and posed the requirements →→ In April, key rolls suppliers attended the rolls management workshop organized to the suppliers in respect of passing the certification of environmental manby Baosteel, which stressed the supplier and the purchaser would strengthen the agement system (ISO14001, GB/T24001) and other systems and gave priority collaboration between the manufacturing technology and application technology. to the supplier passing the environmental management system certification. →→ In May, supplier of refractory materials signed the initiative written proposal with In 2010, 18% and 7% suppliers passed the ISO14001 system certification of Baosteel in the site meeting of green procurement and supply organized by the materials & spare parts and bulk raw materials, respectively. Materials & Spare Parts Department, which advocated to make active efforts to reduce the environment burden and jointly build a green supply chain. ISM/NSM Management System Certification [Note] →→ In November, Raw Material Procurement Center respectively organized and held the steel scrap suppliers meeting and ferroalloy suppliers meeting of Baosteel, The Bulk Raw Material Procurement Department of Baosteel required made a face-to-face communication to deepen the strategic cooperation relathe major carrier to implement ISM/NSM management system certification. In tion between the supplier and the purchaser and commended many excellent selecting the ship carrier, the Company required the carries to pass ISM/NSM suppliers in the meeting. system certification or their ships should be managed by the ship management company passing ISM/NSM certification. 100% major carriers of Bao→→ Carried out the questionnaire survey on the integrity, honesty and sunshine procurement of the employees in charge of the procurement to the suppliers. In steel passed ISM/NSM system certification in 2010. September 2010, Baosteel distributed the “questionnaire survey on the integrity and CPC style construction of Materials & Spare Parts Department”, answers were required for 18 sets of questionnaires. 900 copies of questionnaires were distributed and 515 were returned, representing 61%. Note: ISM/NSM Management System Certification — (ISM – International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, NSM – Administration Rules of the People's Republic of China for Ship Safety Control and the Pollution Prevention.) 46 Supply-chain Performance Survey Problems and Contents of Options Suppliers’ Reply and Selection Customer Relation Management and Number of Suppliers Ratio Quality Service ? What do you think of the integrity of management level of Baosteel compared with 503 your other suppliers? Higher 483 96% Integrated Management of Production, Sales and Research Almost the same 20 4% In 2010, Baosteel adopted the “SBU promotion based upon the integrated 0 0% management of production, sales and research”, i.e., to focus on the establishment Lower of SBU promotion mode[Note] orienting the users’ demand, promoting the key ? What’s your overall evaluation on the integrity and honesty of personnel in 505 products as the major line and increasing the rapid response ability as the core. procurement department? In the daily promotion of production, sales and research, all production, sales and High 499 99% research teams concentrate on the users’ new demand and production bottleneck of the facility to strengthen the research of application technology and spared no So so 6 1% efforts to enhance the supply ability. After lots of efforts, the Company made a great Low 0 0% progress in promoting the “high strength” and “green” products in 2010, the capacity of supplying the high magnetic induction oriented electrical steel, high-strength ? Which one do you think is the best among 531 automotive steel, engineering mechanical high-strength steel and other products and various measures of sunshine procurement? Electronic procurement, including the online thus effectively satisfied the high-end users’ demand. inquiry and comparison, order and invoice 406 76% collaboration, etc. 45 8% Account Representative System Suppliers evaluation management In 2010, Baosteel took the further advantage of account representative serving Suppliers admission management 31 6% the key users on the site to actively trigger the user’ demand on the spare parts and Optimize the procurement method by 44 8% quality of steel technique, timely provided the users’ actual demand on steel quality virtue of open bidding, etc. and laid a solid foundation for Baosteel to make the products meet the users’ deOthers, please remark 5 1% mand. Representative provided high value–added service that outvalues the product ? Which business process of procurement do quality in high degree. you think needs further improvement to 481 reflect the philosophy of “openness, fairness and equity”? Proposed suppliers 155 32% Awards by Customers Inquiry and comparison 90 19% Honors and Awards Customers Awardees Public bidding 68 14% First Global Supplier of Impress Group Inspection and acceptance 39 8% From China Impress Impress Baosteel Co., Ltd. First supplier in China Payment 61 13% ChinaKazakhstan Crude Oil Pipeline Project (Phase II) CPTDC Baosteel Co., Ltd. Others, please remark 68 14% Excellent supplier of steel sheet China Asia Natural Gas Pipelines Project CPTDC Baosteel Co., Ltd. Excellent supplier of steel sheet Hengtian Jingwei Textile Excellent supplier Baosteel Co., Ltd. Machinery Co., Ltd. As an account representative, Che Jianhua was appointed as the material specialist of Guangdong Yehui Steel complaints treatment team when the user served by him were confronted with the Strategic partner Baosteel Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. problems that the user’s products were suspended by the downstream manufacturers and lots of exported automobiles would be recalled, that is to say, the user would cease the production or go bankrupt. Depending on the long-term accumulated Jiaxipera Compressor Co., Strategic supplier Baosteel Co., Ltd. technology experience and understanding to the processing technique of the user, Ltd. Che Jianhua actively handled the work relying on the internal backup of Baosteel and finally tackled the crisis successfully, and urged the downstream users to improve their Media Compressor Business Golden supplier Baosteel Co., Ltd. production process. Dept. GMCC In ten days around, he enabled the user on the brink of bankruptcy to be survived. The user thus admired the technical service ability of Che Jianhua and stated that we would have gone bankrupt if there was no help from Mr. Che in the letter of thanks. 2010 Platinum Supplier Award Coca Cola (China) Baosteel Metal We will firmly rely on and follow Baosteel in the future. “The honest service and ability of Che Jianhua was universally recognized by the users, he was the excellent account representative by Baosteel in successive years”. Customer Satisfaction Survey Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2009 92.4 92.3 92.4 92.8 2010 90.1 90.7 89.0 90.6 Note: In 2010, the satisfaction survey was extended to the domestic customers of products made of carbon steel, stainless steel and special steel from the original domestic customers of products made of carbon steel only. Note: SBU—Strategy business unit 47 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Baosteel Contributed More Than Iron & Steel to the World Expo As the global partner and general supplier of iron & steel for World Expo 2010, Baosteel made a great contribution in the course of relocation, construction and operation of World Expo, and a large number of “masterpieces” made by Baosteel can be found everywhere in the big World Expo Park. Baosteel contributed more than iron & steel to the World Expo. 48 Baosteel Contributed More Than Iron & Steel to the World Expo Complete Relocation of Provide Quality Products and Services to World Expo Pudong Iron & Steel During the course of construction of World Expo Site, Baosteel participated in the supply of steel for the construction projects and provided 93,200 tons of steel and 89,200 tons of steel structure reWith the successful bid for the World Expo spectively for the World Expo in aggregate. Such landmark architectures for the World Expo as the China by Shanghai in 2002, as the origin of the steel & Pavilion, Theme Pavilion, Expo Culture Center and others used the quality steel of Baosteel to form solid iron of Shanghai and the cradle of national industry, structures.Taking into account the feature of “design revisions occur now and then amidst the construction Pudong Iron & Steel Group subordinate to Baoprocess”, Baosteel established a joint supply team in charge of the coordinated process including producsteel, was also included in the site planning scope tion, research & development, sales, service and steel structure manufacturing, and provided a whole set of World Expo. To cooperate in the construction of carefully wrought all-round architecture solutions. Baosteel was also responsible for the steel storage of World Expo, Baosteel promptly made the decimanagement of World Expo and innovated a new-type of supply mode for key projects, thus ensuring the sion to relocate Pudong Iron & Steel entirely. The timely completion of World Expo Pavilions. overall relocation of Pudong Iron & Steel started in 2005 after two years’ endeavors. By October →→ Provided the World Expo with 70% of the stainless steel raw materials for water tanks; 2007, Baosteel completed transfer of all plots and →→ Provided industrial doors for over 30 pavilions such as World Expo Center and Japan Pavilion; fulfilled the commitment of vacating the land on →→ 200 volunteer booths and 171 bus booths made by Baosteel Light Steel House interspersed all over Shanghai Proper; schedule. As is indicated by the statistics, Pudong →→ Baosight undertook the traffic management information system engineering which counted as one of the three Iron & Steel removed more than 500 projects and traffic information service platforms in World Expo Park. vacating land with a total area of 3,518 hectares →→ The roads and pavilions in World Expo Park used 450,000 tons of blast furnace slag of Baosteel (solid wastes for the World Expo. About 40% of the Pudong generated during the course of steel smelting), with the elements of low carbon and environmental protection Zone of World Expo Park was built on the original interwoven all along. site of Pudong Iron & Steel. In honor of the support of Baosteel for the World Expo, the original special steel workshop of Pudong Iron & Steel was named as “Baosteel Stage” which also served as the venue for all provinces and municipalities to held “Culture Week”. Dispatch Cadre Talents World Expo Volunteers To intensify the construction of CPC orgaDuring the World Expo, over 500 youths in nization of World Expo, Baosteel, after receipt of Baosteel actively signed up to become volunteers the notice issued by Organization Department and 57 were selected, they displayed the sound of CPC Shanghai Committee and the Bureau of spiritual appearance of Baosteel at the volunteer Shanghai World Expo Coordination, selected 28 booth in the World Expo Park and City Booth. party cadres to the Bureau of Shanghai World 19 of them were appointed as volunteers in the Expo Coordination on March 12, 2010 to take World Expo Park, they assumed the explanation, part in the CPC construction of World Expo. Ten guidance and other services in Baosteel Stage in of them served as the full-time Deputy Secretary Block B and they were rated as the “Excellent Volof the temporary CPC branch set in World Expo unteers Team of Shanghai World Expo”. Park, accounting for 50% of the Deputy Secre68 security volunteers from all divisions of tary. 14 CPC cadres temporarily transferred were Baosteel were responsible for the security guaranrated as the Excellent Organizer at Front Line of tee of the 17 entrances and exits at five stations World Expo by the CPC Shanghai Committee. along Rail Transit Line 3. One was rated as the “five leading” CPC member by the CPC Shanghai Committee. Nine of them 11 Baosteel soldiers enrolling in 2009 from were rated as “Shanghai World Expo Excellent InShanghai Baosteel Equipment Maintenance Co., dividual by Shanghai Municipal People’s GovernLtd. And others performed the security duties in ment. In the ten months working for the World the World Expo Park and all entrances and exits Expo, they have made the wholehearted input in Shanghai. and composed their own touching stories. 49 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Baosteel Expo Activities Baosteel Invites You to Visit World Expo Daily, China National Radio, Eastday.com, Japanese Economic News Agency, On July 6, 2010, 2009 CSR Report was released and the Activity of Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg and Reuters. The activity represented Bao“Baosteel Invites You to Visit World Expo” was held in the Theme Pavilion of steel's concept of devoting to the harmonious development of enterprises, the World Expo Park. The disaster-stricken residents in Dujiangyan, relocation society and environment, introduced Baosteel’s devotion and efforts to the residents of Pudong Iron & Steel, communities around Baosteel, representaenergy saving and environmental protection and relevant results. In the visit tives from one-to-one poverty alleviation areas in Tibet and Yunnan, benefiand interview, Baosteel included the environmental protection in the whole ciary of “Help Cataract Patients” and other representatives were invited to process of corporate operation and management, which left a deep impreswitness the social responsibilities performed by Baosteel in the past year and sion on the reporters; everyone thought Baosteel set up a good example for started the journey of World Expo. As a global partner of Shanghai World Chinese and Asia enterprises. Expo 2010, Baosteel invited a total of 40,000 relevant stakeholders from all fields to visit the World Expo, and held the Fellowship of Baosteel Strategic Give Gifts to the 8,000,000th Visitor to China Pavilion Partners to exhibit Shanghai and the World Expo from many perspectives On September 28, 2010, Baosteel presented the Bureau of Shanghai and orientations. World Expo Coordination the limited edition model of China Pavilion made from the blast furnace slag and powder, Model 001 would be permanently Besides, Baosteel sponsored the activity “Ten Thousand Aged in Shangkept by the Shanghai Expo Museum. In addition, the Model was presented to hai Visit World Expo” organized by Shanghai Senior Citizens Foundation and the 8,000,000th Visitor to China Pavilion as the official gift by the Bureau of recommended the residents in communities surrounding Baosteel like Yuepu Shanghai World Expo Coordination. Town, to become the first beneficiaries, which reflected Baosteel’s care for the community. Shanghai World Expo Baosteel Activity Day On October 23, 2010, Shanghai World Expo Baosteel Activity Day City Reading • Reading City themed as “Better Steel • Better Life” was grandly presented in Baosteel Stage. The World Expo Reading Forum themed as “City Reading • Reading Over 160 performers from Baosteel presented a fabulous performance, attractCity” is composed of one main venue forum and four branch venue activities. ing lots of visitors. Baosteel Activity Day is the sole and one corporate themed On April 23, 2010, the enterprise branch venue under the theme of “Readactivity day on the Baosteel Stage during the World Expo, which was planned ing • Staff • Enterprise” was held in Baosteel Building to jointly discuss the and implemented jointly by Baosteel and the Bureau of Shanghai World Expo relationship between reading and selfhood, enterprise or social development. Coordination, and reflected the gratitude of the Bureau for Baosteel. Feel Shanghai — Global Partner of World Expo, World Expo Summit Forum Baosteel’s Practice of Environmental Protection On October 31, 2010, the day of closing of the World Expo, the World Baosteel joined hands with Shanghai International Communication OfExpo Summit Forum was held in World Expo Center, Liu Guosheng, ,Party fice to publicize and plan the theme activity of “Feel Shanghai — Global PartCommittee Secretary of Baosteel, attended the main and sub forum of “Techner of World Expo, Baosteel’s Practice of Environmental Protection”, invited nological Advance and Innovative City” on behalf of Baosteel, and announced over 30 domestic and overseas media like Xinhua News Agency, People’s Shanghai Declaration together with other guests. External Affirmation of Baosteel’s Contribution to World Expo Baosteel’s contribution to Expo and support to Export 2010 were recognized by all relevant departments successively. A total of 40 groups, or 353 individuals were given commendations, among whom those commended by the department at Central Government level and State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC) were as follows: Awards Awardees Organizations Level Time Excellent Individual of China Youth Volunteers Xiong Wenmin Baosteel Development Department at central level December 2010 Advanced Grassroots CPC of Shanghai Temporary CPC Branch of World Expo Materials Supply Team Baosteel Co., Ltd. Department at central level July 2010 World Expo Outstanding Contribution Award of Participating in 2010 World Expo by Baosteel Group Corporation Baosteel SASAC February 2011 Central Enterprise Corporate Culture Dept. (World Expo Office) Baosteel SASAC February 2011 Advanced Group of Participating in 2010 World Expo by Central Enterprise World Expo CPC Work Group Baosteel Development SASAC February 2011 Ouyang Yingpeng Baosteel SASAC February 2011 Jiang Qingdi Shanghai No. 5 Steel SASAC February 2011 Advanced Individual of Participating in Zuo Sen Pudong Iron & Steel SASAC February 2011 2010 World Expo by Central Enterprise Pu Kangguo Baosteel Co., Ltd. SASAC February 2011 Fu Shuizhong Baosteel Engineering SASAC February 2011 Besides, 24 groups and 199 individuals that were commended by relevant department of Shanghai and the Bureau of Shanghai World Expo Coordination; 12 groups and 148 individuals were praised by Baosteel. 50 Subsidiaries’ CSR With the steel production as its main business, Baosteel tries all out to meet the development demand of downstream industries in China, the largest steel market in the world, and plays a vital role in providing steel sheets in the high-end markets of downstream industries. While making efforts to propel the main business, Baosteel spares no time to develop diverse related industries by focusing on steel supply chain, technology chain and resource utilization chain; consequently, its business in six related industries, including resource development & logistics, extended steel processing, engineering & technology services, coal chemical industry, financial investment industry and production services, has taken shape now. 6 Production services P62 1 Resource development & logistics P55 5 Financial investment industry P61 Iron & steel industry P52 2 Extended steel processing P56 4 Coal chemical industry P59 3 Engineering & technology services P57 51 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Primary Operation: Iron & Steel Baoshan Iron and Steel Co., Ltd. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (Baosteel Co., Ltd. for short) is a world-class steel conglomerate and the largest production base of high quality steel products, which is the most advanced at home and one of the most competitive steel companies in the world. In a new round of development, Baosteel Co., Ltd. sets forth its strategic target to become the most competitive steel company in the world; it specializes in producing a full range of carbon steel, stainless steel and specially alloyed steel products represented by auto sheets, steel sheets for home electrical appliances, ship plates, steel for the energy industry, electrical steel and other high-grade products; its main target markets are the high and middle-end markets in the east of China, as well as other domestic markets as the complement, and it also makes efforts to explore overseas markets. As a core subsidiary of Baosteel Group Corporation, Baosteel Co., Ltd. will further perform its functions as the training and output base of technology, management and talents, leader in producing high quality products, engine for technological advance, training base of core talents, promoter of the brand image, and pioneer in the new mechanism of environmental operation, so as to propel the balanced development of steel production plants in various regions. I. Economic Performance 2. Energy Management System the innovative vigor of energy saving and emission reducTo adapt to the requirements for national energy tion technology to maintain the sustainable development In face of the volatile and complex market enpotential; intensified the energy conservation and environmanagement policy and Baosteel environment opervironment and economic situation and with product mental protection system management and performed the ating strategy, improve the operation level of energy management, cost improvement and management reliability to ensure the overall completion of the target. management system, the head office of Baosteel Co., form as the three main lines in 2010, Baosteel Co., Ltd. Ltd. took the lead in the pilot of certification for energy endeavored to mitigate the pressure of price soaring of management system. raw materials like the iron ore, addressed the challenge, Under the principles of “intensifying the energy III. Employee Performance grasped the opportunity and gained outstanding operating achievement. The sales of billet steel have reached control and management, reducing the energy conAmong the 42,308 employees, there are 25,804 25.261 million tons and the total business income was sumption”, the certification for energy management operator and maintenance staff members, 12,522 techRMB 202.41 billion in the whole year. system laid the stress on reviewing the energy pronicians and 3,982 management staff members; and curement, acceptance/storage, processing and convert27,692 people have college degree or above, accounting ing, distribution, usage, as well as the management and for 65.5%. All these employees work in Shanghai, Jiangsu II. Environment Performance energy-saving technology of residual energy and heat province, Zhejiang province, Shandong province, and recovery in the course of product manufacturing, doHubei province or overseas. ing business and providing service by the steelmaking Baosteel Co., Ltd. provides equal employment for Management Structure and Liability enterprises in accordance with the national standard the people of different genders and ages. However, due GB/T23331-2009 and EnMSGT-2010 Rules for the Imto special characteristics of the industry, the Company Baosteel Co., Ltd. has established the energy and enplementation of the Certification of Energy Management currently has 5,258 females, representing 12.4% of the vironmental protection committee to formulate guidelines System for Steel & Iron Industry (Trial). total employees, who mostly assume the management for recycling economy (including energy, environmental protection and resource utilization), guide, research and and technological positions. confirm the company’s planning and program of environ3. Education and Training on Energy ConIn 2010, 508 employees, or 1.2% of the whole mental protection and resource utilization and developservation and Environmental Protection workforce, resigned. Baosteel Co., Ltd. respected its emTo strengthen the professional team building of ment, coordinate the relations between branch compaployees’ choice, and handled procedures timely accordenergy management, raise the professional quality and nies, business department and subsidiaries as well as the ing to relevant laws and regulations after private talk with capacity of energy managers at all levels, support the resource allocation, and make decisions for key projects employees who wanted to resign to know the reason Company’s cost reduction and efficiency increase and of environmental protection and resource utilization. The for their resignation. promote the management level of energy and conPresident of the Company acted as the director of the servation and environmental protection, Baosteel Co., committee and controlled the Vice President, Head of Ltd. organized relevant departments to carry out the Energy and Environmental Protection Department served national standard Energy Management Systems RequireIV. Social Performance as the deputy director, the Business Department was in ments (GB/T23331-2009) and Rules for the ImplementaIn 2010, Baosteel Co., Ltd. actually donated RMB charge of the Vice President and director of all relevant tion of the Certification of Energy Management System for 127.725 billion, or 2.2% of the audited net profits attribplants. The Committee established the office and the ofSteel & Iron Industry, cleaning production, and provide utable to the parent company in 2009, these donations fice was under the Energy and Environmental Protection the 18 training programs like the cleaning production, were mainly for such purposes as the poverty alleviaDepartment of the Company. environment operation, environment accounting, enertion, environmental protection, education undertaking gy management post qualification, etc. There were 923 and public welfare donation to the charity foundation, Management System person-times in total participating in 21 training courses. etc. 1. Environmental Management System 4. Environment and Energy Solution Baosteel Co., Ltd. was the first in China’s steel inIn 2010, Baosteel Co., Ltd. placed priority on the endustry to pass the ISO14001 certification for environergy saving, emission reduction and resource utilization to mental management system. By means of continuously impel the recycling economy and cleaner production; strictimproving and strengthening the standards and certificaly controlled the increase of energy consumption aggregate, tion management of ISO14001 certification for environcut down the emission of pollutants and improved the mental management system, the Company witnessed a comprehensive reuse of resources; continuously and deeply promotion of environmental management level and perpromoted the cost improvement management, pushed the formance. At present, all steel production units under the operation and management of overall energy system and company have all been certified to be in conformance highly reduced the energy cost; stepped up the input in ento ISO14001. ergy saving and environmental protection project, increased * Baosteel Co., Ltd has released the annual environment report since 2004, and sustainable development report since 2005. Please visit www.baosteel.com to find 2010 Sustainable Development Report for more information. 52 Subsidiaries’ CSR Baosteel Group Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Baosteel Group Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (Bayi Iron & Steel Plant for short) became a subsidiary of Baosteel Group Corporation on January 16, 2009. In a new round of development of Baosteel, the plant sets its strategic target of becoming the most competitive steel company in the western region of China; it mainly provides plain carbon steel products represented by long steel product, ordinary hot rolled plate, cold rolled strip and slab, as well as seamless steel tube; its main target markets are Xinjiang and surrounding areas in the west, and it also tries to explore markets in Middle and West Asia; in future, it will focus on enhancing the cost competitiveness and take a low-cost way of development by utilizing regional resources and serving regional markets. I. Economic Performance II. Environment Performance constructed, thus reducing greatly the powder pollution. Great effort was continuously made to the greenIn May 2010, the Central Government held the ing. The newly-increased greening land hit 932,000m2 Xinjiang working conference and was determined to 1. Environmental Protection (1,397 mu) in the whole year. The employees planted boost the development of economy and society in In 2010, Bayi Iron & Steel Plant continued to various types of shrub at 395,000 trees in the Spring Xinjiang. Therefore, continuing to rely on the advantage strengthen the energy saving and emission reduction and the Autumn. The environment in the Plant and livof regional resource, Bayi Iron & Steel Plant will make and made great efforts to build the low-carbon emising quarter was further improved, and smoothly passed the industry chain of steelmaking industry longer, bigger sion plant. Through reasonably adjusting the existing the inspection of qualification greening unit and garden and stronger, enhance the equipment level, optimize the facility and exerting the full play of newly-input equipunit of Urumchi City and Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous product structure, meet the regional market demand and ment capacity, the Plant reduced the operating time of Region, and won the honorable title of “National Model achieve the overall development strategic layout of “one coal boiler, which not only reduced the pollution but Green Unit”. body and two wings” (Head office of Bayi Iron & Steel & also the energy consumption. In particular, after Phase Iron, South Xinjiang Base and Yili Steel & Iron Base), expeI of blast furnace slag and powder with an investment of RMB 90 million and with a capacity of 0.6 million dite the construction of Bayi Iron & Steel Plant to make it tons per year was completed and put into operation in III. Social Performance become the most competitive steel & iron enterprise in West China and Middle Asia. April 2010, breakthroughs in comprehensive utilization In 2010, Bayi Iron & Steel Plant signed the agreeof solid wastes was made. ment of joint community construction with Huiyue Resident Community. Both sides agreed to maintain 2. Quicken the Pace to Eliminate Outthe harmonious relation between the enterprise and dated Capacity the community by means of holding such activities as Blast furnace 1#, three sets of 20m2 sintering mafellowship, visiting and volunteering. Regularly conductchines and ore dressing in old plant have been suspending the young volunteers activities including “cleaning ed. The original Xiyue Cement Plant, the limestone kiln the sanitation, improving the environment”, helping the along the original metal products plant to rubbish dump disabled, building green Bayi Iron & Steel & Iron Plant, and the west side of Mid-thickness Sheet removed, afrespecting the aged, repaired the old and recycling the ter then, the vacating plot was greened. Comprehensive wastes, guaranteeing the production and walking into treatment and greening was made to the tailing pond the community of science and technology. A total of and rubbish dump. Besides, the advanced environmental 4,719 young volunteers emerged during the whole year. protection technology was adopted to treat the enviIn 2010, Bayi Iron & Steel plant has invested over ronment pollution. Coking gas desulphurization project, RMB 2.458 million for the disaster relief, poverty alleviaTwo brand new furnaces with a capacity of 25003 stand coking phenol-cyanogen waste water treatment and tion, education and other public welfare projects. aloft, a complete production line for mid-thickness plank is cold rolling waste water treatment were successively installed, previous piling-up slag disappear and the whirling built and put into operation, generating excellent reash is separated by a vast mesh… sults. Comprehensive treatment was made to the coal Present Bayi Iron & Steel Plant has undergone tremendous changes compared to the one three years ago. The leaping yard in the old plant, four closed coal bunkers were development is derived from the capital increase and reorganization made by Baosteel in 2007. After restructuring, Bayi Iron & Steel Plant rebirth in fire like a phoenix… On the way of driving to the plant from Suzhou, you can see a vast iron mesh standing aside the roadway, which is a new view on the way. This is the ash separation mesh built by Bayi Iron & Steel Plant with the investment of RMB 60 2008 2009 2010 million. It is the mesh that separates the raw material plant Steel Output (10,000 tons) 484 540.4 671.3 from the external living quarter. There is no longer whirling ash in spite of a windy day. The fund of RMB 60 million is Sales Volume (10,000 tons) 472 514.5 640.3 used for creating a good environment for nearby residents Business Income (RMB 100 million) 222 181.7 260.95 instead of improving technology and such a brilliant idea comes from Baosteel. Total Profits (RMB 100 million) 14.5 4.1 4.08 “Baosteel has always been committed to becoming a Total Tax Payment (RMB 100 million) 15.8 13.76 17.04 respected enterprise; we hope that Bayi Iron & Steel Plant can also march ahead towards the same target.” Said Guo Kezhong. It is exactly true that environmental protection can be seen everywhere in Baosteel. 2008 2009 2010 Flower cluster under the enormous pipelines, green trees Comprehensive Energy Consumption per ton Steel (%) 100 107.7 96.7 beside the roaring production plant, it is a true “garden Amount of Reclaimed Residual Resources plant”. 1.0 18.2 27.8 (10,000 tons coal equivalent) The Background of Tremendous Changes of Bayi Iron & Steel Plant — Walk into Baosteel and Find Rarely Known Tales Fresh Water Consumed per ton Steel (%) 100 85.3 69.4 Xinjiang Daily, Layout VIII, October 27, 2010, By Shi Feng Environmental Protection Input 0.42 4 7 (Environmental protection + Environment treatment) (RMB 100 million) Note: “Comprehensive Energy Consumption per ton Steel” and “Fresh Water Consumed per ton Steel” is fixed on the basis of actual results of 2008 53 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Ningbo Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Ningbo Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (Ningbo Steel for short) became one of Baosteel’s subsidiaries after the merger and acquisition and restructuring in March, 2009. In Baosteel’s new round of development, Ningbo Steel sets its strategic target to become a steel company with the competitive advantage of low cost and a model company to show Baosteel’s integration capability; it mainly produces carbon steel products represented by ordinary hot rolled plate, but also considers the development of heavy plates; its main target markets are Zhejiang province and its surrounding areas boasting logistics advantage; it intends to give full play to the synergetic effect with the group corporation, and take an operation route featuring low cost and high efficiency. I. Economic Performance III. Employee Performance IV. Social Performance As one of the twelve taxpayers in Beilun District, Strictly observing the laws, regulations and stanBesides, residents in surrounding communities were Ningbo Steel in 2010 won the award of outstanding dards for safety production, Ningbo Steel carried out invited to visit the company for better understanding of the contribution of over RMB 10 billion to the financial revthe guidelines of “Safety First, Prevention Foremost, company; pupils were organized to attend extracurricular enue of Beilun New District and was commended by Comprehensive Governance”, gave priority to ensuring classes in the company, to enhance their knowledge about local government. occupational health and safety of its employees, advothe steel industry. cate safety culture, improved the corporate regulations, Activities such as tea parties, talks, etc. were held on and intensified safety liabilities and management at all every festival to promote the communication between the II. Environment Performance levels. company and government department, neighborhoods After being reorganized by Baosteel, Ningbo Steel In 2010, Chairman of the Company signed the and communities (villages), to promote their mutual underalways attaches great importance to environmental Safety Target Management Responsibility Agreement with standing and trust; During the Aged People Festival, 90 seprotection, regards it as its life line, and tries to maintain the first responsible person of each department and diniors from 2 neighboring communities were invited to visit its development while protecting the environment. The vision, which expressly defined the work responsibilities, the company and were warmly received; besides, young Company has injected an investment of RMB 1.158 bilsafety production appraisal indicators, appraisal method, members of the Communist Youth League were organized lion in 2009 and 2010, accounting for 61% of the total punishment and award method for the first responsible to serve in the old people’s home; the company organized investment, the investment in environmental protection person. Besides, each unit broke down the safety target visits to children and teachers on every Children’s Day and saw a year-on-year increase by 72.4% in 2010. responsibility to each shift and carries out the safety Teachers’ Day. responsibility. To support the energy saving and environmental protection, the Company relocated 2# coke oven two In 2010, the Company established the Safety Promonths in advance. On the afternoon of June 29, 2010, duction Committee, improved the long-standing mechtwo funnels at the height of 125m, one coke quenching anism of screening and curing the hidden trouble and tower and one coal tower in original coking plant of priimplemented an all-round control of the material risk mary factory of Ningbo Steel were successfully blasted. sources of the Company. The “treatment of construction safety, special treatment of fire fighting and traffic safety” was conducted. One year after the merger and reorganization, Ningbo Steel has gradually stepped out of the plight and realized the transformation from deficit to profit within ten months. In the reorganization, Baosteel specified the orientation toNingbo Steel: namely, forging the production base complementing the premium base of Shanghai. Cui Jian, chairman of Ningbo Steel, gave a vivid metaphor to the reporter: “we focus on the middle and low-end products, just like the big cake and dough sticks, but we must make to the best.” The reorganization also has the right direction when the positioning is identified: focusing upon the “low 2009 2010 Total cost and high efficiency”. (March-Dec.) During the period of last March to December, the continuMolten Iron Output (10,000 tons) 281 366 647 ous sheet casting directly loading and delivery has generHot-rolled Steel Coil (10,000 tons) 266 372 638 ated the economic benefit of RMB 80.35 million. The direct loading rate created a new high of 61.1%; this February, Sales Volume (10,000 tons) 267 372 639 that reached the international advanced level. By conquerBusiness Income (RMB 100 million) 78.51 148.14 226.65 ing various links, the Company continued to enhance the overall production capacity: producing 590,000 tons of Total Profits (RMB 100 million) 4 4 8 high-temperature coke, 2.81 million tons of pig iron, 2.88 Total Tax Payment (RMB 100 million) 0.65 2.01 2.66 million tons of continuous casting and 2.65 million tons of hot-rolled steel coil in the whole year. Furthermore, the operating cost reduced continuously, the average unit price of hot-rolled coil saw RMB 1,000 reduction in cost during 2009 2010 the period of last March to December, and total cost (March-Dec.) reduction of RMB 2.608 billion. Fresh Water Consumed per ton Steel (%) 2.5 1.0 The reporter saw in the Hot Rolling Plant, the hot-rolled Total Amount of Reclaimed Residual Resources steel coil rolling off the production line were very flat and 2.6 10.0 (10,000 tons coal equivalent) orderly. However, just one year ago, the hot-rolled steel coil produced there was named the “ugliest steel coil”, the Comprehensive Energy Consumption per ton Steel (%) 639.3 581.0 edges were out of regularity or even rolled up. Ningbo Steel: Make the big cake and dough sticks to the best, focus on middle end low-end products after being 2009 2010 restructured by Baosteel, thus realizing the transformation from deficit (RMB1billion) to profit (RMB 400 million) Total Number of Employees 3,080 3,058 within ten months. Jiefang Daily, Layout 6, March 19, 2010, Ding Bo 54 Subsidiaries’ CSR Resource Development & Logistics Baosteel Resources Co., Ltd. Baosteel Resources Co., Ltd. (Baosteel Resources for short) is a flagship subsidiary of resource development and logistics of Baosteel Group Corporation. In the new round development of Baosteel, Baosteel Resources sets its strategic target as to become the most competitive mineral resources comprehensive service provider at home, and has its comprehensive strength to rank among the top three in the domestic industry; its target varieties include iron ore, coal, iron alloy (nickel, chrome, manganese alloy), metal renewable resources and logistics resources such as coastal traffic and ocean transportation. The resource industry is an international industry, Baosteel will take a foothold in the world to develop the industry from an international perspective. Baosteel Resources is accelerating the pace of international development of resource industry, speeding up the construction of overseas resources guarantee system, intensifying the overseas forces to find the resources, strengthening the overseas resources development to enhance the international operation capacity and promote the company to be an international company as soon as possible and support the development of iron & steel. I. Economic Performance mental protection and improvement fund was gradually 2010, acquainting the employees with their overall develinjected to the old mine and created the special account opment and won the great compliment and recognition 2010 is the first year that Baosteel Resources for the recovery and treatment of geological environby the employees. At the same time, the Company made adjusted and implemented 2010-2015 strategic planment. In 2010, The Company invested RMB70,000 as use of the platform to gather opinions and suggestions ning according to the group development strategy. In the powder treatment of Wanbao Liujie Mine. from the employees, oriented to the demand to enhance face of the new challenge arising from the operating the management and service level and promote the trust environment and new difficulty from the reform and Promote the Recycle of Metal Renewable and win-win between the company and employees. development, the Company continuously impelled the Resources The decision-making ability of organizational sysimplementation of the project, accelerated the capacity The Company made active efforts to promote tem was enhanced by virtue of the establishment and building of logistics, collaborated to forge the advantage the recycle and application of metal renewable resourcimprovement of communication mechanism, which also of supply chain of the steel & iron industry; grasped the es and make the business bigger and stronger under raised the work efficiency and cohesive force, and creatopportunity of periodical fluctuation in the market to the concept of industrialization development. Baosteel ed a solid foundation for the collaborative development. expand the business size of ore iron, coal and alloy, etc., Resources has the subsidiary specializing in dismantling witnessed a stable enhancement of capacity in indepenConstruction of occupational safety system: Bearthe abandoned vehicles and ships and owns five steel dent operation; the company continued to optimize the ing the safety management concept of “people orienscrap processing bases in Wusong of Shanghai, Jiashan, operation mode, deepen the management reform and tation and safety development” and “safety first, zero ,Ningbo and Taizhou of Zhejiang, and Wuxi of Jiangsu, step towards the internationalization firmly. accident and noncompliance” in mind, the Company these bases processed the steel scrap of 714,700 tons. deeply conducted the construction of occupational In 2010, Baosteel Resources made proud achieveShanghai Xinhua Steel Co., Ltd. is located in safety health management system, fully carried out ments. All key performance indicators exceeded the exChongming Ecological Island which is the only enterprise the principal liability of safety production and firmly pected target, the sales revenue realized 152% of the exwith the qualification of ship dismantling in Shanghai. In screened the safety hidden trouble. Moreover, the Compected target, the total profits hit 191% of the expected 2010, the company dismantled 40,000 light displacement pany provided the effective safety training, enhanced the one and the rate of return on net assets achieved 20%. tons, recovered about 35,000 tons of steel scrap, 800 safety awareness and skill of all employees to ensure the The Company saw an increase in business scale, profittons of waste fuel and 2,500 tons of other resources. safety production and operation. ability and assets operation efficiency occupied a leading position among the domestic counterparts. Organizing the employees’ activities: In keeping III. Employee Performance with the principles of “strengthening the management, small scale and diversity, healthy and active, nourishing II. Environment Performance Baosteel Resources firstly released the Employees the temperament and exhibiting the bearing”, the ComDevelopment Report of Baosteel Resources in December pany continued to support the employees amateurs asAs an enterprise involved in the development 2010, which mainly covered the achievement of optimisociation. Currently, the Company has nine employees and trading of resources product, Baosteel Resources zation of employees team, effective incentive, capacity hobby associations like the Yoga, basketball, football, tenalways upheld the purpose of realizing the sustainable enhancement, spiritual appearance, employees' attention nis ball, flower arrangement and film review, etc., with development in the course of promoting the producand care and other aspects made by the company in totally 156 members. tion and improving the efficiency, constantly established and improved the environmental protection system to ensure the products and service quality, devoted itself to the cleaning production and reasonable utilization of 2008 2009 2010 resources, and made every efforts to forge an environSales Revenue (RMB 100 million) 297.9 189.0 372.4 ment friendly and energy-saving enterprise. Total Profits (RMB 100 million) 9.3 8.7 18.1 Green Mines Exploring Total Tax Payment (RMB 100 million) 6.1 2.6 5.4 Note: Total Tax Payment excludes the resources of Bao’ao and Baosteel Resources (International) Baosteel Resources has two branches involved in production and sales of metallurgical auxiliary materials, namely, Anhui Wanbao Mining Co., Ltd. and Rizhao 2008 2009 2010 Baoxin Mining & Resource Co., Ltd. During its openEnvironmental Protection Input (RMB 10,000) 15 199 614.2 air mining production and operation, the company laid equal stress on environmental protection and treatment, explored the mine in a scientific way and built 2008 2009 2010 the “green mine” living together with the environment Total Number of Employees 901 869 745 friendly. Baosteel Resources was generous with money Number of Overseas Employees 13 16 44 and strength when it came to the environmental protection around the mine, allocated the environmental Number of Occupational Disease Checkup 0 22 22 protection fund when the mine was built; the environNumber of Collaborated Employees Checkup 120 105 102 55 2010 Baosteel CSR Report To further strengthen the emotional communication between the families of employees and increase Extended Steel Processing the chance of parent-child interaction, Baosteel Resources firstly organized the activity of “family day” in 2010, a total of 50 persons from 18 families had a unforgettable experience. Baosteel Metal Co., Ltd. Communication between Baosteel Metal Co., Ltd (Baosteel Metal for short) is the flagship subsidiary of Baosteel Group Corporation, Employees and the Company which specifies in extended steel process. In the new-round development of Baosteel, Baosteel Metal intends to become a leading enterprise in domestic steel processing industry and the industrial gas field, and grows into a popular Weekly News industrial operation platform featuring mass production and lean management; its industrial focus is on metal wrapAs the platform of operation and management, ping, steel structure and industrial gas to grow strong, and its product emphasis is the two-piece beverage can, metal business correspondence, initiating the activity and condecorating, heavy steel structure, industrial gas, wheels, and PC wire products, etc., and the company also wants to veying blessing messages, Weekly News bears lots of master key steel processing technologies. updated and various information, thus the employees can know the latest trend of the company and it enjoys a high click rate. I. Economic Performance II. Environment Performance In 2010, Baosteel Metal achieved operational revTo control the energy more efficiently, Baosteel Metal Functional Advisory Platform enue of RMB 10.4 billion, increasing by 47% compared in 2010 conducted a survey on the power consumption of The Company creates a column in the collaborato 2009; realized a profit of RMB 351million, 2.4 times relevant equipment in all subsidiaries, fixed the problems tion office system and establishes the “Functional Head growth by 2009; the ROE hit 10.56%, an increase of 1.7 and weak links occurred to the equipment, analyzed and Advisory Platform”, arranges the functional head to times over 2009. Baosteel Metal compiled 2010-2015 explored the potential of saving the energy, thus enhanced explain the new phenomena and issues arising from Strategic Development Plan, which defined the developall employees’ awareness of saving the energy and mothe reform and development, publicize the new policy, ment orientation, strategic target and implementation tivated all employees to engage in the activity of energy eliminate the newly-recruited employees’ doubt and route. management, saving and emission reduction, as well as inconfusion, familiarize the employees with the manageAccelerating the industrialized development, the corporated the energy saving and emission reduction into ment and operation of the company and promote the Company newly launched 13 projects and started the the regular management. functional department to serve the company better. prophase work of overseas project, made continuous Meanwhile, the subsidiaries also carried out a variety Dispatched Employees breakthrough and progress in project management of lean production and improved basic management of enWith the sustainable development and acceleramethod and ensured the smooth implementation of all ergy and environmental protection. tion of internationalization, the dispatched employees relevant projects. On June 20, Baosteel signed a letter of intent for straalso increase. To serve them well and eliminate their fuWith continuous integration of company business, tegic cooperation with the Chinese Academy of Sciences ture worries, the Company establishes the liaison service the metal package, gas, auto spare parts, metal products and New Zealand Lanza Tech Company in commercializing system of “one card, two people and three contacts” and other divisions formed the consistent and profesthe technology of “using exhaust gases from steel factories [Note] to strengthen the communication, and let the dissional collaborated management. The supply chain beto produce fuel ethanol” in New Zealand Pavilion in the patched employees work overseas without any worry. came increasingly mature, the overall quality and manageWorld Expo Park, signifying an important step that Baosteel ment system construction was continuously enhanced. takes to implement environmental management, develop low-carbon economy and build a world-class clean steel IV. Social Performance enterprise. In promoting the project of “using exhaust gases from steel factories to produce fuel ethanol”, Baosteel MetOver the past four years since the establishment, al successively made wide communication and exchange Baosteel Resources witnessed the stable growth of the with research institutes including the Chinese Academy of business achievement and made great contribution to Sciences and New Zealand Lanza Tech Company and conlocal finance. Other subsidiaries outside Shanghai of ducted systematic studies. Baosteel Resources observed the laws and disciplines and protected the environment; furnished the jobs for local people in an active manner; forged good relation with local residents and gave active contribution to local social and economic development. 2008 2009 2010 For instance, Baosteel Australia Mining Company Sales Revenue (RMB 100 million) 67.5 70.9 105 Pty Ltd. under the arm of Baosteel Resources joined Total Profits (RMB 100 million) 0.85 1.03 3.52 hands with the venture to create the foundation for Total Tax Payment (RMB 100 million) 1.71 2.14 2.2 Baoruiji Community as the mark to feedback the ParaRate of Return on Net Assets (%) 2.84 3.98 10.56 burdoo community. Since the creation in 2004, a total of Rate of Value Retention and Appreciation of Assets (%) 104 102 107.73 AUD 54,000 has been injected to assist the renovation of playground, fitness facilities in park, etc. 2008 2009 2010 Total Employees 2,717 2,488 2,019 Inc.: Total On-service Employees 2,536 2,313 1,906 Ratio of Female Employees 579 523 417 Inc.: Ratio of On-service Female Employees 535 486 395 Newly-recruited Employees 817 123 397 Ratio of newly-recruited Employees (%) 32.2 5.3 20.8 Resigned Employees 142 106 88 Ratio of Resigned Employees (%) 5.6 4.6 4.6 Note: “One card, two people and three contacts” means, one contact card for each externally-dispatched person; timely Externally-dispatched Personnel 1,478 1,622 1,592 contact the dispatched employee or his/her family who Training Input (RMB10,000) 308 210 192 needs care; the liaison person is responsible for the sub area, daily contact, and provides good service voluntarily. Person-times Trained 7,392 8,743 12,965 56 Subsidiaries’ CSR III. Employee Performance Baosteel Metal has been making efforts to create Engineering & Technology Services a “talent dream workshop”, in which leaders at all levels not only contributed more than 30% of their energy and time to the human resource management work, but also directly participated in the introduction of senior Baosteel Engineering & Technology Group Co., Ltd. talents, giving rise to many touching cases of pursuing and gathering talents like “Xiao He Chasing Han Xin Baosteel’ s engineering & technology services are mainly provided by its newly-established subsidiary, Baosteel under the moon”. The company paid close attention to Engineering & Technology Group Co., Ltd. (“Baosteel Engineering” in short). In the group’s new round of development surveys and studies, collected information, made caredrive, Baosteel Engineering aims to build itself into an international engineering & technology services (ETS) provider ful analysis, formulated strategies for introducing talents, oriented towards large-scale industrial and urban construction. By integrating resources in and beyond the field of found the “keys to talents”, compiled the “talent map”, engineering & technology, it will strive to develop a “5+3+1” business combination framework which takes engineerintroduced core figures and established core teams; exing technology, IT, equipment manufacturing, steel structure and iron and steel technology services as traditional pillar panded the channels of introducing talents, staged the industries, energy conservation and environmental protection, housing steel structure and roll as emerging industries Measures for the Management of Internal Talent Recomand overseas business as a sharing business platform. It is entrusted with the task of innovating integration, introducing mendation and set up channels and rewarding systems key engineering technology, developing overall engineering integration capacity, building a platform for the projectfor staff to recommend excellent talents; focused on based and commercial application of iron and steel process equipment and technology, reducing engineering investintegration and growth, closely tracked and cared about ment and improving the iron & steel sector’s efficiency in equipment operation and maintenance. core talents, broke through the “paper wedding” year in In 2010, because of business readjustment within Baosteel Group, Baosteel Engineering & Technology Group, talent integration and accelerated cultural integration; besides the former Baosteel Engineering & Technology Company and its subsidiaries, also includes Baosight Software built up dual channels for talent development, carried Co., Ltd., Baosteel Equipment Maintenance Co., Ltd., Baohua International Tendering Co., Ltd., Baosteel Steel Structure out pertinent position-based exchanges and positionCo., Ltd., Baosteel Light Steel House Company, Architecture Design Research Institute, Baosteel-Sanwa Door-making rotation exercises and implemented the “Corporate Company and Jinyi Company. Instructor Program” to create space for growth. I. Economic Performance strategy of “environment operation” and fulfilled its green IV. Social Performance promise by taking constant innovation as the original drivThe year of 2010 represented the opening year ing force and green engineering as the carrier. In April 2010, after an earthquake of 7.1 magniof Baosteel Engineering & Technology Group. Baosteel tudes struck Yushu County of Yushu Tibetan AutonoThe company innovated its commercial mode and Engineering has been committed to the lofty mission mous Region in Qinghai Province, Baosteel Light Steel promoted the development of green industries. It estabof Baosteel’s second undertaking and strengthening and House Company affiliated to Baosteel Metal dispatched lished Shanghai Baosteel Energy Technology Co., Ltd. by expanding the second pillar industry, taken “integrating a team of four staff members who rushed to Chengdu gathering high-end technical talents and implemented the development, coordinating in innovation” as the theme and worked in collaboration with Chengdu Baosteel Can commercial mode of contracted energy management to constantly integrate and optimize internal resources, Making Company to timely produce eight color steel in such industries as iron and steel, textile and hotel by improve technology capacity, innovate business modes prefabricated houses that integrated multiple functions concentrating advantages in the qualification of national and explore industrial opportunities, and comprehenof office, housing and deployment. At the same time, the contracted energy management. The contracted energy sively completed operational goals of the year with all company purchased nearly 200 tents in the local area management project of Baosteel 3# blast furnace dust business indicators reaching best levels in the history and which were delivered from Chengdu Baosteel Can Makelectromotor achieved success and is expected to save sales revenues and total profits amounting to RMB 12.96 ing Company at 10:30am on April 22, 2010 by four staff electricity of 5.6 million KWh each year, equivalent to billion and 680.00 million respectively. members including Jin Jing to Yushu. 2,270 tce/year. Baosteel Engineering which is entrusted with the In September 2010, Baosteel Metal formed a oneThe company designed green engineering and task of innovating integration has further increased investto-one assistance relationship with Shanyang Town of Jinmade great efforts in researching, developing and proment in technology innovation. The ratio of R&D input shan Prefecture and carried out cooperation in “building moting technologies that can conserve energy, protect was 3.59% in the whole year and research projects dithe Party together and exchanging talents”, “conducting environment and comprehensively utilize resources. With rectly produced a profit of RMB 169.00 million.The comprogram investment and cooperative operation” and “asthe first integrated large-scale hot-rolled furnace energypany applied for 356 patents in the year including 136 sisting impoverished students and aiding in constructing saving transforming project equipped with a compreheninvention patents.The contractual value of software reuse facilities”. sive diagnosis system and the self-developed advanced amounted to RMB 152.00 million. The company registechnologies such as the highly efficient single-control and In 2010, Bao-wing Can Co., Ltd. affiliated to Baotered 40 software copyrights and published 89 academic dual-channel nozzle for extensive combustion, the comsteel Metal donated RMB 80,000 to the Chinese Foundapapers. It participated in all of Baosteel’ s ten projects pany managed to reduce smoke temperature by more tion for Prevention of STD and AIDS. of innovating integration between 2010 and 2015 and than 80ºC , effectively improved the energy recycling performed as the responsible unit in seven of them. It obrate and reduced the energy consumption per ton steel tained a large number of high-quality awards for innovaby over 10%. It made preliminary achievements in the tive achievements including 11 Baosteel 2010 Awards for high-temperature smoke negative energy consumption Major Achievements in Technical Innovation (one special dust-clean project and already had five granted patents award, one grade II award, nine grade III awards). In the now. The blast furnace slag processing technology was industry evaluation, 16 projects won the 2010 National industrialized in Bayi Iron & Steel and Meishan Steel. The Excellent Engineering Design Award in the Metallurgy company accomplished Baosteel’s iron and steel industriIndustry including four grade I awards and ten grade II al wastewater treatment projects including coking wasteawards. In addition, a number of projects also won such water, cold-rolling wastewater, phosphating wastewater awards as the 19th National Invention Exhibition Award, and desulfurizing wastewater. It vigorously promoted Paris International Invention Exhibition Award, the 3rd the energy management system (EMS) and undertook National Award for Innovative Achievements in Occupathe development of energy management systems for 12 tional Technology and Jiangsu Provincial Prize for Progress enterprises in different industries to help enterprises imin Science and Technology. prove and optimize energy balance and realize systematic energy saving and consumption reduction. The Zhanjiang base pre-treatment technology that the company initiII. Environment Performance ated in combination with the geological conditions in In 2010, the company further implemented the Zhanjiang substantially lowered engineering investment. 57 2010 Baosteel CSR Report III. Employee Performance Communication between and organized Tibetan children from Jinan Tibetan Middle School to participate in the “World Expo summer camp”. Employees and the Company The company has always been in support of comEmployee Development The company carried out a staff dedication surmunity building. As part of the society, Baosteel EngineerThe company explored a mode of grading and vey and got to know staff ’s thinking and working state ing actively laid stress on the progress and development classifying and trained its five categories of staff – leaders, by making use of quantitative management tools so as of the local community. In 2010, it organized the staff to project managers, marketing talents, core technical talents to effectively evaluate the status quo of the management, take part in a series of activities designed to seek for and senior skill talents. It basically built up a core talent improve the management work and enhance staff ’s dediwelfare for people living in the community. Its subsidiary base within Baosteel Engineering and classified five types cation; conducted a questionnaire survey on staff in the Baosteel Industry Inspection Corporation organized of core talents totaling 2,347. It promoted the work of business department of the headquarters and collected more than ten Party members to participate in the activgrading core talents by conducting grade management of and understood their thinking status; established a multiity of Party members serving the people on “July 1st” in the core talents according to the star level, backbone levchannel mechanism of regularly collecting the “three the Meishan region where they provided people living in el and reserve level and systematically planned and implemost” issues from staff, paid close attention to the flow of the community with such services as photo sealing and mented personalized cultivation plans for various talents. processing and resolving feedback and formed a specific trimming and small home electrical appliance and bicycle measure that contained operable contents and led to repairing. With a total of 326 sealed photos, 131 trimmed The company strengthened the cultivation of predicable results and evaluable effects; vigorously implephotos and more than ten repaired small appliances inyoung talents. It selected and recommended 19 persons mented the work of united front, planned the founding cluding recorders, lamps and electric cookers, the activity to take part in Baosteel’s phase II “green apple” initiative; of Baosteel European and American Alumni Engineering was warmly embraced by the wide public. promoted deputy chief engineers and chief engineers to Technology Branch, convened several special seminars instruct youth backbones and formed 70 pairs; impleChangzhou Baoling Heavy worked in collaboration and actively invited personages of united front to offer mented the “morning star” plan and provided training with Changzhou Municipal Government to renovate old comments and suggestions. courses such as guidelines for youths on occupational caresidential quarters and completed the renovation of tap reer for a total of 883 persons; organized 140 young staff water, street lights and rain sewage diversion (sewage members to carry out an outdoor development activity pipes and rain pipes) in the dorm quarter of the former themed as “team development, show the spirit of youths IV. Social Performance Changzhou Metallurgical Plant, making the quarter take in Baosteel Engineering; youth integration, make Baosteel The company has been enthusiastic about educaon a brand-new look. Engineering larger and stronger”. tion and concerned with the growth of young groups. Its Party branches (general Party branch) of Baosight The company designed the staff development way subsidiary Baosteel Roll in Changzhou has been supportSoftware in the Baoshan region jointed hands with Magin an all-about manner and basically set up a position sysing the poverty-hit students of Xingyue Primary School nolia Party Branch of Baoshan Friendship Road Commutem with three major levels and nine sub-levels that can in Nancai Township, Sucheng, Jiangsu Province since 2007, nity to dispatch a dozen of volunteers every weekend suit characteristics of the industry. donating money and articles totaling nearly RMB 500,000 during the World Expo, so as to maintain order and safety and directly sponsoring about 200 poverty-stricken stuat bus stations and the Magnolia Plaza. dents. In 2010, Baosteel Roll in Changzhou established Care about Employees Suzhou Metallurgical Heavy carried out the “activXingyue Primary School scholarships for the first time ity of on-position Party members entering communities”. The company, based on characteristics of the into reward excellent students and teachers, stimulate the Nearly 100 Party members took part in and undertook dustry, proposed a flexible measure for managing total enthusiasm of teachers and students for teaching and tasks including publicizing policies and regulations, dissemsalaries that focuses equally on both financial and nonlearning and enhance the teaching level of the primary inating science, education and culture, making exchanges, financial indicators so as to improve the remuneration school. Baosight Software has been assisting Zhongba keeping contact and maintaining stability in communities. incentive mechanism; drafted a trial scheme for the flexTibetan students, cumulatively donating RMB 50,000 and ible welfare plan of “enjoying a happy life” and arranged more than 200 books. During the World Expo, it planned welfare programs that can meet personalized demands of different staff groups; conducted the “eight people” Table 1: [note] work mechanism subject study and explored 2008 2009 2010 methods and ways of the human care work; improved plans for staff ’s health through such means as providing Business Income (RMB 100 million) 49.32 51.08 129.6 regular physical examination for staff, establishing elecTotal Profit (RMB 100 million) 3.81 2.78 6.8 tronic health archives, intervening in chronic diseases and Total Tax Payment (RMB 100 million) 2.43 2.78 8.6 buying fitness cards for staff; paid attention to demands of young staff and planned and organized a collective wedTable 2: ding ceremony for eight pairs of newly married couples 2008 2009 2010 themed as “getting together in World Expo, joining hands Ratio of R&D Input (%) 2.58 3.01 3.59 with Baosteel”; implemented the policy of “relieving Patent Filed 304 339 356 poverty by showing warm care” and paid visits to and Patent Approved 182 213 264 conveyed greetings to 2,350 on-position staff members Technical Know-how 262 207 185 and staff members about to retire with RMB 512,500; organized and carried out the activity of assisting children Table 3: from economically difficult families in going to school in the autumn that covered a total of about 60 persons with 2008 2009 2010 RMB 51,400; strengthened safety management and the Amount of Environmental Protection Input (RMB 10,000) — 1,825.66 2,244.69 labor death rate per 1,000 persons was zero. Energy Consumption per RMB 10,000 of Output (equivalent) 0.05 0.03 0.03 (tce/RMB 10,000) Enjoy a happy life – allowed staff to choose supplementary welfare programs on their own, granted staff Table 4: with rights of choice and decision, met personalized demands of staff to the maximum extent, enhanced staff ’s 2008 2009 2010 wellbeing and satisfaction, improved staff ’s sense of beNumber of Employees 4,370 4,382 13,818 longing and dedication and created a healthy and happy Person-times Trained 12,996 14,778 58,480 work atmosphere. Total Hours of Training (hour) 162,127 193,246.2 845,514.5 Ratio of Resigned Employees (%) 0.09 0.05 1.76 Note: taking the respect of people as the basic starting point and establishing a sound work system involving six aspects including understanding people, caring about people, Note: illustration about data disclosure: all data included in Table 1 as of 2008 and 2009 are sourced from the former Baosteel improving people, regulating people, motivating people and Engineering & Technology Company and its subsidiaries. All data included in Table 2, 3 and 4 as of all years come from relying on people, so as to get people to cohere and promote the same sources as Table 1. common development of employees and the enterprise. 58 Subsidiaries’ CSR Coal Chemical Industry Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Chemical Branch Baosteel’s presence in the coal chemical industry, which draws strength from and complements its core iron and steel business, is mainly achieved through its subsidiary Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Chemical Branch (hereafter “Baosteel Chemical”). In the new development blueprint of Baosteel, the strategic goal of Baosteel Chemical is to become the most competitive solution provider in recycling of coking by-products. Based on recycling, transfer and processing of coking by-products, it will endeavor to explore the high-tech, high added-value downstream field of coal chemicals and implement the environment-friendly business concepts. I. Economic Performance In the fourth quarter of 2010, it completed three Orderly Safety Inspection of them with investment of more than RMB 4 milAccording to the Plan for Evaluating Special Safety In recent three years, Baosteel Chemical presentlion and achieved initial effects. Another six waste Inspection in the year and characteristics of safety work ed a sound overall operational status. Due to the imgas treatment projects are expected to cost about in seasons, the company carried out special inspection pact of the financial crisis, Baosteel Chemical registered RMB 5 million and be finished in the first quarter and evaluation. The special inspection included idena slight decrease in sales revenue, total industrial output of 2011. tification and control of dangerous sources, superviand profit in 2009. The overall business performance in sion over safety of special equipment, management of 2010 was better than expected. The company managed ·· The company established a monthly solid waste the construction of technical transformation projects, to realize annual goal expectations from 2008 to 2010, statistics system to strengthen the utilization and electricity safety, gas safety, management of dangerous currently still taking the lead in the industry. management of solid waste. Meanwhile, in order chemicals, sunstroke prevention and cooling, typhoon to improve the utilization of solid waste in Meisand flood prevention, fire control and transport safety, han Branch, the company coordinated with Meisoccupational hygiene and safety of labor protective arII. Environmental Performance han Steel Company that all tar slag produced by ticles and public security guarding. In this way, the comAccording to requirements of another new round Meishan Branch would be collected and sent to pany urged the rectification of hidden dangers. of plan for circular economy, the company organized coke-ovens for coal-mixing and coke making and and carried out the environment operation to promote excess sludge would be sent to agglutination mateImprove Emergency System and its sustainable development. rials grounds for comprehensive use. The utilization Enhance Emergency Response ·· The company conducted the management of enratio of solid waste in Meishan Branch recycled for vironment risks which was one of the key tasks in production was 97.71%, which reduced pollutant Capacity 2010. It identified sources of environment risks in discharge and enhanced the utilization ratio of coal accordance with the characteristics of the comparesources. Compile and Perfect Emergency Plan In 2010, the company adjusted its emergency ny and rated the sources. It established a monthly management mechanism and improved its emergency “zero” complaint statistics system and staged the III. Employee Performance management networks according to functional restrucSystem for the Management of Environment Risks. turing of organizational institutions. It revised the Pro·· The company compiled the Action Plan for Environcedures for Emergency Preparation and Response Control mental Protection during the World Expo, advanced Employee Safety and the Standards for Compiling Emergency Plan and the implementation of various measures and built compiled the Plan for General Urgent Treatment of Major up an organizational system, an emergency weekly Sound Safety Management Institutions Emergencies and the Emergency Plan for Preventing Terreport system and an environmental event daily Baosteel Chemical has set up a safety production rorist Attacks. report system, so as to effectively prevent envicommittee which convenes two special meetings annually to summarize safety work in stages and discuss about and Upgrade Technical Protection Devices in ronmental abnormalities from occurring during the World Expo. decide on matters concerning safety production and holds Plants a regular security meeting monthly to review safety work In order to reinforce the functions of preventing ·· The company carried out the compliance work of the month. Branches are subject to safety patrol by the and monitoring emergencies, the company transformed of wastewater discharge in Baoshan Branch. After safety production committee once in a month. Managers the video monitoring system in plants in 2010 by adding nearly one year’s efforts, the wastewater discharge are responsible for leading the safety inspection in an at46 real-time monitoring video cameras in major dangeramount and COD in the whole year both detempt to guarantee strong pertinence, clear emphasis and ous sources and important venues and 89 fixed CO creased by over 20%. At the same time, progress full coverage. Special persons should be assigned to track online sirens in gas systems. was also made in reducing T-CN which could then the rectification of the found issues. comply with requirements of new standards. Safety Responsibility Dissolved and ·· The company organized and implemented the exFulfilled Level-by-Level perimental project of recycling coking wastewater. In the beginning of 2010, Baosteel Chemical orgaThe project, which was put into operation in Febnized and convened a safety work seminar at which the ruary, works stably now and produces clean water President of the company and persons in charge in each that complies with standards for industrial water, unit signed a letter of responsibility for safety, fire conthus laying foundation for future industrialization. trol, occupational hygiene, transport and guarding goals. In order to meet the requirement of the entire-staff ·· The company started the treatment of waste responsibility system, Baosteel Chemical organized the gases and odor sources. Baoshan Branch currently whole staff to sign the Letter of Commitment to Safety. formed a preliminary treatment plan and organized inspections in petrochemical enterprises and relevant units. It will launch the plan in the mid 2011. Meishan Branch formulated a rectification and improvement plan for related facilities on the spot which included nine main transformation projects. 59 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Improve Response Capacity through Drilling manner the status quo of Based on the existing emergency response preventing and controlling mechanism, the company gave priority to the improvehazards of occupational ment of emergency plan’s operability and the training of diseases in branches and emergence response capacity. According to the drilling subsidiaries, the custody plan for emergencies in the year, the company organized of occupational health and and carried out the drilling, examining and improving the test of occupational work of emergency plan level by level from operation dangerous factors as well areas to plants and branches. In April, it worked toas the occupational hygiene gether with social assistance powers including Baoshan in construction projects, so Regional Public Security Office, Fire Control Agency, as to understand the status Transportation Bureau and Baosteel First-Aid Center of occupational health. On to hold a comprehensive drilling of anti-terrorism, fire such a basis, the company control and environmental protection plans themed as compiled the Report on the “embracing the World Expo” in Baoshan Branch. In NoEvaluation of Status Quo of vember, Baoshan Branch carried out a drilling of leaking Occupational Health which accidents of refined naphthalene purification crystallizwas submitted to Shanghai ers due to disastrous weather in Chemical No. 2 Plant. Municipal Safety Inspection Bureau for filing. Management of Occupational Health Organize Inspection and Regulate Management inspected the occupational health custody in units that The company carried out special inspection over assisted branches and subsidiaries in production and Strengthen Management and Carry Out the occupational health custody. According to requirethe occupational hazard notification of staff in the units, Evaluation ments of sunstroke prevention and cooling in the sumthus regulating the occupational health custody in those According to requirements of the Notice on Ormer, it tracked the operational status of facilities for units. ganizing and Implementing the Evaluation and Analysis treating hazards of occupational diseases in branches of Status Quo of Occupation Health in Units Directly Inand subsidiaries and the implementation status of such Provide Physical Examination and Improve Files spected by the City among Industries (Systems) in the City, work as allocation and wearing of labor protective arThe company reviewed the status of contacting the company took practical and effective measures to ticles, training and education of occupational health as occupational hazards in operation fields, complemented ensure staff ’s health and evaluated in a comprehensive well as sunstroke prevention and cooling. The company and improved basic information about occupational hazards in operation fields and statistics of victims according to requirements of the regulation, and established occupational hygiene management files. Physical examination proceeded as planned and no occupational disease cases or suspected occupational disease cases were found. Keep Practical and Realistic in Hazard Test 2008 2009 2010 In 2010, the company completed the test of ocBusiness Income (RMB 100 million) 80.80 69.03 96.35 cupational hazardous factors at a total of 417 testing Total Profit (RMB 100 million) 3.96 3.71 7.04 points among which Baoshan Branch was entrusted Total Industrial Output (RMB 100 million) 75.18 64.73 87.85 with the test at 36 testing points including six points of Total Tax Payment (RMB 100 million) 4.49 2.09 4.16 other dust, 26 points of toxic substance and four points of noise. The point with unqualified noise was the coking operation field in the chemical product workshop 2008 2009 2010 with the tested noise value of 92dB (A). The company Total Employees 1,739 1,706 1,698 already investigated the actual duration and influential Employees Receiving Physical Examination for Occupational Diseases 987 1,007 970 range of the noise at this point and allocated individual protective articles to involved operators. Incidence of Occupational Diseases 0 0 0 Injuries per 1 Million Labor Hours 0 0 0 Frequency of Accidents in Production 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 Environmental Protection Input (RMB 10,000) 8,620.65 2,306.13 12,663.74 Energy Consumption per RMB 10,000 of Output 0.51 0.57 0.45 (tce/RMB 10,000) Emission of COD (10,000 m3) 435.2 302.9 318.3 Wastewater Discharge (10,000 m3) 742.8 595.3 539.5 Number of Testing Points 41* 658 417 Compliance Ratio of Dust (%) 100 100 100 Compliance Ratio of Toxic Substance (%) 100 100 100 Compliance Ratio of Noise (%) 100 100 75** * Testing points in 2008 only include the Baoshan region without Baosteel Chemical Meishan Branch; data in 2009 and 2010 are merged. ** The point with unqualified noise is the coking operation field in the chemical product workshop with the tested noise value of 92dB (A). Investigation is already conducted into the actual duration and influential range of the noise at this point. 60 Subsidiaries’ CSR Financial Investment Industry Fortune Trust & Investment Co., Ltd. Baosteel’s presence in the financial investment industry is achieved mainly through its wholly-funded subsidiary Fortune Trust & Investment Co., Ltd. (hereafter “Fortune Trust & Investment”). In the new development blueprint of Baosteel, the strategic goal of Fortune Trust & Investment is to become the first-rate financial solution provider with its own characteristics. With a diversified portfolio of securities, trust and fund, it will continue to improve its financial services, make its advantage as a diversified financial service provider, provide a full range of financial services including research, investment, funding and M&A for the group’s core iron and steel business and other business units, and open up a new path for development of both industrial business and financial business. It will strengthen the control over Baosteel’s existing financial resources, enhance equity values through effective integration and optimization and expand the current financial industry. It will carry out equity investment business by making use of advantages in resources of upstream and downstream industrial chains and utilizing present financial resources and capital advantage of the company. In 2010, Fortune Trust & Investment achieved II. Law Compliance IV. Responsible Investment business income of RMB 2.471 billion, total profit of RMB 1.688 billion and net profit of RMB 1.398 billion Fortune Trust & Investment strictly conforms to each relevant law or regulation to ensure law-compliFortune Trust Provides “Zhangjiang Benefit and its rate of return on equity amounted to 12.03%. ance and efficiency of corporate operation. It also lays Gathering” for Small and Medium-sized By the end of 2010, assets managed by Fortune Trust & Investment were worth RMB 152.00 billion (RMB an emphasis on the importance of promptly disclosing Enterprises product risk and other product information to safeOn January 15, 2010, with the care and help from 15.00 billion self-owned and RMB 137.00 billion held guard investors’ interests. No matter how market fluctuPudong New District Bureau of Finance and Pudong on behalf of clients). ates, all the trust products have been honored without New District Fiscal Bureau, Shanghai Zhangjiang Group Fortune Trust affiliated to Fortune Trust & Investled and Fortune Trust organized in collaboration with any delay. ment registered total income of RMB 1.5 billion and its Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, Shanghai Reassets size exceeded RMB 90.00 billion (including anGuarantee Co., Ltd., Zhangjiang SME Credit Guarantee nuities), stably staying at the top in the industry. Since III. Promote Progress of the Industry Center and Zhangjiang Small-Loan Company the sucthe establishment in 1998, Fortune Trust has made a cessful issuance of “Fortune-Zhangjiang Benefit Gatherprofit for 13 consecutive years with the honored trust Fortune Trust took the initiative to launch such ining No.1 Guaranteed Loans Assembled Fund Trust Plan” plans never below expected yields, realizing a total of novative products as stock index futures and charitable and ‘Fortune-Zhangjiang Benefit Gathering No.2 Guartrust gains worth RMB 18.1 billion for a variety of clients. trust, drafted the Measures for Pilots of Trust Companies anteed Loans Assembled Fund Trust Plan” (“Zhangjiang Participating in Stock Index Futures Transaction and the Benefit Gathering” for short) with the product size of Measures for Pilots of Trust Companies Conducting ChariRMB 77.00 million and the duration of one year. I. Advocate Honest Practice table Fund Business upon the entrustment from organs Different from common assembled trust that including the China Banking Regulatory Commission With the operation concept of “prudence”, Formostly serves large enterprises, “Zhangjiang Benefit and the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and organized a trade tune Trust & Investment makes great efforts in promotGathering”, backed by mature financial products of speseminar at which it discussed with some institutions ing the development of a punishment and prevention cialized institutions, aims to “focus on Zhangjiang, benefit about the participation in the development of stock system, improves rules and regulations and strengthens enterprises”. The product is oriented towards high-tech index futures hedging and straddling products. publicity and education, so as to solidly and effectively small and medium-sized enterprises and makes use of carry out the anti-corruption work. From November social resources to solve difficulty of innovative small and 26 to December 3, 2010, the “Anti-corruption Demedium-sized enterprises in Zhangjiang Hi-tech Park in velopment Exhibition of the Financial System” jointly financing in a scaled manner, so as to drive the planning sponsored by the People’s Bank of China, the China and development of industrial clusters in Zhangjiang. Banking Regulatory Commission, the China Securities This innovative financial product will no doubt greatly Regulatory Commission, the China Insurance Regulaenhance the success rate of high-tech small and meditory Commission and China Investment Corporation um-sized enterprises to obtain capital support. was presented in Shanghai Exhibition Hall. Fortune Trust & Investment organized its staff above the middle level, backbones of each department and staff of the business department to visit. Vivid and detailed pictures and scripts gave the visitors an exhortatory warning education and helped form a corporate culture featuring honest practice. In 2010, Fortune Trust & Investment renewed the “Letter of Responsibility for Construction of Party Conduct and Anti-corruption” by 32 copies and led seven leading cadres to report on cases of duty and integrity. 2008 2009 2010 Business Income (RMB 100 million) 19.08 22.37 24.71 Total Profit (RMB 100 million) 12.95 15.86 16.88 Net Profit (RMB 100 million) 9.8 13.82 13.98 Rate of Return on Equity (%) 9.87 13.41 12.03 Assets Size under Management (RMB 100 million) 912 1237 1520 61 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Production Services The main production service providers in Baosteel Group are Baosteel Development Co., Ltd. (“Baosteel Development”) and Baosteel Group Shanghai Meishan Co. Ltd. (Meishan Steel), two of its subsidiaries. At the new stage of its development, Baosteel makes it a strategic goal to manage and provide world-class integrated production services for large-scale process flow industries. It is committed to uplifting the efficiency of production and operation in iron and steel industry by rendering integrated services, developing circular economy by greatly advancing the recycling industrialization process, and enhancing solid waste reutilization in metallurgical industry with its first-rate capabilities in scale and technology. Baosteel Development Co., Ltd. Baosteel Development Co., Ltd. is the wholly owned subsidiary of Baosteel Group Co., Ltd. Its main businesses include comprehensive utilization of renewable resources, factory logistics, management of real estate, production operation, life logistics, trade, pawn, etc. It is certified to be in conformance to the all-round system certification integrating ISO9001/ISO14001/OHSAS18001. Backed by Baosteel’s abundant resources and scientific management, Baosteel Development has accumulated a large amount of management experience and technological achievement in providing matching production and life services for large-scale manufacturing enterprises and comprehensively utilizing metallurgy. It specializes in the overall utilization of iron and steel by-products, devotes itself to offering low-carbon solutions for high-carbon industries and is committed to providing industry enterprises with integrated and one-stop services. With regard to the science work, Baosteel Development has adhered to the work policy of “high-tech guidance, independent innovation, key breakthrough, step-by-step development”. As for the planning of technology, it sticks to principles of high starting points and standards and advanced thinking and design. In terms of project introduction, it values technological content and environmental protection. Regarding the application of technology, it persists in introduction, digestion, integration and promotion. I. Economic Performance II. Environment Performance The company’s business income throughout The company, adhering to the principle of “comthe year amounted to 144% of the yearly goal; total bination of project measure and saving” and centering profit 157% of the yearly goal; return on equity (ROE) upon the improvement of energy utilization efficiency, reached 10.5%, 180% of the yearly goal. strengthens all its employees’ awareness of energy In recent years, the company’s output of highsaving and consumption reduction. On such a basis, it tech products grows at an annual rate of over 15% innovates mechanism, perfects system, reinforces manand the cumulative sales revenue of high-tech products agement and strictly enforces the saving practice by amounts to RMB 2.8 billion. The company implemented adjusting production techniques of high energy conmore than 500 research proposals and projects of desumption, promoting energy-saving projects and making technological innovation, so as to form a energy-saving Environmental Protection Input: veloping new products, completed two “National Torch Plan Projects” and ten projects of industrializing highand consumption reduction situation where the governComprehensive Utilization of Renewable tech achievements in Shanghai, obtained 115 national ment plays a role as a driving force and the enterprise Resources granted patents and three group’s awards for major and staff actively participate. As an important implementer of Baosteel’s achievements in science and technology, and had three strategy of “environment operation”, Baosteel Develnational stations of identifying occupational skill grades, Goals opment follows the strategy of green and sustainable two high-tech enterprises in Shanghai, two technology From 2010 to the end of 2015, Baosteel Develdevelopment, strongly promotes circular economy by giant (cultivation) enterprises in Shanghai and two enopment’s energy consumption per RMB 10,000 of intransforming “waste” generated in the iron and steel terprise technology centers in the Baoshan District. dustrial output (based on that in 2009) is expected to producing process to renewable and recyclable “treadecrease by 36%; an average annual decrease of 4% in sure” through deep processing, and reduces discharge 2010; an average annual decrease of 8% between 2011 of toxic substances. It has fulfilled the social environment and 2013; an average annual decrease of 4% between responsibility by actually “sticking to low-carbon devel2014 and 2015. opment”. In the near future, we’ll ensure that Baosteel’s From 2010 to the end of 2015, Baosteel Developsolid waste reutilization scale amounts to 6.5 million ment’s energy consumption per RMB 10,000 of nontons, CO2 emissions decrease by 3.01 million tons anindustrial output (based on that in 2009) is expected nually, SO2 emissions drop by 129 tons, making it take to drop by 24%; an average annual decrease of 5% bethe lead in the industry in terms of energy-saving and tween 2010 and 2012; an average annual decrease of environmental protection indicators. 3% between 2013 and 2015. The company has reinforced the entire staff ’s awareness of energy saving and consumption reduction by earnestly carrying out activities of “lowreduction action” and “lowering costs and enhancing efficiency” and optimized production techniques of high energy consumption by making technological innovation, so as to ensure that within the current plan period, energy consumption per RMB 10,000 of industrial output decreases by 36% and that of non-industrial output drops by 24%. Baosteel Development Co., Ltd. won the title of 2008 2009 2010 “2010 ‘Ten Best Enterprises’ of Resource Reutilization Business Income (RMB 100 million) 156.77 92.68 145.9 in Shanghai” granted by Shanghai Resource Reutilization Total Profit (RMB 100 million) 0.08 2.44 6.78 Association. 62 Subsidiaries’ CSR Baosteel Group Shanghai Meishan Co., Ltd. Baosteel Group Shanghai Meishan Co., Ltd. (hereinafter “Meishan Steel”) was established in April 1969. It is headquartered in Shanghai and has manufacturing operations in the southwest outskirt of Nanjing. It acquired its current name in 1998 when it merged with Baosteel and Shanghai Metallurgical Holding Group (SMHG). In 2005, in response to Baosteel’s strategic demand for integration, Meishan Steel became officially separated from its core iron and steel business and started to operate on its own. After five years’ undertaking and innovation, it has basically developed into a modern iron and steel production service and resource development and utilization enterprise that bases itself on four businesses of assistance in iron and steel business, mining, resource utilization and logistics. For years, Meishan has kept “hard-work and innovation” as its motto. It fully supports the Baosteel culture, focuses on development of material and spiritual civilization, implements the “customer satisfaction” strategy, and strives towards the benefit sharing among the business, society, environment, clients and employees and towards greater costefficiency and a vigorous, honest and harmonious enterprise. I. Economic Performance units qualified for disposal. During the reporting period, of 26% iron grade from tailings for cement production. it safely transferred and disposed various dangerous In 2010, it developed an annual production capacity of In 2010, Meishan Steel’s production line of ground waste of 334.57 tons, sharply reducing the stock of haz120,000 tons of iron tailings and supplied relevant prodgranulated blast furnace slag with an annual capacity of ardous waste and eliminating hidden risks to environucts to China Cement Plant and others, giving rise to 500,000 tons produced a total of 586,000 tons and utiment safety. an annual economic benefit of more than RMB 3 millized 677,000 tons of blast furnace slag. Ground granulion and decreasing tailings discharge by 150,000 tons The company made increased efforts in green lated blast furnace slag can replace cement to be used each year. management and set up stricter procedure of examinin concrete admixture and its products can be widely ing and approving relocation of greening and deforestaThe company actively participated in community applied in such aspects as roads, bridges and engineertion. It investigated into the pruning and moving of trees building and continued the co-construction activity with ing construction. On December 11, 2010, the phase II in the residence and factory regions one by one and Yong’an Village, assisting Yong’an Village in improving spirground granulated blast furnace slag project started. Afprotected existing greening achievements to the maxiitual civilization and cultural level through technical and ter its completion, the annual capacity of ground granumum extent. At present, the greening coverage in the hardware support. It contributed RMB 1 million to reallated blast furnace slag is expected to reach 1 million Meishan region already reaches 38.08%. izing digitalization of cable TV in Meishan Sub-district, tons and the utilization of blast furnace slag will amount enriching cultural and life demand of people living in the to about 1.2 million tons, which can not only reduce region. It invested RMB 10 million in building Meishan consumption of natural resources, but also decrease II. Environmental Performance underground pedestrian passageway along Ning-Wu pollution to the environment. Railway, greatly facilitating transport of residents in the During the reporting period, the capital input was In 2010, Meishan Steel completed the compilation community. It contributed RMB 1 million to completing used in the construction of environmental protection of the 2010-2015 Planning for Utilization of Renewable the flood prevention project at No. 203 road junction projects mainly involving treatment of wastewater disResources and Business Plan, clarifying projects of inin Meishan Sub-district and donated poverty-relief capicharge and waste gas emission. By remolding discharge dustrialization development. Meishan-Baosteel phase II tal of RMB 150,000 to Meishan Sub-district and RMB outlets of lime processing, the company controlled (ground granulated blast furnace slag) already started 1,232,100 to earthquake-stricken areas in Yushu. the unorganized dust emissions at the loading of lime and reports on the feasibility of ball iron recycling, steel powder at 3mg/m3 and improved staff ’s operational slag disposal and magnetic materials were approved. Through market exploration, the company realized environment. In response to the phenomenon that III. Employee Performance dust emission concentration fluctuated intensely at the sales of firing flue gas desulfurization plaster and steel dust removal through multiple tubes in the rotary kiln slag tailings, launching them into reutilization in the soThe company strengthened supervision over of magnetic material production, the company set up a ciety. radioactive sources and radiation devices to eliminate Six Sigma project team which worked independently In order to improve resource utilization ratio, accidents involving radiation. It carried out training of and made improvements, thus leading to obviously deMeishan Steel reduced the grade of iron in tailings radiation-position staff about radiation safety and procreased dust emissions and about 45 tons of frosted of mineral separation by optimizing techniques and tection knowledge to enhance their awareness of radiaimitation glass that can either be reduced or recycled changing strong magnetic separators, improving metal tion safety and protection. It strictly tracked and evalueach year. It strengthened supervision over discharge of recycling ratio by more than 3%. At the same time, it ated occupational radiated dosage of radiation-position main pollution sources by installing an online monitorcooperated with research institutes in studying spoil restaff. During the reporting period, radiated dosage of ing system for emission of exhaust gas in sulfuric acid claiming and recycling low-grade iron ore concentrate all relevant staff ran below the defined standard for ocproduction and discharge of wastewater in cold rolling cupational radiation. production and made the monitoring of wastewater and waste gas more automatic and scientific so as to 2008 2009 2010 provide guarantee for timely eliminating excessive discharge, controlling pollutants and reducing emissions. Business Income (RMB 100 million) 52.95 41.72 52.62 Total Profit (RMB 100 million) -0.64 -0.19 0.98 During the reporting period, the company carried Total Tax Payment (RMB 100 million) 4.84 3.59 4.52 out evaluation of the influences of project construction on the environment and implemented the “three simultaneities” [note] system. Projects all passed the special in2008 2009 2010 spection concerning environmental protection, including Environmental Protection Input (RMB 10,000) 143.2 467 472.8 the phase III frosted imitation glass in Resource Branch, Emission of SO2 (ton) 105.1 42.8 41 integral moving of Meilida Head Factory, reutilization of iron-contained dust mud, environmental protection, enSuspended Substance (ton) 279 162 123 ergy saving and set upgrading in Cold-rolled Slab Branch as well as Meishan high dwelling. By strengthening en2008 2009 2010 vironment management in all phases of projects, the company managed to control discharge of pollutants in Total Employees 11,986 11,091 11,014 projects from the sources. Jobs Created for the Community 1,238 1,107 998 Total Training Programs 498 523 479 The company actively communicated with governmental authorities for environmental protection and Employees Receiving Physical Checkup 8,998 9,099 8,830 Note: Three Simultaneities refer to the design, construction and operation which shall be simultaneously and strictly executed in making environmental impact assessment of project construction during the reporting period. 63 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Baosteel Group Corporation Subsidiaries Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Chemical Branch Add: Baosteel Command Center, No. 885 Fujin Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai Add: No. 3501 Tongji Road, Shanghai Postal Code: 201900 Postal Code: 201900 TEL: +86 21 26647000 TEL: +86 21 26648409 Hotline: +86 21 26648888 FAX: +86 21 66789208 FAX: +86 21 26646999 Hotline: +86 21 66782266 Website: www.baosteel.com Website: www.baochem.com Baosteel Group Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Fortune Trust & Investment Co., Ltd. Add: Bayi Road, Toutunhe District, Urumchi, Xinjiang Add: Building 30, No. 166 Lujiazui Ring Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai Postal Code: 830022 Postal Code: 200120 TEL: +86 991 3893018 TEL: +86 21 50122212 FAX: +86 991 3891000 FAX: +86 21 50122273 Website: www.bygt.com.cn Baosteel Development Co., Ltd. Ningbo Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Add: No. 889 Baoyang Road, Shanghai Add: No. 168, Lin’gang Road No. 2, Xiapu, Beilun District, Ningbo, Zhejiang Postal Code: 201900 Postal Code: 315807 TEL: +86 21 56125101 TEL: +86 574-86859000 FAX: +86 21 56122654 FAX: +86 574-86859126 Hotline: 400-820-3266 Website: www.ningbosteel.com Website: www.baosteeldeveloping.com Guangdong Iron & Steel Group Co., Ltd. Baosteel Group Shanghai No. 1 Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Add: F/24, China Construction Bank Mansion of Guangdong Province, Add: No. 868 Changjiang Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai No. 509, Middle Dongfeng Road, Yuexiu District, Guangzhou Postal Code: 200431 Postal Code: 510045 TEL: +86 21 26033236 TEL: +86 20 83606563 FAX: +86 21 26033237 FAX: +86 20 83606095 Baosteel Group Shanghai Pudong Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Baosteel Resources Co., Ltd. Add: No. 86 Licheng Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai Add of Shanghai Headquarters: F/17, Baosteel Tower, No. 370 Pudian Road, Postal Code: 200126 Pudong New Area, Shanghai TEL: +86 21 68587313 Postal Code: 200122 FAX: +86 21 68587303 TEL: +86 21 68403333 FAX: +86 21 68403528 Baosteel Group Shanghai No. 5 Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Add of Hong Kong Headquarters: F/29, Office Building, Conference & Exhibition Plaza, Add: No. 303 Tongji Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai No. 1 Gangwan Road, Wanchai District, Hong Kong Postal Code: 200940 TEL: 0852-28277773 TEL: +86 21 26032130 FAX: 0852-28794879 FAX: +86 21 56671316 Website: www.baosteelresources.com E-mail: bgresources@baosteel.com Baosteel Group Shanghai Meishan Co., Ltd. Add: Xinjian, Zhonghuamenwai, Nanjing Baosteel Metal Co., Ltd. Postal Code: 210039 Add: Building 2, Alley 803, Shuangcheng Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai TEL: +86 25 86363055 Postal Code: 200940 FAX: +86 25 86363099 TEL: +86 21 61805678 Website: www.bsmeishan,com FAX: +86 21 61801188 Website: www.baosteelmetal.com Baosteel Engineering & Technology Group Co., Ltd. Add: No. 2510 Tieli Road, Baoshan District, Shanghai Postal Code: 201900 TEL: +86 21 66786678 FAX: +86 21 56604813 Website: bsee.baostee.com 64 Appendixes Highlights 2010 Awards January 11 In the 2009 National Science and Technology Award Conference, Baosteel won the “Enterprise Innovation Award” set by the state for the first time and its Project of Developing 3Cr Series Oil Casing for Anti-CO2/H2S-Erosion Use and Multi-functional Online Testing Technology for High-speed Cold-rolled Strip Steel won the second prize of National Award for Technological Invention and the second prize of National Award for Scientific and Technological Progress respectively. March 15 Baosteel Group Corporation was listed among “2009 World’s Most Admired Companies” by American Fortune Magazine and ranked at the 6th position in the global metal industry. April 1 In the 2009 Shanghai scientific and technological awarding ceremony, Baosteel’s Construction of R&D Base of Refined Iron and Steel Products Closely Integrating Research and Production won the first prize of Award for Scientific and Technological Progress; Developing Steel Wire Pod and Zinc-coated Wire for Bridge Cable Use, Development and Application of Water-saving and Stair-utilizing Technology in Iron and Steel Enterprise System and Technology of Controlling Carrier on the Surface of Cold-rolled Steel Slab won the second prize; Shallow Slot Turbulence Silicon Steel Scouring Technology won the third prize. April 12 At the 2009 China Charity Award Appraisal organized by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, Baosteel won the “2009 China Charity Award – Most Caring Domestic Enterprise”. This is the second time that Baosteel was granted with the China Charity Award. April 14 At the 2009 China Quality Technology Awarding, Baosteel’s Improving Comprehensive Compliance Rate of Blast Furnace Pretreatment Melted Iron, Enhancing Efficiency of Double Garage and Multi-system at Unload Wharf in Majishan Harbor, Reducing Alloy Content in Cold-rolled Products and Increasing Hot-setting Accuracy of Thick Plates won the title of “National Excellent Six Sigma Project”. Its Reducing Ratio of Stainless-steel and Low-speed Slabs, Enhancing Activity of Quick Lime in No. 2 Kiln and Extending Effective Life Expectancy of Self-made Gauges won the title of “Shanghai Excellent Six Sigma Project”. April 28 By the end of March, plants directly under Baosteel Co., Ltd hit the record of emission reduction of SO2 for 15 consecutive months by over 1,600 tons. Thereby, Baosteel Co., Ltd. won the Award for Excess Emission Reduction granted by Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Environmental Protection. June 2 At the first energy-saving China Contribution Award Appraisal, Baosteel Co., Ltd. won the “Award for Ten Enterprises with Outstanding Contributions in Energy-saving”, becoming the sole enterprise winning such an honor among domestic iron and steel enterprises. July 1 In the 2010 (the 7th) List of 500 Brands with Most Values in China published by the World Brand Lab, Baosteel ranked 18th with the brand value of RMB 47.591 billion. It also ranked top among brands in Shanghai. July 8 Baosteel ranked 276th in the 2010 Fortune Global 500 with the business income of RMB 195.3 billion (US$ 28.591 billion) in 2009. It’s the 7th straight year for Baosteel to be involved in the list. July 30 In the 2007-2009 performance evaluation and awarding of central enterprises by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission under the State Council, Baosteel won the honor of “Enterprises with Excellent Performances”, becoming the sole enterprise winning such an honor in the domestic metallurgical industry. September Baosteel was included in the top three in the field of industry in “Top 100 Innovative Enterprises in China”. Baosight Software ranked at the top three in the field of services. September 14 Baosteel won 19 golden awards at the 19th National Invention Exhibition. September 14 Baosteel Group Corporation won the golden prize of the 4th “Harvard Business Review Management Behavior Award”. September 30 Baosteel was included in the 2010 list of “Top 500 Asian Brands” jointly compiled and published by the World Brand Lab and the World Executive Group. It ranked 81st. December 7 Baosteel’s 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report won the award of “2010 Golden Bee Best CSR Report • Leading Enterprise”. December 3 Baosteel was selected as the “2010 Model with Best Value Management” at the 2010 (the 10th) China Annual Management Conference & “Model with Best Value Management” Conference sponsored by Talents magazine in collaboration with Sina, Beijing Youth Daily and other media. December 8 Baosteel was included in the “China Brands of the Year” at the awarding of “2010 • CCTV China Brands of the Year”. December 16 In the Coca Cola (China) 2010 Summit of Sustainable Development Suppliers, Baosteel Metal won the platinum supplier award. This is the supreme prize set by Coca Cola Company for suppliers for the first time and Baosteel Metal becomes the sole supplier winning such an honor. Baosteel Metal was granted with the Best Customer Services Award at the same time. December 20 Baosteel won the China Best Corporate Citizen Award at the 2010 China Best Corporate Citizen Forum & the 7th China Best Corporate Citizen Awarding. 65 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Major Events January 11 Baosteel won the bidding of Australia Queensland Curtis liquefied natural gas pipeline project, showing that Baosteel’s heavy caliber welded pipes are able 11 In the 2009 national scientific and technological awarding ceremony held in to compete with products of the same kind from famous enterprises in the the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, Baosteel won the “Enterprise Innovaworld tion Award” set by the state for the first time and its Project of Developing 3Cr Series Oil Casing for Anti-CO2/H2S-Erosion Use and Multi-functional Online Test17 The office in charge of selecting China Charity Award organized by the Mining Technology for High-speed Cold-rolled Strip Steel won the second prize of istry of Civil Affairs announced the nominee list of the 2009 Most Caring National Award for Technological Invention and the second prize of National Domestic Enterprise (totally 15 enterprises). Baosteel won the “2009 China Award for Scientific and Technological Progress respectively. Charity Award • Most Caring Domestic Enterprise”. This is the second time that Baosteel was granted with the China Charity Award. 15 Baosteel held the 2010 Work Conference & the 3rd Session of the 2nd Employees’ Congress, mobilizing all staff to boost spirit and get together to March A new generation of hyper-pure ferrite stainless steel T4003 independently promote Baosteel’s second undertaking. The Fundamental System for the developed by Baosteel was successfully supplied in batches. New-model lorDemocratic Management of Staff in Baosteel Group Corporation (trial) was apries adopting such product will effectively enhance rail lorries’ load capacity proved by voting at the Employees’ Congress. and operational expectancy. 28 Baosteel Co., Ltd. and Shanghai Electric signed a memorandum of strategic March By the end of March, plants directly under Baosteel Co., Ltd had realized cooperation to expand fields of cooperation and jointly promote developemission reduction of SO2 for 15 consecutive months by over 1,600 tons, compared to the planned value. Thereby, Baosteel Co., Ltd. won the Award ment of the equipment manufacturing industry. for Excess Emission Reduction granted by Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Envi29 Baosteel and China State Shipbuilding Corporation signed an agreement of ronmental Protection. strategic cooperation to jointly create a best supply chain with long-term stability and greatest competitiveness. January Baosteel made a breakthrough in resource reutilization in Dujiang Dam, SiApril chuan. It used construction materials removed from quake-proof prefabri1 The Proposal of Electing He Wenbo as Chairman of the 4th Board of Directors cated houses to put up a two-floor building, which was high acknowledged was approved at the 4th meeting of the 4th board of directors of Baosteel by the World Steel Association and the International Zinc Association and Co., Ltd. Baosteel’s President He Wenbo holds a concurrent post of Chairman promoted with their contributed funds. of Baosteel Co., Ltd. 7 Baosteel Co., Ltd. made major adjustment to the corporate structure of MeFebruary dium Plate Branch. 3 The awarding ceremony for 2009 Baosteel Figure of the Year was grandly 9 Bayi Iron & Steel held the awarding ceremony for best practitioners in the held in the Opera House of Shanghai Oriental Art Center. democratic unity pair activity. In this large family consisting of 25 ethnic groups, the company formed more than 6,000 democratic unity pairs. The coverage 14 Wang Lequan, a member of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the activity reached 100%. of the CPC and Secretary of the Party Committee of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and his followers paid a visit to staff of all ethnic groups 10-11 Xu Lejiang, Chairman of Baosteel and his followers paid a visit to automobile in Bayi Iron & Steel in the spring festival. manufacturers in Liuzhou, Guangxi. Baosteel signed agreements of strategic cooperation with Shanghai GM-Wuling Automobiles Co., Ltd., Liuzhou Wuling 22 Baosteel Group Corporation and China Telecom signed a framework agreeMotors Co., Ltd. and Dongfeng Liuzhou Automobiles Co., Ltd. ment of strategic cooperation to jointly promote integration of industrialization and informatization. 16 Baosteel Engineering & Technology Group Co., Ltd. was announced established. In order to create a concentrated and specialized engineering tech23 Baosteel Group Corporation and Jiangsu Shagang Group Co., Ltd. signed a nology service platform, Baosteel made integration of relevant engineering letter of intent for strategic cooperation in the Great Hall of the People in technology businesses within the group. Baosteel Engineering & Technology Beijing, signifying an official start of strategic cooperation between the largest Group already started to operate in real terms in the beginning of the year. state-owned enterprise and the largest private steel enterprise in the country. 23 On the afternoon of the World Book and Copyright Day, the World Expo February Baosteel provided iron core components for the East China See Power Plant, Reading Forum Enterprise Session themed as “Reading • Employees • Enterthe first offshore wind power generation project in Asia. All 34 wind-driven prise” was held in Baosteel Tower. generators were installed. All iron core components of the generators adopted superior-quality and high-grade non-oriented silicon steel of Baosteel. April Baosteel successfully rolled 9-nickel steel plate with 4 specifications including 8mm, 15mm, 27mm and 40mm for use in storage tanks of liquefied natural February Baosteel Co., Ltd. Medium Plate Branch supplied a batch of TMCP ship plates gas, becoming the domestic enterprise with most specifications of such steel to Korea STX Heavy Co., Ltd. and Korea Daewoo Shipbuilding, signifying plate. that its products have already entered the world’s high-end shipbuilding-used steel market. April Baosteel Co., Ltd. was granted with the title of “A-class Supplier” by TBEA, signifying that Baosteel Co., Ltd. ascended as one of the “top four” oriented silicon steel suppliers of TBEA. March 9 Baosteel Group Corporation and China South Industries Group CorporaMay tion entered into an agreement of strategic cooperation in Beijing to concentrate advantages in the manufacturing industry and jointly cope with global20 In the 2010 Paris International Invention Exhibition, Baosteel’s employee inization. ventors including Kong Liming and Ji Zhiyong took eight projects to participate and won two golden medals, one silver medal and three bronze medals 11 Electron beam cold bed furnace was proved successful in hot experimenting. as well as two Repin Prizes. It’s the third time that Baosteel took part in the Verification results of the first pure titanium slab ingots from the special steel exhibition along with the Chinese delegation. division showed that Baosteel has already mastered the cutting-edge technology of smelting pure titanium materials. 66 Appendixes 24 The launching ceremony of Baosteel Yushu Disabled Assistance Program 28 In the 2010 (the 7th) list of 500 Brands with Most Values in China published in sponsored by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and jointly held by Qinghai ProvinBeijing by the World Brand Lab, Baosteel ranked at the 18th with the brand cial Department of Civil Affairs, China Rehabilitation Appliance Association value of RMB 47.591 billion. and China Charity Donation Information Center was held in Xining, Qinghai. June Baosteel’s self-developed high-grade R5 steel for mooring chain use was used The amount of RMB 5 million donated by Baosteel Group Co., Ltd. will be to support the construction of the deepwater semi-submersible type drilling specifically used to assist the injured and disabled in earthquake-stricken areas platform. The product represents No. 1 in the world and already forms an in Yushu in acquiring rehabilitation-auxiliary appliances. invention patent. 27 In the first energy-saving China contribution awarding ceremony, which was June In order to ensure the energy-saving and emission-reduction goal during the jointly held in Beijing by China Energy-saving Association and the organizing “Eleventh Five-year Planning” period, Baosteel launched a special plan for committee of the China Energy Strategic High-level Forum in the High-tech investment in energy-saving and environmental protection. The plan involved Expo, Baosteel Co., Ltd. won the “Award for Ten Enterprises with Outstand104 environmental protection projects and 64 energy-saving projects with ing Contributions in Energy-saving”. the total investment amounting to about RMB 3.5 billion. 27 The China Securities Journal published the winner list of the 7th China Fund June The steel pipe division made a major breakthrough in electric furnace square Industry Golden Bull Prize. Fortune Industrial Fund Management Company base technology and successfully melted high-alloy super-low-carbon supewas selected as one of the “2009 Ten Golden Bull Fund Management Comrior 13 Cr steel. panies”. May In order to support the drought control and disaster relief in Yunnan, Baosteel Group Co., Ltd. donated RMB 10 million to Yunnan which was specially used July in drinking water project construction in four one-to-one assistance counties 6 The Baosteel 2009 CSR Report Releasing & Launching Ceremony of Baoin Pu’er, Yunnan. steel World Expo Visit Activity was held in the theme pavilion in Expo sites in May Baosteel produced stainless steel for use in LB automobile interior which imShanghai. poses highest requirements on surface quality and successfully realized supply 8 Baosteel ranked 276th in the 2010 Global 500 with the business income of in batches, thus changing the situation that such products relied on imports RMB 195.3 billion (US$ 28.591 billion) in 2009. It’s the 7th straight year for for a long period. Baosteel to be involved in the list. May The 1750 cold tandem rolling mill of the stainless steel division realized July The general gymnasium project of Guangzhou Asian Games City was combatched production of 409L stainless steel used in automobile exhaust syspleted. Baosteel’s stainless steel products replaced imported products to be tem, making Baosteel the first iron and steel enterprise in the country that used in the super-large venue decoration project on a large scale for the first masters the core technology of five racks continuously rolling stainless steel time, saving over RMB 200 million for the project. products. July Wuhan Baosteel Can Making Co., Ltd. laid a foundation in the Baosteel IndusMay The steckel mill of the special steel division successfully rolled the first staintrial Park in Wuhan Economic Development Region, signifying that Baosteel’s less steel coil. metal can making industry realized a strategic layout in the east, west, south, May Baosteel’s high-grade non-oriented silicon steel B50A250 and B50A270 north and central China. products were examined and approved by experts of the inspection team July The electric furnace square base of the steel pipe division successfully melted for major equipment manufacturing in the Three Gorges Project under the 86 high-grade cord thread steel, making Baosteel the first enterprise in the Office of the Three Gorges Project Construction of the State Council. country that possesses the capacity of producing a whole series of core thread steel. June July At the awarding of central enterprises with excellent performances during 2007 and 2009 by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration 3-4 Baosteel held the fellowship activity of strategic partners enjoying the World Commission under the State Council, Baosteel won the honor of “EnterExpo in which it invited more than 100 distinguished guests from 26 compaprises with Excellent Performances”. nies around the globe to enjoy the World Expo. 8 Xu Lejiang, Chairman of Baosteel attended the 2nd Global Green Economy Summit held in Shanghai and delivered a speech in which he proposed to August “stick to environment operation, realize green development”. 3 Zhang Chunxian, Secretary of the Party Committee of the Xinjiang Uygur 10-11 Baosteel invited over one hundred guests from 41 famous domestic comAutonomous Region met in Urumchi Xu Lejiang, Chairman of Baosteel and panies to gather in Shanghai for the fellowship activity of strategic partners his followers who were paying an inspection in Xinjiang. Baosteel signed a enjoying the World Expo. Framework Agreement of Strategic Cooperation in Accelerating Development of 18 The 2010 China Stainless Steel Annual Meeting was held in Baosteel and Xu the Iron and Steel Industry in Xinjiang with the People’s Government of the Kuangdi, former vice president of the CPPCC National Committee attended Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. the meeting. 26 Baosteel won the bidding of Shanghai Center Tower steel structure project 18 Hong Kong Haibao Shipping Co., Ltd., which was jointly funded and estaband the contract signing ceremony was held in Jin Mao Tower. lished by Baosteel and China Shipping, held a naming handover ceremony at 31 Baosteel entered into an Agreement of Cooperation in Development-oriented the wharf of CSSC Guangzhou Longxue Shipbuilding Co., Ltd. for “Renda” Finance with the China Development Bank in Beijing with the cooperation Ship, the first 230,000 deadweight tonnage ore carrier. On July 16, the ship amount reaching US$ 10 billion or equivalent RMB. was moored alongside the raw material wharf of Baosteel Co., Ltd., signifying August Baosteel was determined by the State Intellectual Property Bureau as the a successful first voyage. second national demonstration-establishing units of intellectual property 23-24 The 2010 Scientific and Technological Work Conference of Central Enterrights for enterprises and public institutions with the demonstration-estabprises was held in Shanghai, which was sponsored by the State-owned Assets lishing period of two years. Supervision and Administration Commission under the State Council and August The super-thick and super-heavy stainless steel plates independently develundertaken by Baosteel. oped and produced by Baosteel were successfully applied in key equipment 25 Baosteel staged the Guidelines of the 2010-2015 Development Plan which in domestic nuclear power projects. specifies that the company will, by keeping a firm grasp on environment opAugust Baosteel Group Technician Association was established based on the former eration and taking capacity development as the core, form a capacity of more Baosteel Technician Association. than 66 million tons and achieve sales revenue of RMB 440 billion by 2015. 67 2010 Baosteel CSR Report September November 14 The awarding ceremony for the 4th “Management Behavior Award” of the 8 The 3rd session of the Congress of Baosteel Group was held in the hall of the 2010 Harvard Business Review was held in Beijing. Five famous domestic enHuman Development Institute. The session called for great efforts to realize terprises including Baosteel won the golden prize. Baosteel’s goals of the 2010-2015 Development Plan and promote Baosteel’s second undertaking and scientific development. 15 At the 25th anniversary of initial operation, Baosteel solemnly held the “85 • 9” commemoration conference & the closing ceremony of the 8th Employ10 Chen Jinhua, former vice president of the CPPCC National Committee paid ees’ Sports Games (opened on June 17). an inspection to Baosteel. 20 Baosteel Co., Ltd. signed a Framework Agreement of Strategic Cooperation in 13 The high-magnetic oriented silicon steel exhibit of Baosteel Co., Ltd. won the Lightweight Automobiles with Shanghai Automotive, which had a demonstratsilver prize at the awarding ceremony of the 2010 China Industrial Expo. ing effect on promoting development of lightweight technology in automo16 The 4th Baosteel Annual Academic Meeting was grandly opened. biles and deepening cooperation in industrial chains. November The CSR Research Center of the Economics Department of the Chinese 27 Baosteel signed an Agreement of Strategic Cooperation in Banking Enterprises Academy of Social Sciences published the 2010 CSR Blue Book. Baosteel’s and an Agreement of Cooperation in Cash Management with the Bank of China CSR development index in 2010 ranked 5th. in Baosteel Tower.The Bank of China will provide Baosteel with an intentional credit line of RMB 80 billion. November The “seam steel plate shear wall (SPSW) technology” developed by Baosteel Construction Engineering Design Institute was listed as key promoted tech28 In the eve before the advent of “China Pavilion” in the 2010 World Expo, nology at the 9th China International Exhibition of Housing Industry (CIEHI). Baosteel presented a limited-edition China Pavilion model made of environment-friendly materials to Shanghai World Expo Bureau as a gift. November The 690U-model finished pipe product self-developed by Baosteel for use in nuclear power steam generators was successfully put down line in Baoyin September Baosteel supported the post-earthquake reconstruction in the disasterSpecial Steel Tube Co., Ltd., making China the fourth country that can manustricken areas. It donated RMB 3 million to Zhouqu, Gansu at the launching facture such products following France, Japan and Sweden. ceremony of Gansu weekly activities in the World Expo. November Baosteel realized mass production of self-developed two-phase stainless steel September Transformers adopting Baosteel’s high-grade oriented silicon steel was to be for the first time. applied in the Three Gorges Project after strict test of technical performances, signifying that Baosteel made a major breakthrough in innovating on the November Xu Lejiang, Chairman of Baosteel attended the 2010 Sino-European Fointegration of silicon steel technology and ending the history that domestic rum Hamburg Summit held in Hamburg, Germany and delivered a speech large-scale transformers relied on imported oriented silicon steel. themed as “Green Growth: Seeking Balance between Economy and Environment”. September Baosteel ranked 23rd among the 2010 Top 500 Chinese Enterprises with business income of RMB 195.307 billion in 2009. November Baosteel Post-doctoral Research Station was rated as the “National Excellent Post-doctoral Research Station”. September Shanghai European and American Alumni • Shanghai Association of Personnel Studying Abroad Baosteel Branch was announced established. November Baosteel DI materials used to make zip-top cans were reduced to 0.22 mm thick, making the thickness specification reach the world leading level. October December 23 On the Baosteel Activity Day in the 2010 Shanghai World Expo, Baosteel presented excellent programs themed as “Better Iron & Steel, Better Life” at 2 Baosteel’s 4th Employee Skill Contest that spanned half a year and witnessed the Baosteel stage in the Expo sites. 35,000 participants was concluded. 25 Baosteel and China State Construction Engineering Corporation held the 3 On December 3, 18 enterprises including Baosteel Group Corporation were signing ceremony for the agreement of strategic cooperation. According to selected as the “2010 Model with Best Value Management” at the 10th China the agreement, both sides will establish a close partnership in such fields as Annual Management Conference jointly held by many mainstream media R&D, purchase and sales, investment and management. such as Talents magazine, Sina and Beijing Youth Daily in Beijing. October The BT-S13Cr110 (super 13Cr oil pipe) jointly developed by Baosteel, Tarim 3 The awarding ceremony of the 7th “China Best Corporate Citizen” sponoil field and Xi’an Pipe Materials Institute was proved successful as it desored by the 21st Century Business Review and 21st Century Business Herscended the Tarim oil field at one-off. ald was held in Beijing. 30 domestic enterprises including Baosteel won the “China Best Corporate Citizen Award”. October Baosteel’s nine energy-saving projects saved energy by nearly 100,000 tons of coal equivalent each year, making it win a Shanghai financial award of RMB 14 8 Baosteel was included in the “China Brands of the Year” at the awarding cermillion. It is the largest award amount since Shanghai established the special emony of “2010 • CCTV China Brands of the Year” sponsored by prestigious funds for supporting energy-saving. domestic media including CCTV China Network Television. October Baosteel produced a batch of 100mm-thick and low-yield-point BLY225 steel 9 Baosteel signed an agreement with Fujian Wugang Group in Beijing to replates for use in anti-seismic buildings. It is the thickest steel plate among structure Fujian Desheng Nickel Co., Ltd. It is another cross-regional restrucproducts of the same kind in the world. turing measure of Baosteel after Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel, Guangdong Iron & Steel and Ningbo Iron & Steel. October The reclaimed oil (phase I) project with an annual reclaiming capacity of 7,000 tons was completed and put in operation in Baosteel, signifying that the 21 Baosteel Resources (International) Co., Ltd. was unveiled in Hong Kong. technology of reclaiming and reutilizing industrial waste oil with proprietary December At the 3rd China CSR International Seminar, Baosteel’s 2009 Corporate Social intellectual property was industrialized and making it possible for Baosteel Responsibility Report won the award of “2010 Golden Bee Best CSR Report to dispose all industrial waste oil produced in Shanghai in an environment• Leading Enterprise”. friendly manner. December At the Summit on China ICT Industry Promoting Low-Carbon Economy Development, Baosteel Group Corporation won the title of “Excellent Enterprise of ICT Promoting Energy-saving and Emission Reduction”. December The 2010 Baosteel Education Award was unveiled and 1,195 excellent teachers and students all over the country won the award. 68 Appendixes GRI Indicators Description of indicators in the Report Page Description of indicators in the Report Page Statement from the Management of the Corporation about the sustainability EC1 23 1.1 3 to the organization and its strategy EC2 28 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 3 EC3 34 2.1 Name of the organization 6 EC4 2.2 Primary brands, products, or services 6 Organization structure, including key departments, operating companies, EC5 34 2.3 9 subsidiary companies and JVs EC6 46 2.4 Location of the headquarters Back cover EC7 33 2.5 Major countries covered by its business operation 6 EC8 43 2.6 Type and legal form of the Corporation 6 EC9 24 2.7 Market served 6 EN1/ EN2 2.8 Size of the Corporation 6 EN3-EN7 31 Significant changes during the reporting period in size, structure and owner2.9 EN8-EN10 31 ship 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 65 EN11-EN15 3.1 Information in the reporting period Cover page 2 EN16-EN25 31 3.2 Latest reported information of most recent report Cover page 2 EN26/EN27 45 3.3 Reporting cycle Cover page 2 EN28 3.4 Contact for questions regarding the report or its contents Cover page 2 EN29 46 3.5 Process for defining the report’s content 12 EN30 General status 28 3.6 Boundary of the report Cover page 2 LA1 33 3.7 Specific limitations on the boundary of the report Cover page 2 LA2 33 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced LA3 34 3.8 operations and other entities Data measurement techniques and the basis for calculation, including assumpLA4 37 3.9 tions applied to complex indictors in the report and technical estimation LA5 37 3.10 Explanation of the re-stated information provided in previous reports LA6 38 Application of the significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 3.11 LA7 38 scope, boundary, or measurement method 3.12 GRI content index 69 LA8 38 3.13 External serving policies and practices 12 LA9 37 Organizational structure including committees subordinate to the ManageLA10 35 4.1 12 ment and responsible for special tasks LA11 35 4.2 Indicate whether the chairman of the highest governance body is also a CEO 12 LA12 34 4.3 Number of independent or non-administrative members of the Management 7 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to give recommendations or LA13 33 4.4 36 direction to the highest governance body LA14 34 Linkage between compensation of the Management members, senior manag4.5 34 SO1 43, 49 ers and administrative staff and the organization’s performance 4.6 Processes adopted by the Management to avoid conflicts of interest 34 SO2 21 4.7 Process for determining the qualification and expertise of the Management 35 SO3 21 2009 Procedures in the management system for overseeing the identification and SO4 21 management of economic, environmental and social performance, including 4.8 19 relevant risks and opportunities, re-statement of or obedience to internaSO5 tionally recognized standards, code of conduct and principles SO6 Procedures in the highest governance body for overseeing the management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks SO7 4.9 20 and opportunities, re-statement of or obedience to internationally recognized standards, code of conduct and principles SO8 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, PR1 45 4.10 19 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance PR2 4.11 Active preventive measure The economic, environmental and social external contract, regulations or PR3 4.12 other acts signed or initialed by the company PR4 4.13 Memberships in associations or organizations PR5 47 4.14 List of stakeholders engaged in operation 14, 15 PR6/ PR7 47 4.15 Referred basis and process of the definition and selection of stakeholders 14, 15 PR8 48 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 16 PR9 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and how the 4.17 14, 15 organization has responded 69 2010 Baosteel CSR Report Feedback Form Thank you for reading this Baosteel CSR Report 2010. Baosteel is greatly concerned about your comments and opinions, so that we can improve the report accordingly. Please fax the form to +86-21-68403773 after answering the following questions. Or, mail it to: Corporate Communication Dept., Room 2105, Baosteel Tower, No. 370 Pudian Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai 1. Have you found all information you need in this report? 2. Your comments and opinions: Your personal information: Name: Title: E-mail: Tel.: 70 This Report was translated by China Translation and Publishing Corporation, Translation and Interpretation Project Sponsor of EXPO 2010 Shanghai China Baosteel Group Corporation Baosteel Tower, No. 370 Pudian Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai Tel: 021-5835 0000/5835 8888 Fax: 021-68404832 Postal code: 200122 http://www.baosteel.com Printed on recycled paper.
