October 2012 Schiel & Denver Book Publishers United Nations Communication-On-Progress Contents Business Profile 3 Statement of Continued Support 5 Human Rights Policy 6 Labor Standards 8 Environmental Standards 10 Anti-Corruption 12 SCHIEL & DENVER UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 |2 Business Profile Schiel & Denver Publishing Limited Established in April 2008, Schiel & Denver provides ISBN book publishing, book production, editorial, book marketing, book printing to independent authors with mainstream book distribution to all retail booksellers and libraries across the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, South Africa, Brazil, to name a few. Schiel & Denver Book Publishers holds membership with the Association of American Publishers (AAP) and the company is CCR-registered with the US Department of Defense as well as authorized as a Data Controller in the UK under the Data Protection Act 1998. Company Websites: http://www.schieldenver.com http://www.schieldenver.co.uk Contact Information: 888-629-4449 (US) +44 0844 549 9191 (UK) |3 Statement of Continued Support Schiel & Denver is proud to once again confirm and reassert our book publishers’ commitment to the UN Global Compact. Since being honored with signatory status in 2009, we have focused our business to ensure that the UN Global Compact’s ten principles are part of Schiel & Denver’s culture, corporate standards and processes. Our main success through 2012 has been in the environmental compliance segment, where we have ensured that all wood product components used in black & white or standard color paper back books for Schiel & Denver ISBN titles (utilizing either cream or white bookblock paper) come from Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI®) Certified Sourcing. Our book publisher and printing partners have additionally agreed to adhere to a Chain of Custody (CoC) certification program, which is a sophisticated tracking system to monitor the flow of wood fiber through the different lifecycle stages of production: from the forest, to the mill, to the paper, to the printer and ultimately to the finished Schiel & Denver ISBN book of fiction, nonfiction, poetry or Christian subject matter. We are pleased to publish our commitment here, and we will work to uphold the explicit and implied spirit of the UN Global Compact’s principles in all that we do, connecting great authors to an international readership. Schiel & Denver Publishing Ltd 14 October 2012 |5 Human Rights United Nations Global Compact Principles Human Rights Schiel & Denver’s Commitment At Schiel & Denver Book Publishers, we expect our partners and employees to conduct any business related to us fairly, legally, and with integrity. Our common goal is to be a good corporate citizen in every jurisdiction and community in which we conduct business. We support and seek to comply with the following human rights principles in conjunction with our wider UNGC commitment: • Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence • Principle 2: Business must ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. SCHIEL & DENVER UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 |6 Human Rights S&D’s Commitment (External References) > Operating Manual For Authors > Corporate Citizenship Report Implementation • We seek to ensure that Schiel & Denver’s presence fosters good relationships and gives independent authors wherever we are. • Schiel & Denver has conducted another thorough assessment of our ‘Ethical Code’ for Suppliers which furthermore highlights the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and we expect our suppliers to adhere to our code through their operations with us. • There were no reported incidents of breaches of our human rights policy in 2011 or 2012. SCHIEL & DENVER UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 |7 United Nations Global Compact Principles Labor Standards Schiel & Denver’s Commitment Schiel & Denver supports fair and equitable working conditions, not only for its own employees, but for individuals in Schiel & Denver’s supply chain. In our direct operations, the company strives to create safe, productive, and rewarding environments so that our authors and employees can reach their potential and help our business to flourish. We comply with the following principles: Labor Standards • Principle 3: Business should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SCHIEL & DENVER UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 |8 S&D’s Commitment (External References) > Operating Manual For Authors > Schiel & Denver’s UNGC Strategic Policy Objectives > Yamie Chess Ltd Implementation • We continue to ensure that all members in our supply chain are members of the Book Industry Study Group (BISG) America’s leading book trade association, giving us access to BISG’s Product Data and Product Label Certification Programs. This offers Labor Standards the opportunity for us to comply with industry standards evaluated and ranked by expert independent advisers. • Schiel & Denver continues to ensure that the Calvert Women’s Principles we adopted in early January 2010 are properly implemented. The principles set a benchmark as the first global code of corporate conduct focused exclusively on women’s issues and as such we encourage all companies to consider adopting them. • To aid progress in childhood math education particularly for STEM learning, Schiel & Denver is proud to invest and support the educational toy company, Yamie Chess Ltd, that is bringing to market a classic chess explorer for math and science learning in early 2014. SCHIEL & DENVER UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 |9 United Nations Global Compact Principles Environmental Standards Schiel & Denver’s Commitment Schiel & Denver is committed to minimizing as much as possible our environmental footprint on natural resources and started by gaining a good understanding of the main elements of the carbon emissions from our book publishing and printing processes. We comply with all applicable environmental laws and are continually look for innovative ways to decrease our impact on the environment, most significantly in paper materials use. • Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environmental Standards SCHIEL & DENVER UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 | 10 S&D’s Commitment (External References) > Operating Manual For Authors > Responsible & Sustainable Book Publishing Implementation • All wood product components used in black & white paperback books, utilizing either cream or white bookblock paper that are manufactured for Schiel & Denver ISBN titles use the Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI®) Certified Sourcing. • The cream or white book block paper in black & white hardcover books manufactured for Schiel & Denver titles adheres to being Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI®) Certified Sourcing. • All our wood product components used in black & white paperback books, utilizing either cream or white bookblock paper, adhere to Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC®) Mix Credit. • Schiel & Denver’s printing partners comply with the Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC®) is a non-profit organization, promoting the environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial Environmental Standards and economically viable management of the world’s forests. FSC® certification is recognized internationally as a rigorous environmental and social standard for responsible forest management. SCHIEL & DENVER UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 | 11 United Nations Global Compact Principles Anti-Corruption Schiel & Denver’s Commitment Schiel & Denver expects all our suppliers and employees to lawfully adhere to relevant local and national regulations, and standards of honesty and fairness in carrying out all business. Schiel & Denver is committed to compliance with the following principle: • Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-Corruption SCHIEL & DENVER UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 | 12 S&D’s Commitment (External References) > Operating Manual For Authors > Company Vision & Values Implementation • Being open and transparent is a key part of the way that Schiel & Denver operates. We are committed, in principle and in practice, to maximum transparency, consistent with good governance and commercial confidentiality. • We are committed to an incident and injury free workplace. Our goal is zero harm. Everyone’s behaviour contributes to an incident and injury free workplace; full and consistent implementation of Schiel & Denver’s safety standards, systems and procedures is required wherever we operate. • Our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) risk framework requires us to focus on hazard identification, risk analysis and risk management, including identifying low likelihood events that if they happened, could have major consequences. • Schiel & Denver is building a sustainable safety culture that requires visible and committed leadership, a high level of participation from employees and contractors, and the development of a learning and an actively caring workplace. Anti-Corruption SCHIEL & DENVER UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 | 13 Schiel & Denver Book Publishers 10685-B Hazelhurst Drive, Suite 8575 Houston, Texas USA 77043 Tel: 888-629-4449 (US) Fax: 888-224-2721 (US) http://www.schieldenver.com enquiries@schieldenver.com The Meridian, 4 Copthall House Station Square, Coventry, UK CV1 2FL Tel: 0844 54 99 191 (UK) Fax: 0844 507 0985 (UK) http://www.schieldenver.co.uk enquiries@schieldenver.co.uk
