about our company Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Corporate Social Responsiblity Report Fiscal 2010 FROM TREE TO CUP Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 1 FROM TREE TO CUP Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Corporate Social Responsiblity Report Fiscal 2010 2 Our Commitment and Vision 3 Our Journey 4 About Our Company 4 Our Brands 5 Facility Map 6 Our Approach 6 A History of Environmental Responsibility 10 Purpose / Principles 12 Public Recognition List 13 About This Report 14 Partnering with Supply-Chain Communities 18 Supply-Chain Partnerships 24 Supporting Local Communities 28 GMCR Grants and Volunteerism 34 Protecting the Environment 46 Building Demand for Sustainable Products 52 Working Together for Change 58 Creating An Exceptional Workplace 66 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 1 Our Commitment and Vision larry blanford, president and ceo Friends, By conventional measures, fiscal 2010 was tremendously  The evolution of our domestic grant-making programs to successful. We enjoyed significant growth and strengthincorporate more and deeper leadership from local employened our leadership in coffee makers and specialty coffee. ees, more effective customization to meet local needs, and We invested in our business and brands, and expanded our specific emphases on strong local systems, environmental product portfolio. We delivered great value to our consumstewardship, and economic prosperity; and ers, customers, and shareholders. But that’s only part of the story. When we look back at  The broadening of our sustainable coffee portfolio the year, we must also consider how we met our commitbeyond Fair Trade Certified™ and certified organic ments to reduce our impact on the environment, do right coffees to include Rainforest Alliance Certified™ coffee through by our suppliers, collaborate with communities, and supTimothy’s World Coffee®, Emeril’s® Gourmet Coffee, and port the development and well-being of our employees. This Caribou® brands. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report – our fifth – shares and assesses our performance in these and other Our expanding supply chain offers more opportunities areas in fiscal 2010. It also demonstrates our continued comto work closely with our suppliers to promote sustainable mitment to the United Nations Global Compact principles on business practices. Coffee-growing communities still strughuman rights, labor, anti-corruption and the environment. gle with hunger, and we want to do more to ease their ecoI’m proud of the progress we made this year on longnomic uncertainty. We are improving the strategic alignment standing social and environmental priorities. Rising to the of our grant making to increase the reach and effectiveness challenges that come with rapid growth and intense change, of our support. And we continue to pursue viable solutions our employees not only maintained our momentum but for reducing the environmental impact of our Keurig® Single increased it. Whether by helping local communities through Cup Brewing System and K-Cup® pack. their service, uncovering opportunities to save energy and There are no simple or quick answers to these issues. cut waste in our operations, or exploring innovative ways They require new thinking, new relationships, and new techto reduce the environmental footprint of our products, our nologies. We’re committed to working through these issues, employees showed the purpose and passion that have and we’re energized by the opportunity to make positive fueled our company’s success since the beginning. and enduring change. Consider some of our milestones and highlights of the As you read about our CSR initiatives and performance past year: in fiscal 2010, I encourage you to share your ideas, insights and comments with us. Your feedback is invaluable to our  The overall growth in our philantropic giving, from continued improvement as a company. $3.7 million to $6.9 million. Above all, I hope our report furthers your thinking about the opportunities and challenges present in addressing com The expansion of our work relating to food security in plex packaging requirements, building more sustainable supcoffee-growing communities, encompassing new partners, ply chains, engaging meaningfully with local communities, new on-the-ground projects, and new activities to raise reducing environmental impact, increasing the availability of awareness of the issue and bring more resources to bear sustainable products, and creating an exceptional workplace. on finding solutions. These are key dimensions of sustainability for our global society and our business, and our future well-being and prosperity  Increased activity regarding the mitigation of the environmendepend on our collective commitment to improvement. tal impact of single-serve packaging, notably, a pilot program for K-Cup® pack take-back and disposal in the Away-From-Home channel and our Returns Management Initiative pilot, whereby Sincerely, returned Keurig® brewers are diverted out of landfills. Larry Blanford, President and CEO 2 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. about our company Our journey michael dupee, vice president, corporate social responsiblity Friends, Every journey begins with choices — Which direction? All companies have sustainability challenges. We believe How far? How fast? — that are revisited along the way, and hope that what makes us different is that we endeavor sometimes prompting a change in course or even destinato use the tension between where we are today and where tion. This was particularly true for Green Mountain Coffee we want to be tomorrow to our advantage. Roasters, Inc. (GMCR) in fiscal 2010. In a time of tremenAlong with growth comes opportunity for even greater dous growth and far-reaching opportunity, we took a hard leadership. To seize those opportunities, we need to conlook at choices we’d made to guide our company’s ongoing tinue integrating how we think about, implement, measure, journey in CSR. and share our CSR goals and initiatives. From reducing our environmental impact and managing When faced with this sort of challenge, the first impulse our supply chain, to engaging with local communities and is often to try to simplify the questions, move forward, and empowering our employees, we realized that if we were to demonstrate quick results. But that would be a mistake. continue to create positive change, our approach to CSR The issues at hand are complex and require solutions that had to keep pace with our business. As a result, fiscal 2010 we can’t necessarily develop in the near-term. was a year of examination and evolution. Even as we made For instance, we recognize that our Keurig® Single Cup progress toward our goals and remained true to our core valBrewing Systems present challenges concerning the enviues, we worked to better understand the reach and effectiveronment. We’re committed to creating a solution that ness of our CSR priorities, programs, and processes. addresses the full scope of the challenge. It’s a difficult As often happens when you look closely at programs and undertaking, but we are confident that our expertise in initiatives with expansion in mind, we find we have more developing sustainable packaging will help us minimize the questions than answers. So this year we focused on evaluenvironmental impact of the Keurig system while meeting ation and resetting goals, reimagining programs, and redeour customers’ expectations for quality and convenience. fining success. One insight quickly became clear: When we Thank you for your interest in our company and for your take a systemic view of CSR across our organization, we support of our commitment to social and environmental dramatically increase its impact and value to the diverse responsibility. For more information, please visit us at stakeholders and communities we serve and to our business. www.BrewingABetterWorld.com. A systems view isn’t new to us, but it’s never been more important. Our mission has always been to deliver excellence from tree to cup. That includes developing susSincerely, tainable solutions to address environmental and social Michael Dupee, challenges every step of the way. For example: Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility  We’re partnering with on-the-ground organizations to help eradicate hunger and mitigate the effects of climate change in coffee-growing communities.  We’re examining the lifecycle of our products to find ways to reduce their environmental footprint.  We’re committed to providing employees with learning and development opportunities that lead to sustainable employment rather than just a job. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 3 ABOUT OUR COMPANY Since 1981, we’ve worked to create and share the ultimate coffee experience with you. It goes beyond assuring quality in every cup. Delivering the ultimate coffee experience — and now, much more than coffee — includes our commitment to social and environmental responsibility. It encompasses all the relationships — with consumers, customers, employees, suppliers, and the communities where we live and work — that help us deliver on our goals. 4 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. about our company Sumner, WA montreal, CAnada vermont * Toronto, CAnada Reading, MA Castroville, CA our facilities Knoxville, TN Canadian Business Unit Keurig Business Unit Specialty Coffee Business Unit * Enterprise Staff Waterbury, Essex Junction, and Williston, VT Throughout fiscal 2010, our operations were managed In December 2010, we acquired LJVH Holdings, whose through two business units. The Specialty Coffee BusiCanadian brands include Van Houtte®, Brûlerie St. Denis®, ness Unit (SCBU) produces coffee, tea, hot cocoa, and Les Cafés Orient Express Coffee® and Brûlerie Mont Royal® other beverages in various packaging formats, including in and operated it as GMCR’s Canadian Business Unit. The K-Cup® packs for use with the Keurig® Single Cup Brewing Canadian Business Unit also produces K-Cup® packs for System from its family of brands, including Green Mountain the Keurig® Single Cup Brewing System under the Van Coffee®, Tully’s Coffee®, Timothy’s World Coffee®, Diedrich®, Houtte®, Bigelow®, and Wolfgang Puck® K-Cup® brands. and Coffee People®, as well as Newman’s Own® Organics Since this acquisition occurred in fiscal 2011, we do not coffee, a licensed brand. The Keurig Business Unit (KBU) is address any activities related to the Canadian Business a pioneer and leading manufacturer of gourmet single cup Unit in this report. brewing systems. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 5 Our Strategy Our Approach to Corporate Our business model is centered on driving awareSocial Responsibility ness of single cup brewing, which we do through We believe business can be a powerful force for positive change. extensive product sampling efforts and increased Companies of all sizes drive economic growth, create jobs and product distribution, in addition to traditional adverenhance lives. But by taking more strategic and sophisticated tising and public relations. approaches to how they do what they do — produce goods and We capitalize on this awareness in three ways. services, innovate and design, build brands, manage opportuniFirst, we drive sales of Keurig® brewers and develties and risks, and cultivate talent — they can also help address oping strong partnerships with other coffee maker many of the world’s shared social and environmental challenges. brands to offer brewers featuring “Keurig Brewed®” While delivering the highest-quality coffee and beverage prodtechnology. Second, we drive K-Cup® pack usage ucts, we strive to create a lasting, positive impact on the world. by ensuring broad availability, developing new Our approach to CSR encompasses initiatives integrated and usage occasions, and introducing or acquiring more embedded in our business as well as philanthropic giving. Our proprietary brands. Third, we enhance our customer six key practice areas, addressed in this report, include: relationships by innovating and improving their experience through technological advances. Supporting all of this strategic activity is a core focus on fundamentals: PARTNERING WITH  Strengthening and improving our business proSUPPLY-CHAIN cesses and systems; COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING PROTECTING  Investing in the training and development of our LOCAL THE ENVIRONMENT employees, enhancing their view of GMCR as an COMMUNITIES exceptional place to work;  Building our North American manufacturing and distribution infrastructure Our commitment to responsible corporate citizenship is simultaneously a key component of, and a support structure for, our overall strategic approach. BUILdiNG AWARENESS AND DEMAND FOR Creating An SUSTAINABLE Exceptional PRODUCTS Workplace WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE C A History of corporate Responsibility 1983 1984 1986 1989 Began composting coffee Informal group of employees Conducted a retail market test Developed Earth-Friendly grounds in our retail shops. took on environmental projects with our first organic coffee, Coffee Filters that are and started a recycling program. Organic Peruvian Select. oxygen-whitened and dioxin-free. 6 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. about our company INTERSECTION OF BUSINESS AND CSR BUSINESS strategy Drive Drive Improve Employee Drive brewer pack processes training and Infrastructure awareness adoption usage and systems development development Supporting supply-chain comPartnering Effective, strategic supply chain grantmaking munities on their journey towards with Supplyhelps our suppliers build a more sustainable sustainability helps us strengthen Chain future for themselves and a more sustainable relationships and manage risk in Communities supply chain for our business. our supply chain, a critical component of our business. When our employees drive focused and relevant efforts in their local communities through Supporting Employee engagement in local programs like grantmaking, volunteerism, and Our employees Local communities provides many product donations; the community benefits, care deeply Communities opportunities to build new skills. our employees become even more engaged, about our Our commitment to and our enterprise and brands grow stronger. CSR practice areas commitment social and environto social and mental responsibility Protecting the Our responsible energy use and waste reduction programs reduce our environmental helps us build strong Environment environmental footprint and help us save money. responsibility – relationships in new Our Fair Trade Certified™, Rainforest Alliance Challenging ourselves to build this commitment communities, get Building Certified™, and certified organic coffees taste demand for more sustainable surfaces new operations up and Demand for development running effectively great and strengthen our bottom line while products helps us get better and Sustainable they help strengthen communities and care for better at everything we do, from opportunities and efficiently, and Products the land where our products are grown. marketing to finance. and contributes begin contributing in meaningfully to those communities We extend our reach and impact through a more fulfilling quicker. Developing capacity to work with partnerships and honor our commitments to and rewarding Working broader process and system sustainability-focused multi-stakeholder organicareer. Together for boundaries helps improve the zations like the United Nations Global Compact Change strength and resilience of our and the Global Reporting Initiative that help all processes and systems. businesses become more responsible. Together with our employees, we create an Our commitment to our employexceptional place to work through programs Creating an ees helps drive a culture of that promote personal development, career Exceptional shared ownership, where we all advancement, financial security, health & wellPlace to Work take responsibility for improving ness, and workplace safety. processes and systems. 1990 1992 1996 Introduced Rain Forest Nut coffee, made Created the Stewardship® Program, our first Developed the industry’s with Brazil nuts from the Amazon rainforest. quantifiable effort to promote coffee quality, first biodegradable bag for Ten percent of profits went to Conservation a healthy environment and respectful treatbulk coffee purchases. International and the Rainforest Alliance. ment of our coffee supply-chain workers. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 7 We undertake our activities with four core principles in mind: We believe the most successful organizations build stronger business 1. We believe in synergy. We understand that our most sucmodels and enjoy better business results cessful initiatives deliver on specific social or environmenby embracing the opportunity to help tal goals and support our employees and contribute to the financial health of our overall business at the same time. make the world a better place. That’s how we approach CSR at GMCR. 2. We align our actions with facts. A fact-based, scientific approach guides our selection of initiatives. 3. We focus on areas of unique contribution. Given our limited reach and resources, we want to conduct our work in areas where we can make a genuine difference. 4. We take a whole-systems approach to problem solving. We endeavor to avoid situations where a seemingly successful project ultimately and unintentionally causes negative impacts on the larger system that may be worse than the initial problem we were trying to solve. Our social and environmental responsibility initiatives are overseen at the Board level by our Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, established in fiscal 2008. Daily execution of social and environmental initiatives is led by Michael Dupee, Vice President for Corporate Social Responsibility, and Paul Comey, Vice President for Environmental Affairs. Both Mr. Dupee and Mr. Comey report directly to Larry Blanford, President and Chief Executive Officer of GMCR. Additional information regarding GMCR’s overall corporate governance structure is available at http://investor.gmcr.com. C A History of corporate Responsibility 1997 1998 2000 2001 Introduced Organic Expanded our certified Signed an agreement with Fair Expanded our certified Peruvian Select, the first organic line to five coffees. Trade USA (formerly Transfair organic line to 27 coffees. coffee in our certified USA) to certify our organic coffees organic coffee line. as Fair Trade Certified™. 8 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. about our company Our Integrated and Philanthropic Initiatives Integrated initiatives are efforts to improve core business processes and practices in ways that support our commitment to social and environmental responsibility. These initiatives focus on:  Reducing energy use  Using and supporting renewable energy  Reducing the solid waste we generate and diverting it out of landfills  Developing more sustainable packaging  Managing and mitigating our greenhouse gas emissions  Building more sustainable supply chains  Sourcing and selling Fair Trade Certified™, Rainforest Alliance Certified™, and certified organic coffees.  Providing valued and useful employee benefits and fair compensation  Increasing workplace safety  Promoting employee wellness, learning, and personal development We contribute 5% of our pre-tax profits every year to support socially and environmentally responsible initiatives. In fiscal 2010, our contributions totaled nearly $7 million. Philanthropic initiatives generally fall into three types of programs: cash giving, workplace volunteerism, and product donations. Our cash-giving efforts involve:  Grants to support our supply-chain communities around the world and the local communities where our employees live and work  Grants that address specific social and environmental opportunities while strengthening our core brands  Specific employee-related programs such as corporate matching donations Workplace volunteerism includes:  A program offering employees the opportunity for paid volunteerism during customary work hours  A mini-grant program that recognizes and supports significant employee volunteer commitments during nonwork hours Our product donations program supports numerous nonprofits across the U.S.A. by providing:  Raffle or auction items such as a Keurig® brewer with four boxes of K-cup® packs or a gift basket  Giveaway items, including coffee samples  Coffee to be served at an event  Coffee and related products to nonprofit foodbanks and to organizations that support U.S. military troops 2002 2002 2003 2004 Began sourcing and roastConducted our first Began offsetting our Offset 100% of our ing Fair Trade Certified™ internal, company-wide greenhouse gas emissions estimated greenhouse organic coffee for environmental assessment. by purchasing renewable gas footprint. Newman's Own® Organics. energy credits. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 9 OUR PURPOSE & PRINCIPLES We create the ultimate coffee experience in every life we Passion for Coffee / From farmer to cup: We touch from tree to cup — transforming the way the world roast great coffees and are committed to ensuring that understands business. everyone who encounters Green Mountain Coffee has an outstanding coffee experience. Appreciating Differences / Finding opportunity Personal Excellence / Strong organizations in conflict: Opportunity comes from welcoming different rely on strong individuals: We are responsible to do our opinions and ideas with mutual respect. personal best for ourselves, our co-workers, and our company. Personal excellence is built on a high level of skills, Business Success / Financial strength: We knowledge, self-awareness, self-motivation, and respectful deliver steady growth in share, sales, and profit. Financial intentions toward all. strength benefits employees, stockholders, and communities worldwide. Planning & Measuring / To understand and improve: We focus on integrated planning throughout the Communication / Open dialogue: In our thriving, organization to align our strategies. We gain insights into healthy organization, we share information, ideas, and our successes and challenges by measuring and evaluating successes. the results of our actions. Continuous Learning / For today and tomorrow: Shared Ownership / Thinking and acting like Our competitive strength comes from the continuous owners: We meet our commitments and appreciate the improvement of all that we do. We actively seek out and contributions of each other. We are stewards of our collecapply best practices. tive resources. We share equitably in our successes. Decision-Making / At the most effective level: We Sustainability / Pathway to our future: We use make timely, informed, criteria-based decisions aligned with resources wisely and make decisions that take into account our business goals. Our decisions are made with personal the well-being of people, profit, and the planet. commitment, ownership, and accountability. Vibrant Workplace / A place where you can Ethics / Do the right thing: Integrity is the foundation make a difference in the world: We create and mainof all our decisions, actions, and relationships. tain a culture that fosters teamwork, fun, personal growth, career paths, financial rewards, and a healthy work-life Leadership / At every level: We develop leaders that balance. demonstrate a high level of competence, generate trust, and bring out the best in themselves and those around World Benefit / Creating positive change: We are them. a force for good in the world. We celebrate and support the power of businesses and individuals to bring about positive Partnerships / Success for all: We collaborate with changes, locally and globally. our partners for mutual benefit. Our relationships are based on respect, honesty, openness, reliability, and trust. C A History of corporate Responsibility 2004 2006 2006 2007 Launched Anti-Idling Introduced the ecotainer™, Sent burlap bags and Converted all Waterbury, Initiative to save fuel and the first hot to-go paper cup coffee “chaff” to Intervale Vermont-based route reduce the amount of time and cold beverage cups and compost facility. trucks and facilities our trucks spend idling. lids made with poly-lactic acid vehicles to biodiesel. (PLA), a renewable biopolymer. 10 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. about our company When our company grows, so do the resources we have available to benefit our social and environmental programs. Fiscal 2010 was a year of growth, opportunity, and impact — as our net sales and income grew, so did our resources for social and environmental programs. Key Enterprise Metrics (dollars in millions)1 Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2008 2 2009 2 2010 Consolidated net sales 492.5 786.1 1,356.8 Consolidated income before income taxes 35.5 88.0 133.2 Total resources allocated to social and 1.91 3.70 6.93 environmental programs Total resources allocated to social and environ5.4% 5.2%3 5.2% mental programs as percentage of pre-tax income 1 For complete access to our financial statements and other publicly available investor-related information, go to http://investor.gmcr.com. 2 These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. 3 One time litigation settlement payment of $17MM not included to the calculation of resource allocation to social and environmental programs for fiscal 2009. 2007 2007 2008 2008 Converted Newman's Own® Funded research through the Converted all 10Established Organics and Single Origin University of Vermont demonstrating and 12-oz. bags Corporate Social 10-oz. bags to 19.4% polylactic the connection between effective to 19.4% PLA. Responsibility acid (PLA), a polymer derived employee volunteerism programs Committee on the from corn starches. and higher employee satisfaction. Board of Directors. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 11 Public McDONALD’S Recognition 2010 Global Best Of Sustainable Supply FORBES’ CRO MAGAZINE’S 200 BEST SMALL 2010 COMPANIES Responsible CEO of the Year Consumer ReportS ranks Green mountain coffee Ranked 2 Sumatran Lake Tawar, #1 of 7 coffees from on Fortune Sumatra; and Kenyan Highland Cooperatives, NO. Magazine’s “Global 100 #2 of 7 coffees Fastestfrom Kenya Growing Companies List” 100 “ BEST CORPORATE CITIZENS” Corporate THE Responsibility BOSTON GLOBE Magazine TOP PLACES TO WORK Keurig, #6, Midsize Employers C A History of corporate Responsibility 2009 2009 2010 Installed a 100kW photovoltaic Launched Changing Climate Change program, Partnered with International array, which sends solar energy an enterprise-wide effort focused on reducing Paper to launch an ecotainer collected from the roof of GMCR’s and mitigating GMCR’s carbon footprint through hot cup lid made from PLA, Waterbury distribution center to help operational incentives, grant-making programs, a renewable biopolymer. power its facility. carbon offsets and employee benefits. 12 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. about our company We used the G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to frame this report. A registered Organizational Stakeholder of the GRI since July 2005, About This Report we support the GRI’s mission to develop This report covers fiscal 2010, from September 27, 2009 globally accepted sustainability reportto September 25, 2010. The data cited refer to fiscal 2010 ing guidelines through a worldwide, multior the last day of fiscal 2010, unless otherwise indicated. stakeholder process. We believe that Data from previous years, when included for historical coneveryone benefits from generally accepted text, address our operational activities in the United States principles of measurement and compariand Canada as well as our supply-chain activities globally. son, and the GRI Guidelines serve this purDuring fiscal 2010, we acquired Timothy’s Coffees of the World, pose. We have validated the contents of Inc. (November 2009) and Diedrich Coffee, Inc. (May 2010). this report through: In December 2010, we acquired LJVH Holdings, whose Canadian brands include Van Houtte®, Brûlerie St. Denis®,  Independent audits of our financial Orient Express®, and Brûlerie Mont-Royal® and operstatements, including the disposition of ated it as GMCR’s Canadian Business Unit. The Canadian our 5% philanthropic resources. Business Unit also produces K-Cup® packs for the Keurig® Single Cup Brewing System under the Van Houtte, Bigelow,  Verification of our Fair Trade Certified™, and Wolfgang Puck K-Cup® pack brands. Since this acquisiorganic and Rainforest Alliance Certified™ tion occurred in fiscal 2011, we do not address any activities coffee purchases by appropriate accreditarelated to the Canadian Business Unit in this report. tion bodies. For all references to a percentage of employees participating in certain activities, we use an average number of  Verification of our organic coffee purfull-time employees within the fiscal year as the denomichases and our production plants’ organic nator in the calculation. The average number of full-time status, provided by Quality Assurance employees is calculated by dividing the sum of the full-time International. employees at the beginning of the fiscal year and at the end of the fiscal year by two.  Verification of our production plants’ kosher status, provided by Orthodox Union. 2010 2010 2010 Became a charter supporter Announced conversion of two of our Recognized as largest purchaser of Fair of the Greensburg Wind Farm, most popular and widely distributed Trade Certified™ coffee in the world in a wind energy project in coffee varieties — Our Blend and calendar 2010, based on purchases Greensburg, Kansas, developed Vermont Country Blend® — to be Fair of over 26 million pounds of Fair Trade with NativeEnergy, Inc. Trade Certified™ in time for National Fair Certified™ coffee. Trade Month in October 2010. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 13 PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES We initiated When our suppliers and their local comsupport of educational munities thrive, so do we. We expect and projects that we expect will depend on suppliers to provide quality provide approximately 900 primary products. In turn, we continually work to scholarships for students attending improve our sourcing system to ensure supschool in and around Jinotega, Nicapliers get a fair price for their products, live ragua, and 13 four-year scholarships in healthy, environmentally-sound communifor students in the Chajul area of ties, and feel empowered to make business Guatemala to attend the Univerdecisions that support their families. sidad Del Valle, in Solala, The rapid growth of our business is Guatemala. increasing the size, complexity, and geographical reach of our supply chain. This raises new challenges and opportunities in how we address social and environmental conditions as well as labor and safety issues, and how we manage our supWe highlighted plier base responsibly. We must be consisthe challenges of food tent in our approach, while recognizing and insecurity in coffee-growing comresponding to local conditions. munities in several forums, including With that in mind, we examined our presenting during the Specialty Coffee supply chain in fiscal 2010 with an eye on Association of America’s Symposium and identifying opportunities to increase efficienAnnual Conference (April 2010), participating cies, promote sustainable business pracin a food security panel at the Practical Solutices, and strengthen relationships with tions on Sustainable Agriculture (August suppliers and their communities. In fiscal 2010), and contributing to a piece in 2011, we intend to apply these insights TIME magazine (October 5, 2009) that to improve our outreach in our coffee and highlighted food insecurity in manufacturing supply chains, as well as lay coffee-growing communities. the foundation for strong outreach programs in new and growing supply chains, such as cocoa, tea, and sweeteners. We expanded We began our support of health care funding food security projects to include two Partprojects in Ethiopia, Kenya, ners in Health projects focused Rwanda, and Sumatra (Indoon health promotion in Mexico and nesia). Combined, these projects Guatemala, and a project focused on are expected to assist 65,600 improving child and maternal health individuals improve their access being managed by Medicines For to nutritious food throughout Humanity in Rwanda. the year. WHERE WE’VE BEEN in Fiscal 2010 14 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Partner PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Commu Suppor Protect WHERE WE’RE GOING in Fiscal 2011 Buildin Produc Workin We intend to fund at least Creatin two water projects focused on potable water and/or drip We will irrigation. deepen our focus on food insecurity in coffeegrowing communities, seeking to pilot innovative ways to raise awareness, bring additional resources to bear, and share best practices for addressing this challenge. We intend to create the GMCR Monitoring and Evaluation Guide for Funded Projects, a common reporting protocol and template, to all our supply-chain grantees. We will continue developing outreach initiatives in our We intend to manufacturing supply chain expand food security and will evaluate outreach support to at least an adopportunities in other ditional 10,000 families in our supply chains. supply chain by initiating additional food security projects or expanding current projects during fiscal 2011. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 15 Fiscal 2010 NUMBERS AT A GLANCE Purchasing Fiscal 2008 1 Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 Fair Trade Certified™ non organic lbs. purchased (in thousands) 3,585 5,105 6,897 Fair Trade Certified organic lbs. purchased (in thousands) ™ 9,112 11,037 16,603 All Fair Trade Certified™ organic and non organic lbs. purchased (in thousands) 12,697 16,142 23,501 Rainforest Alliance Certified non organic lbs. purchased (in thousands) ™ 0 0 2,690 All organic lbs. (no other certification) purchased (in thousands) 0 0 83 Farm Identified lbs. purchased (in thousands) 3 3,511 4,520 5,468 2 Conventionally sourced lbs. purchased (in thousands) 24,444 28,462 52,807 Total coffee lbs. purchased (in thousands) 40,651 49,123 84,548 Fair Trade Certified™ non organic lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased 8.8% 10.4% 8.2% Fair Trade Certified organic lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased ™ 22.4% 22.5% 19.6% All Fair Trade Certified™ organic and non organic lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased 31.2% 32.9% 27.8% Rainforest Alliance Certified™ non organic lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased 0% 0% 3.2% All organic lbs. (no other certification) purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased 0% 0% 0.1% Farm Identified lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased 3 8.6% 9.2% 6.5% Conventionally sourced lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased 60.1% 57.9% 62.5% Pricing Fiscal 2008 1 Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 Fair Trade Certified non organic lbs. average price per lb. ™ $1.84 $1.94 $2.21 Fair Trade Certified™ organic lbs. purchased average price per lb. $2.07 $1.96 $2.22 All Fair Trade Certified organic and non organic lbs. purchased average price per lb. ™ $2.01 $1.96 $2.21 Rainforest Alliance Certified™ non organic lbs. purchased average price per lb. $0 $0 $1.80 Organic lbs. (no other certification) purchased average price per lb. $0 $0 $2.23 Farm Identified only average price per lb. 3 $1.75 $1.75 $2.26 Conventionally sourced average price per lb. $1.64 $1.74 $1.80 Total coffee purchases average price per lb. $1.76 $1.81 $1.94 Grantmaking Fiscal 2008 1 Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 Total resources allocated to social and environmental programs (dollars in thousands) $1,910 $3,666 $6,931 Total resources allocated to social and environmental programs 5.4% 5.2% 5.2% as a percentage of income before taxes Total grant / matching donation resources (dollars in thousands) $1,155 $2,686 $5,946 Total grant / matching donation dollars to supply-chain communities (in thousands) $864 $1,712 $3,214 1 These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. 2 Timothy's was acquired partway through fiscal year 2010 and did not, upon acquisition, use Farm Identified as a category of coffee purchasing although they did buy from identified farms that will be tracked and accounted for in reporting going forward. 3 For the purposes of this report, Farm Identified coffee is categorized as coffee purchased from an identified farm that does not carry certifications such as fair trade or organic. Certified coffees do also come from identified sources and thus, if considering all coffees purchased from identified sources, the total percentage would be 38% as disclosed in Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010. 16 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Partner PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Commu Suppor Protect Buildin Produc Workin Creatin Addressing Climate Change in Coffee-Growing Communities The threat posed to coffee-growing communities by climate change is serious. Severe weather patterns Our Approach that shift or disrupt growing seaIn fiscal 2010, we continued to support a wide array of sussons can lead to greater economic tainability initiatives in our supply chain. All our coffee-growing uncertainty for coffee growers and community outreach programs aim to create impact in the their families. communities surrounding the organizations that supply us with coffee and other raw materials through programs that To help coffee farmers understand directly aid coffee farmers and their families. Additionally, and proactively adapt to climate we worked with our manufacturing supply chain to underchange, we provide grant money to stand and support their efforts to build sustainable prosupport the Coffee Under Pressure: cesses and procedures, by employing a suite of tools we’ve Climate Change and Adaptation in designed that communicate our expectations and highlight Mesoamerica (CUP) project. CUP is best practices. an initiative of the Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (CIAT) Improving the Well-Being of in partnership with Catholic Relief Services (CRS). Our Coffee Supply-Chain Partners During the rainy season, many coffee-growing communiCUP operates in Mexico and Centies struggle with los meses flacos — the “thin months” tral America, educating smallholder between harvests when money and food are scarce. farmers about the potential impact Families often cope with hunger by eating less; buying of climate change on their livelicheaper, less healthy foods; or borrowing against future hood. CUP uses a set of educationearnings to make ends meet. al tools to help farmers and co-ops We learned about the thin months from our efforts in fiscal improve their agricultural decision2006 and fiscal 2007 to better understand social challenges making and develop adaptation in our supply chain. That research prompted us to reevaluate strategies to mitigate the effects of our criteria for making grants in coffee-growing communities. climate change. We now seek to fund work that directly benefits local com“The whole coffee supply chain munities by promoting human and economic development needs to get ready for climate in the areas of food security, health, education, and financhange – and quickly,” says CIAT’s cial literacy. Dr. Peter Laderach, Ph.D., Central America Leader of the Decision Food Security and Policy Analysis Program. When food is scarce, the health and nutrition of the family is “The only answer is swift, wellat risk and their quality of life suffers. Farmers are less proconsidered investments in adaptductive and children struggle with learning in school. This ing production, and improving the realization fuels our deep and vested interest in reducing resilience not just of the coffee hunger and actively assisting food-security projects in cofplantations, but of the chain itself.” fee-growing regions around the world. In fiscal 2010, we added three food security projects in Africa and continued our support of multiyear programs managed by cooperatives and non-governmental organizations. These fiscal 2010 programs helped an estimated 25,000 families — approximately 137,000 people — gain more reliable access to healthy food. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 17 supply-chain partnerships As our supply chain spans the globe, so does our supply-chain outreach. Below are highlights of our outreach efforts in fiscal 2010. Heifer International Mexico, Honduras, Peru CIAT/Catholic Relief  Food security Services Central America, Guatemala  Climate change adaptation  Food security Save The Children Nicaragua, Honduras, Bolivia  Children’s health  Food security  Income diversification Partners in Health Mexico, Guatemala  Health care  Food security Child and maternal health Environmental health Community AgroEcology Network Nicaragua  Food security  Youth training planting hope Nicaragua  Food Security Grounds for Health  Education Mexico, Central America  Women’s health Café Femenino Peru  Access to clean water The Coffee Trust Guatemala  Food security  Education  Income diversification coffee kids Nicaragua, Guatemala, Mexico, Peru,  Education  Income diversification 18 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Partner PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Commu Suppor Protect Buildin Produc Workin Creatin CIAT/Catholic Relief Services Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda  Climate change adaptation  Food security Medicines for Humanity Rwanda  Child and maternal health Save The Children Indonesia  Children’s health  Food security Grounds for Health Tanzania  Women’s health Coffee lifeline Rwanda  Education where we buy coffee Guatemala El Salvador Honduras Nicaragua Vietnam Mexico Costa Rica Hawaii Panama Colombia Uganda Ethiopia Papua New Guinea Ecuador Rwanda Kenya Tanzania Sumatra Peru Brazil Burundi Java Malawi Bolivia Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 19 Focus on Nicaragua Nicaragua is among the most important coffee-growing Project partners engage with farmers countries in the world, but it suffers from extreme food inseto develop strategies for coping with curity. Despite having the largest land mass and the smallthe loss of arable coffee-growing land, est population in Central America, the country’s economic health is declining, saddling Nicaraguans with some of the such as diversifying crops, growing lowest annual per capita incomes. more fresh food so families can rely Economic conditions may become more difficult given less on coffee profits, and exploring the potential impact of climate change on Nicaragua’s cofnew business ventures. fee farms. Research indicates that, in part because of higher temperatures and changes in precipitation, the optimal altitude for growing coffee is expected to rise from around 4,000 feet today to more than 5,000 feet by 2050 (see sidebar on page 17). Such a dramatic change in a relatively short time will reduce the land available for growing coffee, creating greater economic hardship for farmers. It won’t be simple or even possible to shift all coffee production to higher elevations, as much of that land is designated as forest reserves. Identifying and preparing new areas suitable for growing coffee requires strategic research and investment. Our funding for the CUP project is helping develop a clearer picture of how climate change will affect nearly 7,000 farmers in Nicaragua and other Central American countries. Project partners engage with farmers to develop strategies for coping with the loss of arable coffee-growing land, such as diversifying crops, growing more fresh food so families can rely less on coffee profits, and exploring new business ventures. We have found that joining forces with other organizations enhances our ability to help farming families become more self-sufficient. We worked with the Community Agroecology Network (CAN) on a food security project in northern Nicaragua. This project combines the strength of a fair-trade cooperative with the agility of a local nonprofit to focus on coffee replanting and diversification into honey, cacao, and other crops. About 750 families, or 4,500 people, will directly benefit from our joint efforts. We also continue to support a Save the Children project in the Tuma la Dalia area of Nicaragua that is benefiting an estimated additional 750 families. Save the Children helps families secure their access to food through improved technology, family gardening, and in times of crisis, simply making food available. Their programs help organize farmers into cooperatives, improve their agricultural techniques, and enhance their small businesses. 20 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Partner PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Commu Suppor Protect Additional Food Security Projects in fiscal 2010 Buildin Produc In addition to our efforts in Nicaragua, in fiscal 2010, we also assisted numerous The Coffee Trust food security projects throughout Central and South America, and Africa. Workin Founded by long-time environmental and social advocate Bill Creatin  Heifer International is a nonprofit organization that provides Fishbein, The Coffee Trust is a livestock and training to help families improve their nutrition and generate income nonprofit serving some of the in sustainable ways. In fiscal 2010, we supported a Heifer International most impoverished and least supproject in Jaltenango, Chiapas, Mexico, aimed at eradicating the thin ported areas of Guatemala. We months by helping farming families develop alternative sources of food help fund a Coffee Trust project in and income. We also extended additional funding for two new food-secuthe Ixil Triangle — a name given rity projects in Honduras and Peru, which assisted families by adopting to three towns in a remote and similar strategies as in Chiapas. www.Heifer.org isolated area of western Guatemala — to improve food security and  Our partnership with Catholic Relief Services, the official interincome diversification. national humanitarian agency of the Catholic community in the United States, involved three new projects in Ethiopia, Kenya, and Rwanda. Each During Guatemala’s civil war project enables coffee-growing families to improve their food security through (1960–1996), the Ixil area was ravmicrocredit, crop diversification, soil fertility improvements and water managed and thousands of civilians agement. These projects are expected to benefit over 8,000 families, or were killed. Though the population 48,000 people. www.CRS.org has rebounded, extreme poverty is widespread, with scarce oppor We backed a number of Coffee Kids projects. Coffee Kids helps tunities for education or employcoffee-growing families become less dependent on coffee as their sole ment. On the positive side, the source of income. Our initiatives in fiscal 2010 included health projects in area is ideal for coffee growing and Guatemala and Peru; and microcredit projects in Veracruz and Oaxaca, produces some of the finest-quality Mexico; Chajul, Guatemala; and Nicaragua. www.CoffeeKids.org organic Fair Trade coffee that we purchase regularly.  Our projects with The Coffee Trust benefited a largely indigThe Coffee Trust has partnered enous population in the Ixil Triangle, a severely economically depressed with Fundacion Ixil, a local nonarea of Guatemala. The Coffee Trust focuses grassroots development at profit, to build an education the source of the coffee supply chain — the coffee growers and their comprogram spanning kindergarten munities. Our assistance is helping improve food security, education, and to college. Although the area has income diversification in beekeeping and honey production. We’re also many basic needs, The Coffee Trust backing a microcredit program and building capacity for Fundacion Ixil, a considers education a fundamenlocal nonprofit that supports comprehensive education. We anticipate that tal starting point for economic and over 1,500 people will benefit from these programs managed by The Coffee agricultural security. The selfTrust. See sidebar for more information about our work with The Coffee sufficiency and sense of indepenTrust. www.CoffeeTrust.org dence that come from being educated have a tremendous positive impact on future development in the community. Additional Coffee Trust projects in the area include a vocational training program, health care training with the help of local midwives, and economic development through microcredit to assist small businesses. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 21 Health Education Because good health is a cornerstone of thriving commuWe support programs that promote education and finannities, we continue to support a number of health projects, cial literacy in coffee-growing communities. Helping young including: people get an education can lead to economic opportunities, create jobs, and fuel entrepreneurship that improve the  Grounds for Health is a nonprofit organizawell-being and prosperity of local communities. tion that provides health care to women in coffee-growing For example, we fund a Coffee Kids program that communities. will provide nearly 900 scholarships over four years to stuGrounds for Health is working to combat cervical cancer dents in northern Nicaragua. In the first year of the proin Mexico, Central America, and Tanzania. In calendar 2010, gram, 170 scholarships will be funded; in year two, 228; in more than 2,000 women were screened for cervical cancer year three, 238; and in year four 258, for a total of 894 scholat four program sites over the course of seven trips from arships supporting up to 258 students. the United States. Grounds for Health takes a single-visit approach, providing immediate treatment to women with Financial Literacy abnormal test results, which means that poor women living As with any company, the success of smallholder farms in remote regions do not have to return. Of the 2,000-plus and entrepreneurial ventures in coffee-growing communiwomen screened, over 350 had abnormal results, and more ties depends on sound financial planning. Small business than 230 women received same-day treatment for precanowners need to understand lending processes, raise capicerous conditions. www.GroundsForHealth.org tal, and obtain the many skills it takes to build and run their businesses.  We also back several Partners in Health projects run by two PIH partner organizations – small,  Root Capital is a nonprofit social investment orgaautonomous groups that have long-term relationships with nization that provides education and finances for grassroots PIH. The first project trains health-care workers and probusinesses in developing countries. During fiscal 2010, we vides basic health-care education in Chiapas, Mexico, continued our support of a Root Capital program that profor remote communities of coffee workers. The provides financial training and coaching to help coffee farmers gram also provides assistance with food security by helpin Latin America develop alternative sources of income. ing families plant home gardens. The second project is in We plan to expand this work in fiscal 2011 by assisting Huehuetenango, Guatemala, where we fund a program that cooperatives in developing credit facilities and extending busiis developing a system of Environmental Health Promoters ness planning services to help farmers diversify their incomes (EHPs). EHPs work with local communities to decide which and strengthen their businesses. www.RootCapital.org projects will provide the most impact in fostering healthy environments. Their process of determination is structured around the four elements of earth (organic compost, planting gardens/trees), water (latrines, biodigesters for coffee pulp), air (improved stoves) and fire (preventing forest fires, establishing fire brigades). www.PIH.org  In Rwanda we’ve provided funds to help Medicines for Humanity begin a pilot project to improve health care for children. Rwanda has the ninth highest rate of child mortality in the world. Medicines for Humanity is working to reduce the child mortality rate by combating malaria, malnutrition, diarrhea, intestinal parasites, measles, respiratory infection, HIV/AIDS, and the lack of prenatal care in three communities — Gakoma, Simbi and Gisagara — with a total population of about 132,000 people. www.MedicinesForHumanity.org 22 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Partner PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Commu Suppor Protect Collaborating with our Buildin Produc Manufacturing Supply Chain Workin We have high expectations of our manufacturing suppliers, and we work with them to advance susCreatin tainable business practices throughout the supply chain. We’ve developed a set of tools and processes to clearly communicate our expectations and share best practices with our suppliers, including the following:  Supplier expectations outlining legal, compliance, labor conditions, and environmental responsibility requirements, also known as our Supplier Guidelines  Self-assessment questionnaire covering an array of issues, which we have requested of suppliers since fiscal 2007  On-site assessments conducted by our staff in cooperation with supplier management  Audits of supplier facilities performed by contract service providers For fiscal 2011, we intend to benchmark In fiscal 2010, we continued the practice of using the self-assessment questionnaire to understand best practices and leading organizations our suppliers’ social and environmental pracaround supplier transparency to identify tices. The questionnaire is based on our Supplier opportunities for improvement as our global Guidelines, which are informed by internationally supply chain grows in size and complexity. recognized standards for human rights and environmental performance. We continued to partner with Simatelex in fiscal 2010 to manufacture our Keurig® Single Cup Brewing Systems. We conducted our third satisfactory assessment of social and environmental conditions and practices at two factories Simatelex operates in Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. For fiscal 2011, we intend to benchmark best practices and leading organizations around supplier transparency to identify opportunities for improvement as our global supply chain grows in size and complexity. We will also continue to improve our supplier orientation tools and better integrate them into our standard procurement procedures. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 23 SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Domestic Grantmaking, Volunteering, and Donations As our business grows, we are refining how we support local communiWe introduced ties to make a greater difference. While our a new brand-related approach remains the same — we focus on grantmaking program. local social and environmental issues that are most urgent — in fiscal 2010 we became more targeted in awarding grants, volunteering, and donating products.  75 domestic grantmaking % Our domestic grantmaking activity increased from $973,000 in fiscal 2009 to $1.7 million in fiscal 2010, an increase of over 75% WHERE WE’VE BEEN in Fiscal 2010 We improved our employee community grantmaking programs through the introduction of locally-focused, locally-driven grantmaking teams. These teams are focused on supporting community-based efforts to build strong local systems, environmental stewardship, and economic 15,528 prosperity. total hours volunteered Through our employee volunteerism programs, we contributed over 15,000 hours of volunteer time, an increase of 56% over 2009. A typical GMCR employee volunteered 7.4 hours for local communities in fiscal 2010. 24 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Partner Commu SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Suppor Protecti Buildin Product Workin Creatin We will continue implementation and refinement of our new employee community grantmaking framework and brand-inspired grantmaking program. WHERE WE’RE GOING in Fiscal 2011 our goal: 25,000 total hours volunteered We intend to grow volunteerism by 61%, maintaining average employee volunteerism within a rapidly growing employee base and achieving 25,000 hours of contributed employee time Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 25 Fiscal 2010 NUMBERS AT A GLANCE Grantmaking Fiscal 2008 1 Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 Total resources allocated to social and environmental programs (dollars in thousands) $1,910 $3,666 $6,931 Total resources allocated to social and environmental programs as a percentage of pre-tax income 5.4% 5.2% 5.2% Total grant / matching donations (dollars in thousands) $1,155 $2,686 $5,946 Total grant / matching donation dollars to local communities (in thousands) $291 $973 $1,703 Employee Volunteerism Fiscal 2008 1 Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 # of Employees volunteering through CAFE Time 439 770 1,126 # of Employees volunteering through Dollars-4-Doers Program 20 26 26 Total employees volunteering time through workplace volunteerism programs 459 796 1,152 Hours volunteered through CAFE Time 5,708 9,331 14,878 Hours volunteered through Dollars-4-Doers Program 500 650 650 Total hours volunteered through workplace volunteerism programs 6,208 9,981 15,528 Average Number Full-Time Employees 1,043 1,343 2,103 Employees volunteering through workplace volunteerism programs as a percentage of average 42.09% 59.3% 54.8% full-time employees Average hours volunteered per full-time employee 6.0 7.4 7.4 Dollars allocated to CAFE Time volunteer program (dollars in thousands) $134 $219 $355 Dollars allocated to Dollars-4-Doers volunteer program (dollars in thousands) $5 $7 $7 Total dollars allocated to workplace volunteerism programs (dollars in thousands) $139 $225 $361 In-Kind Donations Fiscal 2008 1 Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 Product Donations (allocated dollars at cost, in thousands) $271 $339 $619 Donations of Equipment and Administrative Supplies (allocated dollars at cost, in thousands) $9 $7 $11 1 These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. 26 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Partner Commu SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Suppor Protecti Buildin Product GrantMaking Workin We operate two grantmaking programs under the Creatin umbrella of domestic community outreach: Employee Community Grants and Brand-Inspired Grants. Employee Community Grants  Rosie’s Place / Boston, Massachusetts Because our employees understand their local comWe provided $11,500 to Rosie’s Place, whose mismunities' needs firsthand, we empower them to make sion is to provide a safe and nurturing environment that a difference through our Employee Community Grants. helps poor and homeless women maintain their digTo guide grantmaking decisions, employees at each of nity, seek opportunity, and find security in their lives. our major locations in the United States and Canada The grant is being used for the Women’s Education work with leaders in their local communities to identify Program, providing access to education to enhance and bring resources to their most pressing social and self-esteem and promote independence. environmental issues. www.RosiesPlace.org Total contributions through our Employee Community Grants program were $358,000.  Second Harvest / Knoxville, Tennessee We pledged a three-year $25,000 grant to Second Harvest to assist with its Food for Kids program in East  Vermont Energy and Climate Action Tennessee. The program provides kid-friendly food to Network (VECAN) / Waterbury, Vermont at-risk students over the weekends. Our grant makes VECAN’s mission is to empower Vermont towns to it possible for three schools to enroll in the program. come together to save energy, reduce waste and curb www.SecondHarvestetn.org greenhouse emissions. We will grant $90,000 over three years ($30,000 per fiscal year beginning in fiscal 2010)  Ijams Nature Center / Knoxville, Tennessee to support existing town Energy Committees (ECs) and We pledged a three-year $15,000 grant to support the to help create new ECs. VECAN supports and fosters Ijams Nature Center’s River Rescue program. This prothe startup and grassroots efforts of ECs by serving gram educates the public about the importance of as a technical resource, and developing and providing maintaining healthy rivers and encourages community access to tools, resources, and training to implement members to become environmental stewards by volunenergy-saving and greenhouse-gas–reducing programs. teering to remove trash from local waterways. www.VECAN.net www.Ijams.org  Food Works at Two Rivers Center /  Focus the Nation / Sumner, Washington Waterbury, Vermont We will grant $75,000 over three We granted $20,000 to Focus the Nation to sponyears ($25,000 per fiscal year) to help Food Works sor Clean Energy Forums in the Seattle area. Focus end hunger in Vermont and beyond. Through longthe Nation works to foster connections between genterm hunger-prevention strategies and initiatives, Food erations and empower young people through educaWorks empowers low-income Vermonters with the tion and civic engagement. This project brings together knowledge and skills to grow, prepare, and preserve groups of students from two local colleges to study the their own nutritious fresh foods. future of clean energy and help accelerate our country’s www.FoodWorksVermont.org transformation to a clean energy future. www.FocusTheNation.org Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 27 gmcr grants and volunteerism United Way Focus the Nation of King County Seattle, WA Seattle, WA  Climate change  Support for basic needs  Clean energy Seattle Works Seattle, WA The Lakewood  Volunteerism Area Shelter Association Sumner, WA Northwest Harvest  Homelessness Seattle, WA  Food security Fair Trade USA Berkeley, CA  Fair trade Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust Seattle, WA  Conservation  Environmental stewardship A Home Away from Homelessness San Francisco, CA  Homelessness Give a Green Day Castroville, CA  Conservation  Environmental stewardship LEGEND Green Mountain Employee community Coffee Brandgrants Inspired Grants Tully’s BrandInspired Grants Volunteerism Keurig BrandInspired Grants 28 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Partner Commu SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Suppor Protecti Buildin Product Workin Vermont Energy and Creatin Climate Action Network Waterbury, VT  Climate change Chicago Women’s Business  Energy use reduction Development Center Chicago, IL Habitat for Humanity  Economic empowerment National River CleanUp Bedford, MA week / american rivers  Affordable housing Ronald McDonald House Waterbury, VT Charities of Chicagoland  Conservation and Northwest Indiana  Environmental stewardship Rosie’s Place Chicago, IL Boston, MA  Children’s health  Education  Homelessness Food Works Center for Economic at Two Rivers Progress Center Chicago, IL Montpelier, VT  Economic empowerment  Food security Heading Home Boston, MA  Homelessness Leonard Florence Ashoka Changemakers Center for Living Washington, DC Boston, MA  Social entrepreneurship  Health care Second Harvest Knoxville, TN  Food security Ijams Nature Center Knoxville, TN Knoxville River Rescue  Conservation Knoxville, TN  Environmental stewardship  Conservation  Environmental stewardship Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 29 Brand-Inspired Grants Our growth has made more resources available to expand existing grant programs and strengthen our brands’ ties to local communities. Brand-inspired grantmaking supports our commitment to social and environmental responsibility while helping us build brand awareness and equity, strengthen consumer loyalty, and increase sales in key regions. As our brands benefit, so do local communities. Following are highlights from our Brand-Inspired Grants in fiscal 2010, which totaled $1.345 million. Green Mountain Coffee BrandKeurig BrandInspired Grants Inspired Grants  Ashoka Changemakers We  Leonard Florence Center for Living partnered with Ashoka Changemakers, (LFCL) / Boston, Massachusetts We designated an organization supporting collaborative $100,000 over four years to support this organization’s action to solve the world’s most pressing work on behalf of individuals with Amyotrophic Lateral social problems. We contributed $392,000 Sclerosis (ALS), commonly known as Lou Gehrig’s disease. to “Revelation to Action,” a competition The LFCL opened the first-in-the nation ALS Residence to find and fund the best ideas and orgain February 2010. This house is part of the LFCL Green nizations for strengthening communiHouse® nursing home, a model that deinstitutionalizes care ties in Maine, New York, Rhode Island, while providing skilled nursing assistance in a home enviVermont, New Hampshire, Connecticut, ronment. The ALS Residence provides unprecedented and Massachusetts. Entrants were judged independence and freedom to those living with this devason their project’s innovation, social impact, tating disease. www.LeonardFlorenceCenter.org and organizational stability. Three overall winners were selected by the public, and  Heading Home / Boston, Massachusetts We we selected an additional seven state wincontributed $50,000 to advance Heading Home’s misners. www.ChangeMakers.org sion to end homelessness by providing housing in conjunction with effective support services to help change the  Fair Trade USA We contributed conditions that create homelessness. The grant assisted $50,000 to help launch the Fair Trade the innovative Heading Home Partnership (HHP) to End University campaign, which is designed to Family Homelessness program. HHP builds upon the reinvigorate the Fair Trade student moveCommonwealth’s emergency-oriented response to homement through outreach, guidance, and lessness by providing a comprehensive path to housing, tools for student groups. The campaign higher education and employment. HPP leverages public also works to raise the visibility of Fair resources and joins with community-service providers in an Trade, to generate new Fair Trade accounts innovative collaboration that provides homeless families with for leading licensees and to increase opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency and long-term sucdemand for Fair Trade products. Ultimately, cess. Currently, approximately 40 families throughout Greater the goal is to highlight the positive impact Boston are enrolled in HHP. www.HeadingHomeInc.org of Fair Trade on farming families around the world. www.FairTradeUSA.org  United Way of King County / Seattle, Washington The United Way works to improve lives of people around the world through programs designed to improve education, increase financial stability and promote health. Our $25,000 grant supported the United Way of King County’s Response for Basic Needs Program, which promotes housing stability, alleviates hunger, and helps those eligible secure tax credits and public benefits. www.UWKC.org 30 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Partner Commu SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Suppor Protecti Buildin Product  A Home Away from Homelessness / Workin San Francisco, California This organization helps homeless children find safe places that respect who they are and Creatin foster each individual’s unique abilities. Our $20,000 grant supported two programs. The Beach House provides hundreds of children with a respite from crowded shelters — a place to spend several hours hiking, exploring tide pools, flying kites, and learning about nature while also enjoying the freedom to “be a kid” for a while. The School House offers after-school programs for middleand high school students. Participants get daily academic tutoring, cultural and artistic enrichment, and emotional support. When students have a positive place for study and teachers who can assist them, they can build the skills and knowledge to succeed in school and beyond. www.HomeAway.org  Ronald McDonald House Charities Tully’s Brandof Chicagoland and Northwest Indiana Inspired Grants (RHMC-CNI) / Chicago, Illinois We helped fund construction of the largest Ronald McDonald House® in the country through a $100,000 grant to RMHC-CNI. The orga Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust / nization improves the health, well-being and education of Washington State We granted $25,000 to the Mountains children in the Chicago area though three key programs: to Sound Greenway Trust. This organization leads and inspires action to conserve and enhance the spectacular • Ronald McDonald House provides a “home away from landscape from Seattle across the Cascade Mountains to home” to keep families of hospitalized children together. Central Washington, ensuring a long-term balance between • Ronald McDonald Care Mobile provides free medical care people and nature. Our grant sponsored the Greenway to underserved youth. Days 2010 Festival. The festival engages thousands of fam• RMHC-CNI Scholarship Program provides college scholilies throughout the Puget Sound region in activities that arships to academically outstanding high-school stuhighlight and build an appreciation for the mountain terrain. dents. www.RMHccni.org www.MtsGreenway.org  Chicago Women’s Business Development  Seattle Works / Washington State We provided Center (WBDC) / Chicago, Illinois The WBDC works $15,000 in operational support to Seattle Works, an orgato economically empower women, their families and their nization that informs, connects and inspires people in their communities by supporting women-owned businesses. 20s and 30s to take action in their community. The support of We contributed $75,000 to help the center achieve its genthe Tully’s brand is helping Seattle Works encourage young eral mission of accelerating the growth of women’s busipeople to be active volunteers, informed voters, savvy charitaness ownership and microenterprise and provide specific ble donors, and knowledgeable community leaders. support for WBDC’s Entrepreneurial Training and Technical www.SeattleWorks.org Assistance Program, which offers training, coaching and other assistance to women who are launching a business  Northwest Harvest / Washington State Our venture. www.WBDC.org $5,000 grant helped Northwest Harvest meet the unprecedented need for hunger relief in Washington. The organi Center for Economic Progress / zation’s primary goal is to secure more than 12,000 tons Chicago, Illinois We contributed $20,000 to help lowof nutritious food for distribution to a statewide network of income families achieve financial security through tax and over 300 partner food banks, meal programs, and elemenfinancial counseling. We also supported the center’s activtary schools. www.NorthwestHarvest.org ities in leading a national coalition of organizations that promote economic progress and advance policies and practices to create a just and equitable financial system for low-wage workers and their families. www.EconomicProgress.org Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 31 Volunteerism We foster a spirit of volunteerism because it benefits both our business and our employees. For our employees, volunteering offers an opportunity to develop skills, deepen connections with their communities, and feel even better about themselves and their work. As a company, we benefit from happier, more motivated, and more skilled employees with a stronger connection to our greater community. It’s why we support employees who want to volunteer for nonprofit and community organizations. Through our Community Action for Employees (CAFE) Program, employees can spend up to 52 hours per  River CleanUp / Waterbury, Vermont More year volunteering in their communities durthan 150 employees participated in the 6th annual River ing customary working hours. Additionally, Cleanup, which collected over 4.5 tons of refuse from a through our Dollars-For-Doers program, 15-mile stretch of the Winooski River. Over the last six we recognize employees who volunteer years employees have recovered almost 1,000 tires and at least 25 hours at one organization outused almost 750 hours of volunteer time during this event. side of their normal work hours with a $250 We are now working with American Rivers to develop a sigmini-grant in their names. In fiscal 2010, nature event similar to this at all of our sites for possible employees volunteered over 15,000 hours rollout in fiscal year 2011. of time in local communities, valued at over www.WinooskiRiver.org/River_Cleanup $361,000. Following are highlights from fiscal 2010 of how our employees made a difference through their service in local communities.  Habitat for Humanity / Bedford, Massachusetts Habitat for Humanity provides affordable housing for people in need. Our Reading employees volunteered to help Habitat for Humanity build a home in Bedford, Massachusetts. During August and September 2010, teams of 15 employee volunteers worked at various times on the house, taking great pride and pleasure in seeing the progress made after each work session. www.HabitatBoston.org 32 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Partner Commu SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Suppor Protecti Buildin Product Workin  Give a Green Day / Castroville, California Our Castroville employees organized their first volunteer opporFocus on Holy Joe’s Cafés Creatin tunity for employees at the Monterey Regional Park District. Holy Joe’s is a nonprofit organization that Employee volunteers collected trash and harvested seeds operates cafés for troops stationed in Iraq and that nourish an endangered species of butterfly native to Afghanistan. We donate coffee to the cafés, the Monterey area. www.mprpd.org where soldiers can find a welcome respite, spiritual guidance and entertainment. In fiscal 2010, we partnered with Holy Joe’s and the Vermont  The Lakewood Area Shelter Association National Guard to deliver coffee to Vermont troops (LASA) / Sumner, Washington A group of Sumner in the field unable to visit the cafés. Through our employees spent a day refurbishing a house used by the relationship with Holy Joe’s we also donated Lakewood, Washington, shelter association. LASA works to Keurig® Single Cup Brewing Systems to eight prevent homelessness by encouraging families to get help hospital sites overseas, and are donating K-Cup® before they’re without shelter. LASA offers rental assistance packs to these sites on an ongoing basis. and transitional housing, medical and dental care, employwww.VCC.org/justice/coffee-project ment searches, and placement for children in schools. www.LakewoodAreaShelter.org  The Knoxville River Rescue / Knoxville, Tennessee In April, local employees collected approximately 1,500 pounds of trash from the Tennessee River, including food containers, drink bottles, and larger items such as car hoods, bicycles, commodes, and fuel tanks. Product Donations Product donations are an important part of our company’s commitment to local communities. Our product donations program offers coffee, coffee gift baskets, Keurig® Single Cup Brewing Systems and other giveaway packages for community events, raffles and auctions. Because of increasing demand for product donations, we developed an online process for requesting donations in fiscal 2010 to broaden the reach of our program and more effectively serve organizations. www.gmcr.com/productdonations Employee Giving “We are currently in Afghanistan and we In fiscal 2010, we matched employee contributions to qualhave been receiving your coffee support from ifying nonprofit organizations up to $500 per fiscal year Holy Joe’s Café. I have to say that the sup(raised to $1,000 in fiscal 2011). In total, we matched over $90,000 in employee contributions in fiscal 2010. Notably, port that you are providing for our soldiers is the catastrophic earthquake that struck Haiti in January tremendous. We have 300–500 soldiers come 2010 galvanized our employee community. We made a spethrough the coffee house on a daily basis. cial $25,000 cash donation to Save the Children to support When they come in, they smell the coffee and their relief work in Haiti. We also set up a special payrollare reminded of the coffee shops back home. deduction program for employees who wanted to contribute to Save the Children’s relief fund, and matched additional Your coffee has brought many people in, so employee contributions totaling over $8,000. Finally, our that they are able to “get away” from work and employee sites held fundraising events to support Haiti forget that they are in a combat zone.” relief efforts, and we matched the funds raised up to $2,000 Chaplain Robert Lee with the 7th Battalion, per site. In total, these efforts raised over $45,000 to support 101st Aviation Regiment Save The Children’s work on the ground in Haiti. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 33 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT We piloted As our business grows, we continue a new program for reworking to better understand and reduce covering brewed K-Cup® our impact on the planet. We’re making packs from office environstrides in using energy more responsibly ments and redirecting the and decreasing waste. We prowaste into composting Our progress is as important to strengthcessed and recycled and waste-to-energy ening our business as it is to protecting the 350 tons of material from uses. environment. By developing and implementreturned brewers that would ing solutions that cut energy use and waste, have otherwise ended up in we can create efficiencies, save money and landfills through our pilot meet rising stakeholder expectations, while Returns Management doing our best to ensure the healthy world Initiative. on which our business depends. We focus most of our efforts at responsible energy use and waste reduction on our Specialty Coffee Business Unit. WHERE WE’VE BEEN in Fiscal 2010 Within the Vermont operations of our Specialty Coffee Business Unit, we realized a 4.3% reduction in our energy metric as compared to fiscal 19.3 % ’09, just short of our 5%  reduction goal. overall energy reduction in the specialty coffee business unit We reduced our overall Specialty Coffee Business Unit energy metric by 19.3% as compared to fiscal ’09. Also within the Vermont operations of our Specialty Coffee Business Unit, we achieved a 16.9% reduction in our waste metric as compared to fiscal ’09, exceeding our 10% reduction goal. 34 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Suppor PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecti Buildin Product Toronto, Workin Ontario, WHERE WE’RE GOING in Fiscal 2011 Creatin Canada Knoxville, operations Tennessee -10 % operations -10 % energy reduction goals Sumner, Washington operations vermont operations -10 % maintain 0% Knoxville, Tennessee operations Toronto, Ontario, Canada -15 % operations -50% waste Sumner, Washington reduction operations goals -30% vermont operations -10% We plan to expand our We plan to K-Cup® pack recovery divert 1,700 tons of pilot to a broader waste out of the landfill geographic in fiscal 2011 through an reach. expansion of our Returns Management Initiative. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 35 Fiscal 2010 NUMBERS AT A GLANCE Waste 1 Fiscal 2008 3 Fiscal 2009 3 Fiscal 2010 Solid waste to landfill as a percentage of revenue (tons / $1,000,000) 1 2.16 1.58 1.64 Energy 1 Fiscal 2008 3 Fiscal 2009 3 Fiscal 2010 Direct energy use as a percentage of revenue (therms / $1,000) 1 4.80 3.70 3.2 Emissions 2 Fiscal 2008 3 Fiscal 2009 3 Fiscal 2010 Scope 1 direct emissions (short tons) Enterprise Total 7,385 7,915 13,988 Scope 2 purchased electricity (short tons) Enterprise Total 4 1,614 3,430 Scope 3 indirect emissions (short tons) Enterprise Total 21,138 29,174 52,169 Total estimated emissions 30,137 40,519 66,167 Emissions offset (short tons) 36,037 40,519 72,738 1 Specialty Coffee Business Unit only. Fiscal 2010 includes facilities in CA, MA, TN, VT, WA, and Toronto, CAN. Fiscal 2009 includes facilities in TN, VT, and WA. Fiscal 2008 includes facilities in TN and VT. 2 GMCR purchases “forward stream” offsets from NativeEnergy. These offsets are produced over time, up to 20 years in some cases. We have made a conscious decision to buy forward stream offsets because our purchase helps to build new projects that need up-front funding to be built. This ensures that our purchases make a difference by enabling new project construction. While these projects reduce emissions as they operate over time, greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are a long-term problem, and helping to build clean infrastructure is an essential part of the solution. 3 These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. 4 We are committed to offsetting 100% of estimated emissions from our measured carbon footprint. Our Fiscal 2010 estimate of total greenhouse gas emissions includes the benefit of our purchase of approximately 26,000 megawatt-hours in renewable energy certificates, which reduces our estimated Scope 2 emissions by approximately 6,600 tons. In late October of 2011, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Green Power Partnership released a draft white paper on the Environmental Value of Purchasing Renewable Energy Certificates voluntarily. The EPA advised “An organization buying RECs that meet the Green Power Partnership eligibility criteria can claim to be buying zero-emission, renewable electricity, which reduces or avoids its indirect emissions from purchased electricity. EPA also encourages organizations that purchase RECs voluntarily to express the REC’s environmental benefit as a reduction in the organization’s carbon footprint.” 36 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Suppor PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecti Buildin Product Workin Calculating Energy Use Creatin We calculate energy use by dividing our total consumption by our nonconsolidated net sales for the fiscal year by business unit. Because our SCBU and KBU have distinct energy requirements and operational footprints, we track their performance separately. We report GMCR's total energy use (see table below), but our efforts to reduce consumption are managed within the business units. For SCBU energy use, we include the electricity and fuel we use to power and heat our buildings, the fuel we use to process coffee beans, and the fuel consumed by our transportation fleet, employee commuting and corporate travel. For KBU energy use, we include energy WHAT IS A THERM? used to power and heat office space, and fuel corpoA therm is a unit of heat energy equal to 100,000 rate travel and employee commuting. For both business British Thermal Units (BTUs). It is approximately units, we express our energy use in therms per $1,000 the energy equivalent of burning 100 cubic feet of net sales, which we believe offers a more meaningful of natural gas. comparison year-over-year as our company grows. Energy (therms) Change Specialty Coffee Business Unit Fiscal 2008 2 Fiscal 2009 2 Fiscal 2010 Year-Over-Year Scope 1 direct energy 961,100 1,085,975 1,748,615 Scope 2 purchased electricity 321,525 493,429 802,987 Scope 3 indirect energy 746,809 884,966 1,432,201 Total therms 1 2,029,434 2,464,370 3,983,804 Normalized energy metric (therms / $1,000 sales) 6.3 5.2 4.3 -17% Keurig Business Unit Fiscal 2008 2 Fiscal 2009 2 Fiscal 2010 Scope 1 direct energy 60,290 48,622 43,388 Scope 2 purchased electricity 24,580 29,914 36,191 Scope 3 indirect energy 248,851 238,911 296,943 Total therms 1 333,721 317,447 376,521 Normalized energy metric (therms / $1,000 sales) 1.4 0.7 0.4 -37% GMCR Fiscal 2008 2 Fiscal 2009 2 Fiscal 2010 Scope 1 direct energy 1,021,390 1,134,597 1,792,003 Scope 2 purchased electricity 346,105 523,343 839,178 Scope 3 indirect energy 995,660 1,123,877 1,729,144 Total therms 1 2,363,155 2,781,817 4,360,325 Normalized energy metric (therms / $1,000 sales) 4.8 3.7 3.2 -14% 1 Columns may not total due to rounding 2 These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 37 SCBU Energy Use Our SCBU accounts for the majority of our energy use. We cut our energy use SCBU-wide by 17% in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009, to 4.34 therms/$1,000 of net sales. This means that while our overall consumption went up, it grew at a slower pace than our unconsolidated net sales attributed to the SCBU. Going forward, we will set goals and report on each SCBU facility separately, tracking each site’s operational electricity and fuel use relative to the sales dollars allocated to that location. Calculating energy use on a site-specific basis and tying it to individual production and distribution arrangements allows us to better track our performance and identify and respond to opportunities for improvement. It also allows us to more fully understand the impact of outsourcing, pricing, and other variables on our energy use. In fiscal 2010, we had a 5.0% energy reduction goal for our three Vermont SCBU facilities, while we used fiscal 2010 to establish energy consumption baselines at our other facilities. Our actual result for the three Vermont SCBU facilities was a 4.3% reduction, falling just short of our goal. We attribute this shortfall to initiatives that either were not fully operational in fiscal 2010 or did not deliver expected results. In fiscal 2010, we gathered baseline data for our newer facilities and used that data to create facility-specific energy reduction goals for fiscal 2011: Facility location fy11 Energy Saving Goal All Vermont facilities 0% maintenance Knoxville, TN 10% reduction Sumner, WA 10% reduction Toronto, Canada 10% reduction 38 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Suppor PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecti Buildin Product Workin Creatin Highlights of SCBU efforts to reduce energy use in fiscal 2010 include:  We completed lighting retrofit projects at our three Vermont facilities in partnership with Efficiency Vermont, a nongovernmental organization that helps consumers and businesses reduce their energy use.  We implemented a “power factor correction” project at our Waterbury production facility. Power factor describes the percent of electrical power that does useful work. Through this project, we reduced utility costs and improved the efficiency of our systems. However, because power factor correction does not change our use of “real power” – it didn’t decrease our energy metric.  We initiated a pilot project to submeter electricity use in our Waterbury facility to improve our ability to measure our overall energy efficiency. Our goal is to measure electricity use based on individual workflows such as roasting, grinding, and packaging. With this data we can set goals to drive improvements for specific processes. The metering system is nearly installed and should be fully operational in fiscal 2011. KBU Energy Use Inside the KBU, we use energy to power and heat office space, and fuel corporate travel and employee commuting. Our metric does not include the energy used to manufacture our Keurig® Single Cup Brewing Systems, which we outsource. We reduced KBU energy use by 37% in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009, to 0.42 therms per $1,000 of net sales. Calculating energy use on a site-specific basis and tying it to individual production and distribution arrangements allows us to better track our performance and identify and respond to opportunities for improvement. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 39 Carbon Dioxide Emissions Our carbon footprint is linked to our energy use, and the steps we take to cut consumption help reduce emissions. We are also pursuing other solutions — such as purchasing carbon offsets and using renewable sources of energy — to reduce the greenhouse emissions associated with our operations. In fiscal 2010, our total greenhouse gas emissions increased by approximately 60%, to 66,167 tons. This total includes our estimated fuel consumption (by facilities and via transportation), electricity use, air travel, outbound and inbound freight that we pay for, and employee commuting. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (short tons) 1 Specialty Coffee Business Unit Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Scope 1 direct emissions 6,955 7,558 13,673 Scope 2 purchased electricity3 1,114 2,821 0 Scope 3 indirect emissions 15,211 21,118 37,707 Total estimated emissions 2 23,280 31,497 51,381 Keurig Business Unit Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Scope 1 direct emissions 430 357 324 Scope 2 purchased electricity3 500 609 0 Scope 3 indirect emissions 5,926 8,056 14,462 Total estimated emissions 2 6,857 9,022 14,787 GMCR Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Scope 1 direct emissions 7,385 7,915 13,998 Scope 2 purchased electricity3 1,614 3,430 0 Scope 3 indirect emissions 21,138 29,174 52,169 Total estimated emissions 2 30,137 40,519 66,167 Total offset commitment (as % of emissions) 100% 100% 100% 1 GMCR purchases “forward stream” offsets from NativeEnergy. These offsets are produced over time, up to 20 years in some cases. We have made a conscious decision to buy forward stream offsets because our purchase helps to build new projects that need upfront funding to be built. This ensures that our purchases make a difference by enabling new project construction. While these projects reduce emissions as they operate over time, greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are a long-term problem, and helping to build clean infrastructure is an essential part of the solution. 2 Columns may not total due to rounding. 3 We are committed to offsetting 100% of estimated emissions from our measured carbon footprint. Our Fiscal 2010 estimate of total greenhouse gas emissions includes the benefit of our purchase of approximately 26,000 megawatt-hours in renewable energy certificates, which reduces our estimated Scope 2 emissions by approximately 6,600 tons. In late October of 2011, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Green Power Partnership released a draft white paper on the Environmental Value of Purchasing Renewable Energy Certificates voluntarily. The EPA advised “An organization buying RECs that meet the Green Power Partnership eligibility criteria can claim to be buying zero-emission, renewable electricity, which reduces or avoids its indirect emissions from purchased electricity. EPA also encourages organizations that purchase RECs voluntarily to express the REC’s environmental benefit as a reduction in the organization’s carbon footprint.” 40 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Suppor PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecti Buildin Product Workin Most of our greenhouse gas emissions are attributable to In October 2010, the EPA Green Creatin our SCBU. In fiscal 2010, the unit’s carbon footprint grew Power Partnership released a draft by more than 19,150 tons, or 59%, over fiscal 2009. This white paper on the Environmental jump was largely due to activities associated with additional production and distribution facilities (Sumner, Washington; Value of Purchasing Renewable Castroville, California; and Toronto, Ontario), including the Energy Certificates Voluntarily (www. use of more fuel for roasting coffee and heating. Our geoepa.gov). The EPA advised, “An graphical growth has likewise brought more employee comorganization buying RECs that meet muting, common carrier transport, and air travel. the Green Power Partnership eligiEmissions associated with the KBU also went up, but remain relatively low compared with our SCBU. Air travel, bility criteria can claim to be buying employee commuting, and brewer transport account for zero-emission, renewable electricity, most of its greenhouse gas emissions, representing about which reduces or avoids its indirect 98% of the business unit’s total measured footprint. emissions from purchased electricity.” The EPA also encourages Renewable Energy and Carbon Offsets organizations that purchase RECs We support renewable energy primarily through our greenhouse gas emissions offset program, which we launched in voluntarily to express the REC’s enfiscal 2003. The program covers the estimated emissions vironmental benefit as a reduction in from our production and distribution operations, our offices, the organization’s carbon footprint. delivery fleet, business travel, and commuting, as well as direct emissions from the inbound and outbound carriers and freight services for which we pay. We purchase “forward stream” offsets from NativeEnergy (www.NativeEnergy.com), or offsets that are produced over time (up to 20 years in some cases). We specifically buy forward stream offsets to make a tangible difference in supporting wind, biogas, and hydro projects that require upfront funding. For example, we are a charter supporter of a 12.5-megawatt wind farm that was developed in Greensburg, Kansas. The town of Greensburg was destroyed by a massive tornado in 2007. We and others have helped make the Greensburg wind farm possible by pledging upfront revenue to help the project meet key financial milestones. In fiscal 2010, we expanded our role by committing to purchase 240,000 tons of carbon dioxide offsets through fiscal 2012. Based on new guidance from the United States Onsite Generation of Environmental Protection Agency, fiscal 2010 marks Renewable Energy the first year that we are recognizing our purchase of We are also investing to produce clean Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) as a zero-emission energy onsite. Fiscal 2010 was the first full electricity source. As a result we now state our scope 2 year of operation for solar panels we have emissions — the emissions generated in producing the installed at our Waterbury, Vermont, diselectricity we use — as zero. tribution center. The installation features Even though we had purchased RECs tied to our actual 572 panels that are expected to supply power use as part of our participation in the EPA Green about 9% of the center’s annual electricPower Partnership, we previously expressed emissions ity. At peak generation on a sunny day, the from electricity use as a function of the CO2 emission rate installation can meet approximately half of power systems in the states where we do business, and of the facility’s demand for power. In addithe RECs as a mitigation effort. tion to generating clean electricity for use in our facility, the array also demonstrates the feasibility of solar panels for producing power in Vermont. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 41 Waste Stream Specialty Coffee Business Unit 1 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Solid waste composted (tons) 394 426 651 Solid waste composted (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales 1.23 0.90 0.71 Solid waste recycled (tons) 406 786 2,396 Solid waste recycled (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales 1.27 1.66 1.77 Solid waste to landfill (tons) 691 749 1,506 Solid waste to landfill (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales 2.16 1.58 1.64 Total solid waste (tons composted, recycled, and landfilled) 1,491 1,961 4,553 Total solid waste (tons composted, recycled, and landfilled) / 4.66 4.13 4.97 $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales 1 Specialty Coffee Business Unit VT Facilities only. The Keurig Business Unit generates only office waste which is immaterial relative to our manufacturing facility waste. Waste and Recycling Reducing the waste we produce and send to landfill is a Other highlights from fiscal 2010 included: top priority, particularly as our business grows, and we are focusing on site-specific programs for greater, more imme Our Sumner, Washington, facility launched a comprediate impact. hensive program in partnership with a new recycler. We perWe only track waste generated by the SCBU. The KBU formed an audit of our waste stream to identify and then generates small amounts of office waste that are relatively divert recyclable and compostable components. Our staff immaterial. and multiple vendors worked together to develop and promote the program, which included efforts to compost chaff and coffee, and recycle burlap. As a result, the Sumner facilSCBU Waste and Recycling ity improved its waste diversion performance, diverting solid In fiscal 2010, the SCBU generated 1.64 tons of waste per waste out of landfills at a rate of 82% by the end of fiscal $1 million of net sales, up from 1.58 tons in fiscal 2009, an 2010, as compared to 72% at the beginning of the fiscal year. increase of 3.85%. By total volume, our seven production and distribution facilities sent 1,506 tons of waste to the  At our Knoxville, Tennessee, facility we also began a landfill in fiscal 2010. This increase in the SCBU-wide metcomposting program for the chaff and burlap bags used to ric is due to the addition of three production facilities in fisship green coffee beans. cal 2010 with nascent waste management programs. Going forward, we will evaluate and strengthen the existing recy We laid the groundwork for a recycling program at our cling and waste diversion programs of the facilities we Toronto, Ontario, facility, which should be operational in the acquired. first quarter of fiscal 2011. Although we produced more waste, we also increased our recycling. In fiscal 2010, recycling was up dramatically In fiscal 2010, we set a 10% reduction target for our waste— more than 1.7 tons per $1 million of net sales, or 80% to-landfill metric for our three Vermont facilities and we (even excluding the Castroville site, for which data was not exceeded it, cutting waste sent to landfill by 16.9% relavailable). We also continued our composting programs, ative to net sales allocated to these specific locations. though the rate of composting was down about 10% relaAdditionally, as with our energy-reduction work, we used tive to sales. fiscal 2010 to set waste-generation baseline data for our other SCBU facilities: Facility location fy11 Waste reduction Goal All Vermont facilities 10% reduction Knoxville, TN 15% reduction Sumner, WA 30% reduction Toronto, Canada 50% reduction 42 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Suppor PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecti Buildin Product Workin Energy from Waste ISO Certification Initiative Creatin Rather than send waste to landfill — where it decomposes Late in fiscal 2010, we launched an initiative to pilot an and generates methane, a greenhouse gas — we’re explorInternational Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 ing alternatives, such as waste to energy. certification of the environmental management system in Our Waterbury, Vermont plant participated in a two-month our Waterbury, Vermont operations site. ISO 14001 cerpilot program with Covanta Energy (www.CovantaEnergy. tification is a voluntary effort to develop a framework for com) in fiscal 2010 that diverted more than 40 tons of nonimproving environmental performance. The standard assists recyclable waste to a waste-to-energy facility. According to in developing this framework, meeting objectives and goals, Covanta Energy, the process yields a net reduction in carand subsequently monitoring and measuring. bon dioxide over using conventional fossil fuels, such as coal, oil, and gas. It also releases fewer pollutants, such as To launch our ISO initiative we: sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide.  Convened a two-day session with key operations staff to The program was a big reason why our three Vermont familiarize them with the specific elements of the standard, facilities surpassed their collective waste-reduction goal and discussed implementation plans. in fiscal 2010. Overall, Waterbury sent 230 tons of waste to landfill in fiscal 2010, down from 358 tons in fiscal 2009  Participated in three offsite sessions with peer compa— with approximately one-third of that drop coming from nies in the Northeast to learn from their experience in implethe waste-to-energy program. This reduction was achieved menting ISO 14001-certified systems. while growing production. As a result, we continue to divert a portion of our non  Conducted an environmental audit of our Waterbury recyclable and non compostable solid waste from our facility by a third-party auditor in partnership with a crossWaterbury, Vermont plant into waste-to-energy programs. functional team representing CSR, facilities, engineering and environmental health and safety.  In fiscal 2011, we will assemble a steering team to guide the ISO certification process, prepare a timeline for implementation, and train employees. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 43 Addressing the Environmental Reduction of Hazardous Impact of the Keurig® Single Cup Substances (RoHS) Brewing systems The rapid growth of the Keurig® Single Cup Brewing The RoHS Directive is a set of System poses some important — and complex — enviEuropean regulations designed to ronmental challenges. The success of the Keurig® system reduce the potentially harmful or demonstrates that demand is strong for the convenience toxic effects of electronic equipof single cup brewing solutions. However, brewed K-Cup® ment on the waste stream. Europe packs add to the waste stream, and brewers returned by is at the forefront of introducing consumers to our customers must be disposed of responregulations to better protect the sibly to limit their environmental impact. environment. While the United Developing commercially viable solutions that deliver on States is catching up, GMCR has both our customers’ high expectations for quality and the moved forward with implementneed to reduce and reclaim waste presents some signifiing the RoHS directive in all our cant technical and operational challenges. We made notabrewers. We are fully compliant ble progress in fiscal 2010 on both fronts and will continue on all Keurig® Single Cup Brewto invest in research and development and expand our pilot ing Systems designed for home programs in fiscal 2011. and office. The tables below detail the date of compliance for each brewer model. Responsible Disposal Pilot Programs We continue to look for solutions to dispose of brewed K-Cup® packs in ways that mitigate the overall environmental impact of the Keurig® Single Cup Brewing System. Because the materials we currently use to assure the consistency and quality of the K-Cup® packs’ performance are not recyclable, we’re exploring alternatives. As a result of the first phase of a pilot program implemented in fiscal 2010, we identified processes for recapturing coffee grounds from brewed K-Cup® packs and converting the packaging materials into energy. We worked with two partners in this pilot program to divert recoverable material out of the waste stream and then use the remainder as fuel in waste-to-energy facilities. A small number of office coffee distributors in the Northwest and Northeast At Home Brewer / RoHS Compliance participated in this pilot, as did our offices in Waterbury, Model Series Date Vermont and Reading, Massachusetts. Mini/Mini Plus B30/B31 September 2010 The K-Cup® pack responsible disposal phase one pilot Elite/Classic Brewer B44/B45 June 2009 program ran for twelve months starting June 2010. Based Special Edition Brewer B65/B66 June 2009 on the results, we commissioned a lifecycle analysis to betPlatinum Brewer B76 June 2009 ter understand the environmental impact of the new proSelect Brewer B77 April 2009 cesses, the potential environmental benefits and cost efficiencies compared with landfill disposal. We used the results of this analysis as well as customer feedback to Away From RoHS Compliance improve the program and in fiscal 2011, we intend to pilot Home Brewer / Date this new program with an expanded group of customers Model Series throughout the United States. DESKPRO® B130 September 2010 Because corporate consumers brew more K-Cup® packs OFFICEPRO B140/B145 ® June 2009 each day than consumers at home, we expect this to be a B150/B155 December 2009 productive test of our alternative disposal initiative. B200 September 2010 B3000 September 2010 44 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Suppor PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecti Buildin Product Workin Returns Management Initiative Creatin In fiscal 2010, the KBU developed a Return Management pilot program to responsibly track and dispose of materials recaptured from returned brewers. The KBU identified two important reasons for moving from a “destroy in field” policy to a return process:  Quality Evaluation and Diagnostic By processing and evaluating returned brewers, we gain a more robust analysis and clearer understanding of the issues that caused the return.  Socially Responsible Disposal Returning brewers to a processing partner assures proper disposal of components. Through the pilot program, a sample of brewers returned by retail partners was processed by a qualified return management facility that certifies appropriate disposition of the materials. The processing facility disasembled returned Keurig® Single Cup Brewers and segregated materials for recycling. Over 90% of returned brewers were recycled. The facility also diagnosed returned brewers and shared the information with Keurig’s Quality and Engineering department to help improve future products. The pilot program concluded in September 2010. Based on its success, we plan to launch a broader return process program in fiscal 2011. The expanded initiative will involve six key U.S. retailers, representing over 55% of the forecasted brewer return volume for the year. The program will harvest diagnostic data and recycle Keurig® Single Cup Brewers, diverting an estimated 1,700 tons of material from the landfill. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 45 BUILDING DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS r faai de tr The success of sustainable products hinges on their ability to deliver economic value. They must perform as well as conventional products at a competitive over price. In a global marketplace that rarely recognizes the full social and environmental costs of products, seventeen this is an ongoing challenge. Yet consumers consismillion pounds tently say they prefer products that are produced in of fair trade CERTIFIED™ an ethically and environmentally responsible mancoffee SHIPPED ner. (See sidebar on page 49.) The amount of Fair Trade Certified™ We see this as an opportunity, for both our busicoffee shipped in fiscal 2010 ness and the world at large. By raising awareincreased by over 66% ness of the advantages of products such as Fair an increase of 8 million lbs. Trade Certified™, Rainforest Alliance Certified®, and over fiscal 2009. organic coffees, we can help build demand for, while broadening adoption of, sustainable business practices that create better lives for people throughout our value chain. Momentum is growing. More and more consumers are recognizing the importance — and value — of sustainable products. Many are willing to cert Orgaified Nic pay slightly more for the assurance of a high-quality product that benefits a larger community and broader economy. We now have retail and channel customers who buy certified sustainable products NEARLY because their customers demand it. And many retail customers choose our products to support their TWELVE organizational commitment to sustainability. million pounds We work to increase public awareness of responof CERTIFIED ORGANIC sibly grown coffee through certification programs, coffee SHIPPED such as Fair Trade (www.FairTradeUSA.org), which The amount of certified organic coffee assures farmers a higher price for their coffee if they shipped increased by over 50% to demonstrate respect for local communities and nearly 12 million lbs., an increase of land, and Rainforest Alliance (RFA) (www.RA.org), over 4 million lbs. as compared which encourages farmers to grow crops sustainto fiscal 2009. ably over the long term. We also drive demand for sustainable products through community outreach, consumer education, product donations, and other promotional efforts. RAIN FOREST ALLIANCE These ongoing programs are integrated throughout our business, helping us reach more customers, ensure the quality of our products, and build strong relationships throughout our supply chain. In our first full year selling Rainforest Alliance Certified™ coffees, we shipped 345,000 lbs. 46 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Protecti BUILDING AWARENESS AND DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Buildin Product Workin Creatin WHERE WE’RE GOING in Fiscal 2011 We intend to broaden and deepen our commitment to sourcing and selling certified coffees. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 47 Fiscal 2010 NUMBERS AT A GLANCE Sales Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fair Trade Certified™ nonorganic lbs. shipped (in thousands) 2,341 3,674 5,433 Fair Trade Certified™ organic lbs. shipped (in thousands) 6,433 8,292 11,884 All Fair Trade Certified™ lbs. organic and nonorganic lbs. shipped (in thousands) 8,774 11,966 17,318 All Rainforest Alliance Certified™ lbs. shipped (in thousands) 0 0 345 Organic (no other certifications) coffee lbs. shipped (in thousands) 0 0 50 Enterprise total coffee pounds sold (in thousands) 30,782 39,543 70,000 Fair Trade Certified™ nonorganic lbs. shipped as a percentage of total lbs. sold 7.61% 9.29% 8.0% Fair Trade Certified™ organic lbs. shipped as a percentage of total lbs. sold 20.90% 20.97% 17.5% All Fair Trade Certified™ organic and nonorganic lbs. shipped as a percentage of total lbs. sold 28.50% 30.26% 25.5% All Rainforest Alliance Certified lbs. shipped as a percentage of total lbs. sold ™ 0% 0% 0.5% Organic (no other certifications) coffee lbs. shipped as a percentage of total lbs. sold 0% 0% 0.1% 48 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Protecti BUILDING AWARENESS AND DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Buildin Product Workin Creatin Promoting Sustainability through Public Awareness and Education We provide a variety of educational opportunities for our employees and the members of our supply chain, and we also acknowledge the value of education to our consumers and customers. We look for opportunities to share what we know and what we do to promote social and environmental sustainability with a wider public audience. On www.GreenMountainCoffee.com visitors can learn more about the difference between fair trade and conventionally sourced coffee. They’ll learn about where the coffee in their cup originates and what it takes to produce quality coffee. They’ll discover the many ways that coffee connects consumers to the rest of the world. Values and Purchases We also educate consumers through events such Even in tough economic times, as Eat, Drink, and Be Fair (www.EatDrinkBeFair. consumers are searching for ways com), which we hosted in Boston in October 2009 to bring their values into their puras a celebration of fair trade month. Four prominent chasing decisions. While energy, Boston-area chefs competed in a cook-off creating food prices, and a challenging meals cooked entirely with fair trade ingredients. economic environment are at the One goal of this event was to raise awareness of top of everyone’s list of concerns, fair trade and the benefits of purchasing products consumers still have high expecwith the Fair Trade Certified™ label. Through the tations of the companies from event web site we emphasized the importance of which they purchase: fair trade as a business model that encourages economic independence for small-scale farmers by pro91 % viding a fair price for their products. The proceeds benefited a local chapter of Artists for Humanity (www.AFHboston.com). The organization partners young people with professional artists to teach respect and responsibility through creative Say it’s important that companies collaboration. pay farmers and workers fairly.* 83 % Say companies should apply internationally accepted labor and environmental standards.* 80 % Say companies should contribute to community development.* * Source: Fair Trade USA/Globescan research, 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 49 PROMOTING CERTIFIED COFFEES Farm Identified Coffee We offer Fair Trade Certified™, certified organic, and We launched our Farm Identified program in 1992 based Rainforest Alliance Certified™ coffees. on a simple idea: when we know who produces our coffee, Fair trade is an innovative, market-based approach to we are much closer to knowing how they produce it. That sustainability that restores balance to the power dynamic insight enables us to make more informed purchase deciin the coffee supply chain. The Fair Trade Certified™ (www. sions in striving to meet our commitment to social and enviFairTradeUSA.org) designation means co-ops and their ronmental responsibility. farmers get a fair price for their beans. They can count The Farm Identified program is a cornerstone of our on at least $1.35 per pound for conventionally grown and sourcing strategy — an alternative to conventional sourcing $1.55 per pound for organic. These prices exceed the cothrough the anonymous commodity market. It represents op’s cost of production, which increases resources for health our overall commitment to working with our supply-chain care and education and helps farmers feed their families. partners, and not simply buying from them. In fiscal 2010, To qualify for fair trade certification, farmers must belong 45% (38 million lbs.) of the coffee we purchased was Farm to a democratically organized co-op. Because they get a Identified. fair price, these small family farmers can grow coffee with Farm Identified suppliers are estates and cooperatives respect for the community and the land, avoiding cost-cutthat produce coffee of the highest quality. When the marting practices that sacrifice quality and the environment’s ketplace price for coffee declines, the quality of convenhealth. Fair trade certification also includes strong environtionally sourced coffee often declines as well. Maintaining mental standards that promote conservation, agricultural relationships with individual farms enables us to ensure diversification, biodiversity, responsible use and handling of high-quality coffee for our customers and consumers. It agrochemicals, proper disposal of both organic and hazardalso allows us to weather shifts in the marketplace without ous waste, land management, soil fertility, and the avoidhaving to compromise our high standards. And since we ance of genetically modified organisms. are willing to pay more for quality, the farms benefit as well. Certified organic coffees are grown and prepared using At the core of our Farm Identified program is the belief methods and materials that have a low impact on the envithat greater engagement with our farm partners has a posronment. Organic farmers use ecologically-based pest conitive impact on the social and environmental communities trol methods, and take steps to minimize soil erosion and for farm workers, their families, and our company. promote plant diversity and wildlife habitats. When we work with our Farm Identified suppliers, we have Rainforest Alliance Certified™ coffees are grown using the opportunity to connect them to the marketplace and methods that help promote and preserve biodiversity, assist them as they work toward sustainability. In this way conserve scarce natural resources, and build sustainour Farm Identification program can serve as an incubator, able livelihoods for coffee farmers. Learn more at www. providing coffee-producing organizations with the support Rainforest-Alliance.org. and stability they need to transition to organic production, or In fiscal 2010, the quantity of Fair Trade Certified™ coffee to meet the requirements for fair trade certification. pounds shipped increased by over 66% to over 17 million lbs., representing an increase of 8 million lbs. over fiscal 2009. In the same time frame, the quantity of certified organic coffee shipped increased by over 50% to nearly 12 million lbs., representing an increase of over 4 million lbs. as compared to fiscal 2009. Finally, in our first full year selling Rainforest Alliance Certified™ coffees, we shipped 345,000 lbs. Fair Trade Certified™ coffee is a leading choice for many consumers. Among coffee sustainability certifications, fair trade is second only to organic in terms of overall awareness and positive impression among beverage drinkers. Source: 2010 National Coffee Drinking Trends, National Coffee Association, pg. 53-54 50 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Protecti BUILDING AWARENESS AND DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Buildin Product Workin Creatin Conventionally Developing Sustainable Cups Sourced Coffee and Product Packaging Purchasing coffee through the commodImproving the environmental impact of our packaging supity marketplace — otherwise known as ports our commitment to sustainability and enables our conventional sourcing — provides shortcustomers to reduce their environmental impact. term benefits for much of the coffee indusIn fiscal 2007, together with International Paper, we try, including us, but the long-term costs helped develop and bring to the marketplace the ecocan be high. With conventional sourcing, tainer™, the coffee industry’s first to-go, hot beverage cup we often have little or no knowledge of who made with paper and biopolymers in place of petroleumproduced the coffee, how they produced it, based products. The ecotainer is a preferred option for or how much of our purchase price actually customers looking for a simple way to make a meaningful reached the producer. difference for the environment. We are committed to increasing our purWe believe in building sustainability into our products. chases of sustainably produced coffee, but We continue to research and develop more environmentally we compete with many companies that friendly approaches to our cup and product packaging. In are not. We must continue to source coffiscal 2010: fee in a way that keeps us competitive economically, while advocating for changes  We partnered with International Paper to launch an ecoin the global system that the entire coffee tainer hot-cup lid made with polylactic acid, a renewable industry supports. By working with others resource. who share our commitment to sustainability, we can address social and environmen We continued developing and launched an initial contal issues fairly and effectively, helping to sumer trial of a tea product in a paper-based K-Cup® pack. break the cycle of poverty, injustice, and Ultimately, this new package did not meet our quality stanenvironmental degradation in our industry. dards and we discontinued it, but we continue to explore In fiscal 2010, about 55% of our coffee other alternative packaging materials. was sourced conventionally. We continue to expand our Fair Trade Certified™ and  We use recycled paperboard in packaging products. Fair Trade Certified™ Organic lines with the intent of reducing the share of conventional sourcing in our total coffee purchases. 44 % of consumers Feel that an independent third-party certification is the best way to verify a product’s claims. Source: Fair Trade USA/Globescan research, 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 51 WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE Many of our sustainability efforts — from production to disposal — demonstrate our belief that individuals, companies, communities, and organizations can achieve more working together than apart. Sharing ideas and perspectives, developing joint guidelines and collaborating on solutions provide opportunities for everyone involved to benefit. With this in mind, we build strong ongoing relationships with farmers, suppliers, and manufacturers throughout our global supply chain. We seek out the opinions of our employees, and provide benefits and programs that attract and retain the best Working together for people. We reach out to local organizations change has been part through our grantmaking, volunteer, and of how we approach product-donation programs. These efforts all our work. not only help keep us connected to communities where we live and work in meaningful ways, but they also fuel growth and drive profitability for our company. 52 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Buildin Product WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE Workin Creatin WHERE WE’RE GOING in Fiscal 2011 We intend to benchmark best practices in supply chain transparency and develop a recommendation for expanding and improving our Supplier Guidelines We intend to develop a policy and implement programs related to the United Nations’ recent expansion of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to include the Human Right to Water. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 53 United Nations Global Compact In March 2004, Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. In signing the UN compact, we recognized became the first coffee company to sign the United Nations that many of our environmental and corporate Global Compact. The Global Compact is a strategic policy sustainability efforts supported its guiding initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted prinprinciples. The overlay of the Global Compact ciples in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and is another effective tool for tracking our anti-corruption. success and planning future initiatives. In signing the Global Compact, we agreed to:  Support the Global Compact and its principles;  Revise our business operations so that the Global Compact and its principles become part of our strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations;  Publicly advocate the Global Compact and its principles via communication vehicles such as press releases, speeches, etc.; and  Publish in our annual report or similar corporate report (e.g., sustainability report) a description of the ways in which we support the Global Compact and its principles. In signing the UN compact, we recognized that many of our environmental and corporate sustainability efforts supported its guiding principles. The overlay of the Global Compact is another effective tool for tracking our success and planning future initiatives. We meet the commitments of the compact in a variety of ways, from the expectations we set for our vendors and our code of ethics, to our investment in Fair Trade products. Each specific effort falls under one of the broader categories of human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. We have provided highlights of those efforts here and a full UNGC Index can be found on our website, www.brewingabetterworld.com. 54 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Buildin Product WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE Workin Creatin Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and  Fair Trade Certified™ coffee was 25.5% of our respect the protection of internationally proclaimed total coffee pounds shipped; human rights.  We substantially achieved enterprise-wide goals Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they and programs around energy use and solid waste; are not complicit in human rights abuses.  We supported 52 grants in our supply chain in How We Support These Principles: support of human and economic development, 34 Code of Ethics of which started in fiscal 2010, including: In our operations, we maintain a Code of Ethics. Every employee is required to read, understand and  An education program in partnership with acknowledge compliance with our Code, which Coffee Kids that will provide nearly 900 scholadvocates respect for individual rights and property, arships over four years to students in northern and provides mechanisms such as anonymous hotNicaragua. lines for employees to report unethical behavior. Our Code of Ethics speaks to a variety of cir A financial training program directed by cumstances in which corruption could occur. For all Root Capital providing financial education and employees, our code requires: coaching to help coffee farmers in Latin America develop alternative sources of income.  Accurate reporting;  A health project with Grounds for Health  Compliance with all laws, rules, and regulatory combating cervical cancer in Mexico, Central requirements; America and Tanzania.  Good faith during all interactions with local,  A climate change initiative with Coffee state, and federal organizations; Under Pressure to better understand how climate change will affect nearly 7,000 farm Communication that is direct, honest, and in ers in Nicaragua and other Central American accordance with all rights and responsibilities relecountries. vant to our company and its operations when communicating with any government officials and in  A food security project with Heifer connection with any lobbying activities; International in Chiapas, Mexico, helping farming families develop alternative sources of food  Avoidance of potential and actual conflicts of and income. interest; Other efforts that promote respect for human  Responsible stewardship of corporate assets rights and address quality of life issues include and opportunities; and our Supplier Guidelines. Developed in fiscal 2007, these guidelines set clear standards for our supply Fair dealing, specifically with respect to anti-trust chain partners that focus on providing employees laws and fair competitive practices. with safe and legal labor conditions. In the past two years we’ve worked to share and measure supplier We stand behind the Global Compact’s Human compliance by creating tools, self-assessments, Rights Principles in coffee-growing communisurveys, and on-site assessments by our staff as ties through our support for and investment in Fair well as commissioned audits of vendor facilities. Trade Certified™ coffees. In doing so, we become better partners, working Many of our social and environmental respontogether with our suppliers to build stronger, more sibility programs and initiatives speak directly to sustainable business practices. human rights. In all cases, they help create an environment in which quality of life and respect for human rights can be supported. For example, in fiscal 2010, our efforts led to the following: Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 55 Labor Standards Environment Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary association and the effective recognition of the right to approach to environmental challenges. collective bargaining. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to proPrinciple 4 Businesses should support the elimination of mote greater environmental responsibility. all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the developPrinciple 5 Businesses should support the effective ment and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. abolition of child labor. How We Support These Principles: Principle 6 Businesses should support the elimination of The Precautionary Principle discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our commitment to the Global Compact’s environmental principles is aligned with the Precautionary Principle, which How We Support These Principles: states that “[w]here there are threats of serious or irreversWe support the Global Compact’s labor standards princiible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be ples in coffee-growing communities through our investment used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to in Fair Trade Certified™ coffees. The Fair Trade certification prevent environmental degradation.” process sets requirements for labor standards, including: We support the Precautionary Principle through:  Compliance with International Labor Organization (ILO)  Our commitment to the reduction of solid waste and Convention 111, which prohibits discrimination on the reduction of energy consumption: basis of race, color, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction, or social origin;  In fiscal 2010, we set a 10% reduction target for our waste-to-landfill metric for our three Vermont facilities  No forced and compulsory labor; and we exceeded it, cutting waste sent to landfill by 16.9% relative to net sales allocated to these specific  Child labor on a farm producing Fair Trade Certified™ locations. coffee is restricted to children aged 15 years or older, provided that their work is safe and appropriate and does not  We reduced our overall Specialty Coffee business jeopardize their schooling or moral or physical developunit metric by 19.3% as compared to fiscal '09. ment; and  Our greenhouse gas offset program, which offsets 100%  Compliance with ILO Conventions 87 and 88, which proof our greenhouse gas emissions through the purchase of vide for the right to organize, to self-govern such organizarenewable-energy certificates (RECs). Our REC purchases tions and to be protected from anti-union discrimination. support the development of green energy infrastructure, such as wind farms and methane-recapture facilities. We operate under applicable labor laws in states where we have operations. These laws prohibit a company from  The installation of a 100kW solar array on the roof of terminating an individual because the person has choour Waterbury, Vermont distribution center. On a sunny day sen to enter into a union or collective bargaining. We have this solar array is capable of generating enough electricnot developed a written policy independent of these laws, ity to supply more than half of the Waterbury facility’s averwhich are regulated by state and government agencies. age demand. We maintain a specific policy prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, ancestry, religion, gender, age, marital or civil union status, national origin, sexual orientation, place of birth, veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected classification. Our Supplier Guidelines, developed in fiscal 2007, for our supply-chain partners, outline legal compliance regarding forced labor, child labor, wages and benefits, hours of work, freedom of association, discrimination and abuse, health, safety, and environmental responsibility. 56 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Buildin Product WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE Workin Creatin  The installation of a 10,000-gallon biodiesel fueling tank at our Waterbury facility. Today, all of our Waterbury-based delivery fleet runs on biodiesel.  Our ongoing research into alternative packaging materials for our K-Cup® packs.  Our introduction of both hot and cold “to-go” cups and lids made with renewable corn-based materials.  Our introduction of packaging film made with over 19% renewable plant-based materials.  The replacement of light fixtures in our Waterbury, Vermont distribution center and production plant with high-efficiency lamps. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. How We Support This Principle: We fully support the Global Compact’s principles related to anti-corruption through strict adherence to our internal code of ethics, which requires compliance with all laws, rules, and regulatory requirements. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 57 creating aN exceptional workplace Our commitment to sustainability and healthier lives and economies extends to our own workplace. Creating an exceptional workplace is a shared responsibilWe added ity that contributes to the success of both We hired a new Costa our company and our employees. We fostwo additional safety Rica employee ter opportunities for our people to learn, experts to improve our “origin trip.” develop, and advance in their careers and safety measures and lives. In turn, our employees recognize their programs and launched a responsibility in taking advantage of these multi-site manufacturing opportunities to benefit themselves as well safety council. as the company. The results are good for everyone. For example, when employees are engaged and motivated, they are more productive and enjoy longer tenures with a company. When our work environment supports learning and development, we are better able to attract and retain the best people. And when we cultivate leaders from within the company, we provide growth opportunities for employees while strengthening We rolled out our organization. Module One of our new Some of the opportunities our employ“Our Winning Combination” ees enjoy help instill a personal committraining program, an enterprisement to sustainability. When employees wide continuous learning initiative feel personally connected to our core valfocused on the importance of, and ues they can help innovate solutions to furintersection between, financial ther company goals. strength, strong brands, and corporate social responsibility. WHERE WE’VE BEEN in Fiscal 2010 We logged over 97,000 hours of continuous learning, exceeding our aggregate hours goal. This equated to approximately 45 hours of training for each full-time employee, on average. 58 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Workin CREATING An exceptional workplace Creatin WHERE WE’RE GOING in Fiscal 2011 We will deliver two additonal modules of the “Our Winning We intend Combination” training to deliver at least program. 30 hours of educational training for each employee. We intend to fill 20% of our new positions internally. We intend to pilot a new Colombia employee “origin trip.” Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 59 Fiscal 2010 NUMBERS AT A GLANCE Compensation and Benefits Fiscal 2008 2 Fiscal 2009 2 Fiscal 2010 Company payment of insurance premiums (percentage, on average) 90% 1 90% 90% Dollars spent on medical benefits as a percentage of payroll 1 13.6% 13.4% 12.80% Hiring and Development Fiscal 2008 2 Fiscal 2009 2 Fiscal 2010 Internal hiring 1 19% 18.6% 23% Average training hours per full-time employee 49 1 46 45 Percentage of full-time employees who have visited coffee-growing communities 18.0% 13.3% 10.80% Percent of full-time employees who reached or exceeded our goal of 30 hours of training each year NM NM 58% Safety Fiscal 2008 2 Fiscal 2009 2 Fiscal 2010 Injury severity (DART rate) 1 4.68 4.23 3.21 Workers’ compensation claims 81 97 145 Injury frequency (total recordable incidence rate) 1 4.90 5.06 4.03 Occupational fatalities 0 0 0 Interstate experience modification factor 1 .89 1.9 .98 Retention and Satisfaction Fiscal 2008 2 Fiscal 2009 2 Fiscal 2010 Employee Retention 1 91% 92% 91% Percentage employees agreeing that GMCR is an “Overall Great Place To Work” 88% 93% 75% Percentage employees agreeing that “We have special and unique benefits here” 86% 91% 88% 1 Specialty Coffee Business Unit only 2 These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. 60 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Workin CREATING An exceptional workplace Creatin Understanding Employee Perspectives To deliver on our responsibility to create a exceptional place to work, it’s essential that we understand the needs, expectations, and perspectives of our employees. We regularly gather their feedback through surveys and other diagnostic tools, and use this information to set goals and priorities, measure progress, identify opportunities for improvement, and enhance programs. Our fiscal 2010 goals included: the Great Place to Work  Continuing the goal of at least 30 hours of educational training per employee. Trust Index  Hiring two additional safety experts to improve programs and to launch A periodic company-wide survey a multi-site safety council. that measures employee pride, camaraderie, respect, credibility,  Filling 20% of our new positions internally. and fairness. www.GreatPlaceToWork.com  Continuing to support employee coffee source trips and adding Costa Rica as a new destination.  Establishing a partnership with Global Corporate College to provide training programs to all our sites.  Launching our GMCR Leadership Model to senior leaders and directors enterprise-wide. Through this model we solicit feedback locally, probing on important issues relevant to specific sites.  Launching Our Winning Combination, a culture-building employee experience highlighting the interdependency of financial success, strong brands and CSR. great Place To Work Trust Index Focus areas of the Great Place to Work Trust Index Fiscal 2006 1 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Credibility 75% 78% 83% 78% Respect shown in the workplace 79% 81% 84% 79% Fair treatment within the organization by management 77% 78% 81% 77% Pride in work and company 85% 87% 91% 86% Camaraderie with peers 85% 84% 88% 81% Overall, this is a Great Place to Work 85% 88% 93% 75% 1 Specialty Coffee Business Unit Only Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 61 A Holistic Approach to Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, inc. – Employee Benefits Our goal is to provide employees with the opportunity Employee Benefits for sustainable employment. While their job or responPaid Time Off sibilities may change over time, we want them to be Vacation time able to learn and grow with the company. Holidays This commitment includes offering total compensation that goes beyond just a livable wage and proSick leave viding programs that enhance the lives of employees beyond what a paycheck can deliver, including: Health Care Coverage Covers employee, spouse/domestic partner, and family  Flexible Work Arrangements: as determined by job Includes options for dental and vision coverage and location, ranging from compressed work weeks to Includes Flexible Spending Accounts for health care and child care paid time off. 90% employer paid on average  New Ways of Looking at Cash Compensation: Basic Insurance programs to reduce employee expenses, such as our Includes Life, AD&D, Short-Term Disability, and Long-Term Disability wellness program, sliding-scale insurance contributions, profit sharing, and standards-based pay rates. 100% employer paid Employee Assistance Program  Beyond Cash Compensation: company-assisted health, dental, and vision insurance; company-paid life Adoption Assistance and disability insurance plans; an employee hardship  Up to $4,500 fund; flexible-benefit and health-savings plans; depen Maximum two adoptions dent-care assistance plan; tuition reimbursement; referParental leave rals for services such as an Employee Assistance Plan; and 401(k) plans.  Paid maternity leave  Unpaid maternity and paternity leave Bereavement Leave Education Assistance  Extensive onsite learning opportunities  Employees eligible for up to $3,000 in tuition assistance annually  Dependent children eligible for $2,000 scholarships (24 offered annually) Relocation Assistance Wellness Reimbursement  Up to $500 per year  Activities of family members eligible as well Financial Benefits  Employee stock purchase program  Profit-sharing bonus program  401(k) program, with employer matching up to 6%1 Energy Efficiency Assistance  Reimbursement up to $1000 per year for eligible energy efficiency improvements in employees’ homes 1 U.S. employees only 62 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Workin CREATING An exceptional workplace Creatin Compensation Safety Drawing on the work of Vermont Businesses Our priority is to ensure the safety of all employees. Each for Social Responsibility (www.VBSR. year, our goal is to reduce accidents and other safetyorg) and its Livable Jobs Toolkit, we apply related incidents by 10%. We met this goal in fiscal 2010 by regional and state economic data to creproviding employees with extensive training and education. ate a compensation model that more accuWe expect all employees to understand and comply with rately accounts for the full range of benefits our stringent safety policies. Various formal policies include — financial and nonfinancial — that we offer safety procedures for all manufacturing buildings, a policy our employees. on visitors in the workplace, safety expectations for each As we do each year, in fiscal 2010, we job, and pre-employment physicals to ensure jobs can be analyzed full-time pay rates by region under completed safely. this model to understand and implement During orientation all new employees tour a manufacturneeded adjustments. ing plant and receive training on safety basics. We also hold two additional in-depth orientations on safety for employHealth and Wellness ees who work in manufacturing or supply-chain jobs. Because wellness is the cornerstone of If an accident does occur in the workplace, we adhere to a healthy workplace, we offer employees our incident reporting procedures. We have workers’ coma variety of programs that promote good pensation insurance for job-related incidents as well as dishealth including breathing, meditation, and ability insurance for incidents outside the workplace that stretching into employees' daily schedules; disrupt an employee’s ability to work. All GMCR buildon-site and company-paid screenings for ings are equipped with an Automated External Defibrillator blood pressure, cholesterol, and biometrics; (AED), and we have trained employees on hand to adminisannual flu shots; and a wellness reimburseter the AED in case of an emergency. ment of up to $500 to support health-club memberships, massage, weight-loss programs, and smoking cessation. GMCR Employee Safety Each year, we host educational Wellness Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fairs at our major locations to motivate 2008 2009 2010 healthy behaviors. We reward employees who engage in preventive actions related to Injury severity (DART rate) 1 4.68 4.23 3.21 taking care of themselves. We also encourWorkers’ 81 97 145 age healthy lifestyle choices to support compensation claims employees’ health and wellness both in the Injury frequency (total recordable 4.9 5.06 4.03 workplace and at home. incidence rate) 1 Occupational fatalities 0 0 0 Interstate experience modification factor 1 0.89 1.9 .98 1 Specialty Coffee Business Unit Only Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 63 Learning and Development Continuous learning enables and drives our employees’ personal growth as Our Winning Combination well as improvements in our corporate bottom line. Training and education Our Winning Combination is a new prepare our workers to thrive in a competitive, constantly changing econinteractive learning experience we omy by keeping them nimble, adaptable, and prepared for jobs of the future. developed in fiscal 2010. The program To support ongoing learning, we offer a wide array of training opportunities, engages teams of employees on from extensive coursework in leadership, supervisory, and personal develthe topics of financial strategy, opment, to writing skills and safety training. Employees can attend standbrand strategy, and corporate alone workshops and workshop series, or take self-study courses offered social responsibility. Participants online and via CDs. learn about the important concepts In fiscal 2010, our goal was to deliver 30 hours of education or training to in each topic, how those concepts every full-time employee. Our organization totaled 97,131 hours of training relate to our business, and, most for the year, an average of 45 training hours per full-time employee. 58% of importantly, how our success in full-time employees met or exceeded this goal in FY10. each area supports success in the We pay up to $3,000 per year for tuition, books, equipment, or fees other two areas. We rolled out the for work-related classes for our employees. In fiscal 2010, 50 employees first module of Our Winning Comreceived tuition assistance, for a total benefit of $110,000 (as compared with bination to all employees in fiscal 57 employees and a total benefit of $63,957 in fiscal 2009). 2010 and we plan to deliver two Also in fiscal 2010, we awarded twelve $2,000 scholarships for post-secadditional modules in fiscal 2011, ondary education in college and vocational programs for the children of our again to all employees. full-time employees who have at least one year of service with our company. These scholarships were selected by a neutral third party, Scholarship Management Services. Since 1992, we have given employees the opportunity to travel to coffeegrowing communities to learn firsthand how coffee is grown and harvested. Continuous Learning These “source trips” are a way for us to reward tenure or outstanding performance, build teamwork, and allow employees to directly experience coffee Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal from tree to cup. Today, we send approximately 48 employees each year on 2008 1 2009 2010 four trips — to Mexico, Guatemala, Costa Rica, and Nicaragua. At the end Total recorded hours 48,422 69,912 97,131 of fiscal 2010, 10% of our current full-time employees had participated in a Average training hours company-sponsored source trip. 49 46 45 per full-time employee % employees met or exceeded 30 training NA NA 58% hours 1 Specialty Coffee Business Unit Only 64 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Workin CREATING An exceptional workplace Creatin Shared Financial Success Employees from all business units are eligible to participate in our Stock Purchase Plan. The plan allows staff to use payroll deductions over six months to purchase company stock at a 15% discount to the market price on the first or last day of the program, whichever is lower. The program has two entry dates per year. In fiscal 2010, 65% of our fulltime workers used this program. Our 401(k) plan provides an opportunity for U.S.-based full-time employees to defer up to 100% of their compensation before taxes, subject to federal limits, in annual 401(k) plan contributions. The company matches 50% (for up to a 6% deferral) and offers more than 40 mutual fund options for employee investment, including socially responsible mutual funds. Seventy-three percent of full-time U.S.-based employees participated in our 401(k) program in fiscal 2010, compared with 75% in fiscal 2009. Family We reimburse eligible adoption expenses incurred by fulltime employees from all business units, up to $4,500 for each adoption per family for up to two adoptions. Eligible expenses include adoption agency fees, placement fees, lawyers’ fees, and other required legal fees. In the past we’ve had employees take full advantage of this benefit, but in fiscal 2010, no employees applied for assistance. DIVERSITY Women made up 33.4% of management and 36.3% of our total workforce. Employees self-identifying themselves as non-white made up of 7.0% of our management and 15.5% of our total workforce. We define management as employees in the official Equal Employment Opportunity categories of Executive/Senior Level Officials/Managers and First/MidLevel Officials and Managers. Two women served on our eight-member Board of Directors at the end of fiscal 2010. The Boston Club recognized us in their 2003 and 2005 Corporate Salute, in which they honor companies with two or more women on their boards of directors. Two of our six Executive Officers and three of eight direct reports to the Chief Executive Officer are women. Partners of our full-time employees all qualify equally for our benefits, whether they are spouses, domestic partners, or partners through a civil union. This policy, established in 1999, embodies the kind of respect for human dignity we expect in our workplace, and we believe it will help us attract a more diverse workforce, especially in areas outside Vermont. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2010 65 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Fiscal 2010 was a year of tremendous growth and leadership. We invested in our business and brands and expanded our product offering with great success. When we look back, it’s clear that 2010 was also a time of assessing and revisiting programs and choices we’ve made along the path of our CSR journey. Here are some of the highlights of what we accomplished in 2010: PARTNERING WITH SUPPLYPROTECTING CHAIN COMMUNITIES THE ENVIRONMENT SUPPORTING LOCAL The growth of our enterprise COMMUNITIES We worked to improve food security this year offered up an opporin Africa and Indonesia, furthered tunity for careful reevaluation of educational opportunities for stuthe tools and processes we use Our grants funded programs for dents in Nicaragua, and expanded to determine our environmental local and national organizations with our support of health care projects in performance. Over the course a focus on improving the lives of Guatemala and Rwanda. of the year, while evaluating women and children as well as on where we would like to go with social and environmental issues. In our enterprise, we made strong fiscal 2010, our employees gained progress reducing our SCBU even more opportunity to volunteer overall energy metrics. during work-day hours. CREATING An exceptional workplace We acted on our commitment to maintain a healthy workplace this year in several ways. BUILdiNG AWARENESS AND Most notably, we provided ongoing education DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE and training opportunities for every employee, PRODUCTS increased safety measures and programs, and offered leadership development and opportunity for growth within the company. Our focus for fiscal 2010 centered on continuing to build demand for responsibly grown coffees and sustainable products. We also pursued research and development to increase sustainability in our WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE product line and packaging. When individuals, companies, communities, and organizations work together, significant change is possible. We take that approach every day within company walls and beyond. We build strong relationships with our employees, suppliers, and manufacturers in order to create sustainable practices and provide opportunities that benefit everyone. 66 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. credits Environmental Benefits Statement Writing This report uses 2,097 lbs. of paper which has a Alling Henning Associates Inc. post-consumer recycled percentage of 100%. www.Aha-Writers.com The savings below are achieved when post-consumer recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber. Photography Many of the photos in this report were 20 trees preserved for the future taken by employees volunteering through our CAFE Time program or while visiting 58 lbs. waterborne waste not created coffee-growing communities around the world. We thank them for sharing their 8,552 gallons wastewater flow saved experiences with us. 946 lbs. solid waste not generated Page 21 photo by David Estrada. 1,863 lbs. net greenhouse gases prevented Design 14,259,600 BTUs energy not consumed Free Range Studios www.FreeRange.com Savings from the use of emission-free wind-generated electricity: 946 lbs. air emissions not generated Printing Villanti & Sons Printers / Milton, VT Displaces this amount of fossil fuel: www.Villanti.com 1 barrel of fuel oil not used In other words your savings from the use of Paper wind-generated electricity are equivalent to: Mohawk not driving 936 miles or planting 64 trees www.MohawkConnects.com Paper Specifications Mohawk Options 100% PC White Smooth Technical Notes and Sources Calculations to demonstrate the environmental benefits of using recycled fiber in lieu of virgin fiber are based primarily upon information publicly available at: http://www.environmentaldefense.org/ documents/1687_figures.pdf FSC Logo Calculations to demonstrate the benefits of supporting offsite wind generated electric power and carbon emission reduction projects are based primarily upon Mohawk’s corporate-wide greenhouse gas emissions inventory. This inventory was develGreen E Logo oped to include Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions according to the US EPA Climate Leaders Program technical guidance which is publicly available at: http://www.epa.gov/stateply/resources/ index.html Calculator outputs specifically represent Mohawk operations and its unique greenhouse gas emissions profile. They cannot be considered representative of other organizations. Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. 33 Coffee Lane, Waterbury, VT 05676 phone 1.888.TRY.GMCR email csr@gmcr.com www.GreenMountainCoffee.com
