Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 epor t Environmental R Product-related Initiatives for the Environment Contents Editorial Policy Contents•Editorial Policy•Corporate Profile 1 We publish the Minebea Group CSR Report annually as a way to inform our stakeholders of our Group’s CSR Commitment from the President 3 approach and initiatives. This year, in addition to explaining Damage from Thai Floods and Response 5 key initiatives representative of our efforts in a CSR Report, Minebea Products in Society 7 we have supplemented the report with information on our corporate website on various other activities and detailed Ball Bearings Pursuing data. Special Feature 1 the Limits of Precision 9 For the third year of the publication of the CSR Report, we conducted a review of the CSR goals for FY2011 Special Developing CSR Together established last year. Based on this review, we have Feature 2 with Suppliers 13 formulated new FY2012 and medium-term CSR goals which are disclosed in the Management Report. Thailand, where Minebea Group’s main manufacturing Management Report facilities are located, suffered from flooding in FY2011, and our sites were also damaged. This report provides Minebea Group CSR 17 information on the damage to our facilities and our Corporate Governance 18 response. We consider the publication of the CSR Report to be one Compliance 19 important means of communication with stakeholders, and Risk Management 20 in keeping with this approach, we have endeavored to make CSR Promotion Activity Goals and Results 21 the contents relevant and clear. We are always pleased to receive forthright comments from our readers on our CSR activities. Social Report Relationships with Customers 23 Relationships with Employees 25 Scope of report Relationships with Local Communities and Minebea and its 44 group companies Global Society 29 Relationships with Suppliers 31 Period covered by this report FY2011 (April 1, 2011–March 31, 2012) Relationships with Shareholders 32 However, this includes some activities before this period and from FY2012. Publishing information Environmental Report Published September 2012 (previous edition published September 2011; next edition planned for September 2013) Environmental Management 33 CSR website URL Initiatives for Preventing Global Warming 36 http://www.minebea.co.jp/english/environment/index.html Initiatives for Effective Use of Resources 37 Reference guidelines Initiatives for Reducing Impacts on Japanese Standards Association, ISO 26000:2010 (guidance on social responsibility) the Environment 38 GRI “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (edition 3.1) Japanese Ministry of the Environment “Environmental Reporting Guidelines” (2007 edition) Product-related Initiatives for the Environment 39 Enquiries regarding this report CSR Promotion Office, Corporate Finance & Compliance Promotion Division, Minebea Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-3-5434-8653 Third-party Opinion 40 1 39 Minebea Minebea Group Group CSR CSR Report Report 2012 2012 Corporate Profile (as of March 31, 2012) Corporate name Minebea Co., Ltd. Net sales by business segment (FY2011) Headquarters 4106-73 Oaza Miyota, Miyota-machi, Kitasaku-gun, Nagano Others Machined components 6% 43% 389-0293, Japan 15,068 107,037 TEL: +81-267-32-2200 (million yen) (million yen) Electronic devices Tokyo head office 19F Arco Tower, 1-8-1 Shimo-Meguro, Meguro-ku, Tokyo and components 153-8662, Japan 15% TEL: +81-3-5434-8611 37,887 (million yen) Established July 16, 1951 Capital 68,258 million yen Representative Yoshihisa Kainuma, Representative Director, Rotary components President and Chief Executive Officer 36% 91,363 Main business Machined components business, rotary components business, (million yen) electronic devices and components business, and others Net sales Consolidated: 251,358 million yen Operating income Consolidated: 8,599 million yen Total production by region (FY2011) Ordinary income Consolidated: 6,499 million yen North America Europe Net income Consolidated: 5,922 million yen 9% 4% Japan Number of employees 51,406 persons 9% Malaysia Number of consolidated 40 companies 1% subsidiaries and affiliates China Thailand 21% 52% Net sales Operating income (billion yen) (billion yen) 350 35 300 30 Singapore 250 25 4% 200 20 150 15 100 10 50 5 0 0 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net sales by region (FY2011) Others China (including Hong Kong) 18% 24% Ordinary income Net income (billion yen) (billion yen) 30 20 25 15 Europe 20 11% 15 10 10 5 United States 5 10% 0 0 Thailand Japan (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 13% 24% Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 2 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Commitment from the President Looking Back on FY2011 The Minebea Group Basic CSR Policy states: “As a manufacturer of precision products supporting society, the Minebea Group is working toward stable supply and making reliable products with low energy consumption widely available, to contribute to the sustainable development of the global environment and of humanity.” FY2011 was a year in which both our long-held commitment to “manufacturing with sincerity” and our Basic CSR Policy were put to the test. The nuclear power plant accident precipitated by the Great East Japan Earthquake caused a paradigm shift in the nation’s entire socio-economic structure regarding domestic demand and supply for energy. Debates are being held on a national level about how the required amount of energy can be supplied and how best to distribute this energy. The need to reduce energy consumption has become an urgent concern shared among all, from industry to individuals. At Minebea, we recognize that the enhancement of the products we manufacture both directly and indirectly Yoshihisa Kainuma impacts the reduction in energy consumption. We are Representative Director President and Chief Executive Officer committed to continuing the development of safe, Minebea Co., Ltd. energy-efficient, and resource-efficient products. The Great East Japan Earthquake severely response measures in accordance with our Basic CSR disrupted industrial supply chains, including our own. In Policy, restarting manufacturing only after conducting Thailand, meanwhile, flooding caused damage to two research and verifying that during the process of of our five manufacturing sites, and brought about restoring operations, the massive flooding had not serious consequences including long suspensions of impacted the environment. operations at the local facilities of many companies Furthermore, in January 2012, we announced our including other Japanese corporations in the affected participation in the UN Global Compact as part of our region. These unforeseen natural disasters challenged CSR activities. The Minebea Group prides itself on us to overcome a host of issues, including the loss of being a global organization, boasting operations power and other core infrastructure, disruption and around the world and a diverse workforce of dedicated disorder to manufacturing and distribution, as well as employees working hard together through close the upheaval caused to the lives of our employees. communication to raise the value of our manufacturing Our Thai manufacturing sites produce a number of capabilities. As a global organization, it is natural for products with high global market shares, which is not the Minebea Group to abide by the Global Compact’s only a key source of the corporate value for the Minebea 10 principles as a way of fulfilling our social responsibility. Group, but also brings with it a significant supplier We have always been progressive in fulfilling this responsibility. To fulfill our obligations in this regard, we obligation, and the participation in the Global Compact responded to the Thai floods by implementing a Groupwill only spur us to raise our sights higher. wide business continuity plan (BCP) which included FY2011 was also a year in which we embarked on emergency responses to the flooding of manufacturing new CSR challenges. We formulated the CSR facilities, securement of heavy machinery and Procurement Guidelines in order to strengthen our manufacturing equipment, measures to quickly restore relations with suppliers and promote our CSR activities operations, and steps to ensure the safety and throughout the supply chain. Additionally, we are transportation means of employees. We implemented conducting supplier dialogues as a way to encourage 3 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 frank opinion exchanges with our suppliers. These new force that enabled the employees to overcome the initiatives are promoting a better understanding of the crisis. Minebea Group’s approach to manufacturing and We are still facing a severe business environment, creating new opportunities for exchanges of views. The but overcoming the crisis has united us and provided Commitment from the President holding of these dialogues with many suppliers is the new momentum as we enter the first year of the new first step in our initiative to mutually enhance our CSR Medium-term Business Plan. programs and build a socially responsible global The core strength of the Minebea Group has always procurement scheme by FY2015. been our belief in “manufacturing with sincerity.” People In the area of the environment, we have revised our are what make this possible. We will leverage the Environmental Philosophy as the Minebea Group superior know-how and capabilities developed over the Environmental Policy. We have enhanced the policy by years to continue to expand in global markets. At the Floods in Thailand disclosing our environmental protection technologies, same time, we will use this know-how to establish a as well as by making a commitment to contribute to Group-wide BCP and reinforce our operations to international society through awareness of the potential ensure that we can fulfill our responsibility as a supplier impact of our business activities on biodiversity and to customers throughout the world. through efforts to protect nature. Minebea Products in Society Last year, the establishment of our medium-term CSR goals was brought up by third-party experts, and Aiming for Sustainable Growth in Step based on an evaluation of the results of goals set in with Society FY2011, we formulated new goals for FY2015. Moving Since being appointed president, I have focused my forward, we will strive to accelerate progress on energies on enhancing the comprehensive capabilities achieving our medium-term CSR goals. of the Minebea Group. More than ever, I feel that the key to promoting “manufacturing with sincerity” lies in the passion each employee has for manufacturing and Special Feature Fulfilling Our Responsibility as a Supplier their collective hard work. To commemorate the 60th Based on “Manufacturing with Sincerity” anniversary of the company, we have created a new During the floods in Thailand, I joined the local response corporate message to embody this idea: “Passion to headquarters and took charge of the response team. At Exceed Precision.” This message reflects our our manufacturing sites, I saw all our employees take employees’ passion towards raising precision levels Management Report part in efforts to confront the disaster with the conviction and achieving ultra-precise manufacturing, as well as that they were protecting their own workplace. Each for realizing a new manufacturing model that surpasses day, under the burning sun, more than 3,000 employees standard components manufacturers. This message collaborated to build embankments against the will be a new slogan for our commitment to sustainable floodwaters, and despite the hardship, they never lost growth as a global corporate citizen and the various their good spirit. activities we undertake with passion to realize our goal. The first of the “Five Principles” which make up My hope is that the publication of the Minebea Minebea’s basic management policy is, “Be a company Group CSR Report enables all of our stakeholders to Social Report where our employees are proud to work.” It was during see the progress we are making in our business this flood response that I had the opportunity to see just activities and our CSR initiatives. We look forward to how deeply ingrained this principle is. I was encouraged comments from many stakeholders and will strive to by how this strong sentiment had become the driving reflect the comments in our future business activities. Supporting the UN Global Compact Environmental Report UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact was launched in 2000 based upon a proposal by former Secretary-General Kofi Annan. Clearly supported by current UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, the UN Global Compact is a United Nations initiative in which businesses demonstrate responsible and creative leadership and voluntarily participate in efforts to establish a worldwide framework that enables them to act as good corporate citizens and achieve sustainable growth. The UN Global Compact is comprised of 10 principles promoting the protection of human rights, the elimination of unfair labor practices, the protection of the environment, and anti-corruption. More than 10,000 organizations (including approximately 7,000 companies) worldwide have adopted these principles and continue to take measures to achieve them. Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 4 Damage from Thai Floods and Response In October 2011, flooding occurring mainly in the central region of Thailand caused THAILAND significant damage to many companies, including the local operations of Japanese companies. The Minebea Group was also affected, with the local subsidiary Lop Buri Plant Ayutthaya Plant suspending operations and the flooding of manufacturing plants (Rojana and Rojana Plant Navanakorn Plants). The Group’s three largest manufacturing sites in the country, Bang Pa-in Plant however, escaped damage and were able to maintain their manufacturing capacity. Chao Phraya Navanakorn Plant This is the result of the efforts of many employees to minimize the impact of the River Bangkok floods. Despite the severe working environment, the employees never lost their good spirits and each took active part in the activities to protect the company. This feature reviews the rapidly changing situation from the start of the flooding, the countermeasures the Group took, along with the support activities of the employees. Flooding Damage and Response October 1st Flooding begins to prevent some Thailand for plant opening ceremony. Countermeasures taken to minimize employees from commuting to work. Senior management joins Local floodwaters inside plant; Pumps Countermeasures Office to support used to pump water out of plant. 3rd The general manager of the response. Water supply restored at Karuizawa Plant Maintenance First floor of Rojana Plant flooded. Ayutthaya Plant. Department and one other employee are dispatched to Thailand to 11th President takes part in 19th Emergency meeting of Risk support flooding countermeasures. countermeasures meeting and holds Management Committee convened; discussions with Thai government Water levels around Ayutthaya Plant 5th Construction of earth embankments officials. begin to decline. begins around Ayutthaya Plant. Water levels inside Lop Buri Plant decline. 20th Operations restarted at Bang Pa-in 6th Areas around family dormitories at Sandbag piling at Bang Pa-in Plant; Electric power transmission Lop Buri Plant flooded. Plant carried out with support of restored at Ayutthaya Plant and Piling of sandbags begins at many employees and Japanese preparations are made to restart Rojana Plant. expatriates; Information collection operations. activities using helicopter begin. President returns to Japan. 7th Local Countermeasures Office (Bang Pa-in) and Management 12th President leaves Thailand. 21st Dump trucks begin to be used to Headquarters (Meguro) are set up. transport employees to work; Operations suspended at Rojana 14 th President returns to Japan and Navanakorn Plant flooded. and Ayutthaya Plants due to leaves again for Thailand on night suspension of power and water flight. 24th Floodwaters reach central Bangkok. supplies. Rojana Industrial Park Navanakorn industrial park requests plant to suspend operations. temporarily closed. 25th Operations restarted at Ayutthaya Plant. 8th Ayutthaya Plant family dormitories 15th Bang Pa-in Plant operations flooded; Rojana Industrial Park suspended to assure safety of plant 28th Recovery of metal molds and temporarily closed due to flooding. employees; Construction of earth inventories begins at Rojana Plant. 15 diggers and 15 dump trucks embankments continues; Thai army deployed at Bang Pa-in Plant and personnel supporting disaster relief November 9th Drainage activities begin at Rojana construction of earth embankments arrive at Bang Pa-in Plant and begin Industrial Park. begins around plant. to provide support, including overseeing embankment 10th Machine tool maintenance activities 9th Earth embankments around construction; Bang Pa-in Plant begin at Navanakorn Plant. Ayutthaya Plant completed and provides facilities for stationing army piling of sandbags begins with help units. 18th Drainage activities begin at of employees and Japanese Navanakorn Industrial Park. expatriates; Floodwaters rise around 17th Evacuation order announced at plant; Risk management manager Navanakorn industrial park; 3,149 23rd Water levels at Rojana Plant decline from Personnel & General Affairs employees, including local below floor level and operation Department dispatched to support employees, Japanese expatriates, restoration activities begin. flooding response. and Japanese dispatched to plant, take part in response activities at 30th Water levels at Navanakorn Plant 10th Senior management, including Bang Pa-in Plant. decline below floor level and president, vice president, and senior operation restoration activities managing executive officer, travel to 18th Navanakorn Plant flooded; begin. President Kainuma and Water level measurement points are established Earth embankments constructed with heavy A total of 45 diggers and others inspect situation around the plants and the water levels are measured machinery are covered with plastic sheets; Many dump trucks are deployed. inside Navanakorn Plant. every two hours when levels are high. employees cooperate due to the large scale of the embankments. Food is distributed at Food and water are distributed to local residents; To accelerate the restart of operations, employees Inside a double embankment on the west evacuation centers. Boats are used for distribution because nearly all carry out maintenance activities despite pools of side of the Bang Pa-in Plant, pumps are roads but major highways are flooded. water remaining on the plant floor; Without power, used to manage the water levels in a water employees labor amid hot and humid conditions. pressure adjustment pool. Commitment from the President Response to Stakeholders Response to Customers damage to the Group’s facilities. Employees demonstrated The Minebea Group strove to fulfill its responsibility of a high level of motivation to protect their own workplace, supplying customers by temporarily increasing inventories with the number of volunteers exceeding the number as well as increasing outsourcing of product manufacturing. recruited. Many employees gladly worked on holidays and In order to ensure that product shipments reached planes during the night to protect the facilities. and ships by their departure times, employees confirmed The Group thoroughly managed the safety and health of Floods in Thailand the status of regular transport routes and traffic information its employees to prevent secondary damage. Open spaces and shared the information with other departments to adjust in the plant were used as relief shelters for some 500 the shipment times from the plants. employees unable to commute or return to their homes. The The Local Countermeasures Office used a company Group also reassigned employees from the Rojana and helicopter to survey floodwater status almost daily. Navanakorn Plants, where operations were suspended, in Responding to customer requests, the helicopter was also order to maintain the employment of all the employees. The used to check areas around customer sites. The employees’ recognition of the Group’s commitment to their Management Headquarters in Japan collected information employment and safety not only deepened the bonds of Minebea Products in Society and made six public announcements to keep stakeholders trust, but created a source of strength to help the Group informed of the status of damage. overcome the disaster. The Group provided consolation funds to approximately Support for Local Residents 13,000 employees affected by the disaster, and donations The flooding also caused severe damage to the residential collected from Group worksites around the world were areas and lives of people living around the Group’s plants. donated to repair and rebuild the homes of 146 employees The Group supported residents around the plant by who suffered particularly severe damage. distributing emergency relief goods and sandbags. The Bang Pa-in Plant also stationed Thai army units and Environmental Surveys Special Feature provided logistics support for the units in their relief The Group confirmed the leakage of oil and chemical activities. The Group will continue to support residents as substances from machinery and washing equipment and they recover from the disaster. disposed of the waste oil and fluids, along with dried sludge containing oil, in accordance with environmental regulations. Employee Cooperation Makes Flooding The Group also conducted water quality and soil tests at Countermeasures Possible each of the local plants, and has confirmed that the amounts The support of many Group employees was critical to the of heavy metals, chemical and other substances are within construction of earth embankments, water drainage, and safe ranges which will not impact the environment. Management Report other countermeasures which helped to minimize the Reconstruction Activities and Countermeasures Against Future Natural Disasters Based on the lessons learned from the flooding, the In addition to the direct impact of the floods, the inability Minebea Group is striving to reinforce its countermeasures of employees to commute to work and unstable power and prepare for the possibility of future floods. supplies also contributed to periods of lower operational Social Report The restoration of the damaged Rojana and Navanakorn capacity at the plants. The Group will use this experience to Plants is scheduled to be completed in September 2012 bolster future countermeasures, including the establishment following the total replacement of machinery, maintenance of backup structures at other plants to fulfill the Group’s to the facilities, and the cleaning of the inside and outside of responsibility of supplying customers, as well as the the buildings. Both the plants are located in industrial parks reformulation of the inventory strategy. which are strengthening their own flooding counterOne of the most valuable experiences from the disaster measures (construction of embankments). The plants are was the strengthening of the Group’s unity through the Environmental Report taking independent initiatives, however, which include the demonstration of employees’ strong desire to protect their reinforcement of buildings with steel plates to prevent water company and collaborate to overcome the disaster. This from entering. The Bang Pa-in and Ayutthaya Plants, new sense of unity will be leveraged to bolster meanwhile, used water level data from the 2011 floods to countermeasures against future disasters. construct new embankments which can withstand floods three-to-four times the previous size (construction completed in July 2012). Many employees continuing Metal molds recovered by divers at the Rojana Plant, Employees unable to return to damaged homes take The newly constructed embankment recovery activities after dark. an important step in restarting the manufacturing of temporary shelter at the new bearing plant; at the Bang Pa-in Plant. parts. Employees living in temporary shelters continue daily work and assist with anti-flooding countermeasures. Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Minebea Products in Society The ball bearings, motors, and electronic devices that we manufacture are incorporated in a wide range of final products, improving the lives of people around the world, and helping to bring about a richer society. Although our Telecommunication base stations products are not normally visible to consumers, this page will introduce the role they play in society. Hydrofoil boats Service robots CT scanners Crossing gates Automobiles Trains Air-conditioners Vacuum cleaners Speakers Dental handpieces Bathroom scales Televisions Game devices/DVD & Blu-ray players Power tools Machined components Rotary components Products Products Ball bearings, rod end & spherical Hard disc drive spindle motors, small bearings, roller bearings, fasteners, precision motors, stepping motors, pivot assemblies, precision brushless motors, fan motors machined components Product applications Personal computers, hard disc drives, Product applications information and telecommunications Personal computers, hard disc drives, equipment, OA equipment, consumer information and telecommunications electronics, mobile phones, audiovisual equipment, OA equipment, consumer equipment, mobile phone electronics, audio-visual equipment, communication base stations, industrial ATMs, automobiles, aircraft machinery, automobiles 7 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Space rockets Aircrafts Commitment from the President Floods in Thailand Multi-function copier-printers Industrial machinery Minebea Products in Society PCs Special Feature Portable music players Digital cameras Mobile phones Management Report Fishing equipment Social Report ATMs Environmental Report Electronic devices and components Others Products Products Lighting devices for small liquid crystal Speakers, special components displays, color wheels, backlight inverters, various measuring components, heat Product applications management system module (HMSM), Personal computers, speakers, next-generation input devices audio-visual equipment, industrial equipment, defense equipment Product applications Personal computers, digital cameras, mobile phones, smartphones, portable music players, projectors, measuring equipment, automobiles, space rockets, service robots Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 8 Special Feature 1 Ball Bearings Pursuing the Limits of Precision The history of the Minebea Group is a chronicle of daily challenges in manufacturing with sincerity. This feature provides insight into how the Minebea Group’s manufacturing philosophy was developed through the manufacture of ball bearings. high-precision product. The specialty of the product as Japan’s First Manufacturer well as the lack of adequate manufacturing equipment Specialized in Miniature Ball Bearings posed significant challenges for the founders, who Minebea’s history stretches back about 60 years to relied on trial and error to overcome obstacles. 1951, when the company began as Japan’s first Despite the challenges, Minebea successfully specialty manufacturer of miniature ball bearings with established its manufacturing technology in the late about 10 employees and a small factory. 1950s thanks to the efforts of Japanese engineers. At the time, miniature ball bearings were used After the high-quality products were recognized in the mostly in aircraft instrumentation. Just after the Second U.S. market, Minebea’s sales began to take off. In World War, however, there were no Japanese 1963, the company constructed the Karuizawa Plant manufacturers capable of producing this type of highand equipped it with state of the art machinery. This precision manufactured parts. The founders of Minebea established the company’s modern manufacturing decided to embark on the manufacture of miniature ball foundation by enabling mass production of high-quality bearings based on the belief that aircraft demand would products. To respond to rising demand for Minebea increase in the future, and that Japan needed the products worldwide, the company expanded business technological capability to manufacture this type of to Singapore in 1972 and then to Thailand and China. Today, the Minebea Group maintains eight ball bearing manufacturing plants worldwide, with approximately 10,000 employees involved in the business, and a monthly production of some 250 million ball bearings. The company continued to grow through trial and error with Expansion work on the Karuizawa Plant in the 1960s President Seiichiro Takahashi at the helm 9 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 The Function of Ball Bearings From car axles to electric fans and hard disc drives (HDDs), ball bearings are used in a wide array of machines for rotary motion. Ball bearings support rotary parts and reduce friction to facilitate the smooth operation of machines. The size of ball bearings can range from smaller than a grain of rice—small enough to fit inside a Commitment from the President wristwatch—to over one meter in diameter for factory and power plant applications. Minebea specializes in the manufacture of miniature and small-sized ball bearings with an outer diameter of 30mm or less. Structure of Ball Bearings Ball bearings are comprised of four major parts: a large ring (outer ring), a small ring (inner ring), balls between the rings (steel balls), Floods in Thailand and a cage to prevent the balls from hitting each other. The modern structure dates back to around 1500, when Leonardo da Vinci invented ball bearings to reduce friction against the axles of horseOuter ring drawn carts. For more than 500 years, the ball bearing has been defined by this simple structure. The Precision of a Ball Bearing Cage The main function of a ball bearing is to reduce friction and facilitate Minebea Products in Society smooth rotation of an axis. Modern ball bearings test the very limits of precision. As an example, one of the key elements to making an Steel balls ultra-precise ball bearing is the degree to which the groove where the balls roll can be made into a perfect circle. Minebea has achieved Inner ring ultra-precision groove manufacturing which reduces the range of error from a perfect circle to one-one hundred thousandth of a millimeter. micrometer (one-ten thousandth of a millimeter) Special Feature An Endless Passion for precision, along with assembly equipment. To vertically High-quality Manufacturing integrate the business, we have enhanced the The most important performance measure in judging a sophistication of the manufacturing capability and ball bearing is the extent to which it reduces friction and automated the manufacturing line. Today, nearly all the Management Report facilitates smooth and easy rotation. Ball bearings may manufacturing equipment used in the grinding, polishing, end up in aircraft, automobiles, precision machinery and and assembly processes were developed in-house. many other end products, but no matter the application, While the design and quality of a product may be it is important to maintain smoothness and minimize outstanding, if the price is too high, customers won’t buy friction. Changes in the times brings diversification and it. To improve cost-competitiveness, we evaluate the complexity in end products and machine types along manufacturing processes from every angle, and strive to with new performance requirements for ball bearings, shorten the time from order to delivery while raising the Social Report including miniaturization, higher rotation speeds, yield. Another way we strive to beat the competition on durability and duration, as well as noise reduction. price is to invest heavily in machine maintenance to We have succeeded in responding to new ensure that our manufacturing equipment operates in requirements by carefully reviewing all of our product optimal condition. This is another benefit of vertically processes, from development and design to manufacture integrating our business. and inspection, and making steady, painstaking Environmental Report improvements. Since the structure of a ball bearing is Annual Ball Bearing Production very simple, however, improving the ball bearing has (100 million units) required enhancing the precision of the ball bearing 30 components to their absolute limit. In order to do this, we 25 decided to manufacture not only the critical inner and 20 outer rings in-house, but the other components as well. 15 Currently, Minebea also manufactures the cage, shield, 10 and balls in-house. Additionally, to ensure the smooth 5 rotation of the ball bearings, we have developed proprietary lubricants. We have also developed in-house 0 1972 75 80 85 90 95 2000 05 10 a grinding machine which can be controlled to sub(year) Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 10 Ball Bearings Pursuing the Limits of Precision 1 2 Cutting tool Drill Ball Bearing Manufacturing Processes The manufacture of a ball bearing can be divided into five major processes. Cutting Heat Treatment Ring-shaped parts are cut from the raw Process for hardening the parts in order material rods using drills and cutting to enhance their durability and long-life. tools. 5 4 Grinding 3 Grinding Grinding stone stone stone Assembly Process Honing Grinding The other ring, inner ring, balls and cage The groove between the outer and inner A grinding stone is used to grind the surfaces are assembled, oil or grease is applied to rings in which the balls run is honed to of parts to the required dimensions and aid smooth rotation, and covered by a nanometer (one-thousandth of a precision. Dimensions such as the outer and shield. This is the process where exactly micrometer) precision. inner diameters and the width are ground to the right parts are assembled to meet the micrometer (one-thousandth of a millimeter) customer’s specific requirements. precision, as is the groove, a key internal structure formed between the inner and outer rings in which balls run. Manufacturing Uniform Products Karuizawa Plant, the “mother plant,” to the seven overseas plants to ensure with an objective eye that Around the World processes are horizontally deployed throughout the The manufacture of miniature ball bearings requires world. One of the features of this system is the frequent extremely delicate and sophisticated precision, and visits by the Karuizawa Plant managers to the overseas simply using the same materials and manufacturing plants, much as if they were visiting a plant next door, equipment does not guarantee that uniform products to oversee and train local employees. The combination will be produced. Minebea has introduced a proprietary of this warp and weft enables Minebea to achieve a “warp and weft” approach to ensure that all of its eight manufacturing system which guarantees uniform manufacturing plants worldwide produce a uniform products and high productivity. quality of products. The implementation of uniform product The “warp” in this system is the vertical examination manufacturing may appear as though Japanese of all the manufacturing processes along the machine methods are being thrust unilaterally on overseas sites. direction by each plant manager to ensure thorough At Minebea, however, we have established basic manufacturing management on the basis of Minebea’s policies of respecting the culture and customs of local long-accumulated integrated manufacturing know-how. communities to the extent possible when localizing our The “weft” in this system is the dispatch of managers product manufacturing. We actively promote local for each of the manufacturing processes from the employees to management positions and operate local plants on the basis of locally developed management and employees. We believe that transplanting Japanese An Image of the “Warp and Weft” Concept for methods to local communities overseas is best Uniform Product Manufacturing achieved by customizing the methods to fit the local Thai Plants China Plant Singapore Plant Karuizawa Plant community to the extent possible. This enables knowhow to be implemented overseas in a relatively short Plant managers Plant managers Plant managers Plant managers time. Cutting Cutting Cutting Cutting manager Warp Heat treatment Heat treatment Heat treatment Heat treatment manager Grinding Grinding Grinding Grinding manager Sweating It Out Together to Build Teamwork Honing Honing Honing Honing manager Assembly Assembly Assembly Assembly manager Minebea’s purpose in expanding its business overseas Quality control Quality control Quality control Quality control manager has never been simply to access labor pools. We have expanded from the standpoint of making a long-term Weft investment to mass produce better products. Based on this policy, we install the latest machinery when 11 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 constructing new overseas plants and, as previously Continuing to Meet the Changing mentioned, we actively promote the localization of management. We also spare no effort in investing in Demands of New Eras the future through the time and effort put into employee Minebea’s manufacturing approach has remained training. unchanged since the company’s founding, even to the We believe that training employees works best by present day, when the company has risen to hold the having them witness the processes firsthand at the world’s No. 1 share in the miniature ball bearing market. Commitment from the President manufacturing sites. When we construct new plants, That approach can be summarized as the provision of we not only provide classroom training to local products and technology society needs, by optimal employees, but we provide practical on-the-job (OJT) means—in the simplest terms, manufacturing higher training at operating plants. Following the OJT, quality products, at a lower price, faster, and in greater engineers from the Karuizawa Plant visit each plant on quantities than the competition. Amid changing eras, a routine basis to provide direct, repeated training however, the demand for better bearings—which are sessions to employees and share their know-how. In often called the “backbone” of industry—never stops. each of the plants, a spirit of friendly competition among For example, Minebea has succeeded in enhancing Floods in Thailand employees is deeply rooted. These friendly rivalries the corrosion-resistance of bearings more than 20 advance innovation and spur the development and times the traditional level to meet demands for products acquisition of new technology. Innovations made at which can be used in healthcare-related equipment plants are validated at the Karuizawa Plant, the mother exposed to water, blood, and chemicals. We continue plant, and quickly rolled out to all plants. to research the miniaturization of HDD bearing width Though Minebea does not have a special technology from 2mm to 1mm as notebook PCs reach the limit of achievement awards or honors program, the passion thinness. As a further example, we continue to develop Minebea Products in Society employees have for getting involved in research on new ball bearings for turbo chargers, which can reduce the technology reflects a shared approach to manufacturing environmental burden of automobiles, in order to meet which transcends language and culture. When plants demands for products which can operate stably under are constructed overseas, Japanese dispatched to severely high temperatures and high rotational speeds. support the new operations sweat it out alongside the At Minebea, we are acutely aware of the importance local employees pushing mops and doing other chores, of our responsibility to supply products as a leading creating feelings of unity. This sense of being a part of bearing manufacturer. In 2011, during the massive the global “Team Minebea” generates unwavering flooding in Thailand, some of our bearing manufacturing Special Feature bonds of trust among employees. plants were idled for about two weeks. We responded by increasing production at manufacturing plants in other locations. Uses of Ball Bearings In fact, even before this crisis, we had Ball bearings are used in a vast array of machines which support our daily lives. They established a structure in which we can be found throughout society, from such household appliances as air conditioners strategically stock parts and products to and vacuum cleaners, to such vehicles as aircraft and automobiles, and such ensure that we can continue to supply Management Report information communications equipment as personal computers and copy machines. customers without delay even with a one-month suspension of manufacturing operations. This structure ensures that any crisis has a minimal affect on customers. The 60-year history of Minebea since its founding has been a chronicle of simple and sincere manufacturing Social Report Household Appliances (air conditioners, Vehicles (automobiles, aircraft, etc.) challenges. That history has nurtured a vacuum cleaners, etc.) Long-life bearings contribute to the unique manufacturing philosophy which The use of ball bearings helps to reduce reliability of vehicles. A standard emphasizes manufacturing higher friction within the machines and automobile has more than 100 bearings, contribute to energy efficiency as well as requiring a variety of performance needs. quality products, at a lower price, faster, reduce noise and support quiet operation. and in greater quantities than the competition. This will remain the central credo by which Minebea contributes to Environmental Report society and fulfills its responsibilities into the future. Minebea will continue to Bearing take on new manufacturing challenges HDD Dental in order to respond to the needs of its Bearing Pivot handpieces customers, employees, local communities, and other stakeholders Information Communications Equipment Other (dental handpieces, etc.) and meet society’s expectations. (HDDs, copy machines, etc.) Bearings are also used in a wide range of As PCs become slimmer, the pivot used other places throughout society. For the in HDDs (the bearing supporting the handpieces used in dentist offices, the magnetic head actuator) has also needed bearings must be able to support to become slimmer, with a current high-speed rotation and withstand rust thinness of about 1 millimeter. and corrosion. Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 12 Special Feature 2 Developing CSR Together with Suppliers The Minebea Group established its CSR Procurement Guidelines in 2012 in order to promote CSR in its procurement activities. Exactly how should Minebea instill its CSR approach widely among suppliers and encourage them to put the approach into practice? Minebea held a dialogue with suppliers to discuss this very issue on April 26, 2012. and “Maintaining Confidentiality.” Both the CSR Introduction: Minebea’s CSR Procurement Policy Procurement Guidelines and the Basic Procurement Policies will be posted on our website between May Minebea (Mr. Imanaka): I would and June, and we plan to distribute them to our domestic like to thank everyone for coming suppliers. today. Two years ago, Minebea We also plan to create a CSR established the CSR Promotion Self-Evaluation Check Sheet to Office and announced that it would promote self-evaluations among our heavily promote CSR as part of the suppliers. We plan to begin our management policy. Today distributing this check sheet among marks our first supplier dialogue Mr. Masayuki Imanaka, suppliers in April 2013, and develop and we look forward to receiving Minebea a firm grasp of the CSR status your forthright opinions about our CSR initiatives. Your among suppliers by 2015. Mr. Mamoru Iwatani, Minebea remarks will support the overall promotion of CSR at Minebea and the development of our CSR procurement activities. Minebea (Mr. Iwatani): First, I’d like to explain the Status of CSR Activities among Suppliers Minebea Group’s approach to CSR procurement. No company can fulfill its social responsibility on its Mr. Mizukami, CSR Consultant: I’d like to proceed own. The same is true of CSR procurement. We must with the dialogue by having each of the participating gain the understanding of our suppliers and carry out suppliers give an overview of their CSR activities. initiatives with their collaboration. Kyodo Yushi (Mr. Watanabe): As a grease and This is why we decided to establish the Minebea lubricants manufacturer, Kyodo Yushi aims to make a Group CSR Procurement Guidelines for our suppliers contribution to industry through the implementation of in 2012 on the basis of the Minebea Group Code of our spirit of Tribology (friction). This is the core of our Conduct. The guidelines are comprised of 29 items social responsibility. We do not have a CSR framework, grouped into the four sections of “Labor,” “Health and but we do operate the Tribology Study Group as a Safety,” “Environment,” and “Ethics and Business bridge between industry and academia, and we are Practice.” Additionally, with regard to our Basic promoting various initiatives in the areas of Procurement Policies, we have added “CSR environmental management, energy-efficient products, Procurement” to supplement the five existing areas of employment of people with disabilities, and compliance. “Compliance with Laws and Regulations,” “Open Door Nichia (Mr. Akagi): At Nichia, our code of conduct Policy,” “Equity and Fairness,” “Green Procurement,” promotes research, a thoughtful and industrious work 13 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 A Kyodo Yushi Co., Ltd. General Manager, Sales Department No. 1 Mr. Kazuhiko Watanabe Supplier Dialogue Participants B Kyodo Yushi Co., Ltd. Supervisor, Sales Department No. 1 Mr. Yuji Ito C Sumitomo Metal Deputy General Manager, General Affairs Dept. Mr. Ritsu Haga Industries, Ltd. Sumitomo Metal Manager, Export Section, Steel Sheet Sales D Department Mr. Tadashi Adachi Industries, Ltd. Deputy Executive General Manager, Optoelectronics E Nichia Corporation Production Division, Optoelectronics Products BU. Mr. Masao Akagi Assistant Manager, Nagoya Sales Department, B D F J L O F Nichia Corporation Optoelectronics Products BU. Mr. Nobuyasu Kogure P M Q H R General Manager, Corporate Strategy Planning G Fujikura Ltd. Division Mr. Hideki Takimoto N Assistant Manager, Electronics And H Fujikura Ltd. Automotive, Global Marketing Department 1 Mr. Atsushi Wasa Commitment from the President A C E G I K I Fuji Print Industrial Co. Ltd. Director Business Headquarters Division Mr. Noriyuki Tomita J Fuji Print Industrial Co. Ltd. Assistant Manager, Sales Department No. 1, Business Headquarters Mr. Mamoru Shimagami Manager, General Affairs Dept., Head Office & K Porite Corporation Factory Mr. Shinkichi Ooshima L Porite Corporation Manager, Sales Department, Kumagaya Plant Mr. Takeshi Hasegawa Managing Executive Officer, Officer in charge M Minebea Co., Ltd. of Finance & Compliance Promotion Division Mr. Masayuki Imanaka Managing Executive Officer, Officer in charge N Minebea Co., Ltd. of Procurement & Logistics Division Mr. Takashi Aiba Head of Procurement Department, Procurement O Minebea Co., Ltd. & Logistics Division Mr. Mamoru Iwatani P Minebea Co., Ltd. General Manager, CSR Promotion Office Mr. Masaki Ishikawa Q Minebea Co., Ltd. CSR Promotion Office Mr. Hideki Kobayashi Floods in Thailand R Cre-en Inc. CSR Consultant Mr. Takehiko Mizukami ethic, and the creation of the world’s best products. We management issue and we review CSR measures have put great value on the continued creation of fine using the PDCA cycle approach. and elaborate products in Japan. One of our mottos is Sumitomo Metal Industries (Mr. Haga): At Sumitomo that companies which are not beloved by their suppliers Metal Industries, we established a CSR Committee in Minebea Products in Society will not endure. Based on that motto, we aim to expand 2010 with the president as the committee chair. In together with collaborating companies and companies March 2011, we established a Corporate Philosophy in our local community. and revised the Code of Conduct. We are now working Porite (Mr. Ooshima): This year marks our 60th to instill these within the company and the entire group. anniversary, and for the occasion we have established Our aim is to enhance our value through technology, Employee Guiding Principles and a Porite Corporate quality, service and CSR, and we will continue to take Code of Conduct. Though we are making contributions measures to become a company trusted by society. to society through our business activities, there are Mr. Mizukami: Was there a particular occasion for Special Feature human resource and financial limitations on what we establishing the committee? can do in addition to that. We are expanding our Sumitomo Metal Industries (Mr. Haga): There was business overseas and debating whether or not we can nothing particular. But in the General Affairs implement the principles and code of conduct at Department, we believed that despite the fact that we overseas offices. So, we have not yet disclosed them were taking various CSR initiatives, it was hard for outside the company. people in and outside the company to see the whole Management Report Fuji Print Industrial (Mr. Tomita): picture behind our CSR effort, and we decided this was In May 2011, we established a new something we should do properly. corporate philosophy and we are Fujikura (Mr. Takimoto): At Fujikura, we established a fulfilling our social responsibility by structure for CSR initiatives in 2009. A CSR Committee executing the philosophy. We have was established, headed by our president, and working set goals to achieve with each of our teams on “management,” “society”, and “environment” stakeholder groups, and we have a were set up. Each business group sets new priorities very strong awareness of the Mr. Noriyuki Tomita, every three years and information is shared between Social Report Fuji Print Industrial importance of communication. For the groups and the initiative promotion teams in each example, we hold regular social events with our division and group companies to ensure progress is suppliers, and our 10 major suppliers are all made on the initiatives. shareholders in our company, making it possible for us Mr. Mizukami: Was there a particular occasion for to better reflect their views in our management. establishing the structure? Mr. Mizukami: In order to achieve the goals you have Fujikura (Mr. Takimoto): Each year we receive about Environmental Report set for each stakeholder group, have you established a 30 survey requests from our customers concerning our CSR promotion committee or some other kind of CSR initiatives. We felt that we could not respond organization to facilitate the activities? without a proper structure in place. In that sense, there Fuji Print Industrial (Mr. Tomita): We do not have any was recognition in the company that it was time for us such organization. We do, however, hold a management to establish a structure and take full-fledged measures. policy conference at the start of each fiscal year at Minebea (Mr. Imanaka): Are there any full-time which the president, myself, and group managers members of the committee? explain the current year’s CSR policies for each of their Fujikura (Mr. Takimoto): There is a full-time member groups. Thereafter, we have monthly business in the Global Environment Division. I manage initiatives conferences at which we report on the progress and in the areas of management and society. outlook of measures. CSR is treated as one Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 14 Developing CSR Together with Suppliers Dealing with this issue became the Minebea’s CSR Procurement Guidelines impetus for my company to take fullfledged CSR procurement Mr. Mizukami: Next, I’d like the participants to ask measures. We wondered whether questions or make comments on the CSR Procurement we should be requesting our Guidelines. suppliers to take certain measures Nichia (Mr. Akagi): It is my understanding that broadly when we were not taking thorough speaking, “Compliance with Laws and Regulations,” measures ourselves, but in the end Mr. Hideki Takimoto, “Equity and Fairness” and some other aspects of your we decided that we needed to Fujikura Basic Procurement Policies could be considered part define a basic position and request of CSR. In that sense, how are you positioning the new our suppliers to meet certain requests. If we didn’t, then guidelines with respect to the existing policies? nothing would change. Minebea (Mr. Iwatani): As you note, some of the areas First, therefore, we conducted a CSR procurement of the new guidelines are covered by the pre-existing survey of all of our domestic suppliers in 2010. We had policies, but the new guidelines put a new focus on the planned to conduct a similar survey of overseas four CSR areas of “Labor,” “Health and Safety,” suppliers in 2011, but we canceled the plan due to the “Environment,” and “Ethics and Business Practice.” Thai flooding damage. The structure is in place, so we Porite (Mr. Ooshima): Speaking on will restart the initiative when circumstances are right. behalf of my company, we will be Minebea (Mr. Kobayashi): How many suppliers in and able to comply with the contents of outside Japan are part of your survey? the new guidelines and we can Fujikura (Mr. Takimoto): There are about 500 confirm the compliance to a certain domestic suppliers. Outside Japan, we plan to conduct extent with regard to our primary the survey at different levels, with about 300 companies suppliers. But regarding our at the primary level. Mr. Shinkichi Ooshima, secondary and tertiary suppliers, Mr. Mizukami: What were the results of the domestic Porite some areas of compliance may be survey? difficult. I would like you to consider the level of the Fujikura (Mr. Takimoto): Of course, there were many compliance required by your suppliers. suppliers who were very highly rated by the survey, but Fuji Print Industrial (Mr. Tomita): We also feel this is honestly speaking, there were many who fell short of an issue, especially regarding small-sized suppliers. our expectations. For those suppliers, we held followEven if they have a management structure in place, up meetings, and in some cases, we will visit them many of them do not have documentation and records. directly. It will be difficult to have them submit reports to us, and Minebea (Mr. Imanaka): It appears that surveys are that makes us wonder exactly how to proceed. very important. Sending out the survey provides an Minebea (Mr. Aiba): Actually, we have the same opportunity for the suppliers receiving them to think problem at Minebea. It’s very difficult for us to confirm about CSR procurement. We also believe that a survey the activities of secondary and tertiary suppliers, and is the best way to begin the process, including for providing guidance is especially difficult with regard to overseas suppliers. overseas suppliers. But we can’t give up. We are aiming to deepen understanding of the guidelines among our suppliers, even in small steps, and to move in the same direction with them. Then we can expect the Expectations of Minebea understanding to gradually widen. Nichia (Mr. Akagi): When confirming activities, it’s Mr. Mizukami: I’d like to hear participants’ comments important that making a plan and keeping a record are on what they expect of Minebea in terms of support for not the purpose of CSR initiatives, similar to some of carrying out CSR procurement in line with the their ISO activities, in order to prevent compliance with guidelines. guidelines from becoming a superficial activity. It’s Porite (Mr. Ooshima): In regard to chemical substance important to have each supplier constantly consider regulations, for example, there are instances when it is where their activities are lacking and what initiatives difficult to ask small suppliers for an official product they need to implement to prevent self-complacency. certificate. We would like some guidance on what kind Mr. Mizukami: We heard previously that Fujikura has of certificates would be acceptable from small suppliers. made strong progress with CSR procurement activities, We would also like some guidance on exactly how to and I’d like to know how Fujikura handles secondary, give advice to suppliers in order to have them smoothly tertiary, and overseas suppliers, which present the kind comply with our requests. of problems we’ve just heard. Kyodo Yushi (Mr. Watanabe): Especially with Fujikura (Mr. Takimoto): Previously, the operation overseas suppliers, we’d like Minebea to understand conditions of one of our secondary Thai suppliers that many suppliers say they cannot disclose presented a problem from the perspective of CSR, and information regarding the use of chemical substances. a local NPO conducted on-site research into the issue. In addition, when we are required to submit quantitative 15 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Commitment from the President Supplier dialogue data, please consider the fact that energy in this. chemical substance analysis and Sumitomo Metal Industries (Mr. Haga): We pursue other fees are incurred. improvements in compliance, safety management, Fuji Print Industrial (Mr. Tomita): I quality management and other areas by working closely Floods in Thailand feel that just having these types of as one team with partner companies. Our thinking is opportunities to meet face to face that we can help each other raise the level of activities with you will make it significantly by collaborating in the same places and on the same easier to carry out initiatives in the Mr. Kazuhiko Watanabe, kinds of activities. future. For us as well, while it may Kyodo Yushi We regularly dispatch veteran employees from our be impossible for all suppliers to steel mills to customer sites where our products are comply with our requests, we would like to start by actually being used to verify that the products meet our Minebea Products in Society having these types of meetings with a select number of quality standards. Customer feedback is then routed suppliers and then gradually expand efforts to our back to the steel mills as part of our quality assurance entire supply chain. We would like to use these human cycle. connections to make progress on CSR procurement. Fujikura (Mr. Takimoto): One of the advantages of listening to the activities of companies with advanced CSR activities is that we can see, among all the Conclusion: Exactly What Is CSR Procurement? Special Feature possible initiatives, which ones we need to prioritize. That’s why this type of dialogue today is so important. Mr. Mizukami: CSR can be defined as activities a Nichia (Mr. Akagi): As we’ve heard company takes to earn the trust of its stakeholders, and from the discussion today, requests primarily the assurance that its business activities will from outside your company can not be a detriment to society. In recent years, there has become significant opportunities to emerged a shared global awareness of the need for move your company in the right companies to exert influence over their supply chains Management Report direction, so by all means I’d like as part of their CSR activities. CSR procurement is Minebea to conduct its survey. For essentially working with customers and suppliers to Mr. Masao Akagi, Nichia, we’ve always prided ensure that the entire supply chain does not have a Nichia ourselves on domestic detrimental effect on society. Today’s discussion manufacturing, and consequently there are areas of reaffirmed the importance of building mutually doing business overseas which we have little knowledge beneficial relations with customers and suppliers and of or experience with. We would appreciate any creating value for society out of the entire supply chain. Social Report guidance from Minebea on expanding CSR outside Finally, I would like to conclude the discussion with Japan. comments from Minebea on the promotion of CSR Sumitomo Metal Industries (Mr. procurement. Haga): With regard to your survey, I Minebea (Mr. Aiba): The valuable would like Minebea to share the views and suggestions that we have results with all the companies that received today will be reflected in Environmental Report participate. Receiving feedback our manufacturing and procurement which shows that our efforts are activities going forward as we aim to lacking in certain areas compared to make even greater strides together other companies will provide a with you. In particular, procurement Mr. Ritsu Haga, strong motivation for promoting CSR Sumitomo Metal Industries issues surrounding rare earth Mr. Takashi Aiba, procurement within my company. elements are in the spotlight, and I Minebea Mr. Mizukami: The comments from each of the look forward to working with companies here today reflect the importance of everyone to address the issues while assiduously communication between companies and their fulfilling our social responsibilities. Thank you very customers and suppliers. I understand that Sumitomo much for taking part in today’s dialogue. Metal Industries’ approach is to work together with each of its stakeholders and that you invest a lot of Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 16 Report Management Minebea Group CSR Basic Approach Minebea Group Stakeholders The Minebea Group believes that enterprises have a The Five Principles focus on employees, customers, mission to contribute to the sustainable development of shareholders, local communities, global society, the global environment and of humanity, not only suppliers, and the environment that supports our through strict adherence to laws and regulations, but society. The Minebea Group considers each of these also through fair and proper management of our groups to be separate stakeholders. In carrying out business in accordance with business ethics. To fulfill CSR activities, the Group believes that it is essential to this mission, The Minebea Group established the Five maintain communication with each stakeholder group Principles. On the basis of the Five Principles, the and meet their expectations. Minebea Group Basic CSR Policy and the Minebea Group’s CSR Implementation Principles were established as platforms for promoting CSR initiatives. The Five Principles Minebea Group Basic CSR Policy Be a company where our employees are proud to work As a manufacturer of precision products Earn and preserve the trust of our valued customers supporting society, the Minebea Group is working toward stable supply and making Respond to our shareholders’ expectations reliable products with low energy consumption widely available, to Work in harmony with the local community contribute to the sustainable development Promote and contribute to global society of the global environment and of humanity. The Minebea Group’s CSR Implementation Principles 1 The Five Principles and our Code 2 Continuous improvement and 3 Dialogue with stakeholders of Conduct raising of awareness In promoting CSR activities, the Minebea We will put forth goals to be achieved, based Constructive dialogue with stakeholders Group will appropriately manage the on understanding the Minebea Group’s (employees, customers, shareholders, local organization in accordance with the Five social responsibilities and the key problems communities, global society, suppliers, and Principles, and adhere to its Code of that need to be addressed, and continue to the environment) allows us to meet Conduct. improve our CSR activities through expectations and respond to requests, and implementation and continual review. We will we will improve transparency and also strive to raise awareness of CSR among accountability in our corporate activities. all employees through CSR activities. Minebea Group Stakeholders Customers Shareholders Employees Local communities and global society Suppliers Environment 17 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Report Management Corporate Governance Basic Approach Enhancement of Internal Control System Commitment from the President Under its basic management policy of the Five Minebea’s Board of Directors makes decisions on basic Principles, the Minebea Group’s management objective policies for the internal control systems in order to is to fulfill its social responsibilities to its diverse implement specific measures to ensure the soundness stakeholders, and to maximize its corporate value. To of management. On the basis of this approach, the achieve this management objective, Minebea regards Group has established a Compliance System, the enhancement and reinforcement of corporate Information Storage System, Risk Management governance as a key management theme. System, System for an Efficient Execution of Duties, System for the Management of Group Companies, and Floods in Thailand various other auditing structures. The Group is striving Corporate Governance System to bolster all of these systems. Minebea maintains a ten-member Board of Directors to Internal Control System Structure meet our need for high-level strategic business judgments 1 Structure to assure that the execution of duties by board and prompt action. At the same time, our executive members, executive officers and employees are in conformance officer system enables the Board of Directors to delegate with the law and Minebea’s articles of incorporation Minebea Products in Society (Compliance System) significant responsibility, and clearly divides management and supervision functions from executive functions. 2 Storage and management of information related to execution of duties by board members and executive officers (Information Moreover, our ten-member Board of Directors Storage System) includes two external members who provide advice on all 3 Rules for managing loss risk and other rule structures (Risk aspects of our corporate management. These external Management System) members also strengthen the Board’s oversight function 4 Structure to assure efficient execution of duties by board members and executive officers (System for an Efficient relating to the conduct of our business. Execution of Duties) Furthermore, for a stronger, comprehensive auditing 5 Structures to ensure that the operations of the company and its Special Feature function, three of our four corporate auditors are external affiliates are appropriate (Management of Group Companies) auditors (one of whom is a standing auditor). 6 Structures to ensure that audits by the Corporate Auditors are effective (Audit System Matters) In addition to conducting Board of Auditors meetings and attending Board of Directors and other important meetings, the corporate auditors, in conjunction with independent auditors and the Internal Auditing Office, Internal Controls over Financial Reporting conduct audits of domestic offices, subsidiaries, and To ensure the reliability of its financial reporting, Management Report overseas subsidiaries as well as auditing the activities of Minebea has established internal control structures directors. and systems which are improved on a continual basis. Regarding internal controls over financial reporting Supervision of Management required by Japan’s Financial Instruments and Minebea’s supervision of management is performed Exchange Law, the Group has striven to comply with by our ten-member Board of Directors, whose the law in its basic internal control framework and responsibility it is to make critical strategic business establish and operate controls appropriately. judgments in a timely manner. The Board of Directors Management assesses the status of the Social Report includes two external members who provide advice on establishment and operation of internal controls, and all aspects of our corporate management. These exteras of March 31, 2012, management had determined nal members also strengthen the Board’s oversight that the Minebea Group’s internal controls over financial function relating to the conduct of our business. reporting were effective. In addition, as required by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, Minebea Management Execution Function reported on the results of this assessment in its Report Environmental Report Minebea employs an Executive Officer system to on Internal Control Systems and submitted the report delegate the management authority of the Board of to its auditor, KPMG AZSA LLC, which audited the Directors to Executive Officers, and promote report and concluded that the contents demonstrates responsive, timely, enhanced management. that Minebea was operating in conformity with the aforementioned law. Management Monitoring System Minebea has adopted a management monitoring For further details on the Minebea Group’s corporate system consisting of four corporate auditors, of whom governance system, please visit the corporate website: ht t p: // w w w.m i n e b e a .c o. j p /e n g l i s h /c o m p a ny/a b o u t u s / three are external auditors. governance/policy_system/index.html In addition, members of the Minebea Board of Directors do not have titles. This is intended to enhance overall monitoring of board members. Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 18 Report Management Compliance To teach employees about insider trading rules Basic Approach and System for prescribed by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Promoting Compliance Law, an easy-to-understand e-learning program was The Minebea Group regards compliance as an also rolled out and taken by 967 employees. indispensable factor in our business activities. We believe compliance not only involves adherence to laws and regulations but also involves activities in Internal Reporting System accordance with corporate ethics as a good corporate To prevent actions in violation of the Minebea Group citizen, based on an awareness that putting Code of Conduct or legal infractions, we have compliance into practice is one element of CSR established internal as well as external consultation implementation. To this end, we have prescribed the centers that employees can access when they are Minebea Group Code of Conduct and Minebea Group unsure as to whether or not an action or decision on Officer and Employee Compliance Guidelines as a set their part may be in violation of the Code of Conduct, or of standards for group executives and employees in if they encounter actions on the part of others that may selecting appropriate actions and striving to conduct be in violation of the Code. our business in a fair, proper, and transparent manner. The President and Chief Executive Officer of the Minebea Group has overall compliance responsibility, Import/Export Control Initiatives supported directly by the Compliance Committee. The The Logistics Division is primarily in charge of import Compliance Committee is responsible for applying the and export matters for the Minebea Group. The division Code of Conduct, and for decision-making regarding creates procedural manuals and guides for adhering to emergency measures in the event of significant the Customs Law and other regulations and provides a violations of the code. The Compliance Office of the management structure to ensure compliance. In Corporate Finance & Compliance Promotion Division FY2007, we received Authorized Importer and acts as the secretariat for the Compliance Committee, Authorized Exporter certification from Tokyo Customs carrying out education, training, and other measures to in recognition of our outstanding freight and compliance promote compliance throughout the company. management. Compliance Education Future Compliance Promotion To help employees understand compliance, the The Minebea Group believes that employee awareness Minebea Group conducts compliance education as and knowledge of compliance should be deepened to part of its training programs for employees at each establish a corporate culture in which each employee rank. In FY2011, 224 employees received training, maintains an awareness of compliance in conducting comprised of new employee training and training for business activities. Going forward, we will strengthen new managers and assistant managers. During the the Minebea Group’s overall structure for compliance year the Group also strengthened compliance promotion, including for overseas subsidiaries, and will awareness through a DVD-based video training continue working to implement more efficient and program taken by 2,641 employees. effective compliance-related educational activities. In recent years, stronger compliance management The Group will also continue to implement training has become a carefully watched public issue amid a on legislation such as antitrust laws, striving to prevent spate of corporate scandals. In response, the Group violations before they occur. held compliance training for 33 executive officers including the president. An outside attorney was invited For further details on the Minebea Group Code of Conduct and to conduct the training session. the Minebea Group Officer and Employee Compliance Guidelines, please see the Minebea Group website. (http://www.minebea.co.jp/english/company/aboutus/conduct/ declaration/index.html) New employee training 19 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Report Management Risk Management security training. Information security briefings are held Basic Approach annually, and tutorials are conducted by the Information Commitment from the President Because our response to risk could profoundly affect Security Task Force in addition to training for new and the Minebea Group’s business fundamentals, we experienced employees when they enter the company. believe that risk management is vital to the Information security briefings were conducted from management of the company. We established the March through July 2012, and 10,326 employees Minebea Group Basic Rules for Risk Management participated, including temporary staff and which define preventive measures we should have in subcontracted employees. place, our response in crisis situations, and the type of Going forward, our training will help employees to system the group should put in place. enhance their awareness of information security Floods in Thailand violations and share information on such matters as the kinds of things that can lead to security violations. Risk Management System The President and Chief Executive Officer of the Initiatives to Protect Personal Information Minebea Group has final responsibility for risk Personal information retained by the Minebea Group is management, with major decisions regarding risk managed in accordance with our Personal Information Minebea Products in Society management being made by the Risk Management Protection Policy. The purposes for which this Committee. As a precautionary measure, Minebea information is utilized have also been clearly defined, attempts to predict and classify tangible risks in and we strictly adhere to the parameters for scope of advance, and remains vigilant against such risks. In the information use. unlikely event of an emergency, the severity of the situation is assigned a level of one to three, and after consultation by the Risk Management Committee, BCP Initiatives management headquarters and local countermeasures The Minebea Group will ensure the safety of its Special Feature offices are established, to respond rapidly and employees and their families in the event of a effectively to the situation. Further, Minebea has widespread disaster, influenza, terrorist acts or other organized a system under which—depending on the emergencies. To deal with such eventualities, we have nature of the risk being managed—a supervisory created the Minebea Group Basic Rules for Risk division may be appointed to handle a situation for Management, to meet our responsibilities to our which it will draft and implement responses. customers as the component manufacturer with the In FY2011, in response to the Thai floods, the Group world’s largest market share, and to keep disruption of Management Report established a Management Headquarters (Meguro) our business to a minimum. Specifically, we have which carried out close information sharing with the created an emergency manual, reinforced our plants Local Countermeasures Office in order to handle against earthquakes, stored emergency food supplies, customer inquiries and other response activities and adopted a system to confirm the safety of our (please see P. 5 for detailed information on the response personnel. to Thai floods). BCP Formulation Seminar In FY2011 and FY2012, the Minebea Group held Information Security Social Report seminars on BCP (Business Continuity Plan) Information Security Structure formulation at the Karuizawa Plant and the Hamamatsu The Minebea Group believes that protecting Plant. At each plant, 180 employees took part in the information assets is essential for building a relationship seminars to understand the fundamentals of BCP and of trust. We have therefore established the Minebea for a practical lesson in formulating BCPs for their own and Minebea Group Basic Policy for Protection of work sites. Environmental Report Confidential Information (Information Security Basic Policy), which we thoroughly implement. Formulating a BCP for the Entire Group We have also established an Information Security The Minebea Group is strengthening its risk Committee headed by a managing executive officer, management system. Comments and ideas received composed of Information Security Task Forces that from employees during the FY2011 and FY2012 BCP implement measures in each country. formulation seminars have been integrated into the Group’s own BCP, and in FY2012 work on the Information Security Training establishment and operation of a BCP for the entire To improve employee awareness of information Group was started with the goal of having the plan security, the Minebea Group conducts information thoroughly instilled throughout the Group. Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 20 Report Management CSR Promotion Activity Goals and Results Results for FY2011 and Goals for FY2012 and the Medium Term FY2011 Goals FY2011 Results Build a structure for promoting a PDCA system for CSR management CSR Established an interdivisional CSR working group to share progress on CSR goals Promote stakeholder engagement CSR Held a stakeholder dialogue with suppliers CSR management Distributed an internal message from the president to coincide with publication of Promote internal CSR dissemination initiatives CSR FY2011 CSR Report, and introduced the Group’s CSR approach and activities in the Management internal company magazine Expanded scope of compliance consultation center to inquires from Japanese Strengthen compliance system on a global basis Compliance employees assigned to overseas sites Continued to provide training for employees at each rank and provided a DVD video Corporate governance Continuously implement compliance training and introduction of training program at each site for all employees not covered by the rank-based e-learning Compliance Compliance training; introduced an e-learning program Risk management Assigned a BCP manager at each domestic site/division and held BCP formulation Promote BCP formulation Personnel & GA seminar for managers Established a disaster response headquarters, manuals, safety confirmation system, early Strengthen disaster mitigation system at domestic sites Personnel & GA earthquake notification system and emergency food and other necessities for disasters Strengthen significant quality issue response and Published “Detailed Rules for Internal Procedures upon Occurrence of Significant review system Quality Management Quality Issue” and clarified implementation of reviews to prevent reoccurrence Formulate recall handbook in accordance with Product Safety Formulated recall handbook in accordance with Product Safety Guidelines Guidelines Quality Management Relationships with Promote acquisition of international Quality Management System (QMS) Acquired ISO 13485 certification for EMS Business Unit customers certification to strengthen Quality Assurance System Quality Management Promote acquisition of Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) (advanced Promoted acquisition of AEO status in South Korea and Secure Trade Partnership qualification) status in South Korea and Singapore Logistics (STP) – Plus in Singapore (similar to Korea’s AEO) Promote bar code-based product management to prevent such Promoted bar code-based product management for PM motors and fan motors issues as incorrect shipments Logistics Implemented human rights education through compliance training and provided Strengthen human rights education Personnel & GA anti-harassment education during new assignment training Strengthen development and utilization of personnel suited for Held a global human resources and general affairs meeting to share training systems, promote global development Personnel & GA training prior to international assignments, and strengthen international assignment rotations Society Relationships with employees Promoted work-life balance awareness through internal magazine and provided training to Promote initiatives relating to work-life balance Personnel & GA female employees at headquarters to expand the active roles of female employees Meet legally required employment percentages for the 1.91% of the workforce was handicapped; ongoing support was provided to handicapped and support for their employment Personnel & GA handicapped employees through mentoring system Relationships with local Initiate formulation of a Social Initiative Policy for the Minebea Revised basic approach to making social contributions primarily in response to the communities and global Group CSR needs of local communities, based on the Minebea Group Code of Conduct society Conduct training relating to the Act against Delay in Payment of Conducted training at headquarters and domestic sites relating to the Act against Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors, and implement Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors (217 participants), Relationships with self-auditing relating to the Act Procurement and implemented self-auditing (five sites, six times) suppliers Establish CSR procurement framework Procurement Established CSR Procurement Guidelines based on Minebea Group Code of Conduct Promote active information disclosure relating to progress and Promoted disclosure of Medium-term Business Plan through general shareholders’ Relationships with implementation of Medium-term Business Plan IR meeting, semiannual business report, website information, etc. shareholders Promote active communication with domestic and international Held four briefings on financial results and conference calls for institutional investors and investors IR securities analysts and one tour of visits to investors in the U.S., Europe, and Asia Acquired ISO 14001 certification for Yonago Plant and Daiichi Seimitsu Sangyo Co., Acquire ISO 14001 certification (Yonago Plant, etc.) Environment Environmental Ltd.’s China plant management Reformulated Environmental Vision into the Environmental Policy and revised Review of Environmental Philosophy Environment contents with new proposals Establish Minebea Group mediumand long-term targets for Set a target of reducing CO2 emissions per basic unit of output by 1% each year, for reducing CO2 emission volume Environment 5% reduction by FY2015 compared with FY2010 Reduce CO2 emission volume for Minebea Group plants worldwide (establish Reduced CO2 emissions by 3,069 tons, but emissions per basic unit of output rose Initiatives for preventing base year, specify overall volume and reference unit) Environment 6.3% global warming Ascertain CO2 emission volume for overall Minebea Group Ascertain CO2 emissions for Japan logistics and overseas air and sea logistics distribution Logistics Promote use of proper transport measures to reduce energy Transport of fan motors in South China partially shifted from ship and air transport to consumption Logistics rail transport Reduce volume of waste ultimately disposed of as landfill by Minebea Landfill waste from worldwide Minebea Group plants totaled 4,061 tons The Environment Group plants worldwide to less than 4,000 tons per year Environment Researched status of zero emissions at Minebea and other companies and defined Initiatives for effective Define Minebea zero emissions, investigate current status Environment zero emissions for Minebea use of resources Reduce plant effluent volume Environment Reduced plant effluent volume by 235,000 tons Investigate/implement returnable package system for international Made preparations to implement returnable package system for truck shipments between Thailand shipping Logistics and Cambodia to supplement existing one-way shipments from Thai sites to customers Zero violation of environmental laws and self-imposed regulations Environment Zero violation of environmental laws and self-imposed regulations Complete cleanup measures at plants where soil and groundwater Completed cleanup of soil and groundwater pollution at Ichinoseki Plant pollution has been confirmed (Ichinoseki Plant) Environment Initiatives for Reducing Impacts on the Manage volumes of chemical substances used at Minebea Group Established new chemical substance application database to efficiently manage Environment plants Environment chemical substances 100% implementation of Pollution Patrol Programs Environment Achieved 100% implementation of Pollution Patrol Programs Implement regular local audits of waste disposal companies Environment Implemented regular local audits of waste disposal companies Establish criteria for Minebea green products (environmentally Product-related Established selection criteria for Minebea green products conscious products) Environment Initiatives for the Environment Develop products and technology contributing to energy efficiency, Developed lightweight bearings and other products which do not require lubricants resource efficiency, and waste reduction Environment 21 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 CSR Promotion Activity Goals and Results Furthermore, to ensure that CSR activities are The Minebea Group believes it is important to manage promoted in a planned fashion, the Group has CSR activities appropriately using the Plan-Do-Checkestablished medium-term goals to be achieved by Action (PDCA) cycle and sets CSR goals accordingly. FY2015. Commitment from the President Evaluation FY2012 Goals Medium-term Goals (target year of FY2015) •Promote CSR management across the Group, including overseas sites CSR •Continue to promote PDCA management for CSR activities CSR •Enhance PDCA management to meet global standards CSR •Continue to promote internal awareness activities for CSR CSR •Promote CSR awareness activities across the Group, including overseas sites CSR Floods in Thailand •Continue to bolster compliance system for domestic and overseas sites Compliance •Reinforce overseas training Compliance •Establish a global compliance system Compliance •Formulate BCP for domestic and overseas sites and begin their operation Personnel & GA •Formulate a BCP for the entire Minebea Group and instill it through training •Continue to strengthen disaster mitigation system at domestic plants Personnel & GA Personnel & GA •Strengthen risk management system for Thai floods Personnel & GA •Revise the Quality Management Manual and clarify the implementation of risk assessment as the design and product manufacturing stages to bolster product Minebea Products in Society safety Quality Management •Create product safety assessment structure for product life cycle stages •Create framework to promote acquisition of international Quality Management Quality Management System (QMS) certification covering design and manufacturing in order to strengthen Quality Assurance System Quality Management •Promote bar-coding for all products Logistics •Acquire STP-Plus certification in Singapore and prepare for certification in South Korea and the EU Logistics •Continue to strengthen human rights education Personnel & GA •Strengthen the development of human resources in order to support the •Strengthen development and utilization of personnel suited for global development Personnel & GA active expansion and development of global business Personnel & GA •Continue to promote initiatives relating to work-life balance Personnel & GA Special Feature •Proactively incorporate demands of society and promote measures to support •Meet legally required employment percentages for the handicapped and support for employee motivation Personnel & GA their employment Personnel & GA •Hold dialogues with local communities at domestic locations to better understand •Hold dialogues with communities through sites in and outside Japan to expand local needs CSR social contribution activities based on understanding of their needs CSR •Hold stakeholder dialogues with suppliers Procurement •Promote CSR procurement among domestic suppliers using CSR self•Promote CSR procurement by adding CSR requirements to Basic Purchasing Policy, evaluation checklist Procurement publishing CSR Procurement Guidelines, creating CSR self-evaluation checklist, •Expand CSR procurement to overseas suppliers Procurement Management Report etc. Procurement •Continue to promote active information disclosure relating to progress and •Continue to actively disclose information and promote communication among implementation of Medium-term Business Plan IR a wider group of shareholders and investors to deepen their understanding of Minebea IR •Continue to promote active communication with domestic and international investors IR Social Report •Acquire ISO 14001 certification (Suzhou Plant, Daiichi Seimitsu Sangyo Co., Ltd. head office) and prepare to acquire certification at other sites (Minebea Tokyo headquarters and Cambodia Plant) Environment •Revise environmental policy Environment •Reduce CO2 emissions per basic unit of output by 2% compared with FY2010 Environment •Reduce CO2 emissions per basic unit of output by 5% compared with FY2010 •Establish systems and overall scheme to enable regular reporting of CO2 emissions Environment of overall Group logistics operations Logistics •Expand improvements to packaging Logistics Environmental Report •Improve packaging to raise logistics efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions •Greatly reduce landfill waste Environment Logistics •Reduce Minebea Group plants’ total landfill waste to under 4,000 tons/year Environment •Begin operation of new chemical substance application database Environment •Establish selection criteria for Minebea green products Environment CSR CSR Promotion Office Compliance Compliance Office Quality Management Quality Management Support Office Logistics Logistics Department Personnel & GA Personnel & General Affairs Department Procurement Procurement Department IR Investors Relations Office Environment Group Environment Management Department Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 22 rt Social Repo Relationships with Customers Under the quality management system, the Minebea Basic Approach Group established the Quality Management Committee In accordance with the Minebea Quality Policy, the as a support and advisory body for the President and Minebea Group aims to fully satisfy customers in terms Chief Executive Officer in his/her capacity as chief of quality, cost, supply capacity, and speed, working executive of quality management. This committee is diligently to enhance its reputation as the most reliable tasked with monitoring the performance of each component manufacturer. manufacturing headquarters. As part of this effort, we place great emphasis on The Minebea Group has also established a Quality risk assessment at the product and process design Management Support Office to act as the secretariat stages, enabling us to provide our customers with for the Quality Management Committee, to give advice products of consistently high quality. and propose improvements concerning quality management at each business unit or business headquarters, and to provide support for quality Quality Management assurance and audits, and for dealing with critical Quality Management Framework quality problems. In conjunction with the enactment of its Product Safety Charter in FY1995, the Minebea Group established a Product Safety Committee. Since then, each production Quality Improvement Measures facility has worked to ensure the safety of products and Promoting Quality Management services and prevent accidents. As we enter new System Certification business areas where the market demands ever-higher The Minebea Group promotes the acquisition of levels of quality and reliability, exemplified by the field certification for quality management systems (QMS) in of aircraft parts, the entire Minebea Group is working to each business unit. continuously enhance quality. To this end, an overall In FY2011, the EMS Business Unit’s manufacturing Minebea Group Quality Management Manual was division acquired QMS certification for medical adopted in FY2007 to improve our quality management equipment (ISO 13485). framework. Quality Management Framework Board of Directors Board of Auditors Senior Executive Officer Council President & Chief Executive Officer Vice President Executive Officer Quality Management Committee Each Division and Quality Management Support Office Support Division Information Motor Business Unit Ball Bearing Business Unit Rotary Component Precision Motor Business Unit Rod End/Fastener Business Unit Manufacturing Headquarters Machined Component Manufacturing Headquarters Micro Actuator Business Unit Mechanical Assembly Business Unit Hansen Business Unit NHBB/myonic Business Unit EMT Business Unit Global Motor Lighting Device Business Unit Business Headquarters Moatech Business Unit EMS Business Unit Electronic Device & Component Manufacturing Headquarters Spindle Motor Business Unit HDD Motor Manufacturing Measuring Components Business Unit Headquarters Special Device Business Unit Special Device Manufacturing Speaker Business Unit Headquarters 23 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Social Report Relationships with Customers Responding to the Quality Control Examination The Minebea Group believes that improving the quality Disclosure of Product-related Information Commitment from the President control and quality enhancement ability of individual Most products from the Minebea Group are ultimately employees ultimately leads to improving the quality of integrated into finished products that pass into the Minebea Group. Since September 2008, we have consumers’ hands. For this reason, we provide safety been encouraging employees to sit for the quality related information to our customers as requested. control examination (QC examination) conducted by Also in response to customer requests, we provide the Japanese Standards Association (JSA) and Union information about chemical substances incorporated in of Japanese Scientists and Engineers (JUSE). In our products, based on information obtained from Floods in Thailand addition to covering employees’ course fees, we suppliers. distribute textbooks to improve their knowledge of For speakers, keyboards and some other finished quality management. There were 110 employees who products, user manuals include safety-related sat for the examination in FY2011, 85 of whom passed. information. A total of 274 Minebea Group employees have passed the examination so far. Communication with Customers Minebea Products in Society Thai Quality Improvement Teams Training Customer Satisfaction Surveys In FY2011, six representatives of the Thai business Within the Minebea Group, individual business units units participated in quality improvement team training conduct their own customer satisfaction surveys. This as a way to further enhance product quality. The tworesearch spans a comprehensive range of evaluation week training program at the Hamamatsu Plant criteria, including sales support, response to product included lectures on quality assurance and practical related problems, and product prices. Findings based training on approaches to quality issue resolution. on these data are fed back to the sales and development Special Feature departments of the corresponding business units. If customers should evaluate any criterion below a specific satisfaction level, we assess and implement improvements across all business units. Responding to Quality-related Problems Management Report If a serious problem concerning the quality of Minebea Group products or services were to occur, the optimal Employees taking part in a training session response would be determined based on the Quality Management control rules. Acquiring AEO Certification In FY2011, detailed rules on internal procedures for The Minebea Group is strengthening and improving handling significant quality issues were created to logistics management in order to perform trade and clarify internal procedures for handling major quality Social Report logistics properly and efficiently. As part of this initiative, issues. Additionally, business units have drawn up the Group has begun taking measures to acquire recall guidelines for keyboards and other products Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) certification in supplied directly to consumers. Singapore, South Korea, and the EU. The Group is on track to acquire certification in Singapore by the end of FY2012. Future Issues and Goals Environmental Report The Minebea Group is creating procedural manuals Bar Code Management to Prevent and strengthening its structure for assessment in order Mistaken Shipments to ensure product safety at every stage of the product The Minebea Group’s logistics management system lifecycle. The Group will also continue to pursue quality uses bar coding to prevent the mistaken shipment of management certification. products. Bearing products, for example, are inspected In logistics operations, the Group is promoting the upon storage or retrieval from inventory at all the global acquisition of AEO certification and bar code sales warehouses. At this time, the model and management for all of its products. specifications of all products must be verified by bar code. From FY2011, the Group also started bar code management of PM motor products and preparations have begun for bar coding of fan motor products. Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 24 rt Social Repo Relationships with Employees Brother-Sister System Basic Approach A Brother-Sister System was introduced for employees Since its founding, the Minebea Group has recognized of Minebea Group’s domestic sales division on an that employees are its most valuable resource, and one experimental basis in April 2010, and full-fledged of our Five Principles is that the company should implementation of the system began in FY2011. Under become a place where its employees are proud to this system, a young employee takes on the role of work. The Minebea Group is committed to maintaining mentor for a new employee. In addition to teaching and improving workplaces where each of our employees business skills, the program supports relationship can work safely and in good health, and fully exercise building so new employees can feel free to consult their his or her abilities. mentors concerning non-work issues, and develop their independence. In FY2011, 12 new employees took Minebea Group Workforce (as of March 2012) part in this system. Employees Japanese staff on overseas Total Male Female Total assignment Using the Brother-Sister System Japan 2,796 572 3,368 0 3,368 I found there to be big advantages to North America 1,138 758 1,896 22 1,918 this system. When I was assigned to my Europe 674 358 1,032 25 1,057 division, I didn’t know anyone and felt Asia 10,767 33,885 44,652 411 45,063 very apprehensive. But having a senior Total 15,375 35,573 50,948 458 51,406 employee around my age assigned to me as a brother really helped me to build relations with people inside and Human Resources Development outside the company. Shigeki Endo The Minebea Group seeks employees who can work I had no experience, but my brother BA Sales Division Domestic Sales Division on the global stage, have the independence to develop cared a lot about helping me get to the point where I could do my own work. their own ideas, and welcome challenges, and we work There were private occasions when we went drinking to provide education that encourages those qualities. together and I could consult with him about small problems We have specially tailored programs for every employee and such. This was very supportive. rank, including new and intermediate-level employees This year I will probably take on the role of a brother for a younger employee. I’d like to share my experience and the and newly-appointed managers, and we conduct benefits of this system with others. training programs and on-the-job education to enable employees to acquire specialized knowledge and strengthen their skills. Principal Domestic Training Programs by Rank (FY2011) Program Participants Aim of Training Learn the proper manners expected of working members of society, attitudes toward work, and how to carry out work duties. New Employee Training New employees Understand the company’s management philosophy and code of conduct, and company rules, systems, and organization. Learn goal setting and ensure ongoing personal development. Junior Employee Employees in their second Learn fundamentals for improving performance and the basics and importance of Training year of employment communication. Review personal abilities and future goals, and consider how to proceed going forward. Intermediate Level Employees in around their Understand the role expected of them at their work site and learn to be self-reliant in their Training I fifth year of employment environment. Intermediate Level Employees in around their Raise the value (quality) of their work by reevaluating the meaning and value of their work Training II 10th year of employment and the company from the perspective of the customers and the market. Understand the role expected of assistant managers as supervisors. New Assistant Manager Newly promoted assistant From their perspective as work site leaders, develop the ability to solve the problems of Training managers their work site by engaging others. Learn the fundamentals of management reform; study the approaches and methods to New Manager Training Newly promoted managers solving their divisions’ problems by thinking about the problems laterally across many divisions and from a management perspective. *N ote: In addition to the above, a manager training program and a training program for intermediate-level employees are held every two years for Japanese employees on overseas assignments. 25 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Social Report Relationships with Employees Global Human Resources Development achievement and permitting a flexible response to To promote its global human resources, the Minebea future changes in the workplace environment and Commitment from the President Group is committed to broadening the playing field for employment structure. employees. We want more employees to have an opportunity to engage in global activities, so if stationed overseas Workforce Diversity they can stay for a maximum of five years according to As the Minebea Group expands its global operations, established guidelines. we believe it is important to strengthen our human To nurture our global staff, we also provide manager resources with diversity as a given. We are committed Floods in Thailand training opportunities for Japanese assigned to to creating an environment that maximizes the overseas subsidiaries based on the Japanese training capabilities of diverse human resources regardless of program, as well as opportunities for local overseas such attributes as gender, age, nationality, or disability. staff to train for management positions under their subsidiaries’ programs. Developing Global Talent The Minebea Group has set a goal to develop and Global HR Meeting Minebea Products in Society utilize employees who can support global business In July 2011, the Minebea Group held a global human expansion. As one initiative, the Group is actively hiring resources meeting which gathered HR managers from foreign exchange students studying at Japanese throughout Asia (Thailand, Shanghai, Zhuhai, universities. In FY2012, five of the 60 new employees Singapore, and Malaysia). The meeting provided an were non-Japanese. opportunity to share information on labor issues, employee development, and hiring. In the future, such Promoting Female Employment meetings will be held regularly and successful initiatives Approximately 35,000 female employees are working Special Feature will be shared laterally across the Group. for the Minebea Group worldwide, accounting for about 70% of our total workforce. For this reason, we will Experiencing an Overseas Assignment continue to actively work toward the promotion of After entering the company, I worked for female employees to management positions, and strive three years in the Karuizawa Plant’s fan to create a workplace where they can continue to motor business unit before being assigned to NMB-Minebea-GmbH for demonstrate their abilities and play an active role. Management Report about 10 months. Special training sessions for female employees Of course, the customers and the were held at the Karuizawa Plant in FY2011 and at the language in Germany are different from Tokyo headquarters in FY2012. The objective of the those in Japan, but there are also Masaya Fukuda FAN R&D training was to have the female employees take a more different demands with regard to the product compared to the Japanese NMB-Minebea-GmbH active role in their work sites by delving into their work market. site issues and making reform proposals to their It would be difficult to understand the differences in the supervisors. market environment without actually being there in Germany. Social Report I learned that we must provide products that meet the needs Comment from Female Manager of the local market. I’m still learning each day, but I’d like to use my valuable I’m responsible for customer service experience to help develop “products that sell.” in China. The Chinese market is growing by leaps and bounds, and consequently customer demands are becoming more complex. In this Environmental Report Fair and Balanced Evaluation business environment, I’m facing new issues daily at my work. But with the At the Minebea Group, impartiality and objectivity are collaboration of others in the division, Dora Wong our prime concerns in evaluating the abilities and along with my superiors and Senior Manager Customer Service Management employees from other divisions, we performance of our employees. Compensation and China Region Sales Sales Division, China Region are finding ways to increase benefits reflect the results of these evaluations so as to communication with customers and Minebea (Hong Kong) Ltd. create a workplace where workers can feel that they resolve our issues. I’m also the mother are performing valuable work and where ambitious of three children, and I’m very pleased to be working at a employees are encouraged to perform to their company where I can both raise children and work. I’d like to use my valuable experience at Minebea to study many new maximum potential. We will continue implementing things in the future. personnel policies based on rewarding effort and Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 26 Relationships with Employees Initiatives Regarding Employees with Disabilities work-life balance of its employees will be rewarding The Minebea Group actively promotes the employment them and lead to a sense of fulfillment. of people with disabilities, and in January 2011 achieved To this end, we have a flexible system that enables an employment ratio of 1.88%, surpassing the statutory employees to take time off for childbirth, childrearing, requirement of 1.8%. caring for family members, and other important events In order to support the motivation of all employees, in their private lives. We have also established the regardless of whether or not they have a disability, we Overseas Vacation for Veteran Employees Program, assign employees with specialized knowledge to take which gives employees who have worked for Minebea leadership roles at their work sites as part of our policy for over 30 years an opportunity to rest and recuperate. of considering various factors in making assignments. The number of users has been increasing year by year, a sign that the system is functioning well. Ratio of Employees with Disabilities in the Minebea Group Workforce We will continue to improve the workplace (Unit: %) environment so our employees may work with peace of 1.88 1.91 2.0 1.74 mind. 1.5 1.27 1.16 1.11 Principal Special Leave Benefits for Employees 1.0 in Japan and the Number of Users (FY2011) 0.5 No. of employees 0.0 Benefit Description taking leave 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011(Jan.) 2011 (FY) Paid leave or shorter working hours Child care leave 60 persons * In the last year’s report, the figure for FY2010 represented an annual average for employees caring for children for FY2010, while figures for other years were as of June. In this year’s report, Paid leave or shorter working hours the figures consistently reflect employment as of June, in accordance with Family care leave for employees with family members 1 person government reports. The Group achieved the statutory requirement of 1.8% in requiring care January 2011, and therefore the figure is shown in the graph. Trip to Thailand, China (Shanghai), Overseas vacation for or Singapore for employees with 30 21 persons veteran employees years of service, and their families Initiatives Regarding Reemployment of Seasoned Employees So that highly skilled and motivated employees may Using the Shorter Working Hour System for Child Care continue working longer, and to enable them to pass on I’m using the system to shorten my morning work their skills and expertise to younger employees, the hours by 30 minutes in order retirement age for Minebea Group employees in Japan to care for my child. It takes is 62. Furthermore, in response to the enactment of the time for me to commute from my home, so this is just the Act of Stabilization of Employment of Elderly Persons, right system for helping me to the Minebea Group also provides all employees who so take my child to preschool and then get to work. Previously desire with an opportunity to be rehired after compulsory the system fixed the shortened Shizuyo Tomono Karuizawa Plant retirement. work hours to 45 minutes in Personnel & General Affairs Department the morning and 1 hour at night, but from April 2008, we have been able to choose the Respect for Human Rights times with a maximum shortened workday of two hours. Some shorten their days by an hour, others by 1 hour and 45 minutes, and there are those who shorten it by the full 2 In light of the importance of corporate compliance hours. Some shorten their hours in the morning or night, and (corporate ethics and legal compliance), the Minebea others do both. If the system’s easy to use, it makes it easier Group prohibits unfair discrimination due to race, age, for us to work, so I think it’s important to improve these systems. I’ll continue to do my best at both work and gender, nationality and religion. Employees undergo childcare, with my child giving me bright smiles and “I love training before assignment to regions with different you mom” welcomes. cultures, and the Minebea Group Officer and Employee Compliance Guidelines are used for human rights Labor Relations education at every level of training for employees. As recited in the Minebea Group Code of Conduct, the Moreover, we are working to prevent human rights Minebea Group recognizes freedom of association and abuses by providing a consultation center and an endeavors to build harmonious labor relations by internal reporting system. actively communicating with labor unions and employee representatives on issues such as the work environment and working conditions. Initiatives for Creating Environments Conducive to Working Health and Occupational Safety Management Support for Diversity in Work Patterns We believe that the Minebea Group’s attention to the The Minebea Group firmly believes that a safe, healthy 27 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Social Report Relationships with Employees workplace is key to improving product and service Promoting Health Management quality, consistency of manufacturing operations, and The Minebea Group offers regular health examinations Commitment from the President employee morale. and health counseling, and works to ensure and Each of our plants has a Health and Safety enhance the health of its employees in accordance with Committee comprised of numerous working groups the laws of each country and conditions at each place with responsibility for workplace safety, health issues, of business; for example, an industrial physician makes and other such concerns. These committees meet regular visits to the Karuizawa Plant. In addition, we are regularly to review working group progress toward strengthening our initiatives in the mental health field, individual targets. In addition, the Minebea Group’s which in recent years has become an object of Floods in Thailand principal plants in Thailand, China, and Singapore have heightened social awareness. For example, we offer obtained OHSAS 18001 certification. opportunities for consultation with industrial physicians In the event of a fire, workplace injury, traffic and industrial counselors, and hold mental health accident, or other similar incident, safety managers lectures. take the lead in identifying the cause and handling the issue appropriately and ensure that information about Health and Occupational Safety Initiatives in China such incidents is shared with other production sites in Minebea Products in Society At the Zhuhai Plant in China, groups of employees each country to prevent similar incidents in the future. patrol the plant once a month based on the Health and Workplace Injuries and Other Accidents in Safety Committee’s annual patrol schedule. the Minebea Group The committee also holds a monthly meeting to (Unit: incidents) ensure that accidents that have occurred in other areas 150 122 128 of the Minebea Group, as well as similar types of 119 120 102 accidents, do not occur at the Zhuhai Plant. 90 The plant also conducts training drills as required Special Feature 78 60 by law. The fire safety subcommittee holds fire drills semiannually, which is very important given the large 30 number of new employees entering the company each 0 year. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Health and safety courses are a required part of the Conducting Regular Patrols at Production Facilities training for new employees. The training helps to instill Management Report Regular safety patrols are conducted monthly at every a proper understanding before the new employees are group plant, including the Karuizawa Plant. These assigned to a division. Training continues even after patrols monitor progress against the previous month’s employee assignment as part of the daily efforts to findings, identify further areas needing improvement, prevent accidents at the plant. and ensure that areas near production equipment are neat and tidy, that potentially dangerous tools are stored properly, and that safety glasses and earplugs are used. Social Report Environmental Report Training to prevent leaks of chemical substances during an emergency drill (Zhuhai Plant) Future Issues and Goals We recognize that the training of human resources is an essential element for furthering our global expansion of a stable supply of high-quality precision products generated through manufacturing and technological innovation. Accordingly, we will continue working to convey education and expertise to our employees that can be applied anywhere in the world, and to implement A patrol at the Fujisawa Plant personnel policies to support employees. Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 28 rt Social Repo Relationships with Local Communities and Global Society Basic Approach Participating in the Conference As an enterprise operating on a global scale, the There were many events at the conference demonstrating how Minebea Group believes in the importance of building the bearings industry is tackling environmental problems. We sound partnerships with local communities through participated in the conference and made a presentation on our initiatives designed to both reduce the environment burden and good communication. To establish firm roots in those enhance business performance. The presentation generated a communities, we carry out social contribution activities lot of interest among the participants. This was a meeting local needs based upon our Five Principles. great opportunity because many companies which typically compete against Contributing to Global Society each other gathered together to cooperate on the Involvement in the Board of Investment Fair 2011 issue of the environment. In recognition of the fact that the Minebea Group has We are confident that these Patti Carrier (HiTech Div.) and initiatives will help to Herb Parkhurst (HiTech Div.) of continued to actively invest in the country since improve the activities of all New Hampshire Ball Bearings, Inc. establishing its Ayutthaya Plant in 1982, the Board of the participants. Investment of Thailand* appointed Yoshihisa Kainuma, President and Chief Executive Officer of Minebea, as an honorary investment advisor in June 2010. Initiatives in China In January 2012, the Board of Investment of Employees provide social welfare support Thailand held its BOI Fair 2011 under the theme, “Going At the Zhuhai Plant, employee volunteers participate in Green for the Future.” President Kainuma participated a program to deliver donated goods to elderly in senior in the fair’s CEO Forum as a panelist to discuss citizen homes and children in welfare facilities. environmental and economic issues during a panel The volunteers visit the facilities to deliver traditional discussion with fellow global business leaders. Chinese cakes and other food supplies to the elderly * Government agency responsible for promoting investment in Thailand and children, as well as stationery and other needed goods. The volunteers also spend time talking and enjoying recreation with the facility residents to deepen Initiatives in North America their friendships. Internship program In addition, plant At the Peterborough Plant in the United States, Minebea employees take part in offers an internship program for engineering students blood drives and other at local universities. events to support the The purpose of the internship is to give university enhancement of their students the opportunity to put their knowledge to work local community. in a practical setting. The program also offers students Employee volunteers who visited welfare facilities the chance to come into contact with businesspeople and understand the type of behavior required of Initiatives in Europe business professionals, thus helping them develop Participation in Frankfurt’s Japan Week celebration needed skills for the future. 2011 marked the 150th anniversary of Japan-Germany Each year the program selects a few interns from relations. Frankfurt, where Minebea has long been among many applicants. active, held a number of cultural exchange events to commemorate the occasion. Participation in CSR Promotion Conference The Minebea Group’s Germany sales subsidiary Our U.S. subsidiary New Hampshire Ball Bearings, Inc. acted as a sponsor for the International Friendship participated in a conference held by the American Foundation’s Japan Week festivities held in Frankfurt in Bearing Manufacturers Association in April 2011. November 2011 as part of the subsidiary’s support for Through seminars and exhibits, the conference cultural exchange events. shared information on leading activities in the areas of Japan Week introduced traditional Japanese dance energy efficiency and energy saving. The Minebea and tea ceremony to the local community, along with Group’s initiatives were announced at the conference such modern arts as Japanese animation. Additionally, and various case studies were shared among the other the German community held various events designed attendee companies, enabling the participants to to promote mutual understanding and deepen deepen their mutual understanding. friendship. 29 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Social Report Relationships with Local Communities and Global Society Initiatives in Thailand Providing Emergency Shelter Support for education Being close to the ocean, the Fujisawa Plant cooperates Commitment from the President Minebea Group subsidiaries in Thailand contribute to with Fujisawa City to offer its buildings as a tsunami the enhancement of children’s education environment shelter in the event of a through the support of local schools. In FY2011, Group natural disaster. companies made donations to support the In emergencies, the establishment of a new community study center in Tak Fujisawa Plant has the Province. Today, some 150 elementary and junior high capacity to shelter more school students attend the center. than 1,700 residents Floods in Thailand As a follow-up support activity, employees also visit and tourists. local community schools twice a year to deliver donated One of the Fujisawa Plant buildings school uniforms and stationery to children, along with available as a tsunami shelter bookshelves, chairs, and other needed equipment to the schools. The employees also help repair aging Sponsoring the 2011 Fukuroi Enshu facilities as part of their support for school operations. Fireworks Festival Minebea Products in Society The Hamamatsu Plant supports the annual Fukuroi Enshu Fireworks Festival held by Fukuroi City. The festival draws the best pyrotechnics from across Japan to compete, providing an exciting event for local residents and supporting the development of the local community through one of the largest festivals of its kind. Based on the theme of “Delivering Messages Donations to schools supported by the Group of Hope,” the FY2011 festival donated a part of its Special Feature revenues to support victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake. Contributing to Local Communities The Hamamatsu Plant will continue to build relations Promoting Amateur Sports with local residents and support the development of the Support for Asama Highland Sports Club community. The Karuizawa Plant promotes amateur sports by Management Report supporting curling. In pursuit of their desire to produce Support for Victims of the Great East Olympic athletes from Nagano Prefecture, residents of Japan Earthquake the town of Miyota built a curling rink. Their dream was The Minebea Group contributed 50 million yen in realized as today, their NPO, Asama Highland Sports earthquake relief funds five days after the Great East Club, acts as a club through membership dues as well Japan Earthquake occurred. Minebea celebrated its as donations from the Karuizawa Plant. 60th anniversary in July 2011, and decided in principle Donations from the plant are used to hold curling to reallocate the funds earmarked for commemorative tournaments and to support the junior and wheelchair business to support reconstruction efforts. Social Report teams. In addition, Minebea Group employees around the Curling is rooted in the local community and is a world collected 11,960,000 yen in donations. global sport, and the Karuizawa Plant will continue The Minebea Group will continue to support the providing support. reconstruction of the areas devastated by the earthquake. Environmental Report Future Issues and Goals By continuing to make active contributions to local communities in and outside Japan, the Minebea Group will strive to be an organization which deepens its community roots and expands sustainably with local communities. A curling tournament supported by the Karuizawa Plant Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 30 rt Social Repo Relationships with Suppliers Basic Approach Compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of The Minebea Group’s business is supported by Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors relationships with numerous suppliers. The Minebea To ensure the establishment of fair and equitable trading Group has adopted Basic Procurement Policies* on relations with suppliers, in FY2011 the Minebea Group’s which healthy partnerships are built. We also ask our domestic sites implemented self-auditing of compliance suppliers to comply with the Minebea Group Code of with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Conduct, which includes provisions regarding respect Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors. The audits verified for human rights, and we aim to encourage that there are no significant violations of the act. environmentally friendly business practices by Training was also held at domestic sites to promote a promoting cooperation for green procurement. better understanding of the act, with 217 employees In FY2011, in order to promote CSR throughout the participating. supply chain, we added “CSR Procurement” as the sixth item to our Basic Procurement Policies. In line with this approach, we also established the Minebea Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. *The Basic Procurement Policies and Minebea Group CSR Procurement Guidelines are published on the Group website. Basic Procurement Policies http://www.minebea.co.jp/english/procurements/policy/index.html Minebea Group CSR Procurement Guidelines http://www.minebea.co.jp/english/procurements/csr/index.html Training session on the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors Supplier Selection Policy Response to Conflict Minerals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo Whenever the Minebea Group initiates a relationship with a new supplier, we ask the supplier to confirm its Such raw materials as gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten agreement with our approach to materials procurement are contained in Minebea Group products, and in some and to proceed in accordance with our New Supplier cases such materials may have been extracted in a Certification Standards to ensure strict compliance conflict zone and sold to perpetuate that conflict. The with our Basic Procurement Policies. In particular, we Minebea Group is monitoring U.S. regulatory assess suppliers on the basis of ten attributes, including developments. We have already established a research whether or not the company in question will be able to database and are taking action to respond to this issue, conduct business in a stable, continuous manner, but any formal action, including action by our suppliers, is satisfies the Minebea Group Green Procurement pending the issuance of guidelines by the U.S. Standard, and agrees to abide by the Minebea Group government. Code of Conduct. Where necessary, we conduct inspections of the supplier’s production facilities. In FY2011, we certified a total of 64 suppliers in this Communication with Suppliers manner. CSR Report Distribution The Minebea Group distributes this CSR report to domestic suppliers to communicate our CSR views. In Green Procurement FY2011, we sent the reports together with questionnaires In July 2004, we established the Minebea Group Green to 1,641 suppliers and received responses from 69 Procurement Standard in response to international companies. Questionnaire responses are utilized in the laws and directives, to satisfy our customers, and to next fiscal year’s CSR activities. reduce the use of substances having an environmental impact. Under these guidelines, we require our suppliers to provide products (raw materials, parts, Future Issues and Goals components, and packaging materials) that are free of We are striving to establish a CSR procurement hazardous substances, and also to submit safety framework in order to promote CSR activities throughout certifications, analysis reports, and other similar the supply chain. As part of the initiative, we plan to documentation. In FY2011, 1,861 suppliers to the distribute a newly created CSR self-assessment checklist overall Minebea Group were cooperating with our to our domestic suppliers and analyze the feedback. We Green Procurement policies. also plan to promote activities through overseas sites. 31 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 rt Social Repo Relationships with Shareholders Timely Disclosure/Disclosure Policy Shareholder Breakdown (as of March 31, 2012) Commitment from the President In addition to disclosing information required by Individual investors, applicable laws and regulations in terms of timing and governments, etc 20.3% level of detail, Minebea has also established its own disclosure policy to ensure a proactive and fair approach in this regard. Japanese Shareholder Financial corporations Breakdown institutions 8.4% 50.7% Communication with Shareholders Floods in Thailand General Meeting of Shareholders Non-Japanese Minebea’s Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders investors Securities companies is held annually in June. In addition, we provide 16.5% 4.1% shareholders with semiannual reports to keep them informed of the state of the company’s business and our management policies. IR Website Minebea Products in Society Minebea’s IR website received Daiwa Investor Communication with Institutional Investors Relations’ “Best Internet IR Company 2011,” as well as Minebea holds investor meetings and conference calls the “Gomez IR Site Overall Ranking 2012 Gold Award” on financial results for institutional investors and and “Gomez IR Ranking, No. 2 in Industry” from securities analysts. This information is also published Morningstar’s Gomez Consulting Division. on our website in Japanese and English, simultaneously In addition, Nikko Investor Relations recognized our or as soon as possible. We also held a meeting in website with its Top Website Award in the “FY2011 Special Feature February 2012 to announce our new Medium-term Comprehensiveness Rankings for All Listed Business Plan. Companies.” We spend approximately one week per year in each region visiting investors in North America, Europe, and Asia. We also participate in brokerage-sponsored Management Report investor seminars, conduct numerous one-on-one meetings, and actively engage in many other investorrelated activities. Shareholder Returns Starting with the appointment of the current president and chief executive officer in FY2009, Minebea has Social Report worked toward two goals: maximizing earnings per share and enhancing corporate value, and solidifying the corporate foundation for our centennial. In FY2011, the business environment changed radically due to the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake and the Future Issues and Goals Environmental Report Thai floods, soaring prices of rare earth materials, and Through enhanced IR activities, we will work to expand the yen appreciation. In response, we reevaluated our our communication with shareholders and to promote business roadmap and announced the New Mediumgreater understanding of the Minebea Group among all term Business Plan. Though the changes to the types of investors. business environment have resulted in significantly lower revenues and profits, we have maintained an annual dividend of 7 yen per share. In addition, in November 2008, February 2010, and May to June 2011, we repurchased our shares to enable us to pursue flexible capital policies in response to the changing business environment. Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 32 epor t Environmental R Environmental Management We put the Minebea Group Environmental Policy Basic Approach into practice through a variety of initiatives, including The Minebea Group has established an environmental the use of highly energy-efficient equipment and management system on the basis of which all Group processes and efforts to reduce emissions of companies strive to conserve the environment. greenhouse gases, chiefly CO2. In order to protect raw Minebea’s Environmental Philosophy was materials, water, and other resources, we are established as the Group’s fundamental policy for strengthening measures to minimize the emission of environmental protection activities. In FY2012, with the waste and effluent from our plants. We are also revision of the philosophy’s contents, the name was supplying environmentally conscious products to the revised to the Minebea Group Environmental Policy. market by developing highly energy-efficient motors, Additionally, we have added “Contributing to Global lighting, and energy conversion devices, along with Society” to the policy. Under this new policy, we will development of new materials as well as control make public our proprietary environmental conservation technologies and sensors responsible for the energy technologies and raise our awareness of the possible management of such equipment. impact of our business activities on biodiversity as we strive to conserve nature. Minebea Group Environmental Policy Established August 26, 1993 Revised June 01, 2012 The Minebea Group strives to contribute to the protection of the global environment and sustainable human development. In accordance with the Five Principles of its management policy, the Minebea Group operates its business activities in a responsible manner which respects the environment. 1 Development and design 4 Cooperation with authorities and local public entities The Minebea Group will aim to offer its clients products The Minebea Group will observe applicable environmental which contain no hazardous substances for the regulations and rules in the countries and local environment or the health and safety of humans, and which communities where it is engaged in business. The Minebea consume as little energy as possible, have high reliability Group will contribute to society through participation in its and long life. The Minebea Group will develop and design environmental conservation activities. products which minimize environmental impact over their entire life cycle from the selection of direct and indirect materials and component parts through end use to disposal. 2 Manufacturing 5 Contribution to the international community For environmentally conscious manufacturing and its The Minebea Group will make public its environmental continuous improvement, the Minebea Group will improve conservation technologies to contribute to the international production yield, reduce product scrap, energy community’s environmental activities. The Minebea Group consumption and waste through the 3R concept (Reduce, will also recognize that its business activities may have an Reuse and Recycle) and implement preventive measures effect on biodiversity and ecosystems and will work to with regard to pollutants. conserve nature. 3 Procurement and logistics 6 Enhancement of environmental conservation awareness among the Minebea Group employees For environmentally conscious procurement and logistics, the Minebea Group will procure materials including indirect This environmental policy will be published to the whole materials and component parts which contain no Minebea Group. Each employee will be expected to work hazardous substances and employ environmentally proactively to conserve the environment. friendly logistics systems to minimize environmental impact such as CO2 emissions. 33 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Environmental Report Environmental Management which explains the Minebea Group Environmental Environmental Management System Policy along with environmental targets and action Commitment from the President Environmental Management Structure plans. In order to carry out the Minebea Group Environmental In addition to these programs, we provide training Policy, the Minebea Group has established an for ISO 14001 internal auditors, waste management Environmental Management Structure headed by the education, and drills which simulate natural disasters Board of Directors and the President and Chief and other types of emergencies. Executive Officer. We have also put in place an Environment Management Committee, a promotion Publication of the Minebea Group’s In-house organization composed mostly of executive officers, Environmental Newspaper Hello Environment! Floods in Thailand and a Group Environmental Protection Committee, Each month, the Minebea Group publishes its in-house which leads the day-to-day execution of policy. This environmental newspaper, Hello Environment! Each structure enables rapid response to environmental issue focuses on a particular educational theme with policy. Each work site also has a Plant General Manager easily understood, instructive articles. of Environmental Management and a Manager of The content includes not only articles on the Group’s Environmental Management who promote specific environmental activities, Minebea Products in Society environmental conservation measures at their work but practical information sites. on the environment and daily lifestyles. The Environmental Audits Group’s first environThe Minebea Group is striving to acquire ISO 14001 mental newspaper was certification at each of its major global sites. In FY2011, published by the the Yonago Plant and Dongguan Chengqu Daiichi Hamamatsu Plant in Precision Mold Co., Ltd. became the latest sites to January 2000, and Special Feature acquire certification. To maintain certification, each site through the March 2012 is required to conduct an annual external audit by a edition of the Group’s inthird-party organization and an annual internal audit by house environmental an internal auditor. newspaper, a total of 142 For the internal audit, employees with external editions had been auditing certification or veteran employees act as published. instructors. Accordingly, we provide annual training to The Group’s in-house environmental Management Report newspaper Hello Environment! foster personnel who can conduct these internal audits. Environmental Accounting The Minebea Group conducts environmental accounting to confirm its costs for environmental protection activities and the effect of its investments. The Japanese Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 is used as Social Report a reference. In FY2011, the Group’s environmental conservation costs totaled 3,941 million yen, on par with the cost in FY2010. Environmental Protection Costs, FY2007 – FY2011 Environmental Report (Units: 100 million yen) Cost Investment 50 Internal audit at the Yonago Plant 40 Environmental Education 30 30 34 34 Basic Approach and FY2011 Initiatives 20 34 The Minebea Group provides training on environmental 29 management basics to all new employees and mid10 13 career hires in order to raise the environmental 7 1 6 5 consciousness of each employee. In addition, all Group 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) employees receive general environmental education Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 34 Environmental Management product—as well as such products as machined Initiatives to Protect Biodiversity components, rotary components, and electronic In FY2012, the Minebea Group revised its Environmental devices. Policy and added “contribution to the international When environmental impact is viewed in terms of community” as a new initiative. As part of the initiative, the ratio of total production by region to sales, Asia we recognize that our business activities may have an (excluding Japan) is estimated to account for effect on biodiversity and ecosystems, and we will work approximately 80% of the Minebea Group’s to conserve nature. One of the important first steps to consumption and output. putting the policy into practice is to research the relation In FY2011, the manufacturing facilities in Thailand, between the Group’s business and biodiversity and the site of the Group’s largest manufacturing operations, understand the impact of our business activities. After suffered damage from local flooding. Of the five determining the impact, we plan to study the creation of manufacturing plants in the country, two were flooded an action policy for the Group. and endured long periods of either suspended activity or limited production. Consequently, the Group’s overall environmental output declined compared to previous Minebea’s Environmental Impact years. The Minebea Group has plants and sales offices in 18 The Group’s environmental impact for FY2011 is countries around the world, manufacturing and selling summarized below. a range of products including bearings—our main Input and Output (FY2011 Actual) Product Development INPUT & Manufacturing OUTPUT Raw Materials and Components Waste Recycled and reused 46,778 tons Steel 71,400 tons Reused or recycled internally 2,934 tons Landfill 4,061 tons Resin 6,800 tons Reused or recycled externally 51,821 tons Energy Wastewater volumes 916,000 m3 Wastewater COD 102 tons Total energy 8,854 TJ Product Development & Manufacturing Electricity 863,582 MWh Reused or recycled internally 801,000 m3 BOD 28 tons LPG 409 tons Reused or recycled externally SS 23 tons Natural gas 2,277,000 m 3 n-hexane extracts 2 tons City gas 749,000 m 3 Oil 2,435,000 liters CO22 505,012 tons NOx3 1,469 tons Water Atmospheric emissions SOx4 1,619 tons Water supply 2,867,000 m 3 Particulates 5 111 tons Note: includes NOx, SOx, and particulates from Industrial water 25,000 m 3 electric power generation Groundwater 613,000 m 3 Rainwater 465,000 m 3 Spring water 22,000 m3 PRTR substance emissions 24.59 tons Chemical substances PRTR substance transfer volume 2.09 tons Chemical Substances PRTR substance transaction volumes1 36.34 tons CO2 61,846 tons Industrial oil 5,950,000 liters Product shipping Note: Covers domestic logistics in Japan and airborne and seaborne logistics outside Japan Solvents/cleaning agents 1,600,000 liters 1. PRTR chemicals: Substances included in the PRTR law (The Chemical Substance Control Law/Domestic Japanese Law), for which companies must register and report volumes released and transferred. 2. CO2: Carbon dioxide 3. NOx: Nitrogen oxides 4. SOx: Sulfur oxides 5. Particulates: microscopic solid matter contained in exhaust gas generated through combustion, heating, or chemical reaction 35 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 epor t Environmental R Initiatives for Preventing Global Warming basis, as well as a system to compile data on air and Basic Approach sea logistics for overseas sites. Commitment from the President The Minebea Group recognizes that the international issue of global warming, along with the related issues of soaring energy prices and abnormal climatic Initiatives at Offices conditions, pose a significant threat to the sustainability Response to Power Shortages Following the of its business activities. Great East Japan Earthquake In response, each office and plant in the Minebea The shortage of electric power in eastern Japan Group is proactively promoting energy efficiency following the Great East Japan Earthquake of March Floods in Thailand initiatives in order to combat global warming. 11, 2011 has become a serious issue for the nation. In Additionally, each site is striving to develop response, the Minebea Group has actively implemented representative initiatives which can be deployed across power conservation measures at its Fujisawa, Matsuida, the Group and has completed implementing initiatives. and Omori plants, Tokyo head office, and sales offices In January 2010, we formed the Energy Conservation within the Tokyo Electric Power Company’s service Promotion Committee in order to take global warming area. prevention measures to the next level across the The following are examples of these measures: Minebea Products in Society Group. The committee is comprised of members from every business unit, enabling the sharing of 1 Shifting daytime production to nighttime accumulated knowledge, technology, and best energy2 Reducing the number of lights used saving practices. The spread of knowledge across the 3 Shutting down air conditioners and lighting during peak energy consumption hours in the afternoon business units is strengthening the Group’s overall 4 Consolidating work space in order to reduce areas ability to implement global warming prevention cooled by air conditioners measures. 5 Allowing employees to wear polo shirts and other cool Special Feature work attire 6 Setting up plant curtains near windows to absorb heat Results of FY2011 Initiatives The Minebea Group’s emissions of CO2 in FY2011 totaled 505,012 tons, 0.6% less than in FY2010. In terms of basic units of production, CO2 emissions Management Report increased 6.3% over FY2010 to 2.01 tons per million yen of production. The cause of this increase was the negative impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake and the Thai floods on productivity in comparison with FY2010. In FY2011, the Group also made headway in determining the CO2 emissions from Group logistics activities. We developed a system to determine the Social Report level of emissions from each domestic site on a monthly A “green” curtain used to save power (Fujisawa Plant) CO2 Emissions (Total and Per Basic Unit) (Unit: tons) (Unit: tons/million yen) Future Issues and Goals Environmental Report 600,000 5.00 Czech 508,081 505,012 4.50 Cambodia 500,000 475,623 4.00 Slovakia The Minebea Group has set a target of reducing its CO2 429,672 423,099 3.50 U.S. emissions per unit of production by 1% each year in 400,000 3.00 Germany comparison to FY2010, for a total reduction of 5% by U.K. 300,000 1.89 2.01 2.50 Malaysia FY2015. For FY2012, we have set a goal of establishing 1.68 1.85 2.00 200,000 1.42 1.50 Singapore a system by which we can regularly report the amount 1.00 China of CO2 emissions from logistics operations worldwide. 100,000 Thailand 0.50 Japan We will also take measures with a long-term outlook 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 0.00 per basic unit for 2030 and 2050, monitoring the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the policies of *Emissions generated by product shipment are not included. various countries. Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 36 epor t Environmental R Initiatives for Effective Use of Resources Ayutthaya Plant in Thailand also began implementing Basic Approach the zero emissions system, helping the Group reduce The Minebea Group recognizes that there are limits to its wastewater emissions by 235,000 tons. the availability of resources used in its products, which include metals, plastics, and other raw materials, along with oil, natural gas, and other energy sources. Initiatives at Offices Additionally, with regard to rare earth elements Accumulated Earnings of 3R Activities Surpass indispensible to the manufacture of electronics, both 1 Billion Yen (Shanghai Plant) the availability and the number of countries exporting The Shanghai Plant launched a Reduce/Reuse/ the material are limited, making it more susceptible to Recycle (3R) Committee in 2003 to effectively reuse export restrictions. and reduce its waste. In the first year of the program’s We believe that the effective use of resources is operation, the plant incurred costs to dispose of most of critical to the continuation of our business activities, its waste. By separating the waste, however, the plant and to that end we are taking various management was able to sell part of it. In the nine years since the measures. program began, the plant has generated earnings of more than 1 billion yen from the sale of its waste. Results of FY2011 Initiatives Shanghai Plant’s 3R Earnings (unit: million yen) Earnings per year Accumulated earnings since start of 3R activities In FY2011, principal raw materials used by Minebea 1,200 Group as a whole included approximately 71,400 tons 1,000 of steel and 6,800 tons of resin, up approximately 8% 800 over the preceding term. The amount of landfill waste 600 generated by the Group’s operations in FY2011 totaled 400 4,061 tons, about the same level as in FY2010 and falling short of our goal of under 4,000 tons. 200 At our mass production plants in Thailand and 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) China, we are recycling water inside the plants to the -200 greatest extent possible as part of our aim for zero external wastewater emissions. In FY2011, the Future Issues and Goals Waste Processed in FY2011 The Minebea Group is taking measures to reduce the amount of landfill waste it generates. 1 Reused or recycled internally 2,934 For FY2012, the Group is aiming to reduce landfill waste to under 4,000 tons, the same target as the 2 Transported outside the company as waste 51,821 previous year. We are currently researching the types 3 Reused or recycled of landfill waste being generated and the marketability 46,778 externally of the waste, the first steps in our plan to greatly reduce 4 Disposed of as 4,061 the amount generated over the next several years. landfill 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 (Unit: tons) Japan Thailand China Singapore Malaysia Cambodia U.K. Germany U.S. Slovakia Czech Minebea Group 3 Reused or recycled externally External Waste generation 2 Transported outside Incinerator 4 Disposed of Incinerated waste the company as waste ash as landfill 1 Reused or recycled internally Waste disposed of directly as landfill 37 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 epor t Environmental R Initiatives for Reducing Impacts on the Environment Regular Inspections of Waste and Recycling Basic Approach Stations (Japan, Thailand, China, etc.) Commitment from the President Plant effluents and emissions can be a source of water, At each plant and office, there are types of waste which air, and soil pollution that poses a threat to local are difficult to reuse or recycle within the site. In these communities. At the Minebea Group, we believe that cases, the waste is disposed of through third-party harmony with the local communities is indispensible to waste disposal companies. our business activities, and as such, we are striving to The Minebea Group selects reliable waste disposal reduce the impacts on the environment. companies and conducts regular inspections of their disposal sites to confirm the status of waste disposal Floods in Thailand and management. We will continue to cooperate with Results of FY2011 Initiatives waste disposal companies to ensure that their waste In order to ensure compliance with the environmental disposal processes do not generate soil, water, or air laws and regulations of each country and community, pollution. the Minebea Group has established environmental standards exceeding its legal requirements and undertakes daily compliance monitoring. In FY2011, Minebea Products in Society there were no incidents which violated either the legal requirements or the Group’s own standards. The Group also monitors the impact of its plants on the surrounding communities by conducting environmental patrols at all of its plants to ensure there are no leakages, foul odors, noise, or vibration caused by the plants. Additionally, in FY2011, the Group created a new Special Feature Employee of Hamamatsu Plant inspecting a waste disposal site chemical substances database to more effectively manage the amounts of chemical substances used by the Group. We plan to begin operating the database in Completion of Soil Pollution Clean-up at FY2012. Ichinoseki Plant In the past, some Minebea Group sites experienced soil and groundwater pollution from the use of Plant Initiatives Management Report chlorinated organic solvents containing volatile organic Plant Wastewater Purification compounds (VOC). Cleanup of the contaminated plants Prior to releasing wastewater into rivers, Minebea and plant sites is proceeding under the Minebea Group plants use their own wastewater processing Group’s auspices. equipment to purify wastewater to within fixed We confirmed contamination at the Ichinoseki Plant environmental standards. These plants adhere to and have voluntarily taken measures to clean up the environmental laws of the countries and localities in plant site. The cleanup effort was completed in October which they operate, and independently monitor such 2011, and a report was submitted to the Ichinoseki Social Report wastewater discharges, including regular testing for public health center and the municipal office. such metrics as pH1, COD2, BOD3, SS4, and the oil content of n-hexane extracts5. In FY2011, no anomalous monitored values were reported by any plant. In addition, no complaints Environmental Report relating to these metrics were received. 1. pH: A scale indicating whether substances are acidic or alkaline. pH7 is neutral. pH Clean-up work has been completed at the Ichinoseki Plant values below 7 indicate increasing acidity, while values above 7 indicate increasing alkalinity. 2. COD (chemical oxygen demand): The amount of oxygen consumed to oxidize organic substances (pollution) in water. COD measurement takes less time than BOD measurement, but is less reliable. COD is generally used as a metric in wastewater management for sea, lake, and marsh waters. Future Issues and Goals 3. BOD (biological oxygen demand): The amount of oxygen required for bacteria to consume and decompose organic matter (pollution) in water. Higher values indicate The Minebea Group continues to conduct business greater degrees of pollution. Measurement takes several days. BOD is generally used to observe effluent water in rivers. operations in compliance with environmental laws in 4. SS (suspended solids): The volume of substances suspended in water. The higher the number, the greater the degree of water pollution. Japan and around the world, and is proceeding with 5. n-hexane extracts: Substances extracted from oils and detergents that are difficult to volatilize in water using a substance called n-hexane as solvent. In this report they signify cleanup work in areas where it has caused mineral oils. environmental contamination in the past. Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 38 epor t Environmental R Product-related Initiatives for the Environment General Industrial Technology Center’s titanium alloy Basic Approach fortified with carbon nanotube particles were combined A majority of the products manufactured by the Minebea to form an exceptionally strong part which demonstrates Group, such as bearings and motors, are components two-to-three times the life span of conventional in products sold by our customers, and are not products despite being 30% lighter. The product is ideal immediately visible. But precisely because our for contributing to the energy efficiency of aircraft. components are incorporated into such a wide variety *PTFE(Polytetrafluoroethylene) of products, the Minebea Group believes it is important A resin comprised of fluorine atoms and carbon atoms which shows superior heat and chemical resistance. to offer products that are safe and free from harmful substances that might damage the environment, while contributing to the overall product life cycle by being Life Span energyand resource-efficient as well as long-lasting. 2-3 times conventional products Minebea Green Products Weight 30% less than What are Minebea Green Products? conventional products From the development and design stages, the products Lubricant-free sliding part (product image) that the Minebea Group manufacturers and sells are environmentally conscious products, meaning that they Product Example: Small Digital Converter Module satisfy various countries’ environmental laws and Reduces Energy Consumption by about 85% customers’ environmental requirements as well as The Minebea Group has developed and begun selling undergo voluntary product chemical substance a digital converter module, the CSD-892-73, which is evaluations and product assessments. one-quarter the size of the Group’s previous models We are currently formulating certification standards and cuts energy consumption by about 85%. for Minebea Green Products, which demonstrate Used in control boards, this digital indicator digitally superior performance and attributes from the converts electronic signals from sensors incorporated perspectives of energy efficiency, contribution to the into factory automation and other equipment and prevention of global warming, resource efficiency, and displays the numbers on small modules. contributions to a recycle-oriented society. We succeeded in reducing the size and energy consumption of the module by greatly reducing the Selection Process for Minebea Green Products converter module’s operation functions. Minebea Green Products Criteria for Minebea Green Products are currently being formulated. Environmentally conscious products Commercialization Minebea’s Environmentally Conscious Product Design 1. Green procurement 2. Chemical substances in products evaluation 3. Environmentally harmonized product development and design 4. Compliance with environmental laws Product development and design 5. Response to customer requirements, etc. Small digital converter module CSD-892-73 Product Example: Aircraft Bearing Requires No Lubricants Future Issues and Goals In collaboration with the Nagano Prefecture General The Minebea Group will continue to accurately grasp Industrial Technology Center, the Minebea Group the needs of society to make contributions to the developed a lubricant-free sliding part for an aircraft development of safe, energy-efficient, and resourcebearing which has a low coefficient of friction despite efficient products. requiring no lubricant such as oil. Minebea’s highly In FY2012, the Group will continue to formulate durable PTFE* fabric liner and the Nagano Prefecture criteria for selecting Minebea Green Products. 39 Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 Third-party Opinion Comments on the Minebea CSR Report Corporate Profile (as of March 31, 2012) anniversary. This feature gave a strong positive message to a wide group of stakeholders on the roots of Minebea’s CSR management. Finally, the highlight of the report was the excellent article Corporate name Minebea Co., Ltd. Net sales by business segment (FY2011) on the supplier dialogue. In conjunction with the establishment Headquarters 4106-73 Keisuke Oaza Miyota, Takegahara Miyota-machi, Kitasaku-gun, of theNagano CSR ProcurementOthers Guidelines created Machined components in FY2012, this 6% 43% 389-0293, Director,Japan Environmental Initiative & Corporate article reflected Minebea’s 15,068 advanced approach of holding 107,037 TEL: +81-267-32-2200 Social Responsibility-Support Department dialogues with suppliers to promote CSR throughout(million (million yen) the value yen) Development Bank of Japan Inc. chain, a hot issue for all companies. Electronic devices The dialogue reflected the Tokyo head office 19F Arco Tower, 1-8-1 Shimo-Meguro, Meguro-ku, Tokyo and components 153-8662, Japan consensus view that 15% even if thorough compliance with CSR This is the third year since the Minebea Group transitioned TEL: +81-3-5434-8611 requests on a broad37,887 level, including overseas suppliers, is still from its Environmental Report to the current Minebea Group (million yen) a ways away, companies can promote mutual understanding CSR Report, and thisJuly Established year16,I find 1951the report has a number of by holding dialogues to understand the basic requirements. attributes that make it truly epoch-making. In the 2011 report, I Capital The feature conveyed the point that this approach is becoming came away with a 68,258 strong million impression yen of Minebea’s CSR universal among industries. management and theYoshihisa Representative sudden progressKainuma, Group had madeDirector, the Representative in There was alsoRotary more substantial information on social components systemizing its CSR President efforts. This andyear, ChiefinExecutive breaking Officer out the aspects of CSR. The 36% report conveyed the clear addition of constituent parts, I find a wealth of topics with strong Main business “international business, society” 91,363and “nature” as new stakeholders in messages the CSRcomponents elucidatingMachined managementbusiness, rotary components of the Minebea (million yen) electronic devices and components business, and others conjunction with the revision to the Environmental Policy, Group. along with the participation in the Global Compact. Overall, I Net sales First, this year’s report provides 251,358 Consolidated: a detailed review million yenof the found many positive changes in this year’s report and despite progress on the CSR goals set last year and presents Operating income Consolidated: 8,599 million yen the rich amount of information, the careful selection of topics medium-term goals for FY2015. In keeping with the comments and division of information Total between production the by report and(FY2011) the website region of President Ordinary income KainumaConsolidated: in his executive message, 6,499 million yen has Minebea made it very concise and easy to read. laid out the kind of CSR vision a global company should aim North America Europe Net income Consolidated: 5,922character. million yen Going forward, I would like to see Minebea to strengthen its for, with goals reflecting the Group’s unique 9% 4% dialogue with suppliers and establish a CSR model worthy Japanof a Next, the 2012 report takes a thorough approach to Number of employees 51,406 persons global company. In addition to becoming broader, I would9% like disclosing information with an awareness of stakeholders. to see the dialogue Malaysiagrow deeper through feedback from Number There of consolidated were three feature 40 companies articles emblematic of this. The first suppliers and public 1% disclosure of this progress in a timely subsidiaries was theand affiliates report on the Group’s response to the Thai floods, fashion. This will support Minebea’s advance toward its which revealed the Group’s efforts to maintain consistent Thailand medium-term goals.China quality in its manufacturing as well as the strong bonds of trust 21% 52% the Group has built with the local employees through the Net sales of its operations. I was localization Operating incomewith the also impressed Keisuke Takegahara earnest business continuity management, reflected in the (billion yen) (billion yen) After graduation from Hitotsubashi University Faculty of Law, Mr. 350 35 Takegahara joined the Japan Development Bank (now the Development reconstructed timeline from the start of the flooding to the 300 30 Bank of Japan, Inc.). He assumed his present post following stints in the restoration of operations, and the reevaluation of the Group’s Singapore bank’s Research Department and Policy Planning Department and its 250 back-up structure and inventory25strategy. This demonstrates Representative Office4% in Frankfurt. Mr. Takegahara is also a member of 200 Minebea’s clear and genuine20spirit of responsibility to several councils, including the Japanese Ministry of the Environment's Environment Industry Market Size Research Committee and the 150 supplying its customers. 15 Environment Growth Engine Study Council, along with the Cabinet The second article which impressed me was the feature Office’s Future Environmental City Promotion Board and the Future 100 10 looking back on the Group’s business roots upon its 60th Environmental City Assessment and Research Committee. 50 5 0 0 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net sales by region (FY2011) Others China (including Hong Kong) On Receiving a Third-party Opinion 18% 24% Ordinary income Net income (billion yen) (billion yen) praise of this content has given us confidence moving 30 20 forward with our initiatives. One of the issues brought up last year was the formulation 25 Masayuki Imanaka 15 of CSR medium-term Europe goals. This year, we provide a 20 Managing Executive Officer progress report on11% our FY2011 CSR goals as well as our 15 Officer in charge 10 of FY2012 and FY2015 medium-term goals, which were Finance & Compliance Promotion Division created through the establishment of a cross-divisional 10 5 working team. To meet United ourStatesFY2015 medium-term targets, we 5Mr. Takegahara has been providing us a third-party opinion believe it is important10% to reinforce our PDCA promotion 0 ever since our first CSR Report0 was published in FY2010, structure for CSR management Thailand and, as pointed out, continue Japan (FY)and 2007each 2008year 2009 he2010 identified(FY)important has 2011 2007 2008 2009 regarding issues 2010 2011 to have proactive dialogues 13% with stakeholders. 24% our CSR promotion activities. In terms of the result of our FY2011 goals, we recognize In our third year of publishing the report, Mr. Takegahara that there are items which we did not achieve and areas has again provided us with valuable insights and requiring further effort. I pledge that we will strive to take our expectations. This year’s report included a report on our measures to a new level through the continued improvement response to the Thai floods and two feature articles. His of our CSR activities. Minebea Group CSR Report 2012 2 Printed on paper made with wood from forest thinning. “Morino Chonai-kai” (Forest Neighborhood Association) supports sound forest management. The Minebea Group supports efforts by Japan’s Forestry Tokyo Head Office Agency to reduce CO 2 emissions through the use of domestic forestry products. This report was produced 19F Arco Tower, 1-8-1 Shimo-Meguro, using paper made from Japanese wood products. Active Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-8662, Japan use of such products helps promote the maintenance of Japan’s forests and contributes to raising the amount of TEL: +81-3-5434-8611 CO 2 that these forests can absorb. FAX: +81-3-5434-8601 URL: http://www.minebea.co.jp/ Copyright 2012 Minebea Co., Ltd. Printed in Japan October 2012
