JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 The JX Group is now in its second year, after being formed in April 2010. Under our mission statement, the JX Group aims to develop in the fields of energy, resources and materials. Guided by the slogan of “The Future of Energy, Resources and Materials,” the JX Group is determined to open up the future. JX Group Mission Statement JX Group Slogan JX Group Mission Statement JX Group will contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. JX Group Values Our actions will respect the EARTH. Ethics Advanced ideas Relationship with society Trustworthy products/services Harmony with the environment About JX The name “JX” is a brand that symbolizes the JX Group’s existence and presence. The letter “J” represents our position as one of the world’s largest integrated energy, resources and materials business groups from Japan, while the letter “X” represents our willingness to pioneer new frontiers, our future growth and development potential, and our pursuit of creativity and innovation. About the JX Corporate Brand Mark The JX corporate brand mark symbolizes the continuity of the global environment and the JX Group based on the JX Group’s mission statement. The design, in which the “JX” logo overlaps with a sphere, represents the JX Group’s commitment to a green earth—i.e., our contribution to the development of a sustainable economy and society, through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. *The JX corporate brand mark is common to JX Holdings, Inc., JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation and JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation. 1 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Contents Management Message 3 Ethics 33 Compliance 33 At a Glance—JX Group Overview 5 Human Rights 34 Advanced ideas 35 JX Group and Society 7 Technology and R&D 35 Relationship with society 37 Feature: JX Snapshot 2011 9 Relationship with Stakeholders 37 The Great East Japan Earthquake—Impact and Response 9 Relationship with Employees 39 1 Stably Supplying Energy, Resources and Materials 13 Corporate Citizenship 41 2 Contributing to a Recycling-Oriented Society 17 Trustworthy products/services 43 3 Rising to the Challenge of Creating a Low-Carbon Society 21 Quality Assurance, Product Safety and Customer Satisfaction 43 Purchasing 44 JX Group Management 25 Harmony with the environment 45 Corporate Governance 25 Environment 45 Development of Internal Control System 26 Environmentally Friendly Products 47 Risk Management 26 Environmental Performance 49 CSR Promotion Structure 27 Human Resource Development 29 Guide to JX Group Websites 52 Third-Party Opinion 53 JX Group Values 31 Independent Review Report 54 EARTH Highlights 31 Editorial Policy The JX Group has prepared this report to communicate the results of its Scope of Report first year in existence in order to be accountable with respect to CSR to JX Holdings, Inc. and its 10 main Group companies. shareholders and other investors, customers, employees and local comJX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation and munities while deepening communication and fulfilling stakeholders’ its 24 main Group companies. expectations in this regard. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation and The report is structured in a similar way to the previous fiscal year’s its 25 main Group companies. report; it is based around the JX Group’s Mission Statement and Group JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation and values. The feature section, “JX Snapshot 2011,” reports on the impact of its 51 main Group companies. the Great East Japan Earthquake on the JX Group and the Group’s The scope of quantitative information is defined in notes on each page. response. At the same time, the feature is structured and designed to Reporting Period facilitate understanding of how the JX Group is working to realize the JX In principle, the report covers the period from April 2010 to March Group Mission Statement and to help solve social issues. The “JX Group 2011. However, some information from April 2011 onwards is also Values” section reports on results in fiscal 2010 in accordance with the included, as necessary. five values (EARTH) of the Group, providing more information than the previous year. Guidelines Used as Reference Furthermore, various JX Group companies, including JX Holdings, Inc. • Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.0, and the three core operating companies, disclose a variety of CSR-related GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) information on their websites. Information on these websites is • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007 Edition), summarized on page 52 for easier access. Ministry of the Environment, Japan. • The GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement Forward-looking Statements Enhancing Reporting Reliability This report contains forward-looking statements that are not historical facts, and that reflect manageEnvironmental performance information on pages 45–51 has ment’s judgment as of the time of preparation. Please note that actual results may vary significantly from such projections and forecasts due to various known and unforeseeable risks and uncertainties. JX been reviewed by an independent body to ensure objective and Holdings cannot guarantee the accuracy of the targets, assumptions, expectations, projections, plans reliable reporting. and evaluations and other similar information contained in forward-looking statements, or that they will be realized without qualification in the future. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 2 Management Message Shinji Nishio Mitsunori Takahagi Representative Director, Chairman Representative Director, President (JX Group CSR Council Chairman) The JX Group aims to contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. Effects and aftermath of the Great East Japan Determined to become one of the largest Earthquake integrated energy, resources and materials On behalf of the JX Group, we would like to offer our sympathies business groups in the world. to those whose lives have been forever changed by the Great We are already entering the second year since the creation of the East Japan Earthquake, as well as our hopes for a swift recovery in JX Group from the merger of Nippon Oil Corporation and Nippon the affected region. Mining Holdings, Inc. During that time, our three core operating As many of you are aware, the JX Group sustained heavy companies JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation, JX Nippon Oil & damage to a refinery and other production and sales facilities in Gas Exploration Corporation, and JX Nippon Mining & Metals the disaster. Despite these challenges, in the wake of the March Corporation, as well as other Group companies and businesses, 2011 catastrophe, we made every possible effort to supply petrohave gotten off to a smooth start post-integration. Not only has leum products to the hardest-hit region, instituting emergency the Group coalesced internally faster than initially expected, but measures in every business field to immediately fulfill our responthere is a clear sense that synergies from the integration itself sibilities around the stable supply of energy and materials. have begun to emerge. The recent disaster has underscored yet again the importance These positives notwithstanding, the JX Group is confronting of energy, and triggered stronger calls for more assertive steps structural changes in its business environment today, creating a than ever before to diversify energy sources. In addition to the situation that still requires vigilance on our part. The spread of continued and stable supply of petroleum products, the JX fuel-efficient vehicles, an ongoing switch to the low carbon types Group will do its very best to build a much more robust presence of energy consumed and other changes are eroding demand for in new energy businesses as well. petroleum products in Japan. At the same time, growing awareness of the urgent need to address global environmental 3 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 problems, as well as progress in the movement to develop lowin the compact. We also remain committed to many of the social carbon, recycling-oriented societies in advanced nations, have contribution activities once separately pursued by the Nippon emerged as critically important considerations in shaping the Oil Group and Nippon Mining Holdings Group, among them trajectory of JX Group businesses. forest conservation activities, management of the JX Children’s Given this business environment, in May 2010, we announced Story Award and donor activities through the JX Children’s Story our Long-Term Vision for fiscal 2020. In it, in addition to taking Fund, and the sponsorship of youth baseball classes and basketsteps to transform existing operations into world-class busiball clinics. nesses, we are seeking to establish profitability in new energy After the recent earthquake and tsunami, JX Holdings and its 3 businesses to groom them into new JX Group operations. core operating companies gave ¥300 million in monetary donaAt the JX Group, all Group employees are united in a singular tions through the Japanese Red Cross Society. We also moved to determination to become one of the largest integrated energy, support farmers and growers in Japan’s Tohoku and Kanto regions resources and materials business groups in the world, with operadamaged by rumors surrounding the quality of their crops after tions in Petroleum Refining and Marketing, Oil and Gas Explorathe disaster by using their produce as ingredients in our employee tion and Production, Metals, and of course, New Energy. cafeterias, and holding events to sell the produce to JX Group employees. To help children in the affected region heal emotionShare your thoughts on CSR activities from the ally from this recent tragedy, we donated 10,000 copies of The newly formed JX Group. Bouquet of Children’s Stories published by JX Holdings to evacuaLooking back over more than a year since the launch of the JX tion centers. We also recruited many people from within the Group from a CSR perspective, what stands out first is our effort Group to take part in volunteer activities in the hardest-hit areas. to develop a structure for promoting Group CSR by establishing These and other efforts were part of support activities we prothe JX Group CSR Council, responsible for managing and coordinatmoted based on needs present in the affected region, to help life ing Group CSR activities. Chaired by the president of JX Holdings, return to normal as soon as possible for those victimized by the council membership is drawn from across the Group. Under the Great East Japan Earthquake. council we established three Group CSR committees—the JX The JX Group Mission Statement reads, “The JX Group will Group Compliance Committee, the JX Group Corporate Citizencontribute to the development of a sustainable economy and ship Committee, and the JX Group Environmental Committee. society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and After discussing the trajectory activities should take, each commaterials.” For this reason, we view the business activities that we mittee has taken concrete action in their respective areas. Furtherpursue each day to fulfill our Group Mission Statement as synonymore, CSR promotion managers responsible for staying abreast of mous with the kind of CSR activities that the JX Group should our Group CSR promotion structure have been assigned to Group strive for. With the Group now making a new start, we hope that company worksites, and we have instituted Group education and stakeholders will share with us their opinions of our CSR activities, training to enable their work. and that, through mutual dialogue, we can spur further progress We also moved quickly and assertively to embed and instill the in CSR at the JX Group. JX Group Mission Statement among all Group employees. SpecifiIn closing, we ask for your understanding and support of the JX cally, along with posting panels with our Mission Statement at Group as we move forward. business sites worldwide, we ran feature articles providing a detailed breakdown of the Mission Statement for six months in the Group’s monthly newsletter. Presentations on it were also given at most business sites. Shinji Nishio Representative Director, Chairman Furthermore, from the standpoint of promoting responsible management as a global corporation, in July 2010 JX Holdings announced its participation in the United Nations Global Compact. A month later, JX Holdings was joined by its three core Mitsunori Takahagi operating companies, which announced their own participation Representative Director, President (JX Group CSR Council Chairman) JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 4 At a Glance—JX Group Overview Holding Company Overview Representatives: Shinji Nishio, Principal Group Businesses: Representative Director, Chairman Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business, Oil Mitsunori Takahagi, and Gas Exploration and Production Business, and Representative Director, President Metals Business Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Group Companies: 100-8161, Japan 164 (130 consolidated subsidiaries and 34 equity-method affiliates) Established: April 1, 2010 Number of Employees: 24,691 (Consolidated) Capital: ¥100 billion Overview of Core Operating Companies Representatives: Yasushi Kimura, Representative Director, President Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8162, Japan Capital: ¥139.4 billion (100% investment of JX Holdings, Inc.) Principal Business: Manufacturing and marketing of petroleum and petrochemical products Representatives: Makoto Koseki, Representative Director, President Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8163, Japan Capital: ¥9.8 billion (100% investment of JX Holdings, Inc.) Principal Business: Exploration, development and production of petroleum and natural gas Representatives: Masanori Okada, Representative Director, President Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8164, Japan Capital: ¥40.0 billion (100% investment of JX Holdings, Inc.) Principal Business: Manufacturing and marketing of nonferrous metal products and electronic materials products, and recycling and environmental services Overview of Listed Subsidiaries Consolidated Subsidiaries: 2 • NIPPO CORPORATION Principal Business: Planning, design, and construction of roads, pavement, civil engineering works, and petroleum-related facilities • Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. Principal Business: Manufacturing and marketing of titanium Equity-method Affiliates: 4 5 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Financial Highlights Nippon Oil Corporation (Consolidated) Nippon Mining Holdings, Inc. (Consolidated) JX Holdings, Inc. (Consolidated) Net Sales Operating Income (Loss) Ordinary Income (Loss) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 12,000 500 500 250 250 8,000 413.7 7,389.2 334.4 113.3 0 86.7 0 5,774.3 43.7 74.0 (101.7) (67.4) 4,000 9,634.4 –250 –250 (275.4) (312.5) 4,065.1 3,233.7 0 –500 –500 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) Net Income (Loss) Total Assets Net Assets (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 300 8,000 2,000 150 6,000 1,500 311.7 0 43.3 4,000 1,000 1,016.3 1,059.1 29.8 4,129.2 (40.8) 3,969.7 1,886.2 6,260.0 –150 2,000 500 (251.6) 1,886.1 2,067.5 659.9 706.6 –300 0 0 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) Medium-Term Management Plan for FY2010–2012 Long-Term Vision for FY2020 [Basic policy] Become one of the world’s leading integrated energy, With emphasis on the concept of “Best Practices,” dramatically resources and materials business groups with new transform the Petroleum Refining & Marketing Business by realenergy-related businesses izing integration synergies and rigorously reducing costs, and JX Holdings, Inc. maximize corporate value by allocating management resources to highly profitable operations on a priority basis. Transform existing operations into world-class businesses Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business [Targets (Fiscal 2012)] Slim, robust production operations aligned with demand Goal: Refining capacity of 1,000 thousand barrels/day Ordinary income: ¥300 billion or more ROE: 10% or more Net Debt/Equity ratio: 1.0 time Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business Become an oil and gas E&P company that achieves sustained growth on the basis of operatorship Capital expenditure and Goal: Produce 200 thousand barrels/day of crude oil and financial investments: ¥960 billion (FY2010–2012 total) natural gas (equity basis) Metals Business Dividend policy: Redistribute profits by reflecting Secure resources and develop businesses to meet consolidated business results while societies’ eco needs Goal: Equity-entitled copper mine production ratio of 80% striving to maintain stable dividends Establish profitability Key Assumptions (Fiscal 2012) New Energy Business Establish profitability • Exchange rate Goal: Fuel cell sales of 300 thousand units/year ¥90/US$ (including exports) • Crude oil FOB (Dubai spot) US$80/bbl • Copper price (LME) Construction, Titanium Business, etc. 280 ¢/lb JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 6 JX Group and Society By broadly supplying society with “Energy, Resources and Materials,” JX Group businesses are inextricably linked to people’s lives in many different fields. 6 1 ENEOS Service Stations The ENEOS service station network is the largest of its kind in Japan, with approximately 12,000 locations, supplying customers with gasoline, kerosene, diesel, lubricants, and other petroleum products. By consistently taking the customer’s perspective, this 5 network delivers products, services and technologies to match the needs of the times. 2 ENEOS EV (Electric Vehicle) Charge Stations Demonstration projects for delivering rapid recharging services for electric vehicles (EVs) are under way at 34 ENEOS service stations in Japan, located mainly in Tokyo and Kanagawa Prefecture. An increase in the number of electrical and electronic systems in conventional automobiles is also spurring greater use of electronic components made from high-performance materials produced by JX Nippon Mining & Metals. 3 ENEOS SOENE House 4 Targeting a 50% reduction in CO2 emissions in the entire home versus 1990, JX Holdings is advancing the development of a “comprehensive energy system for residential use” that exhibits outstanding environmental and economic performance as well as comfort. “ENEOS SOENE House,” the site for demonstration trials in this area, is equipped 3 1 with a range of distributed energy systems, as well as monitors that give visible data on electricity production and energy usage in the home. 4 Wastewater Treatment Facilities (Basic Material) RECOSUL is a product that effectively uses the sulfur generated as a byproduct at refineries. As a recycled 2 basic material, RECOSUL offers outstanding tensile strength, water impermeability and acid resistance, resulting in longer useful life for wastewater treatment facilities and other structures operating under harsh conditions. 5 Building Air Conditioning (Basic Material) Ecojoule® is a latent heat storage material that contributes to greater energy efficiency, and is finding application in the air conditioning units of the latest high-efficiency buildings, as well as in automotive components, thermally adjustable apparel, building materials, and other fields. 7 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 6 Commercial Aircraft, Satellites and Golf Clubs (Basic Material) Light but strong titanium-carbon fiber from the JX Group is an essential basic material for commercial aircraft and satellites. PREPREG carbon fiber produced by JX Nippon Oil & Energy was also used on the recent Hayabusa asteroid probe. 11 7 Apparel (Basic Material) The petrochemical paraxylene is used to make polyester and PET plastic bottles, and JX Nippon Oil & Energy is the No. 1 supplier and producer of paraxylene in Asia. 8 Mobile Phones and Smartphones (Basic Material) The liquid crystal displays and semiconductors that 10 support cutting-edge electronic devices rely on films and non-ferrous electronic materials developed through the advanced expertise of the JX Group. 9 Road Pavement (Basic Material, Construction) JX Group member NIPPO CORPORATION supports a fundamental aspect of safe driving through involvement in everything from the manufacture of the materials that make mixed asphalt to the design and construction of various types of roads. 10 Hydrogen Town JX Holdings is contributing to the realization of a sustainable, low-carbon society driven by hydrogen-based energy by installing and operating hydrogen stations and infrastructure, and promoting 9 the spread of residential-use fuel cell systems. 11 Electrical Lines (Basic Material) Copper makes the efficient transmission of electric energy possible, and JX Nippon Mining & Metals has formed a federation consisting of some of the world’s leading copper producers. 7 8 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 8 Feature: JX Snapshot 2011 The Great East Japan Earthquake —Impact and Response In this section, we report on the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake and our response to this tragic disaster. In light of the massive scale of destruction caused by the earthquake that struck on March 11, 2011, JX Holdings and its core operating companies immediately set up headquarters led by the respective president of each company to devise countermeasures and gather information on the extent of damage. In parallel, we took emergency response measures in every field to fulfill our responsibility to ensure the stable supply of energy and materials. Main Damage to the JX Group JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Nippon Mining & Metals Esashi Works of Sanyu Electronic Industrial Co., Ltd.: Damage to buildings and facilities; operations halted due to disruptions in power and water service after the earthquake. Oil depots and gas terminals: Damage to 14 oil Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd.: depots and gas terminals located along the Damage to buildings and facilities; operations Pacific coast. halted due to disruptions in power and water service after the earthquake. Service stations: Damage to multiple service stations in the Tohoku region and in Ibaraki and Chiba prefectures. Multiple service stations in Oya Mines Co., Ltd.: Landslide from slag pile Tokyo metropolitan area also closed due to site at abandoned mine. blackouts and lack of inventory. No damage to the Nakajo Oil and Gas Field and Sendai Refinery: Emergency shutdown of all other JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration facilities. facilities following the earthquake. Many facilities damaged by flooding from the subsequent tsunami. Fire broke out at onshore shipping facilities in the western district of the refinery. Tohoku Branch Office: All lifelines disrupted in the wake of the earthquake. Desk drawers were scattered and several cabinets were knocked over. Shin-Takatama Mining Co., Ltd.: Landslide Isohara Works/Isohara Fabricating Works: from slag pile site at abandoned mine. Damage to buildings and facilities; operations halted due to disruptions in power and water service after the earthquake. Later inspection of buildings on site confirmed no abnormalities. Kashima Refinery of Kashima Oil Co., Ltd.: Hitachi Works: Damage to buildings and Emergency shutdown of all facilities after the facilities; operations halted due to disruptions earthquake. Damage to roads, tanks and other in power and water service after the earthareas on site. Damage to pier and seawater quake. Later inspection of buildings and pump room from the tsunami. facilities on site confirmed no major damage. Kawasaki Plant: Operation of all systems halted after the earthquake. Negishi Refinery: Emergency shutdown of all facilities after the earthquake; minor damage to manufacturing units, etc. 9 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Status of Restoration and Recovery at JX Nippon Oil On June 4, 2011, production resumed at the Kashima Refinery. Restoration & Energy efforts are also under way at the Sendai Refinery to resume production in the JX Nippon Oil & Energy sustained damage to both its Sendai and Kashima fastest possible timeframe. refineries in the wake of Japan’s most powerful earthquake in recorded history, with a magnitude of 9.0, and the subsequent massive tsunami it trigEmergency Supply Response Targeting Eastern Japan gered. The event also temporarily halted production at the Negishi Refinery, Production Structure and caused damage to oil depots, tank trucks and service stations all along • Full production at the Muroran, Mizushima, Marifu, and Oita refineries the Pacific coast, but most notably in Japan’s Tohoku region. The distribution • Augment Mizushima Refinery production capacity by 20 thousand barrels/day network, including railways and roads, was also damaged, which temporarily • Resume operation of the atmospheric distillation unit at the Negishi Refinery interrupted the supply of petroleum products to the disaster zone in the Supply Structure wake of the disaster. • Move tank trucks from Mizushima, Marifu and Oita refineries to the Kanto region Under these conditions, JX Nippon Oil & Energy has made every effort to • Partial restoration and partial resumption of shipments from 12 of 14 damaged oil supply petroleum products to the hardest-hit region. Productionand depots and gas terminals procurement-side measures to this end have included the rapid restart of • Send railway tank cars from Negishi Refinery to the Tohoku region production at the Negishi Refinery, efforts to augment crude oil processing • Redirect inventory for export from the Osaka Refinery to domestic supply capacity at the Mizushima Refinery, and the redirecting of product exports to • Import products • Introduce tank trucks from western Japan and Hokkaido supplement domestic supply. In parallel on the distribution side, in addition to sending petroleum products from the Muroran and Negishi refineries to Marketing Structure the Tohoku region, tank trucks from western Japan were transferred there as • Survey all service stations in the Tohoku region and along the Pacific coast of an emergency measure. Work was also undertaken to restore oil depots. As a Ibaraki and Chiba prefectures to determine necessary restoration work and result, the ability to stably supply products to the disaster zone had been initiate repairs • Post locations of service stations in operation in the Tohoku region on the reestablished by mid-April 2011. corporate website from April 1, 2011 Demand in Hokkaido Refineries Oil depots Muroran Refinery Tank trucks Tankers (ships) Tank cars (railway) Aomori Hachinohe Akita Morioka Demand Shipments by tank trucks from western in Tohoku Japan (Sakata Oil Depot) Introduction of tank trucks Sakata region from western Japan and Hokkaido Shiogama Niigata-Higashi ko/ Sendai Refinery Higashi-Niigata Temporary shipping facility erected at the Sendai Refinery Koriyama Onahama Demand Utsunomiya Tank cars bound for the Tohoku region in Kanto Hitachi region Kashima Refinery Oil depots in inland areas of KantoNegishi Koshin regions Refinery Oil depots on the Tokyo Bay coast Mizushima Refinery Marifu Refinery Transfer of kerosene from Oita Refinery to the Negishi Refinery via Oita Refinery domestic tanker JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 10 Feature: JX Snapshot 2011 R  estoration and Recovery at JX Nippon Mining & Metals Immediately after the earthquake, a Disaster Countermeasures Headquarters headed by the president of JX Nippon Mining & Metals was established. The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group sustained damage to all of its sites, specifically the Hitachi Works, Isohara Works/Isohara Fabricating Works, Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd., the Esashi Works of Sanyu Electronic Industrial Slag landslide after the disaster (March 2011) The same location after recovery of slag Co., Ltd., Shin-Takatama Mining Co., Ltd., and Oya Mines Co., Ltd. The Disaster (June 2011) Countermeasures Headquarters took immediate action, confirming damage status, the safety and whereabouts of employees at each business site and remove the slag behind the landslide was completed by the end of June their families, and assessing the damage to infrastructure surrounding busi2011. The company is now carrying out soil inspections and restoration ness sites and the status of restoration efforts. measures in the presence of residents, while meeting individually with residents to explain the situation regarding damage associated with the slag flow Smelting and Refining in an effort to gain their understanding. Plans also call for work to start on PAN PACIFIC COPPER CO., LTD. carries out copper electrowinning at its Hitachi restoring the slag pile site from October 2011. Works to produce refined copper. Although production was halted temporarAt the Oya Mines, although the design of the pile site itself meets national ily due to damage to production facilities caused by the March 2011 disaster, standards, material nonetheless ended up escaping from the site due to the an all-out commitment to restoration work resulted in the resumption of unprecedented magnitude of the earthquake. In light of this, while discussing production on April 19, 2011. options with relevant government agencies, we are pressing ahead with putting the necessary countermeasures in place to prevent recurrence at this Electronic Materials Business and other sites. Operations at the following sites were halted due to damage to structures and facilities, as well as later disruptions in power, water and other services Group Support for the Disaster Zone stemming from the earthquake. Along with securing the safety of employees Monetary Donations and their families, efforts to confirm the safety of buildings and other assets On March 18, 2011, JX Holdings and its three core operating companies on site, coupled with progress on subsequent restoration work, resulted in donated ¥300 million to the Japanese Red Cross Society on behalf of the JX the steady resumption of operations. Group. Individual JX Group companies have also made donations to local governments within the affected region. Resumption of Operations in Late March 2011 • Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Support for Damaged Business Sites • Esashi Works, Sanyu Electronic Industrial Co., Ltd. <JX Nippon Oil & Energy> The head office and business sites in the Keihin area sent food, drinking water, Recovery of Operations by Mid-April 2011 (Excluding Certain Products) winter clothing and other supplies to business sites in the disaster area • Shirogane Works of the Hitachi Works, Hitachi Fabricating Works (Tohoku Branch Office, Sendai Refinery, Kashima Refinery). Players from the • Isohara Works/Isohara Fabricating Works JX-ENEOS Baseball Club also took part in preparing supplies sent from the head office. Disaster Damage and Response at the Oya Mines Generally at mines, slag (residual dirt and sand from metal recovery) results from the excavation of various metals. At abandoned mines owned by the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group, slag from earlier extraction work remains accumulated in piles near the mine. The Oya Mines (Kesennuma, Miyagi ­Prefecture) was damaged by the disaster. Power outages caused the pit Relief supplies being sent from the Negishi Refinery wastewater treatment facilities to stop operating, and slag also ran off after liquefying. While fortunately this incident resulted in no injuries, the run-off <JX Nippon Mining & Metals> damaged some private homes, fields and roads in the area below the site of The head office, Kurami Works and affiliated companies sent nonperishable the slag piles. foods, bedding, daily essentials and other items to business sites in the disasIn the aftermath of the earthquake, JX Nippon Mining & Metals moved ter area (Hitachi Works, Isohara Works/Isohara Fabricating Works, Ichinoseki quickly to use onsite power generation to restore pit wastewater treatment Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Esashi Works of Sanyu Electronic Industrial Co., facilities and return the treatment of water from the abandoned mine to Ltd., and Oya Mines Co., Ltd.). normal operating conditions. In tandem, the company assessed the damage situation stemming from the slag flow, and provided appropriate explanaF undraising by the JX Sunflowers in Kashiwa City tions of its intended response going forward to those impacted and govern(Chiba Prefecture) ment agencies. A briefing on the situation for local residents was held in On March 27, 2011, the JX Sunflowers women’s basketball team joined with mid-April, where an explanation was given that included an analysis of the five other sports teams for a fundraising activity in the city of Kashiwa (Chiba slag flow, coupled with a work plan for restoration and recovery. Work to Prefecture), home to the Kashiwa Reysol soccer team. The event was chiefly 11 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 sponsored by the Kashiwa Branch of the Chiba Prefecture Community Chest One employee who volunteered in activities such as removing rubble from Association, and raised roughly ¥2.6 million in donations for the disasterhomes, shoveling away mud from street gutters, and clearing weeds around stricken Tohoku region. temporary housing offered the following assessment: “In witnessing conditions in the disaster zone with my own eyes, it is clear that the road to recovery will be a long one. Recovery is going to require long-running programs and activities. I don’t know if ultimately I can really make a difference, but as an individual I want to continue doing whatever I can to help.” In the words of another employee, “I feel as though the opportunity to interact with volunteers from all over Japan, both from in and outside of the JX Group, has deepened the common bonds that we all share.” Guided by a commitment to a “Relationship with society,” one of the five JX Players from the JX Sunflowers doing fundraising Group Values (EARTH), we will continue to conduct volunteer activities based Support for Farmers in Areas Damaged by Concerns on needs present in the disaster zone, with the aim of helping life for people of Radiation there return to normal as quickly as possible. In partnership with restoration and recovery support efforts by the Keidanren economic federation following the disaster, the employee cafeteria at the JX Building offered a menu serving produce (excluding crops restricted from shipment) from areas that have suffered reputation damage due to concerns over radioactive contamination. Through this move, as well as special shopping opportunities (called “Corporate Marche”) held to sell the same produce, the Group has supported farmers from the prefectures of Fukushima, Ibaraki, Gunma, Tochigi, Saitama and Chiba that have suffered reputation damage Volunteer activities in Shichigahama JX Group employees taking part in volunteer (Miyagi Prefecture) activities regarding the quality of their crops due to the nuclear accident triggered by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Donation of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories to Children in the Affected Region To play a role in helping children in the impacted region heal emotionally, the JX Group teamed up with Culture Convenience Club Co., Ltd., operator of the TSUTAYA music and video entertainment and Sale at the JX Building of produce from areas Employees at the JX Building cafeteria eating T-POINT franchises, to donate 10,000 copies of the impacted by concerns of radiation from a special menu supporting restoration A copy of The Bouquet of contamination and recovery efforts book, The Bouquet of Children’s Stories (Volume 41), Children’s Stories (Volume 41) to some 200 evacuation centers. JX Group Volunteer Activities Supporting Similarly, in conjunction with NGO Japan Platform and other entities, Restoration and Recovery another roughly 2,000 copies of the book were presented to elementary The JX Group, in cooperation with volunteer centers in Tohoku region, is schools, preschools, daycare centers and children’s centers in Fukushima and recruiting far and wide within its ranks for participants to join in volunteer Miyagi prefectures. activities to support restoration and recovery in the disaster zone. Comments from Employees voice Participation in JX Group Volunteer Activities Supporting Restoration and Recovery On March 11, 2011, the Great East Japan Earthquake struck. I happened to be in the city of Sendai on a trip at the time and I personally became a victim of the disaster. I am thankful to the many people who I relied on for help during my several-day stay at an evacuation center set up in a local junior high school. Words simply cannot express my gratitude. In hoping to repay that kindness in some small way, I immediately applied to take part in the “JX Group Restoration and Recovery Support Volunteer Activities.” Kayo Koide I joined the third round of activities that took place in the city of Rikuzentakata in Iwate Prefecture. The city was largely Dealers Sales Branch Office JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation destroyed, with the tsunami affecting places up to around 5 km inland from the coast. There were mountains of rubble piled everywhere, some the size of 4to 5-floor buildings, which represented the extent of the damage the area suffered. On the first day, we cut grass around temporary housing before evacuees moved in, and on the second day we removed rubble from people’s houses. We only helped out for two days, but victims of the disaster told us what it meant to them with statements such as “Knowing that people haven’t forgotten about us, gives us encouragement,” and “We hope you’ll tell many people about the disaster zone.” This made me realize the importance of actually seeing the devastation for myself, being touched by it, and sharing my experience with those around me. The road to full recovery is a long and difficult one. I hope to see the circle of those willing to help grow even wider. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 12 Feature: JX Snapshot 2011 1 Stably Supplying Energy, Resources and Materials Q What commitment to society does the JX Group value? 13 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 The JX Group is an integrated energy, resources and materials business group with operations anchored by Petroleum Refining and Marketing, Oil and Gas Exploration and Production, and Metals. The unique feature of the JX Group’s business can be summed up as “spanning upstream to downstream sectors.” In other words, the Group has an expansive supply chain covering everything from the development to the marketing and recycling of oil and copper resources. As a business group that supports people’s lives and functions as a pillar of Japan’s economy, we bear a significant responsibility with respect to the stable supply of energy, resources and materials. We are constantly aware of this duty as we strive to contribute to society through our operations. A We would say ensuring the stable supply of energy, resources and materials. See the next page for specific initiatives JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 14 Feature: JX Snapshot 2011 1 Stably Supplying Energy, Resources and Materials The JX Group strives to ensure the continued supply of products and the fulfillment of its corporate social responsibility even during large-scale disasters. The following is an introduction to the role we play in stably securing and supplying the Group’s representative products—oil and copper—by taking responsibility for every aspect of these respective supply chains. Through advantages that include a leading share of fuel oil sales in Japan, JX Nippon Oil & Case Energy is responsible for stably and efficiently delivering the energy that people need. 1 Oil As a corporation that has a large impact on local communities and the global environment, we strive to contribute to the safety and security of society through a deep-seated ­commitment to dependable plant operations. Resource Development Transport and Storage JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is doing E&P JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group owns 25 Very Large Crude Carriers business in 14 countries worldwide, producing oil (VLCCs). Operating day and night, each VLCC is capable of transporting in a and gas equivalent to 140 thousand barrels each single trip roughly half of the crude oil Japan consumes in a day. As a safety day. We have been working on acquiring interests precaution, all VLCCs are double-hulled vessels. in promising blocks, mainly focused on exploration, to maintain and expand production volume The Kiire Terminal of JX Nippon Oil & Energy Oil rig involved in from a mediumto long-term perspective. deep-sea drilling Staging Terminal Corporation is capable of storing enough crude oil to sustain consumption in We contribute to the stable supply of oil and gas, while working to Japan for two weeks. minimize our environmental impact and maintaining safe operations, by effectively applying knowledge and experience accumulated as an operator. Kiire Staging Terminal JX Nippon Mining & Metals supports society via resources and materials, backed by Case ­world-class production and technological capabilities that culminate in cutting-edge, 2 Copper ­high-­quality products. From resource development to sales and recycling, we promote cyclical operations that make a sustainable relationship between business and society possible. Resource Development Transport and Storage With global demand for copper ore on the rise, JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group has some of JX Nippon Mining & Metals is seeking to raise its its own vessels on hand to transport copper conratio of equity entitlement copper mine produccentrate. The Mar Camino, operated by JX Nippon tion (currently 17%) and secure stable long-term Mining & Metals Group company Nippon Marine access to quality ore by developing new mines Co., Ltd., is one of the most uniquely structured and aggressively acquiring promising deposits. Escondida copper mine vessels of its type in the world, capable of importMar Camino ing copper concentrate and exporting sulfuric acid. In resource development, our emphasis is on sustainable development that clears global standards, and that demonstrates ample considBeyond transport and storage alone, we deploy extensive safety maneration of coexistence with local communities and biodiversity. agement at all worksites to prevent accidents and environmental pollution. 15 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Comments from Employees voice Stable energy supplies hinge on the discovery of promising oil and gas fields. In Malaysia, we have active projects ranging from exploration to development and production. As a geologist, I’m primarily involved in exploration. As the oil and gas reserves in the existing fields decline since the start of production, continuous discovery that “replace and add” reserves is vital to our company’s growth and meeting our social responsibility for stable energy supply. Out of asset acquisitions and discovery through exploration are both viable options for increasing reserves, as a Keisuke Nakamura company with “exploration” in its name, and as an exploration specialist myself, I believe that the Exploration Department, Miri Office discovery of new oil and gas fields is the best course for doing so, and am always doing my job with JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration this in mind. (Malaysia) Limited Refining and Production Distribution and Marketing We aim to maximize merger synergies by Unifying brands under ENEOS is allowing implementing several measures made possible by the pursuit of greater efficiency by integrating the integration including “Reduce refining capacity,” oil depots and branches and reducing selling, “Integrate operation of the Mizushima Refinery,” general and administrative expenses. and “Unify production plans.” ENEOS service stations can be found in ENEOS service station Atmospheric distillation unit Guided by the “Group Philosophy on Safety” at the Mizushima Refinery approximately 12,000 locations across Japan, and “Group Policy on Safety,” JX Nippon Oil & Energy endeavors to and JX Nippon Oil & Energy has an unrivaled 35% share of domestic fuel ensure safe operations by working to prevent accidents and catastrooil sales. phes, and having comprehensive countermeasures in place should any problems materialize. Smelting and Refining Marketing and Recycling PAN PACIFIC COPPER CO., LTD. (PPC), responsible PPC markets a wide range of products such as refined copper and for the JX Group’s copper business, has 3 production ingot copper, mainly to cable, wrought copper and copper alloy manubases in Japan where it produces roughly 40% of facturers in Japan and East Asia. the country’s copper. We also proactively contribute to a Through an alliance with South KoreaSaganoseki Smelter & Refinery resource recycling-oriented society. JX Nippon based LS-Nikko Copper Inc., we are building a federation of copper Mining & Metals’ HMC Works specializes in producers that is among the best in the world in terms of quality and smelting, refining and extraction processes for production volume. recycled resources, for a unique type of facility rarely found elsewhere. Hitachi Metal Recycling Complex (HMC) Works JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 16 Feature: JX Snapshot 2011 2 Contributing to a Recycling-Oriented Society Q What are some activities distinctive to the JX Group for realizing a recycling-oriented society? 17 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Activities to achieve zero emissions of waste are as important for the creation of a better future as the realization of a low-carbon society. In addition, extracting resources from used products is as significant as discovering a new mineral deposit. To make effective use of the world’s resources, the JX Group will proactively work to realize a recycling-oriented society and contribute to the development of a sustainable society. A The JX Group will lead the world in recycling activities, drawing on networks and technologies amassed over many years. See the next page for specific initiatives JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 18 Feature: JX Snapshot 2011 2 Contributing to a Recycling-Oriented Society As a corporate group whose businesses draw on the Earth’s resources, the JX Group considers the effective utilization of resources and materials through the recycling and environmental services business an important responsibility. Case 1 Mining of an “Urban Mine” Resource Recycling That Begins with Mobile Phones Japan, a country poor in mineral resources, depends on imports for The recycling of electronic devices is one activity in which the JX nearly all its metal resource needs. However, soaring prices and Group’s technologies play a key role. Here we examine urban mine heightened resource nationalism stemming from growing demand resource recycling, taking the familiar mobile phone as an example. worldwide have led to uncertainty about the stable supply of these Unwanted mobile phones that have been separated into handresources. Consequently, the concept of “urban mines” has become sets, batteries, rechargers and other components are sent from all increasingly important. Urban mines are discarded electronic over Japan to JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd., where they are devices, home appliances, and other products that contain useful further separated manually to facilitate recycling. Precious metal resources. These discarded products are a source of gold, silver, and scrap is extracted from mobile phone handsets by means of oil other precious metals and of rare metals such as indium and nickel. conversion. At this stage, the precious metals are in the form of a Japan is said to have among the world’s highest quantities of preresidue. The residue is sent to the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery cious metal resources in urban mines. Recycling and utilizing these of JX Group company PAN PACIFIC COPPER CO., LTD. where it is metals as a new resource is an important activity for the developreborn as copper, gold, silver, palladium, and other metal ment of a recycling-oriented society in which JX Group networks resources through post-processing to extract the metals. Not only and technologies cultivated in mine development and smelting that, the oil recovered through oil conversion does not go to play a key role. Scale of Urban Mines in Japan (Estimated) Copper Silver 38,000,000 tons 60,000 tons Discarded mobile phones Gold Indium Separation and collection 6,800 tons 1,700 tons through a nationwide recycling network Ratio of Japan’s Urban Mines to Worldwide Natural The JX Group’s Mine Deposits recycling plants Recycling of Precious Metals (oil conversion) Approx. 8% and Rare Metals Approx. 22% Copper Silver The JX Group’s Electronic device smelters, etc. manufacturers (post-processing) Approx. 16% Approx. 16% Gold Indium Metal materials and IT materials 19 JX Report Source: National Institute for Materials Science (NIMS) estimates for a Sustainable Future 2011 Comments from Employees voice The company became one of Japan’s first mobile phone recyclers in 1998. During 13 years of continuous recycling activities since that time, we have earned the unshakeable trust of our customers by appropriately responding to needs for increased processing capacity and a higher material recycling rate. For the future economic development of Japan, a country poor in resources, the need to not only secure new resources, but also to recycle existing ones, is expected Mitsugu Sakaguchi to increase. By meticulously identifying and responding to these needs through Director, Head of E&R Works means including capital investment, we aim to contribute to the realization of a JX Nippon Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. recycling-oriented society. waste; it is utilized as supplemental fuel for the industrial waste In activities at other JX Group business sites, HMC* Departincinerators at the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery. ment, Hitachi Works in Ibaraki Prefecture efficiently and economiIt is possible to extract approximately 9 kilograms of gold from cally recover a variety of metals, including rare metals, from the roughly 30 tons of mobile phones processed monthly at JX wide-ranging post-consumer material by means of a unique Kinzoku Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Extracting that much gold from combined smelting and refining process with zero emissions. We natural resources would require 4,500 tons of mineral ore. It is a will continue to contribute to the development of a recyclingmatter of fact that urban mine recycling is a highly efficient form oriented society by engaging in the recycling and environmental of “mining.” services business. * Hitachi Metal Recycling Complex Case 2 Resource Recycling Centered on Asphalt NIPPO CORPORATION’s Kyoto Asphalt The service life of asphalt pavement is about 10 years, after which Mixture Plant, which recycles asphalt pavement repair of the paved surface with new paving is required. Each year 26 million tons of old asphalt pavement is collected in repair work nationwide, enough to fill Tokyo Dome about 10 times, and nearly all household waste. In the recycling of other industrial byproducts, of this pavement is used in new paving material. The asphalt pavewe have succeeded in making effective use of sewage sludge ment recycling rate exceeds 99%, excellent recycling performance. molten slag (generated in the melting treatment of sewage sludge JX Group member NIPPO CORPORATION is the biggest road incinerated ash), iron and steel slag (generated in the steelmaking pavement enterprise in Japan. In the early 1950s, the company process), and other byproducts. This is yet another field in which began research into asphalt pavement recycling technologies, an the JX Group has achieved cyclical recycling. activity unusual at the time, nearly perfected the technologies and systems used today, and began recycling nationwide. Today, the company owns 157 asphalt mixture plants nationwide. Nearly all of these plants accept asphalt and concrete rubble, reuse it as aggregate, and manufacture and sell recycled asphalt mixture and recycled base course material. The manufacturing ratio of recycled asphalt mixture has exceeded 70% since 2005. In addition, research begun in 1981 has resulted in technology The Ashinoko Skyline toll road, operated by for the effective use as a component of asphalt paving material of Ashinoko Skyline Corporation, which is 100% molten slag generated in the processing of incinerated ash from owned by NIPPO CORPORATION. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 20 Feature: JX Snapshot 2011 3 Rising to the Challenge of Creating a Low-Carbon Society Q Why do we pursue new energy businesses? 21 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Prevention of global warming, the effective use of resources, and other measures required to protect the global environment are now widely recognized as global challenges. As an integrated energy company, the JX Group will apply proven technologies amassed over the years and flexible thinking to step up involvement with new energy sources that help reduce environmental impact and contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society. A As an integrated energy company, the JX Group will actively pursue the development of new ecofriendly energy sources. See the next page for specific initiatives JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 22 Feature: JX Snapshot 2011 3 Rising to the Challenge of Creating a Low-Carbon Society To take responsibility for energy, we will boldly pursue next-generation energy sources such as renewable sunlight and fuel cells, along with oil. We aim to shape the future of energy by offering an optimal mix of energy sources. Case Case 1 The Rapidly Spreading Use of Solar Power 2 Hydrogen Energy, the Focus of Increasing Expectations Carbon dioxide (CO2) is said to be a cause of global warming. Hydrogen, the focus of high expectations as a key energy source for Environmental measures in households are essential for reducing the future, generates energy when combined with oxygen in the CO2 emissions. The JX Group engages in activities to promote the air. Since only water is emitted at that time, hydrogen is a clean uptake of solar power generation, which enables households to energy source that emits no CO2 or atmospheric pollutants. We generate the electricity they use while emitting absolutely no CO2. have long engaged in research and development to take advanIn October 2010, we commenced sales of solar power generation tage of our energy expertise to realize a hydrogen-based society systems for condominiums and other multi-unit dwellings. and have steadily achieved results. Electricity generated on the rooftop is supplied to each unit, and unused energy can be sold. Utilizing Expertise in the Oil Refining Process This active involvement with solar power draws fully on the Residential-use fuel cell systems produce electricity and hot water technologies of the JX Group, which has sophisticated expertise in using hydrogen extracted from oil-based fuels and other sources. the development of key materials. Examples include carbon elecThey are clean energy production systems that entail little energy trode materials for capacitors and positiveand negative-electrode loss and also curb CO2 emissions. They are therefore expected to materials used in lithium-ion batteries for the purpose of storing reduce CO2 emitted from households. The JX Group commercialized electricity generated in the daytime from sunlight. the world’s first residential-use system powered by LPG (liquefied See page 36 for details. petroleum gas) in 2005 and the first powered by kerosene in 2006. Technologies accumulated in oil refining contributed greatly to the development of these systems. Since nearly no hydrogen exists as a natural resource, it is extracted from oil-based fuels and other sources. At the time of hydrogen extraction, expertise in oil refining Solar power generation system for condominiums processes is utilized in the technologies for desulfurization, reforming, and carbon monoxide removal. Equipment Configuration and System Configuration The sale of residential-use fuel cell systems in Japan began in Example Solar cell modules 2009 with the introduction of the ENE-FARM system. Today, we are Transformer engaged in product development of next-generation fuel cell sysJunction box tems in pursuit of cost and size Power reduction, as well as high efficonditioner Solar power generation distribution board ciency to encourage full-scale uptake. Furthermore, we are conDirect Alternate current current Import meter Export meter sidering sales in overseas markets in the coming years. Household load Solar power generation monitor ENE-FARM 23 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Comments from Employees voice The Tokyo Suginami Hydrogen Station, which satisfies all the safety standards that apply to ordinary service stations, supplies hydrogen to customers. The hydrogen station demonstration is different from previous experiments limited to test vehicles in that it is for use by public transportation vehicles such as buses and limousines for hire. Activities to realize a hydrogen society have shifted from feasibility consideration to the stage of considering implementation methods. By operating Atsushi Kawakami the hydrogen station, we will significantly contribute to the spread of fuel cell Research & Development vehicles scheduled for introduction in 2015. Planning Department JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation Utilizing Expertise in the Construction and Operation of We also participate in the demonstration study utilizing Petroleum Products Supply Infrastructure Kita-Kyushu Hydrogen Town, involving the laying of a pipeline from To promote the spread of fuel cell vehicles, scheduled for introduca hydrogen station to nearby homes and public facilities and the tion in 2015, supply infrastructure for hydrogen fuel is essential. In supply of hydrogen for residential-use fuel cells. this field, a large-scale demonstration experiment conducted through cooperation with the national government and private companies is underway. The JX Group is participating in numerous projects, applying knowledge developed in the supply of petroleum products. One such project in which we participate is the “Local hydrogen supply infrastructure technical & social demonstration” of The Research Association of Hydrogen Supply/Utilization Technology (HySUT), Fukuoka Prefecture, and other sponsors. We are in charge of operating the Yokohama-Asahi Hydrogen Station, the TokyoSuginami Hydrogen Station, and the Kitakyushu Hydrogen Station. In this demonstration experiment, we supply hydrogen for fuel cell passenger cars as well as for fuel cell buses and limousines for hire that shuttle passengers from downtown Tokyo to and from Narita and Haneda airports on the expressway. Tokyo Suginami Hydrogen Station Case 3 Further Technological Innovation In addition, we promote creative, pioneering basic research One JX Group research project conducted as a further innovation is through the ENEOS Hydrogen Trust Fund, established in 2006. We separation membrane technology for the extraction of hydrogen also participate in Japan CCS Co., Ltd., which engages in the develand CO2. Through this development project, we seek to realize an opment of carbon dioxide capture and storage (CCS) technology to extremely efficient carbon-reduction mechanism. This involves the separate and capture the large amounts of CO2 emitted from factosupply of highly pure hydrogen in large volumes, reduction of CO2 ries and power plants and store it deep underground. emitted from automobiles and other end-user emission sources, and collection of CO2 at refineries and other upstream locations. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 24 JX Group Management Corporate Governance In addition, JX Holdings’ corporate governance structure is characJX Holdings, Inc. recognizes that the JX Group’s mission is to contribterized by the following features: ute to sustainable economic and social development through cre(1) Directors are elected for a term of one year and must stand for ation and innovation in the fields of energy, resources and materials. re-election each year at the General Meeting of Shareholders. In addition, the Company is cognizant of the importance of ensuring (2) Four outside directors with management insight and extensive fair and responsible conduct in all of its business activities while experience are appointed to strengthen the supervision of manstriving to maximize its corporate value. agement from an objective perspective. The basic approach to corporate governance of JX Holdings is to (3) In addition to full-time directors and outside directors, the presimake decisions and execute operational activities quickly and flexdents of the core operating companies and certain other key ibly to implement cohesive growth strategies for the JX Group as a personnel are elected as directors of JX Holdings to deliberate whole and to respond promptly to changes in the business environand decide on cohesive Group-wide business strategies at meetment. In addition, JX Holdings endeavors to secure the soundness ings of the Board of Directors of JX Holdings. and transparency of its management to earn the trust and confi(4) Among the six corporate auditors, a majority, or four outside dence from all stakeholders. corporate auditors, are appointed on the basis of their manageGuided by this basic policy, JX Holdings, as a holding company, ment insight and extensive experience. This structure ensures the focuses especially on formulating mediumto long-term strategies effectiveness of audits of directors’ performance of management for the JX Group and strategically allocating management resources duties by the Board of Corporate Auditors, whose authority has to implement these strategies. Under JX Holdings, core operating been strengthened and expanded under Japan’s Companies Act. companies have been positioned to promote each of the Group’s (5) A Compensation Advisory Committee comprising two outside directhree core businesses, namely the Petroleum Refining and Markettors and two representative directors has been formed as an advisory ing business, the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production business, body to the Board of Directors, in order to ensure the transparency and the Metals business. and objectivity of the decision-making processes related to compensation of directors and executive officers as well as related matters. [JX Group Corporate Governance Framework] General Meeting of Shareholders Election and removal of the Election and removal of directors Election and removal of auditors independent auditor (audit firm) [JX Holdings] Board of Directors (Chaired by the Representative Director, Chairman) Audits Board of Corporate Auditors Collaboration Independent auditors 16 directors, including 4 outside directors 6 corporate auditors, including 4 outside corporate auditors Consultation Decision on Recommendations agenda items Compensation Advisory Committee Representative Director, (Chaired by outside director) President Election and removal of executive officers JX Group CSR Council Management Council Collaboration Monitoring and (Chaired by the Representa(Chaired by the Representasupervision tive Director, President) tive Director, President) Management Council Full-time directors, presidents members, presidents of direct of core operating companies Financial audits subsidiaries and others and others Approval JX Group Audits Compliance Committee [Business operation] JX Group Environmental Committee Executive officers Internal Audit Department JX Group Corporate Citizenship Internal (Internal Audit Division) Collaboration Committee audits Management supervision [Core Operating Companies] [Group companies] JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas JX Nippon Mining & Other Group companies Corporation Exploration Corporation Metals Corporation 25 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Development of Internal Control System Risk Management Based on the JX Group Mission Statement, “JX Group will contribute to The JX Group has risk management structures that are tailored to the the development of a sustainable economy and society through business lines of each Group company, with countermeasures in innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials” and the JX place to manage individual risks related to compliance, occupational Group Values “Ethics, Advanced ideas, Relationship with society, Trustsafety, and the environment, among others. worthy products/services, and Harmony with the environment,” JX Holdings has developed an internal control system to ensure approCrisis Management priate business activities in line with the following basic policies: Crisis management is the responsibility of JX Holdings, which is to take care of overall coordination in the event of crisis situations that [Basic Policies Regarding the Development of an Internal Control System] could potentially impact Group management. Accordingly, JX 1. System to ensure that the execution of directors’ and employees’ duties ­Holdings has formulated a set of crisis management rules detailing conforms to laws and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation actions for minimizing damage should such situations arise. (1) Develop various rules and ensure compliance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, and various other rules. The General Administration Dept. of JX Holdings is the standing (2) Establish a Compliance Committee and check the status of compliance administration office for responding to crisis situations which is with laws and regulations. headed by the General Manager of General Administration Dept. (3) Develop an internal reporting system. Should such situations arise at JX Holdings or a company within the (4) Hold Board of Directors’ meetings on a monthly basis and conduct adequate discussion and reporting, based on the rules of the Board of Directors. JX Group, the general manager of this department, or alternatively, (5) Ensure objectivity and appropriateness through the appointment of outthe general manager responsible for general affairs at the applicable side directors and outside corporate auditors. Group company, is responsible for immediately reporting the inci(6) Establish an Internal Audit Department independent of other divisions and conduct internal audits. dent and any response measures taken to the general manager of (7) Develop an internal control system for the Financial Instruments and the administration office. Exchange Act. (8) Develop a system for preventing damage due to anti-social forces. Depending on the severity of the crisis, the President of JX 2. System concerning the storage and management of information related to the ­Holdings may opt to establish an in-house response headquarters for execution of directors’ and employees’ duties specific countermeasures, or a united headquarters with Group (1) Develop rules concerning documents. companies to devise and coordinate measures across the Group. The (2) Develop rules for preparing minutes of Board of Directors’ meetings and other documents related to decision-making, and ensure their appropriate purpose of these measures is to mount a swift and accurate response implementation. to the crisis situation in service of the JX Group’s social mission. (3) Develop rules and conduct rigorous training regarding information security. (4) Provide proper external disclosure of information, including timely disclosure. Information Security Management 3. Regulations and other systems for managing risk of loss The JX Group works to prevent the improper use, disclosure and (1) Analyze risks and clarify policy for responding to them in the Board of Directors and Management Council. leakage of company information, an asset of the company, in accor(2) Develop a system for responding to economic changes, fluctuations in dance with information security regulations. At the same time, it crude oil and other resource prices and foreign currency exchange rates, natural disasters, and other risks. works to prevent tampering with and erroneous handling of com(3) Develop a system for responding to crises and emergency situations. pany information to maintain its correctness and reliability. The JX 4. System for ensuring the efficient performance of directors’ and employees’ duties Group also ensures that this company information can be used when (1) Establish an organization and delegations, and efficiently execute duties. it is needed by authorized personnel. (2) Conduct in the Management Council before official decision-making in the Board of Directors’ meetings. (3) Formulate a medium-term management plan and develop a management system. [JX Group Information Security Basic Regulations] 5. System for ensuring appropriate business activities in the corporate group 1. Ensure information security regarding company information by adhering to (1) Decide on a common Group philosophy and values and rigorously enforce. rules and regulations. (2) Ensure presidents of core operating companies attend meetings of the 2. Do not use (receive, view, disclose, print, copy, etc.) company information other Board of Directors and Management Council. than within the necessary scope of business activities. (3) Discuss business execution projects at Group companies in the Board of 3. Do not engage in activities that could harm information security. Directors and Management Council at JX Holdings. 4. Establish the necessary systems and structures for ensuring information security (4) Formulate Group management regulations. when performing duties. (5) Establish a compliance system and extend to Group companies. 5. Take contractual steps as a matter of practice to ensure information security 6. System for ensuring the efficient conduct of audits by corporate auditors when company information is provided to third parties. (1) Ensure corporate auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors, ­Management Council and other meetings, appoint corporate auditors also as full-time auditors of core operating companies. (2) Ensure corporate auditors have regular discussions with the senior management team and work closely with the independent auditors and Internal Audit Department. (3) Establish an Auditors’ Affairs Office independent of divisions responsible for business execution. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 26 JX Group Management CSR Promotion Structure Priority Fields and Promotion Structure Basic Approach We established the JX Group CSR Council, which is chaired by the The Board of Directors formulated the JX Group Mission Statement President of JX Holdings, to formulate and promote the JX Group’s when JX Holdings was formed in April 2010. The Management Counbasic policy on CSR and to manage and coordinate CSR activities cil meeting held on the same day determined the JX Group’s basic across the JX Group. We have specified three priority areas for CSR: policy for CSR, priority fields, and the structure for promoting CSR ­­1) compliance (including information security and human rights), across the JX Group. The Management Council is a body that assists ­2) social contribution, and 3) the environment. A JX Group CSR decision-making by the President. committee has been established for each field as advisory bodies As a company involved in the energy, resources and materials to the chairman of the JX Group CSR Council. Each committee fields, which are vital for people’s lives and economic activity, we deliberates and reports on actual business operations and shares believe that the embodiment of CSR is to ensure a stable and effiinformation. This promotional structure leverages the different cient supply of energy, resources and materials, and the implementabusiness characteristics of each company in the JX Group while tion of the Mission Statement by every employee in the course of ensuring the CSR activity PDCA cycle functions in the whole Group. executing business operations. This is the JX Group’s social responsiThe office responsible for the council and these committees in JX bility. Based on this belief, we aim to establish a corporate group Holdings serves as the Administration Office. worthy of the trust of stakeholders, including shareholders and other investors, customers and employees. Group CSR Promotion Managers Each workplace leads the way in putting the JX Group Mission StateJX Group’s Basic Approach to CSR ment into practice. Given that the main players are the individuals We will steadily fulfill our responsibility to society through faithful implementation of the JX Group Mission Statement by every officer and who work there, Group CSR promotion managers have been employee in order to establish a corporate group worthy of the trust of assigned to each workplace in the JX Group. our stakeholders. The Group CSR promotion managers cooperate with the department responsible for CSR in each company, working at the frontline JX Group Mission Statement and CSR of CSR promotion to manage CSR in the workplace. Group CSR promotion managers gather once a year for a conference at which JX Group Mission Statement they learn about the direction and vision of the Group’s CSR activi• JX Group slogan (The essence of the JX Group mission) • JX Group mission statement (JX Group’s raison d’être) ties and share opinions. • JX Group values (Values that are grounds for corporate officers and employees) Training Event for JX Group CSR Promotion Managers In November 2010, we held a training seminar that was attended by JX Group Long-Term Vision and Medium-Term Management Plan approximately 140 Group CSR promotion managers. The seminar was designed to instill and entrench the Mission Statement as well as Putting the mission statement into practice in business operations = CSR provide an opportunity to share information on CSR activities in the JX Group. [JX Group CSR Promotion Structure] JX Holdings JX Group CSR Council CSR promotion managers in each department Corporate Social Responsibility Department CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company Chaired by President of JX Holdings Administration Office JX Holdings Corporate Social JX Nippon Oil & Energy CSR promotion managers in each department Responsibility Department Corporate Social Responsibility Department CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company JX Group’s Three CSR Committees JX Four-Company Corporate Social JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration CSR promotion managers in each department JX Group Compliance Committee Responsibility Contact Meeting Corporate Social Responsibility Department JX Group Corporate Citizenship Committee CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company JX Group Environmental Committee JX Nippon Mining & Metals CSR promotion managers in each department Corporate Social Responsibility Department CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company 27 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 The director in charge of the JX JX Group Compliance Committee Holdings Corporate Social Responsibility Department explained the JX • Key Themes for Fiscal 2010 • Conduct compliance status checks. Group Mission Statement at this • Conduct inspections to ascertain the status of regulation. • training seminar and discussed the * See pages 33 and 34 for an overview of compliance status checks. Implementation Status of Key Themes for Fiscal 2010 JX Report for a Sustainable Future • JX Holdings and each of the core operating companies carried A scene from the training event for JX Group 2010. Later, attendees heard a lecout compliance status checks. These checks found 1,022 probCSR promotion managers ture from Joji Nakaya, an assistant lems areas across the Group. Quick actions are being taken to professor at Kinki University, based on the theme of thinking about address areas that need to be corrected. • Each committee member company carried out voluntary inspecCSR from the starting point of issues surrounding globalization. tions of internal rules that need review and whether rules are Attending CSR promotion managers were then split into small required in other areas. Member companies quickly revised and groups, which actively discussed CSR. established regulations where deemed necessary as a result of • these inspections. Key Themes for Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2010 Achievements and Fiscal 2011 Activity Policy • Conduct compliance status checks and follow-up inspections. JX Group CSR Council and the Three CSR Committees • Study system for sharing information that addresses legal issues In fiscal 2010, the JX Group CSR overseas. Council convened twice. At the meeting in July 2010, when JX Group Corporate Citizenship Committee • the core operating companies were established, the chairman of the Key Themes for Fiscal 2010 • Extend the JX Children’s Story Award The Bouquet of Children’s council spoke about the JX Group’s Stories to Group companies. commitment to CSR activities, • A JX Group CSR Council meeting in session * See page 42 for an overview of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories. explained how the JX Group CSR Implementation Status of Key Themes for Fiscal 2010 • The Bouquet of Children’s Stories was sold to corporate officers and Council and the three CSR committees would operate, and ordered employees of JX Group companies to raise money for charity. A the establishment of CSR frameworks at each company. The three total of 60 companies participated, generating proceeds of CSR committees that were subsequently convened discussed key • approximately ¥8.66 million, 2.2 times more than in fiscal 2009. themes for fiscal 2010 in each field, with the recommendations Key Themes for Fiscal 2011 • Further develop social contribution activities with The Bouquet of adopted at the second meeting held in October 2010. Children’s Stories, including support for children affected by the The first council meeting for fiscal 2011, which was held in April Great East Japan Earthquake. 2011, reported on the implementation status of the key themes for fiscal 2010, and adopted the recommendations of each committee concerning key themes for fiscal 2011. JX Group Environmental Committee Activities to Foster Awareness of the JX Group Mission Statement • Key Themes for Fiscal 2010 • Establish a JX Group environmental management system (EMS) and share information on the status of implementation. In March 2010, we distributed Mission Statement cards to corpo• Formulate the JX Group Medium-Term Environmental rate officers and employees of the JX Group with the hope that ­Management Plan. they will make it a habit to act with the JX Group Mission State* See page 46 for an overview of the JX Group Medium-Term Environmental • Management Plan. ment in mind. Corporate officers and employees are asked to carry Implementation Status of Key Themes for Fiscal 2010 these cards with them so that they can refer to them at all times. • A JX Group EMS was established and the JX Group Medium-Term For one week at the beginning of every month an animation of the Environmental Management Plan was formulated. Furthermore, JX Group Mission Statement was played when corporate officers the head offices and branches of JX Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Energy Trading Corporation, JX Nippon Real Estate and employees started up their Corporation and JX Nippon Business Services Corporation computers. This initiative using the • obtained JX integrated ISO 14001 certification. in-house intranet is continuing in Key Themes for Fiscal 2011 fiscal 2011 as a way of building • Operate JX Group EMS. • Manage progress with the JX Group Medium-Term Environmenawareness about and entrenching tal Management Plan. the JX Group Mission Statement. • Manage key points for environment-related compliance. JX Group Mission Statement card JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 28 JX Group Management Comments from Employees voice Human Resource Development Basic Approach Nozomu Kubo In the JX Group, to nurture human resources to pioneer the future Manager, Personnel Group, General Administration Department of energy, resources, and materials, each of the three core operatJX Holdings, Inc. ing companies has a training system suited to its own business characteristics, and JX Holdings sponsors groupwide education and training programs. In addition to this education and training, we have a practice of In training sponsored by JX Holdings, I feel that employees from periodically rotating personnel among JX Holdings and the core different industries, oil and metals, and in different positions, administration, marketing, and technology, can gather together and operating companies. With this personnel development structure, engage in a frank and constructive exchange of opinions from variwe seek to deepen awareness of the JX Group’s businesses and ous perspectives that crosses over organizational barriers, something create cohesion as a business group by enabling employees to possible only among members of the JX Group, to increase the JX accumulate a wealth of experience as they communicate with Group’s competitive strength. By continuing to enhance the Group’s various stakeholders. overall training, I want to develop human resources who can flexibly cope with changes in the business environment from a global perspective and assist in the development of a new culture and values for the JX Group. Overview of the JX Group’s Education and Training Programs Category Goals Coverage Program Details Executive Training 1) Fostering and deepening of cohesion Directors and executive officers of JX First Session (September 2010) 2) Shared understanding of the Long-Term Vision, Holdings and the three core operating 1) Briefing on the Long-Term Vision by JX Holdings and Medium-Term Management Plan, etc. companies the three core operating companies 3) The mediumto long-term issues of the JX Group 2) Group discussions and presentations concerning (including the management structure), Considerthemes common to all Group companies ation and reconciliation of solutions 4) Deepening of understanding of the management Second Session (February 2011) environment (the political and economic situation in 1) Lecture by an outside instructor Japan and abroad, environmental problems, etc.) 2) Group discussions and presentations Executive Leader Training Approximately 20 department manager1) Proposals for management in preparation for the JX level employees of JX Holdings and the Group’s future three core operating companies 2) Lectures from current managers centered on past success stories 3) In-depth discussion of the pursuit of Group best practices and synergies 4) Organization and development of knowledge Based on the human resource development plans of (including third-party corporate value assessment) each operating company, develop the managers who and skills required of the next generation of top will be the next generation of leaders in the JX Group managers from a more multidimensional perspective. 5) Reinforcement of collaboration and mutual develop1) Acquisition of Group management awareness (best ment of Group executives practices, pursuit of synergy, etc.) Middle Manager Training 2) Realization of positive results of interchanges Approximately 40 section manager-level 1) Proposals to management for synergy realization in between different industries (oil and metals, etc.) employees of JX Holdings and the three the JX Group 3) Provision of opportunities to acquire knowledge core operating companies 2) Deepening of awareness of the JX Group’s overall and skills required for management mediumto long-term management plans and current situation (including comparison with other companies) 3) In-depth discussion of problems and challenges in the Group 4) Reorganization of knowledge about management, etc. 5) Mutual interaction and mutual development Training for New Hires Jointly engage in training themes common to all University and graduate school graduates 1) Explanation of the JX Group’s businesses and history, companies (business manners, financial analysis, etc.) newly employed by the three core operating tour of business sites of the core operating and foster Group consciousness through an explanacompanies companies tion of the Group’s history and a tour of business sites 2) On-site training utilizing activities at outdoor facilities of the core operating companies. (to facilitate communication and increase motivation through sharing of goals) 3) Cultivation of awareness and formation of manners required of working adults Distance Learning In addition to opportunities to acquire knowledge and Employees of JX Group companies for which Selection of desired courses from among approximately skills necessary for the performance of work, provide the HR personnel consider it necessary 250 courses, including management, financial accountopportunities for self-development and instill the habit ing, technical development, information systems, and of continual learning. foreign languages 29 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Comments from Employees voice Education and Training at the Core Operating Companies The companies of the JX Group have prepared a variety of human Mariko Horiguchi resource development plans adapted to their individual business Petroleum Trading & Shipping Department JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation characteristics. In this section, we introduce examples of distinctive training programs at the three core operating companies. JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation Three basic concepts underpin personnel systems at JX Nippon Oil & During the five-month training period, employees perform their Energy: “Remuneration according to the most recent results,” normal duties in the afternoon but immerse themselves in English “Management that motivates,” and “The provision of opportunities for three hours every morning. In addition, there are three training and support for skills development.” From the perspective of human camps where a practical curriculum featuring speeches and presentations and the acquisition of local business practices and cultures resource development, by combining the provision of opportunities envisioning future overseas assignments. My current work is import through personnel systems and skills development support through and export of gasoline, heavy oil, and other petroleum products. the enhancement of training systems with appropriate evaluation Since the value of each transaction is high and delivery plans are systems, we enable employees to show and develop their skills, formulated in line with demand trends, there is constant tension. I which links to groupwide enhancement of motivation and vitality. want to continue to improve my communication skills so that I can As development of the Group’s businesses overseas accelerates, make correct decisions while observing the market overall. notably in developing countries, the training program to increase communication skills in English (the International Communication Fumitoshi Sato School) has achieved tremendous results. Exploration Department JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration holds HR meetings chaired by the president to develop personnel who can contribute to the sustained growth of the company. At the meetings, corporate officers and For four years beginning with my second year of employment, I had general managers of each department discuss all aspects of personworked at well sites in the Rang Dong Oil Field and Phuong Dong Oil nel systems, including recruiting, transfer, training, evaluation, and Field and the local office in Vietnam. My main assignment was to remuneration, and make reforms and improvements to develop optimize the operations “geologically” through the data acquisition, human resources from a comprehensive perspective. analysis and its interpretation. On site, people work as a team to The development of oil and gas field increases its degree in difachieve a single goal, without regard to nationality or other matters ficulty and exploration and development technologies are becoming of personal background. The more involved one becomes in oil development, the more there is to learn. I became aware not only of more advanced. To develop technical employees in these circumtechnical matters, but also about relationships with people. With the stances, the company dispatches young employees to overseas busiexperience I gained in training, I would like to start up new excellent ness sites that do business as project operators early in their careers to projects in the future. quickly master basic technologies and acquire specialized expertise. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Ryohei Nakai JX Nippon Mining & Metals, whose business originates in mining Resources Development Department JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation operations, engages in people-oriented management illustrated by the company’s motto “One mine, one family.” Harmony with society and environmental activities are essential for mine operation and have been universal themes at the company in Japan and abroad through the years. My on-the-job training at mines lasted a total of four months at As the company pursues mine development activities such as the three locations. At Toyoha Mine in Sapporo, my training coincided with the boring of a tunnel for water treatment, and I was able to Caserones Project in Chile, it fosters among personnel in charge of experience actual tunneling work and various environmental proresource development sensitivity to the need for coexistence with tection activities. I currently work at headquarters in operations society and harmony with the global environment, the foundation management of a copper mine in Chile. Having acquired the ability for business activities at project sites, by providing on-the-job trainto sense what is happening at the site through the numbers for ing at mines in Japan in their first and second years of employment. control indices and performance is tremendously beneficial. I want The company has a human resource development program that to take advantage of this experience in the future and be involved enables employees to build on this foundation, accumulate technofrom the start of development of a new copper mine. logical and professional competencies, and move on to the front lines of overseas mine development. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 30 JX Group Values EARTH Highlights The JX Group continues to conduct activities based on five EARTH values. Activity Topics Compliance Regulations Briefings at Business Sites in Japan and Overseas JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration held briefings on regulations at business sites in Japan and overseas in order to deepen E understanding of regulations, as well as make employees aware of regulations prohibiting bribery of foreign government officials. Human Rights Participation in the United Nations Global Compact P33 JX Holdings and its three core operating companies are participants in the United Nations Global Compact, and implement and promote the compact’s 10 principles. Technology and R&D A Promoting Development of Solvent EOR Technology JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is conducting pilot tests for the practical application of Solvent (CO2/Hydrocarbon gas) EOR P35 technology, which promises to reduce CO2 as well as increase crude oil production volume. Relationship with Stakeholders Recognition for IR Activities JX Holdings won an award for excellence in corporate disclosure from The Securities Analysts Association of Japan for its R highly transparent investor relations (IR) activities. The Company’s website has also earned recognition for the fullness of information disclosed. Corporate Citizenship P37 Key Theme for Fiscal 2010: JX Children’s Story Award and JX Children’s Story Fund The three priority fields in the JX Group’s social contribution activities are advancement of culture, youth development and support, and environmental protection. In fiscal 2010, we extended the JX Children’s Story Award The Bouquet of Children’s Stories to JX Group companies as an important theme of our social contribution activities. Quality Assurance, Product Safety and Customer Satisfaction Council Meetings of Officers Responsible for Quality in May and November 2010 T These meetings at JX Nippon Mining & Metals shared information on the status of ISO 9001 audits, quality losses and other matters, and also rebuilt training systems. Purchasing P43 Basic Purchasing Policy Established, Green Purchasing System Developed JX Nippon Procurement, which is responsible for JX Group purchasing operations, formulated a new basic purchasing policy and established a system for promoting green purchasing. Environment JX Group Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan Starts We formulated a Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan covering the period from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2012 and began working toward achieving targets under some common categories: global warming prevention and biodiversity preservation H measures, environmental load mitigation, and enhancement of environmental management systems. Environmentally Friendly Products P45 Launch of Geothermal Power Generation Development Feasibility Study in the Toyoha Mine Zone JX Nippon Mining & Metals began a geothermal power generation development feasibility study at the closed Toyoha Mine, following implementation of geothermal development promotion surveys by New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO). 31 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Performance Compliance Technology and R&D JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Nippon Mining & Metals E Number of regulation briefings A Ramping up production capacity of cathode materials for use in lithium-ion batteries By early 2012 47 times 5,000 tons/year Relationship with Employees JX Nippon Oil & Energy 3 Core Operating Companies R Proportion of male employees taking Average usage rate for annual paid leave childcare leave 31.9% (15 out of 47 employees) Approx. 60% Corporate Citizenship Quality Assurance, Product Safety and Customer Satisfaction JX Nippon Oil & Energy R The Bouquet of Children’s Stories donated to T Number of calls to customer centers children in regions hardest hit by the Great East Japan Earthquake 12,000 copies Approx. customers opinions/month 9,300 Environment Petroleum Refining and Marketing Oil and Gas Exploration and Metals Business H Business (Refining Division) Production Business Waste-to-landfill ratio Specific energy consumption CO2 emission volume Reduced 1.6% (Compared with FY2009) 294 thousand tons Reduced 78% (Compared with FY2003–2005 average) JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 32 Ethics JX Group Values Alongside compliance with laws and rules, the JX Group believes that the basis of trust is formed by fair and honest business transactions, protection of intellectual property and human rights, and other behaviors that underlie ethical decision-making and actions in all of its business activities. Together with the promotion of thorough compliance and stronger risk management, the JX Group has formed a highly ethical stance based on management that respects human rights, and has set its sights on becoming a truly leading company in this field. Compliance JX Nippon Oil & Energy Compliance status checks were held at all domestic and overseas locations of Basic Approach JX Nippon Oil & Energy as well as 24 designated affiliated companies from early October through late December 2010. To promote fair and honest corporate activities and earn Compliance status checks are conducted by group managers at each greater trust from society, the JX Group has established regulaworkplace through individual or collective interviews with group members, tions and other rules to ensure thorough compliance among exchanging opinions freely as to doubts about the legality of elements of all Group companies, and has declared a policy of full compliance with laws, the Articles of Incorporation and regulations in each employee’s daily operations. Problem areas cited as a result of checks every aspect of work performance. will be followed up swiftly, in order to bring about a prompt solution. We established the JX Group Compliance Committee as a Since this was the first year following the merger, in addition to compliance sub-unit under the JX Group CSR Council to examine the status checks, we also carried out checks to ascertain the status of regulations. direction of our compliance activities and identify key issues The majority of regulations are already in place, and work is under way on that need to be addressed by the Group as a whole. In addiregulations requiring establishment or revision/abolishment. tion to determining group-wide policy on future compliance In addition, surveys were conducted at 19 key overseas units to confirm initiatives, this committee also reports back with results of issues faced in bolstering local legal support structures at overseas units. In ongoing activities. fiscal 2011, we will work to identify problem areas at overseas units through Under the action plan for fiscal 2010, regulations were overseas unit managers, and enhance the ability of overseas unit managers to established that took into account changes in management deal with problems through training by and information provided from legal structure, and legal compliance status checks at JX Group staff at JX Nippon Oil & Energy’s headquarters. companies were declared a priority and implemented. Corrective measures will be swiftly drawn up and implemented for problem areas uncovered in these checks, with all follow-up JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration actions taken as necessary. Compliance status checks covering all employees were held at the headIn addition, a compliance hotline has been set up at key quarters and domestic and overseas business sites of JX Nippon Oil & Gas Group companies to swiftly correct actions that violate laws or Exploration, in a similar manner to JX Nippon Oil & Energy, from late might violate laws as well as to properly protect those who September through early December 2010. Most of the problem areas cited in come forward to report such behavior. These reports can be these checks were concerns or doubts, and all problem have since been made to an outside legal firm, an external point of contact, in solved or addressed. addition to internal departments. Along with the abovementioned checks, we conducted a self-monitoring program to gauge the level of understanding of laws related to operations among all employees at the headquarters and the domestic business sites, and Japanese staff of overseas business sites. This self-monitoring involved subjects listing laws they were aware of that related to their jobs, self-evaluation by grading understanding using a point system, and meetings with group managers based on this self-analysis. We will continue to work on 33 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 strengthening communication about and enforcing strict compliance with Human Rights laws, as well as raising employees’ degree of recognition and understanding of laws. Basic Approach We also held briefings on regulations at the headquarters and domestic and overseas business sites between October 2010 and February 2011. We The JX Group recognizes that achieving corporate behavior firmly rooted in high ethical values ultimately rests on the deepened employees’ understanding of regulations, including complianceactions of its individual executives and employees. Accordrelated regulations, and made them aware of regulations prohibiting the ingly, the JX Group strives for labor, personnel management, bribing to foreign public officials. Details are as follows. and human resource development underpinned by respect for human rights. Beyond respecting international rules such as [JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Overview of Regulations Briefings] the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Theme/Frequency Conventions, the JX Group strives to cultivate strong ethical Location/Period 1. Resolutions and 2. Regulations related to 3. Prohibition of bribery to regulations regarding compliance foreign public officials values among its executives and employees by providing internal control them with supportive environments for performing meaningHeadquarters 9 9 4 November 2010 Coverage: all executives Coverage: all executives Coverage: all regular ful work. While individual policies and specific measures are to January 2011 and regular employees and regular employees employees yet to attend decided based on Group company business characteristics Nakajo Oil and 2 2 Gas Field Coverage: all regular Coverage: all regular — and scale, we endeavor to improve working environments October 2010 employees employees across the entire Group, including through the expansion of Overseas 1 per business site 1 per business site 1 per business site improved measures, while promoting information exchanges business sites* Coverage: all Japanese staff Coverage: all Japanese staff Coverage: all Japanese staff February 2011 between staff responsible for human resource management. *Overseas business sites: London, Houston, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, Miri, Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. JX Holdings has also placed special emphasis on the develAbu Dhabi, Bunduq Co., Ltd. opment of human resources responsible for Group management, and is fostering a management class of high ethical JX Nippon Mining & Metals standards through specific training for executives and joint We checked the status of legal compliance at various divisions and affiliates training for administrative staff at all Group companies. from September through October 2010. Problem areas cited were promptly resolved, and measures put in place to prevent their recurrence. The results of legal compliance status checks and measures to prevent Please refer to pages 29 and 30 for information about human resource development. recurrence were reported to the Compliance Subcommittee (organization positioned under JX Nippon Mining & Metals’ CSR Committee), with information shared within the JX Nippon Mining & Metals group. United Nations Global Compact Individual interviews were also held with JX Nippon Mining & Metals JX Holdings and its three core operating companies are also participants in employees, including seconded employees, between November and the United Nations Global Compact, implementing and promoting the ­December in 2010, encouraging them to speak freely about problems or compact’s 10 principles in the 4 areas of human rights, labor, the environment concerns regarding legal compliance and strongly requesting even more and anti-corruption. thorough legal compliance. Problem areas cited were followed up quickly. Furthermore, fiscal 2010 saw the second consecutive year of compliance training by job class (training for new hires, third-year employees, new supervisors, and new managers), in addition to training on anti-trust laws and export control also performed last year. Please refer to page 51 for the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 34 Advanced ced JX Group Values ideas Dedicated to meeting the challenges of cutting-edge research and technology development with advanced ideas, the JX Group will contribute to society as a whole by creating technologies, products and services that help to answer social concerns. Technology and R&D Moves to reduce emissions by injecting/solidifying CO2 into depleted reservoir and/or aquifers underground are ramping up as part of such efforts. Basic Approach These moves are called Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). At JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, we are working together with Japan With advanced nations leading the move to structure lowOil, Gas and Metals National Corporation (JOGMEC) in R&D for CO2-EOR carbon, recycling-oriented societies amid growing awareness technology to boost oil recovery by injecting CO2 into the reservoir. We have of the urgent need to address global environmental problems, been conducting research into the application of CO2-EOR technology the role of the energy, resources and materials industry has together with JOGMEC and Petrovietnam, Vietnam National Oil and Gas become more important than ever before. Group, since May 2008 at the Rang Dong oil field owned by operating subsidGuided by its Group mission statement, to “contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society through iary Japan Vietnam Petroleum Company, Limited. innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials,” the Specifically, we have conducted the feasibility study for the field applicaJX Group is aggressively pursuing technology development in tion of CO2-EOR including laboratory experiments, reservoir simulation study each of its business domains. At the same time, we are advancand CO2 supply study. The study result indicated the substantial potential to ing joint research and demonstration tests in collaboration increase oil production as well as to reduce CO2 emission. Potential supply with public institutions, universities and other entities. In source of CO2 for CO2-EOR, if applied on a field level, is industrial exhaust gases, parallel, JX Holdings will seek to comprehensively manage and in which case, global CO2 emission reduction through the underground storcoordinate a host of technology development themes being age can be expected. In order to confirm the field applicability, we have advanced by the Group. Efforts here include encouraging the decided to conduct a small scale CO2 injection test (Pilot Test) in June, 2011. establishment of a technology and development platform In the Pilot Test, we inject CO2 into the reservoir and produce the reservoir across the entire Group. fluid together with CO2. We intend to acquire the production data in order to Here we report on some technological development identify any uncertainties that should be taken into account before the conthemes that contribute to sustainable economic/social develsideration of field application. opment, and their contents. Once the Pilot Test is achieved, this will be the first application case of CO2-EOR in Vietnam as well as south-east Asia region. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Oil is generally accumulated in the porous media of the underground reservoir. The proportion of crude oil accumulated underground that can be recovered [CO2-EOR Technology] Oil is limited, and the recovery factor is generally considered to be 5–25% for CO2 primary recovery using natural energy and about 30% for secondary recovery Oil using water injection and other techniques. Attention is now focused on tertiary recovery technology (Enhanced Oil Recovery: EOR) through injection of gas or chemicals etc. to further improve the crude oil recovery. Source: JOGMEC Meanwhile, the importance of reducing emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), a greenhouse gas, is rising as part of efforts to prevent global warming. 35 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation The Marifu Refinery has facilities for manufacturing high-value-added petroLithium-ion batteries for next-generation environmentally friendly vehicles leum coke that normal refineries do not have. High-grade petroleum coke, are required to balance high capacity, safety, and long useful life at a high along with light oil, is produced by applying heat decomposition to low-sulfur level. In particular, cathode materials used in the batteries can repeat dissoluheavy crude using a coking device. Petroleum coke becomes the raw material tion and separation during recharge/discharge if foreign materials are mixed for needle coke, and petroleum coke containing large amounts of sulfur with in, causing short circuits within the battery. little value is supplied to electric power wholesalers to be used as boiler fuel JX Nippon Mining & Metals uses a proprietary integrated process to control for power generation. the entry of foreign materials from the outside, and by boosting production Petroleum coke is also selected within the refinery and shipped to Power capacity, is building a structure to enable stable supply of high-purity, evenCarbon Technology Co., Ltd. (PCT), a joint venture between JX Nippon Oil & quality cathode materials that fully meet the abovementioned quality Energy and GS Caltex Corporation of South Korea, which has been producing demands. Specifically, the Isohara Works has production capacity of 300 tons and selling carbon materials for electrodes of capacitors, a type of electricity per year to date, but this will be boosted dramatically to 5,000 tons per year storage device, since April 2010. by the beginning of 2012. PCT is also working on production of anode materials for automotive In addition, we are conducting R&D for efficiently recovering metals that lithium-ion batteries with superior electricity recharge/discharge characterisare raw materials for cathode materials from used lithium-ion batteries, tics using petroleum coke as a raw material. Construction of facilities for aiming to create a resource-recycling system as well as ensure stable procureproducing 2,000 tons per year will be completed in March 2012, and trial runs ment of raw materials for cathode material Raw material will begin from April 2012, with commercial production scheduled to start in production. We will also build up a massJuly to build up a stable supply system. production structure for electrolytic copper foil and rolled copper foil used in lithiumWet-method reaction [Petroleum Coke Flow Chart] ion battery cathode current collectors. Marifu Refinery Oxidation Low-sulfur Petroleum heavy crude coke Cathode material Calcining device Needle coke Coking Selection device Cathode material developed for automotive lithium-ion batteries PCT To carbon materials for electrodes of capacitors Column To anode materials for lithium-ion batteries Lithium-Ion Batteries Plant for anode materials used in lithium-ion batteries Demand for lithium-ion batteries is rapidly rising as an automotive power source indispensable for next-generation environmentally friendly vehicles such as electric cars, and these batteries can be used repeatedly by recharging them as shown in the diagram below. When recharged, lithium ion is stored in the anode after passing from the cathode through electrolytes, producing electromotive force of approximately 4 volts. When disComments from Employees voice charged, or in other words, when generating power, lithium ion returns to the cathode and electrons flow from the anode to the cathode, generating electric power. Takashi Oyama Executive Researcher The JX Group will utilize technologies accumulated in both the Marifu Refinery petroleum and metals fields to comprehensively supply lithium-ion JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation battery materials to the market. Electrons Lithium ion What is needle coke? Recharge Petroleum coke produced by a coking device is treated at high temperatures of 1,000–1,500°C in a calcining device, removing oil and water Discharge particles becoming needle coke with a highly crystalline structure. Current Negative Electrolytes Positive Current collector electrode (Organic solvent containing electrode collector Needle coke is used worldwide to produce graphite electrodes used in (Copper) (Carbon) lithium ion) (Oxides containing (Aluminum) Separator* (polyolefin, etc.) lithium) electric arc furnaces that recycle steel from scrap metal. *Has function of preventing lithium-ion batteries from overheating JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 36 Relationship Rel onssh on hii JX Group Values with society We strive to earn society’s trust by faithfully meeting the needs of our diverse stakeholders. Through sports, culture, programs for positive youth development and support, and environmental protection activities, we hope to deepen our relationships with communities and the public, and to coexist with society as a corporate citizen. Relationship with Stakeholders Basic Approach The JX Group conducts business activities while maintaining relationships with a variety of stakeholders, among them shareholders, investors, customers, business partners and employees. By accurately assessing the demands of these many stakeholders, and sincerely responding to them, we seek to earn society’s trust. • Participation in manage• Expansion in corporate value (higher dividend ment through voting rights levels) • Timely and appropriate information disclosure • Robust IR activities • Provide safe and reliable products and services of real value Shareholders and • Improve customer satisfaction • Further enhance quality Investors • Put the JX Group mission statement • Offer environmentally friendly products and services into practice • Contribute to growth in corporate value • Purchase of products and services Customers Employees • Create better working environments • Increasingly diverse and complex needs • Provide fair and honest opportunities and maintain diversity • Establish human resource development systems • Boost employee satisfaction • Ensure fair, honest business • Demands for corporate opportunities activities • Promote green purchasing • Support for corporate activities Business Partners Local and International Communities • Supply raw materials of reliable quality • Supply environmentally friendly • Relationship with society products • Preservation of the global environment • Participation in the United Nations Global Compact Governmental NPOs and NGOs Organizations • Support and cooperation with NPO/NGO • Laws and regulations activities • Exchange of viewpoints with NPOs/NGOs • Monitoring of corporate activities • Guidance from and compliance with • Requests for cooperation and national and regional governments sponsorship • Maintain fair, honest relationships • Project participation 37 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Shareholders and Governmental Organizations Investors The JX Group operates in regions across Japan and in countries worldwide. JX Holdings is committed to the swift, Wherever it operates, the Group maintains fair and honest relationships with proper and fair disclosure of information national and regional governments and complies strictly with applicable laws to shareholders and investors in accorand regulations. Along with active participation in government-backed dance with its disclosure policy. Furtherprojects, the Group provides policy recommendations, primarily through more, it conducts highly transparent industry bodies. Award ceremony for Award for Excelinvestor relations (IR) activities in line lence in Corporate Disclosure with regulations to prevent insider Local and International Communities trading and crisis management rules. In fiscal 2010, JX Holdings won external The JX Group consistently aims to conduct responsible corporate activities to recognition from several organizations for its IR activities. meet the expectations of local and international communities. As part of efforts to build relationships with local communities, JX Nippon • The Securities Analysts Association of Japan Mining & Metals opens the Nippon Mining Museum to the public (entry is Award for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure free). This industrial museum is located in Hitachi City, the birthplace of • Nikko Investor Relations Co., Ltd. Best Company Surveyed Award modern mining in Ibaraki Prefecture and the founding site of the company. (in Nikko Investor Relations’ ranking of the websites of Since opening in 1985, the museum has been visited by many people, and is listed companies in fiscal 2010) used as a site for elementary school children to learn about local history. • Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. Internet IR Best Company Award Customers The JX Group provides and develops trusted and satisfying products and services that meet customers’ demands and expectations. These products Nippon Mining Museum (Exterior) Nippon Mining Museum (Interior) and services also take into consideration the environment and safety. Please visit the following website to read more about Nippon Mining Museum. See pages 43, 44 and 47 for more information. http://www.nmm.jx-group.co.jp/english/museum/index.html Business Partners To build relationships with the international community, JX Nippon Oil & JX Nippon Procurement Corporation oversees purchasing operations for JX Gas Exploration makes donations to events conducted by the local governGroup companies. Besides making purchasing information available to busiment and disaster recovery in Malaysia where it is developing a key project ness partners in accordance with related laws and regulations and actively as the project operator. These activities have helped build a good relationproviding opportunities to business partners, JX Nippon Procurement is ship with the local community over many years. seeking to develop bonds of mutual trust with partners by ensuring fair and honest trading opportunities. The JX Group also purchases equipment and services with low environmental impact. See page 44 for more information. NPOs and NGOs A regatta in Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia A donation is handed to a local governThe JX Group has built cooperative relationships with distinctive NPOs and ment official NGOs and supports their activities. For example, JX Nippon Oil & Energy sponsors the activities of ChildFund Japan Employees through a sponsorship program. This certified The JX Group believes that employees are one of the most important eleNPO assists children living in poverty in Southeast ments of a company. We therefore put in place various systems so that Asia. In fiscal 2010, employees collected unwanted employees can work with peace of mind and reach their full potential. books and sold them at a charity book market. The See pages 29, 30, 39 and 40 for more information. proceeds were used to help children in the Philippines to attend school. A letter from a supported child JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 38 JX Group Values R Relationship with society Relationship with Employees For JX Holdings, Inc. (non-consolidated), the frequency of industrial accidents (number of deaths or injuries resulting from work-related accidents per Basic Approach 1 million man-hours) in fiscal 2010 and the overall accident severity rate (number of lost workdays per 1,000 man-hours) were both 0.00. The JX Group sees human resources as one of the most important factors underlying business continuity. It is crucial for companies to incorporate the opinions of a diverse array of JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation personnel in business activities in order to respond to societal For JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation (non-consolidated), the workforce changes and achieve sustainable development. The JX Group composition and the number of recent graduate recruits in fiscal 2010 were actively works to recruit senior citizens and people with disas follows: abilities in an effort to promote diversity in the workforce. [Workforce composition] Furthermore, in addition to a good workplace, employees Total headcount 6,592 need to lead fulfilling lives outside the workplace, including at Male employees Headcount 5,977 Average age 43.6 home, and in leisure and other activities, if they are to demonAverage years of service 22.3 strate their respective abilities to the fullest and work energetiFemale employees Headcount 615 cally. Accordingly, JX Group companies have developed a Average age 40.3 range of employee support programs, along with conducting Average years of service 18.6 awareness-raising activities designed to encourage employees to actually utilize these programs. [Number of recent graduate recruits] Total headcount 133 Furthermore, the JX Group strongly recognizes the need to Male university graduates 51 give top priority to the safety and health of employees as it Female university graduates 9 conducts business activities. Junior college/vocational school graduates 9 Senior high school and other graduates 64 In fiscal 2010, JX Nippon Oil & Energy implemented a special early retirement benefit program after determining that it must quickly establish an appropriate workforce from the standpoint of driving structural reforms in anticipation of JX Holdings, Inc. the changing business environment. Eligible personnel were employees For JX Holdings, Inc. (non-consolidated), the workforce composition in fiscal aged 35 or above as of March 31, 2010, with up to 1,000 applicants sought. 2010 was as follows: In response, the company received applications from 1,327 employees. [Workforce composition] Total headcount 112 For JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation (non-consolidated), the disabled Male employees Headcount 92 persons’ employment ratio, the number of employees re-hired after retireAverage age 44.4 ment, the usage rate for annual paid leave and the number of employees Average years of service 20.6 taking annual paid leave in fiscal 2010 were as follows: Female employees Headcount 20 Average age 39.1 [Disabled persons’ employment ratio etc.] Average years of service 16.4 Disabled persons’ employment ratio 2.11% Number of employees re-hired after retirement 199 For JX Holdings, Inc. (non-consolidated), the disabled persons’ employment Number of annual paid leave days granted 19.5 ratio, the number of employees re-hired after retirement, the usage rate for Number of annual paid leave days taken 11.5 Usage rate for annual paid leave 59.0% annual paid leave and the number of employees taking annual paid leave Number of employees taking nursing care leave 4 were as follows: Number of employees taking childcare leave 47 (Incl. male employees) 15 [Disabled persons’ employment ratio etc.] Disabled persons’ employment ratio* — The frequency of industrial accidents and the accident severity rate for all Number of employees re-hired after retirement* — Number of annual paid leave days granted 20.0 refineries and manufacturing sites of the JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group from Number of annual paid leave days taken 11.0 fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2010 were as follows: Usage rate for annual paid leave 55.0% Number of employees taking nursing care leave 0 [Frequency of industrial accidents and accident severity rate] Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Number of employees taking childcare leave 2 Frequency of industrial accidents 0.35 0.12 0.11 (Incl. male employees) 2 Accident severity rate 0.00 0.00 0.00 * “Employees” refer to those seconded from operating companies, and are accounted for at their companies of origin. 39 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Comments from Employees voice JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation For JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation (non-consolidated), the Shuichi Tanaka General Administration Department workforce composition and number of recent graduate recruits in fiscal 2010 JX Holdings, Inc. were as follows: [Workforce composition] Total headcount 222 Male employees Headcount 199 Average age 43.1 Average years of service 18.7 Taking Childcare Leave Female employees Headcount 23 I took childcare leave for one week when my eldest daughter was one Average age 32.6 month old. I was relaxed before taking leave, but once I went on leave I Average years of service 8.7 realized that looking after small children is much harder than I expected. [Number of recent graduate recruits] It was quite difficult to get my baby daughter to stop crying, for example. Total headcount 8 I found myself exhausted from day one. Male university graduates 5 By looking after my daughter for a whole week, I developed an awareFemale university graduates 3 ness of and new appreciation for the huge role shouldered by my wife, Junior college/vocational school graduates 0 who takes care of household chores and child-raising every day. I feel that Senior high school and other graduates 0 the time I spent on childcare leave was very meaningful, as it gave me the chance to interact with my growing daughter and do my very best to For JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation (non-consolidated), the look after her on a daily basis. disabled persons’ employment ratio, the number of employees re-hired after retirement, the usage rate for annual paid leave and the number of employees taking annual paid leave in fiscal 2010 were as follows. The frequency of retirement, the usage rate for annual paid leave and the number of employindustrial accidents, including at the company’s business sites in Vietnam, ees taking annual paid leave in fiscal 2010 were as follows. Malaysia and Nakajo, Japan, for fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2010 was 0.00. [Disabled persons’ employment ratio etc.] [Disabled persons’ employment ratio etc.] Disabled persons’ employment ratio 1.61% Disabled persons’ employment ratio 3.57% Number of employees re-hired after retirement 38 Number of employees re-hired after retirement 2 Number of annual paid leave days granted 19.3 Number of annual paid leave days granted 17.8 Number of annual paid leave days taken 13.2 Number of annual paid leave days taken 9.4 Usage rate for annual paid leave 68.5% Usage rate for annual paid leave 52.7% Number of employees taking nursing care leave 0 Number of employees taking nursing care leave 0 Number of employees taking childcare leave 7 Number of employees taking childcare leave 3 (Incl. male employees) 0 (Incl. male employees) 0 The frequency of industrial accidents and accident severity rate at the domestic business sites of JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation as well as JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery of PAN PACIFIC COPPER CO., LTD. from fiscal For JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation (non-consolidated), the work2008 to fiscal 2010 were as follows: force composition and number of recent graduate recruits in fiscal 2010 were [Frequency of industrial accidents and accident severity rate] as follows: Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 [Workforce composition] Frequency of industrial accidents 0.61 0.61 1.36 Total headcount 1,396 Accident severity rate 0.09 0.01 0.02 Male employees Headcount 1,294 Average age 40.1 The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group recognizes that business activities Average years of service 15.7 are premised on giving top priority to the protection of worker safety. NoneFemale employees Headcount 102 theless, significant accidents occurred at Nikko Environmental Services Co., Average age 36.5 Ltd. (now JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd.) and the Kurami Works Average years of service 9.5 of JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation in September 2010 and February [Number of recent graduate recruits] 2011, respectively, resulting in the death of 1 employee of a partner company Total headcount 40 at both accidents. Male university graduates 20 Female university graduates 2 Following a fatal accident in June 2009, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Junior college/vocational school graduates 0 Group has worked to promote a campaign to eradicate significant accidents. Senior high school and other graduates 18 The Group takes the repeated incidence of fatal accidents very seriously. For JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation (non-consolidated), the disWhile reviewing the campaign, the Group will redouble its efforts to prevent a abled persons’ employment ratio, the number of employees re-hired after recurrence of accidents of this kind. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 40 JX Group Values R Relationship with society Corporate Citizenship Basic Approach The JX Group is actively engaged in activities that give back to society, as it views this as an important theme of CSR activities. A baseball class for children JX Basketball Clinic Basic Policy for JX Group Social Contribution Activities Recognizing its role as a good corporate citizen, the JX Group will The JX Sunflowers is a women’s basketball team originally founded by advance together with society and will contribute to the developKyodo Oil in 1969. It remains the benchmark for women’s basketball teams in ment of a sustainable society through the vigorous promotion of social contribution activities, as well as support for the citizenship Japan. The team has won the Women’s Japan Basketball League (WJBL) a total activities of its employees. of 14 times, and boasts 16 championship wins in the All Japan Basketball 1. We will actively work on advancement of sports and culture, as well as youth development and support, to realize a “Relationship tournament, a record for the most wins in the tournament’s history. In the JX with society,” one of the JX Group values. Basketball Clinic, a special team made up of current and former players with 2. We will actively work on environmental protection to realize “Harmony with the environment,” one of the JX Group values. Olympic and other experience travels across Japan to teach children basic basketball skills. In fiscal 2010, a total of 1,480 children attended 43 clinics. Visit the following websites for details regarding activities. The JX Group discusses matters pertaining to JX Group JX-ENEOS Baseball Club http://www.jx-group.co.jp/baseball/ (Japanese only) social contributions in the JX Group Corporate Citizenship JX Sunflowers http://www.jx-group.jp/sunflowers/ (Japanese only) Committee, which is comprised of members drawn from across the JX Group, and shares related information among JX Youth Development and Support Group companies. Social contribution themes that the JX School Visits-ENEOS Environmental Classes Group will work on are discussed and selected, and an ideal JX Nippon Oil & Energy employees visit elementary schools and other sites to vision and direction are determined. These are then reported offer ENEOS Environmental Classes, which teach children about the environto the JX Group CSR Council. ment and energy. Classes were held at 41 schools in fiscal 2010, and attended by approximately 2,400 students. Examples of JX Group Social Contribution Activities Advancement of Sports and Culture JX-ENEOS Baseball Club and JX Sunflowers JX Nippon Oil & Energy operates the JX-ENEOS Baseball Club and the JX Sunflowers women’s basketball team. Founded as the ENEOS Baseball Club in 1950, the JX-ENEOS Baseball Club ENEOS Environmental Classes (School visits) has won 9 Intercity Baseball Tournament titles, the most of any team in the tournament’s history. In addition to baseball classes for schoolchildren Environmental Protection given by past and current club members, the club provides support for a Forest Conservation Activities variety of baseball-related events and groups, including the All Japan Junior JX Group companies are actively involved in forest conservation activities Softball Tournament, and the ENEOS CUP Junior Tournament for NPB12 around their operating facilities. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has been baseball teams. involved in forest conservation activities in and around its Nakajo Oil and Gas Field in Tainai City, Niigata Prefecture, since 1998, with employees and their families participating as volunteers. A forest conservation activity at the Nakajo Oil and Gas Field 41 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Comments from Employees voice Key Theme for Fiscal 2010: JX Children’s Story Award and JX Children’s Story Fund Hitoshi Tamaki Executive Officer, Manager, General Affairs Priority fields in the JX Group’s social contribution activities are: (1) advanceJX Nippon Oil & Energy Staging Terminal Corporation ment of sports and culture, (2) youth development and support, and (3) environmental protection. A social contribution activity undertaken by the entire Group that satisfies all three of these areas is the JX Children’s Story Award/JX Children’s Story Fund. Initiatives by JX Nippon Oil & Energy Staging Cultural Event Terminal Corporation JX Nippon Oil & Energy Staging Terminal Corporation The JX Group calls for submissions from the general public every year of presented all 612 students at 6 elementary schools original children’s literature on the theme of “heart-to-heart contact.” The best surrounding its Kiire Terminal with copies of The works are published in a collection called The Bouquet of Children’s Stories. The Bouquet of Children’s Stories in February 2011. When JX Group donates copies of the book to social welfare facilities, mothers and we attended the presentation ceremony at the local children’s homes, and foster families through Tokyo Zen-i Bank and other Nakamyo Elementary School, we were struck by the social welfare groups. The Bouquet of Children’s sight of children saying with eyes sparkling, “We love Stories (Volume 41) books so we are very happy.” We hope that the children of the Kiire district will read these stories, whose theme is “heart-toheart contact,” with their friends and family, and develop sensitivity. In the future, we will continue to build our relationships with local communities through initiatives such as gifts of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories and actively work on social contribution activities. 41st JX Children’s Story Award award 41st JX Children’s Story Award recipients ceremony Youth Development and Support Environmental Protection The Bouquet of Children’s Stories is purchased by JX Group The Bouquet of Children’s Stories uses “3.9 paper,” produced companies, dealerships of JX Nippon Oil & Energy, which from forest thinning in Haramura Village, Suwa County, operates service stations, and LPG dealerships, among others, Nagano Prefecture, where JX Nippon Oil & Energy is workwith all proceeds going to the JX Children’s Story Fund. This ing on forestation. Some 126 tons of such paper and a fund makes donations to the Japan National Council of Social similar amount of wood produced from forest thinning Welfare. The donations are used by the JX Scholarship Program established by were used as raw materials for The Bouquet of Children’s Stories (Volume 41) the Council as a part of support funds (100,000 yen per person) when children published in fiscal 2010, contributing to reductions in carbon dioxide emisfrom foster-care facilities, single-mother support facilities and foster homes sions and supporting Kizukai Undo (Tree-Use Movement), a domestic forest enter university and undertake other education. Support funds were received preservation program promoted by Japan’s Forestry Agency. by 320 children in fiscal 2010. The support funds do not have to be repaid, and many letters of gratitude have been received from scholarship students. Ceremony to mark donation of the Letters of appreciation from Volunteers pictured at the Haramura ENEOS Ayumi Forest, an books to Japan National Council of scholarship recipients initiative run by JX Nippon Oil & Energy. Social Welfare For information on JX Children’s Story Award, visit the following website. http://www.jx-group.co.jp/hanataba/ (Japanese only) The Bouquet of Children’s Stories for children in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake Working with Culture Convenience Club Co., Ltd., which operates TSUTAYA and other businesses, and others we donated some 12,000 copies of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories (Volume 41) to evacuation centers in affected areas (about 200 locations), elementary schools, kindergartens, and day care facilities, hoping to help in the psychological care of children in the affected region. Please see page 12 for details JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 42 Trustwo ustwo ustw wort rrthy th hy hy JX Group Values products/servic /servic services To satisfy customers, the JX Group works diligently to improve product and service quality from the customer’s perspective, and to ensure product safety. As the aspects that make up product quality diversify, we aim to provide even more trustworthy products and services. Quality Assurance, Product Safety and 2 Quality Assurance Structure Customer Satisfaction JX Nippon Oil & Energy is involved in many different energy-related businesses as an integrated energy company, and “quality sought by customers” Basic Approach differs by business. Therefore, the basic policy is for each business to execute quality assurance on its own in line with its own situation. However, the Through its core operating companies alone, the JX Group is company is also creating a three-tiered quality assurance structure, as shown involved in a broad range of operations—from oil and gas below, so that businesses can feed off each other and raise quality assurance exploration, refining and marketing, and copper mine devellevels for the entire company. opment, smelting and processing, to electronic materials. Each Group company practices quality control, and each [Quality Assurance Structure] company and business site has obtained ISO 9001 certificaUnit for Unified Oversight of Quality Quality Assurance Dept. tion, the internationally recognized standard for quality Assurance throughout the Company Formulation/promotion of companymanagement systems, as part of efforts to ensure quality. The wide quality assurance policies, planning/promotion of companywide JX Group is committed to improving customer satisfaction. quality assurance educational activities Group companies work to assess customer needs through Quality Assurance Units for everyday business transactions, customer centers, and cusIndividual Product Groups ENE-FARM Other Fuel oil Chemicals tomer satisfaction surveys, then reflect customer input in Comprehensive, cross-sectional (fuel cells) products management of quality from product products and services. design to supply/demand, manufacJX Holdings has extensive knowledge of the quality control turing, distribution and sales and product safety policies and annual targets of each Quality Management Units for Research & Research & Research & Research & company. If a product-related accident does arise, JX Holdings Individual Processes development development development development Quality control and related operations Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing works together with the Group company involved to minimize for each process from product design Purchasing Purchasing Purchasing Purchasing damages and formulate steps to prevent recurrence, in line to sales Distribution Distribution Distribution Distribution with crisis management rules. Sales Sales Sales Sales 3 Creation of Quality Management System Utilizing ISO 9001, etc. JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation The company is striving to maintain and enhance the quality of products by 1 Quality Policy utilizing ISO 9001, the international standard for quality management sysJX Nippon Oil & Energy has instituted a “quality policy” based on the values of tems, at all refineries and plants. “Trustworthy products/services” included in the JX Group’s Values, and is In manufacturing and sales of PREPREG carbon fiber, the company has working to enhance quality and ensure product safety. acquired the quality management standard JISQ9100, which certifies that Please refer to the following website for JX Nippon Oil & Energy’s quality policy (Japanese only). “quality and reliability” demanded of aerospace products and services has http://www.noe.jx-group.co.jp/csr/about/trustworthy/quality/index.html been met (January 2011). Please refer to the following website for ISO 9001 certification status (Japanese only). http://www.noe.jx-group.co.jp/csr/about/trustworthy/quality/iso9001/index.html 43 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 4 Promotion of “Improved Customer Satisfaction” Purchasing JX Nippon Oil & Energy sees not only customers in the market but also internal customers and all customers leading to customers in the market as Basic Approach “customers.” The company believes that by having each and every employee Procurement sources for raw materials are growing increasemphasize “improved customer satisfaction,” it can have its products and ingly diverse in step with economic globalization. Numerous services ultimately chosen by customers in the market. examples exist of cases in which supplier-side problems Therefore, the company does not treat improved customer satisfaction as concerning compliance practices, the environment and something unusual in all of its divisions, but as a basic part of daily operations. human rights have ultimately impacted consumable goods. This includes responding speedily and sincerely to customers’ opinions For this reason, responsible supply chain management has directed to customer centers*, fully grasping the needs of customers and become an important element in garnering trust in products society, and providing products and services that meet expectations. and services. With regards to improving customer satisfaction in retail activities, in parThe JX Group established JX Nippon Procurement Corporaticular, which have direct customer contact, the company is working with tion to integrate its procurement functions, putting in place a Group-wide procurement structure. dealerships and sales offices to promote various educational programs and Going forward, JX Nippon Procurement will spearhead the regular monitoring of service from the customer’s viewpoint. Group’s efforts to promote transparent, fair and honest trans*Customer centers are open from 9am–5pm (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, and New Year’s), and receive approximately 9,300 customer opinions per month. actions. Along with environmentally friendly purchasing activities, the Group will pursue stronger communication with business partners, aiming for mutually beneficial outcomes JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation by building partnerships grounded on mutual trust. JX Nippon Mining & Metals is promoting group-wide quality management based on its basic quality policy and regulations governing quality management in order to respond quickly and efficiently to customers’ increasingly sophisticated and diverse needs regarding quality. We are also operating JX Nippon Procurement’s Activities in Fiscal 2010 quality management systems such as ISO 9001 and various improvement JX Nippon Procurement drafted a new basic purchasing policy, which is activities such as Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) at all of our business available on its website. The company also established a system for promotsites and affiliates, creating quality control and assurance systems suited to ing green purchasing in order to procure supplies, materials and services from the characteristics of each business. those business partners that strive to reduce their environmental impact. In fiscal 2010, council meetings of officers responsible for quality were Plans call for surveys regarding green purchasing and other initiatives. held in May and November 2010, where information was shared and discusPlease refer to the following website for JX Nippon Procurement’s basic purchasing policy (Japanese only). sions held on the status of ISO 9001 audits, quality losses, and the status of http://www.pr.jx-group.co.jp/policy/ quality-related complaints. The company is also rebuilding its training systems, dividing quality education previously conducted on an individual business site basis into business site-specific and companywide categories, as it strives for systemColumn atic personnel development. Going forward, the company will further bolster JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration’s Iodine Business its quality management systems, including human Iodine is an element used in a wide range of areas, including resource development, and build up relationships pharmaceuticals such as iodine tincture and gargles, X-ray based on trust by incorporating the opinions of contrast mediums, sterilizers and fungicides, and photocustomers and business partners to improve the sensitizers. It is contained in seaweed and fish as well as brine quality of products and services. water produced with gas. At the Nakajo Oil and Gas Field, the company is recovering This iodine product was produced at iodine contained in brine water produced with gas. The Nakajo the Nakajo Oil and Gas Field. Oil and Gas Field acquired ISO 9001 certification in September 1998, and the company is supplying products to customers worldwide as an iodine supplier. Very few regions in the world are iodine producers. Japan is the second-ranked producer in the world after Chile, and iodine is a valuable resource that can be exported. Iodine is also an element critical to human survival, so potassium iodate (chemical substance to be added to table salt) is being voluntarily provided to countries that cannot acquire seaweed, etc. containing iodine. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 44 Harmony JX Group Values with the environment We develop technologies and services for creating a better global environment. As a corporate group closely connected to the Earth’s resources, the JX Group is involved in ongoing and vigorous efforts to use resources and energy effectively, and to preserve the environment. Environment Oil & Energy Corporation’s Mizushima Refinery. Following the discovery, dust concentration at the facilities was promptly measured and inspected, and it was Basic Approach confirmed that the dust concentration at 42 facilities, excluding 7 facilities not in operation, was within the control standard. Harmony with the environment is one component of the JX It was also established that measurement of dust concentration in exhaust Group Values. Accordingly, the environment is a vital theme in prescribed under the Air Pollution Control Act was not performed at 4 smokethe Group’s CSR activities. emitting facilities at the Kainan Plant of JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group company Wakayama Petroleum Refining Co., Ltd. As a result of dust concentration JX Group Environmental Policy The JX Group will measurement performed following the discovery, it was confirmed that the 1. Develop the technologies, products and services that help to dust concentration at all 4 facilities was within the control standard. create a better global environment. 2. Work diligently to prevent global warming and be mindful of We have determined that the causes that led to these circumstances were preserving biodiversity. insufficient compliance awareness, including understanding of the relevant 3. Constantly strive to reduce environmental impact in all business laws and ordinances and pollution prevention agreements, and inadequate activities. 4. Strive for strict compliance with environmental laws and functioning of control mechanisms and systems pertaining to dust concenordinances, based on the highest ethical values. tration measurement and have engaged in deep reflection on the matter. We fully recognize the gravity of the situation and will promptly review The JX Group Environmental Committee deliberates and control and work procedures pertaining to environment measurement. We reports on environmental matters and manages progress will also engage in employee education and conduct rigorous audits on an against the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan ongoing basis. We will once again publicize the importance of compliance at Group companies. In October 2010, the committee estaband environmental protection and make every effort to prevent a reoccurlished the JX Group’s Environmental Management System rence of the incidents. (EMS), putting in place a system for engaging in environmenThe JX Group conducted compliance audits of JX Holdings and the core tal activities. operating companies and found no major violations other than the two abovementioned incidents. Strict Compliance with Environmental Laws JX Group Medium-Term Environmental Management The JX Group considers strict compliance with environmental laws and Plan (Fiscal 2010 to Fiscal 2012) regulations a precondition for business activities and thus a matter of the The core operating companies and other principal companies of the JX utmost importance. Group have established the medium-term environmental management plans. Nevertheless, in February 2011 it came to light that, as far as can be conAlthough the specific environmental targets differ from company to company firmed, that recorded measurements of dust concentration in exhaust from according to the characteristics of their businesses, the Group has classified February 1980 to February 2011 prescribed under the Air Pollution Control Act the following three items as common targets. The Group companies are and a pollution agreement with Okayama Prefecture and Kurashiki City had not working in unison to achieve these environmental targets, sharing informain fact been performed at 49 smoke-emitting facilities at the A site of JX Nippon tion through the JX Group Environmental Committee and other forums. 45 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 • Global warming prevention and biodiversity preservation measures Targets, fiscal (FY) 2010 results and evaluation, and planned measures for • Environmental load mitigation FY2011 for each business are as follows. • Enhancement of environmental management systems Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business (JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group) Principal activities in the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan (FY2010–2012) and progress against the plan Activities Specific energy consumption reduction Soil contamination countermeasures Waste reduction Operating properties: Prevent external leakage Maintain the waste-to-landfill ratio and “Zero Emission Reduce 3% over 3 years compared with FY2009 Targets Reduce 1% in FY2010 (compared with FY2009) Decommissioned properties: Conduct deliberate surveys Plus” goals and treatment measures Maintain at 0.5% Soil surveys implemented: 352 sites FY2010 results and Reduced 1.6% compared with FY2009 Treatment measures: 103 sites 0.33% evaluation Target achieved (refining division) Target achieved Target achieved • Continuous implementation of measures including • Implementation of continuous improvement • Continuous implementation of measures including Planned measures for operation improvement operation improvement FY2011 • Further accumulation of improvements to achieve targets • Further accumulation of improvements to achieve targets Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business (JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group) Principal activities in the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan (FY2010–2012) and progress against the plan *CO2 emissions are converted from energy consumption. Management of final waste disposal volume and Maintenance and management of Activities CO2 emissions reduction* oil content in produced water disposed to the sea environmental management systems Reduce 3% over 3 years compared with FY2009 Appropriately operate the HSE Committee, maintain and Control volumes, including at overseas sites Targets FY2010 target of (Vietnam, Malaysia) manage the environmental management system no more than 323 thousand tons throughout the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group FY2010 results and 294 thousand tons Implemented Held 3 HSE Committee meetings, etc. evaluation Target achieved Target achieved Target achieved • Supply vessel and helicopter operation control • Continuous implementation • Continuous implementation Planned measures for • Reduction of unplanned shutdowns due to facilities FY2011 problems, etc. Metals Business (JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group) Principal activities in the Autonomous Action Plan on Environmental Protection (FY2006–2010 and FY2011–2012) and progress against the plan *Impact assessment underway due to the introduction of onsite power generation facilities following the shutdown of nuclear power plants Activities Reduction of CO2 emission intensity Specific energy consumption improvement Waste reduction FY2010: 7.5% reduction (Compared with FY2003–2005 average) FY2010: 5% reduction (Compared with FY2003–2005 average) FY2010: 70% reduction in waste-to-landfill ratio Targets FY2011: 1.0% reduction (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) FY2011: 1% reduction (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) (Compared with FY2003–2005 average) FY2012: 2.0% reduction (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) FY2012: 2% reduction (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) FY2011 and FY2012: Under 1% (non-application waste ratio) Reduced 8.1% Reduced 5.4% Reduced 78% in waste-to-landfill ratio FY2010 results and compared with FY2003–2005 average compared with FY2003–2005 average compared with FY2003–2005 average evaluation Target achieved Target achieved Target achieved • Updating to high-efficiency equipment and reduction • Engagement in activities similar to CO2 emission intensity • Further accumulation of improvements to achieve targets Planned measures for of power consumption improvement activities FY2011 • Reduction of power consumption through greater operating efficiency* Other Businesses (Listed Subsidiaries and Other Companies) Principal activities in the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan at Group companies and progress against the plan Activities NIPPO CORPORATION Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. Other Group Companies CO2 emissions intensity (sales amount) reduction targets CO2 emissions intensity (Titanium volume) Implement the JX Group EMS at each company, establish FY2010: 3% (Compared with FY2007) Targets FY2011: 2% (Compared with FY2009) For FY2008–2012, a reduction of at least 5% environmental targets according to business FY2012: 3% (Compared with FY2009) compared with FY2005–2007 average by FY2012 characteristics, and implement PDCA cycle Reduced 5.1% FY2010 results and Reduced 6.3% compared with FY2007 Reviewed target achievement at each company by the JX compared with average for FY2005–2007 evaluation Target achieved Group Environmental Committee Target achieved • Further accumulation of improvements to achieve targets • Continuation of emissions intensity improvement • Appropriate operation of the JX Group EMS Planned measures for activities through process yield improvements and FY2011 prevention of nonconformance JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 46 JX Group Values H Harmony with the environment Environmentally Friendly Products Contributing to a resource recycling-oriented society while achieving superb product characteristics Basic Approach The use of electronics in automobiles is increasing, and hybrids and other enviWith public interest in environmental problems growing ronmentally friendly vehicles are every year, product environmental performance is becoming expected to come into wider use. indispensable to efforts to improve the reliability of products Accordingly, high performance and and services. All companies in the JX Group are developing recyclability are required even in materiand offering environmentally friendly products, technologies als used for the connectors that connect and services. Hyper Eco Alloy electronic devices and cables. To meet those challenges JX Nippon Mining & Metals developed Hyper Environmentally Friendly Products that Protect the Eco Alloy, a new copper alloy material for automotive applications. Environment throughout the Entire Automobile Life Cycle Brass (an alloy of copper and zinc) is widely used as a connector material, Contributing to the realization of a low-carbon society through an application in which its spring properties and bending workability are sustained high fuel economy advantageous. On the other hand, since brass has low electrical conductivity, At a time when efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions have become a there is concern about temperature increase from heat generation when global imperative, improvement in fuel economy is required from automotive large amounts of electricity flow to a small terminal. In addition, brass termilubricants (engine oil). nal material is tin-plated to facilitate connector insertion and removal. Since To meet this challenge, JX Nippon Oil & Energy developed and launched in tin isn’t a component of brass, the inability to recycle used terminal material November 2010 ENEOS Premium Motor Oil SUSTINA, which sustains and as melted raw material has been an issue. maximizes engine performance. Since Hyper Eco Alloy, developed by JX Nippon Mining & Metals, consists With SUSTINA, dramatically reducing the sulfur content of a newly develof copper, zinc and tin, used tin-plated products can be reused as a product oped friction modifier has made it possible to inhibit the generation of sulfuraw material. In addition, optimization of alloy composition and a meticuric acid inside car engines and curb depletion of an alkaline additive that lously controlled rolling process result in high electrical conductivity far contributes to cleaning performance exceeding that of brass while providing equivalent mechanical properties and fuel economy. In addition, combinand also contribute to reducing connector size and increasing reliability while ing one of the world’s finest base oils improving recyclability. and an independently developed In February 2011, JX Nippon Mining & Metals decided to build a new plant additive has resulted in high perforto engage in the pressing and plating of automotive electronic parts. The ENEOS SUSTINA Premium Motor Oil mance that delivers up to a 2% increase plant will contribute to the realization of a resource recycling-oriented society in fuel economy compared to currently by expanding and enhancing the company’s integrated supply system, which available fuel-efficient motor oils and encompasses processes from advanced materials development to the pressengine cleaning performance that lasts twice as long. What’s more, the ability ing and plating of parts for environmentally friendly vehicles, which are to maintain fuel economy is doubled. expected to come into wider use. Switching all gasoline vehicles in Japan over to SUSTINA would result in an annual reduction of 2.7 million tons in carbon dioxide emissions in Japan, the equivalent of emissions from approximately 0.56 million households, due to the fuel efficiency benefits. JX Nippon Oil & Energy will contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society through the supply of SUSTINA and further improve the performance of lubricating oil. The planned site of a pressing and plating plant. JX SUSTINA Search (Kakegawa City, Shizuoka Prefecture) Web http://www.noe.jx-group.co.jp/carlife/product/oil/sustina/index.html (Japanese only) Hyper Eco Alloy Search Web http://www.nmm.jx-group.co.jp/english/products/01_atsuen/04hpea.html 47 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011  ctivities at Toyoha Mine A treatment facilities designed and built using the latest technologies that From Exploration, Development, and Production to enable long-term, stable, efficient treatment of water in the harsh natural Processing after Mine Shutdown environment around the mine, an area of heavy snowfall. Contribution to economic development as one of Japan’s leading mines Environment restoration through forest development For many years, JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group member Toyoha Mines Co., Since forests have high water-retention capacity, they serve the purposes of Ltd. (Sapporo City) has operated one of Japan’s leading mines and played an equalizing river flow rates, mitigating flooding and drought, and purifying important role in supplying society with raw materials (copper, zinc, lead, water. In addition, they play a role in preventing soil erosion and runoff from silver and indium) essential to people’s lives and industry. rainfall because the soil is covered by fallen leaves and underbrush. Since the start of mine development in 1914, the amount of mineral ore (raw At the Toyoha Mine, to restore the natural environment damaged by mine ore) produced at the Toyoha Mine has totaled approximately 22 million tons, operation, an environment has been developed in which vegetation can thanks to the repeated discovery of new veins and technological innovations. The grow by covering slag deposit sites with soil and removing mining equipmine ranked among the world’s largest producers of indium, which is used in ment, as it strives to restore the natural environment and maintain and materials for Liquid Crystal Display televisions and solar power generation panels. improve biodiversity. Through the stable supply of these mineral resources, the Toyoha Mine greatly contributed to the development of the local economy and Japan’s national economy. However, in March 2006 the mine ceased operation due to ore depletion, the eventual fate of every mine. A restored site (Slag pile site) Use as a human resource development site The Toyoha Mine when it was operating. These activities at the closed Toyoha Mine, as well as the high ethical standards that are the basis for the activities, will serve as a model case for harmony with the global environment in overseas resource development at JX Environmental protection activities after mine shutdown Nippon Mining & Metals. The company has positioned the Toyoha Mine as The environmental protection activities carried out when the mine was in the starting point for CSR in resource development and utilizes the mine as an production continue even after shutdown. An especially critical activity is employee training facility. measures to permanently detoxify the mine water (water that flows out of Please refer to page 30 for information about training at the Toyoha Mine. mines) and wastewater (percolation water from slag deposit sites) that contain metal contents and prevent pollution of nearby rivers. Geothermal development, a clean, renewable energy source To further purify wastewater at the Toyoha Mine, in October 2008 Toyoha that is attracting widespread attention Mines built a new wastewater treatment facility following repeated detailed The Toyoha Mine zone has attracted attention as one of Japan’s premier discussions with the Hokkaido Industrial Safety and Inspection Department geothermal areas, and its geothermal energy reserves rank among the largest and the City of Sapporo. Although the water-quality standards in a pollution in Japan. prevention agreement concluded with the City of Sapporo are stricter than In fiscal 2010, JX Nippon Mining & Metals, in response to the implementathe national wastewater standards (in the Water Pollution Control Law), the tion of geothermal development promotion surveys by New Energy and wastewater from the facility has good water quality that consistently meets Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO), has begun a geothe standards. In addition, the company thermal power generation development feasibility study at the Toyoha Mine. plans to build a new mine water treatGeothermal power generation is a source of sustainable clean energy that ment facility and commence full-scale enables the stable supply of electricity unaffected by the weather. The comoperation in November 2011 following pany plans to earnestly proceed with the study with the aim of commercialtest operation. Both of these facilities are ization in around 10 years. groundbreaking privately owned water Exterior view of the wastewater treatment facility JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 48 JX Group Values H Harmony with the environment Environmental Performance CO2 emissions were 18.70 million tons in the Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business, 0.42 million tons in the Oil and Gas Exploration and The environmental performance data on pages 49 to 51 covers a total of Production Business, 0.93 million tons in the Metals Business, and 0.49 million 52 business sites at 21 companies engaged in the Petroleum Refining tons in Other Businesses. The JX Group total was 20.54 million tons, 0.47 and Marketing Business, the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production million tons lower than in fiscal 2009. Business, the Metals Business, and Other Businesses. Actual results versus targets for specific energy consumption and CO2 emis■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business: 15 sites at 5 companies sion reductions in the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan and ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business: 3 sites at 1 company ■ Metals Business: 23 sites at 12 companies elsewhere are shown on page 46. All businesses are making steady progress. ■ Other Businesses: 11 sites at 3 companies For the Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business, we have recorded Initiatives to Prevent Air Pollution data on business sites involved in petroleum product refining and proIn line with laws, ordinances, accords and voluntary standards to prevent air duction only. We have checked the figures for the Metals Business and pollution, the JX Group closely monitors gases emitted into the atmosphere made necessary adjustments. We have also newly included NIPPO by its facilities. The Group also works diligently to prevent air pollution by CORPORATION and JX Nippon Real Estate Corporation in Other Busiadopting a range of equipment to enhance environmental performance and nesses. Since we have retroactively restated the figures for the years fiscal by switching to low-sulfur fuels, among other actions. 2008 to fiscal 2010 to reflect these changes, the figures differ from the The JX Group’s total SOx (sulfur oxide) emissions in fiscal 2010 were 15,815 data for previous fiscal years in “JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010.” tons, 347 tons higher than in fiscal 2009. The JX Group’s total NOx (nitrogen oxide) emissions in fiscal 2010 were 13,884 tons, 487 tons higher than in fiscal 2009. Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming ■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business Global warming is a problem that faces all of us. The companies within the JX ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business ■ Metals Business ■ Other Businesses Group are addressing this issue by setting proprietary activity targets and concrete countermeasures, and energetically reducing energy consumption SOx (Tons) and taking steps to cut CO2 emissions. 20,000 Energy consumption in fiscal 2010 (crude oil equivalent) was 6.98 million 15,000 197 182 125 kL in the Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business, 0.15 million kL in the Oil 10,000 5,008 4,504 4,402 197 121 88 and Gas Exploration and Production Business, 0.45 million kL in the Metals 5,000 10,534 10,661 11,200 Business, and 0.24 million kL in Other Businesses. The JX Group total was 7.82 0 million kL, 0.44 million kL lower than in fiscal 2009. 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) ■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business ■ Metals Business ■ Other Businesses NOx (Tons) Energy Consumption (Crude Oil Equivalent) 20,000 (Million kL) 15,000 127 99 10.0 1,536 115 1,681 1,747 0.22 0.21 0.24 10,000 1,714 7.5 0.43 0.44 0.45 1,354 1,134 0.16 0.15 5,000 0.15 11,319 10,904 5.0 10,247 7.42 7.46 6.98 0 2.5 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 0 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) *Emissions figures for overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) have been newly included in emissions in the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business, retroactive to fiscal 2008. Figures for NIPPO CORPORATION in Other Business were estimated by CO2 Emissions its 50 main plants. (Million of tons) 25 0.48 0.46 0.49 20 0.95 0.95 0.93 15 0.54 0.49 0.42 Initiatives for Protecting Water Resources 10 As one of its resource conservation measures, the JX Group firmly manages its 19.46 19.11 18.70 5 use of water resources and monitors wastewater produced by its facilities in 0 line with laws, ordinances, accords and voluntary standards, in an effort to 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) reduce its environmental impact. *CO2 emissions include emissions from energy consumption (electricity, fuel, etc.) as well as greenhouse gases emitted mainly in oil and gas production converted to CO2. 49 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 In the water resources consumed in fiscal 2010, freshwater resources Initiatives for Management of Chemical Substances consumed were 112.91 million tons in the Petroleum Refining and Marketing The JX Group conducts proper management of specified chemical subBusiness, 0.65 million tons in the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production stances stipulated under the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Business, 20.64 million tons in the Metals Business, and 2.14 million tons in Law. The Group also strives to reduce chemical emission levels as part of steps Other Businesses. The JX Group total was 136.34 million tons, 0.12 million tons to reduce environmental impact. Where the Material Safety Data Sheet higher than in fiscal 2009. (MSDS) system is concerned, the Group presents information on the behavior Seawater consumption was 940 million tons in the Petroleum Refining and and handling of target chemical substances in a readily accessible manner. Marketing Business, 30 million tons in the Oil and Gas Exploration and ProThe release and transfer of specified chemical substances in fiscal 2010 was duction Business, and 130 million tons in the Metals Business. The JX Group 692 tons in the Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business, 173 tons in the total was 1,100 million tons, 10 million tons lower than in fiscal 2009. Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business, 367 tons in the Metals The chemical oxygen demand (COD) load volume, an indicator of water Business, and 446 tons in Other Businesses. The JX Group total was 1,678 tons, pollution levels, was 727 tons in the Petroleum Refining and Marketing Busi247 tons higher than in fiscal 2009. The reasons for the increase were ness, 100 tons in the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business, and increases in the Metals Business and at Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. 160 tons in the Metals Business. The JX Group total was 987 tons, 141 tons At JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation’s HMC Works, which engages in higher than in fiscal 2009. metals recycling, nickel compound transfers showed a particularly high increase due to factors including a sharp increase in the amount recycled in ■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business fiscal 2010 from the fiscal 2009 level and variation in the grade of raw material ■ Metals Business ■ Other Businesses for recycling and the recovery rate. Freshwater The release and transfer of specified chemical substances at Toho Titanium (Millions of tons) 150 Co., Ltd. occurs almost entirely in connection with catalyst production. 1.72 120 21.65 21.39 1.65 20.64 2.14 Although production volume itself was flat in fiscal 2010, the number of test 0.58 0.58 0.65 90 production lots increased due to new catalyst development. Since test pro60 114.14 112.60 112.91 duction lots are produced using production lines, the release and transfer of 30 specified chemical substances also increased. 0 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) ■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business ■ Metals Business ■ Other Businesses Seawater Release and Transfer of Specified (Billions of tons) 1.20 Chemical Substances (Tons) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.12 0.12 0.13 2,000 0.90 0.05 0.03 0.03 1,500 0.60 446 241 338 0.94 0.96 0.94 1,000 0.30 306 306 367 212 172 173 500 0 692 646 615 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) 0 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) *Figures for overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) have been newly included in the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business, retroactive to fiscal 2008. *Figures for overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) are not included in the figure for the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business. Chemical Oxygen Demand Load Volume (Tons) 1,000 Initiatives to Reduce Waste 0 1 160 130 1 750 170 100 204 105 JX Group companies each set waste reduction targets in line with their own 500 727 medium-term environmental management plans, and take steps to reduce 250 595 570 both their waste-to-landfill ratio and final waste disposal intensity. 0 The final waste disposal volume in fiscal 2010 was 382 tons in the Petro2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) leum Refining and Marketing Business, 19 tons in the Oil and Gas Exploration *Figures for overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) are not included in the figure for the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business. and Production Business, 1,822 tons in the Metals Business, and 5,279 tons in Other Businesses. The JX Group total was 7,502 tons, 4,311 tons lower than in fiscal 2009. The decrease is attributable to a sharp reduction in final waste disposal volume at NIPPO CORPORATION. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 50 JX Group Values H Harmony with the environment Actual results versus targets for fiscal 2010 in the Medium-Term EnvironmenColumn tal Management Plan are shown on page 46. Steady progress is being made. Environmental Activities at Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. ■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. constructed a titanium sponge plant in ■ Metals Business ■ Other Businesses Wakamatsu Ward, Kitakyushu, and commenced operation at the plant in Volume of Landfill Waste April 2010. The Wakamatsu Plant has achieved world-class production (Tons) 15,000 efficiency by combining technologies and expertise accumulated over 12,000 the years. Since industrial wastewater is discharged into Dokai Bay, the 9,000 plant has installed the latest drainage facilities. It gives the utmost consid10,883 6,000 9,151 5,279 eration to the environment and ecosystem in other ways including the 3,000 2,338 46 2,014 130 design of exhaust gas equipment using its own rigorous standards and 0 1,822 19 656 518 382 installation of the latest power transformers and lighting equipment. 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal year) The Yahata Plant in Yahatahigashi Ward, Kitakyushu, melts titanium *Figures for overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) have been newly sponge to produce titanium ingots. Locating the Wakamatsu Plant near included in the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business, retroactive to fiscal 2008. the Yahata Plant made it possible to reduce CO2 emissions and engage in highly efficient production through distribution streamlining. The Yahata Plant has an electron-beam melting furnace that ranks among the largest in the world and can produce some of the world’s Conclusion largest ingots and is achieving energy savings. In addition, the plant aims As described on page 46, in fiscal 2010 the JX Group was able to achieve all to establish Japan’s first titanium recycling system to conserve resources the targets in the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan. Nevertheby taking advantage of the ability to use raw materials of various shapes less, emissions of SOx, NOx, and freshwater resources consumed, the chemical and actively engage in recycling melting of titanium scrap. oxygen demand (COD) load volume, and the release and transfer of specified Kitakyushu Eco Town Hibikinada Sea chemical substances increased from fiscal 2009. WAKAMATSU In fiscal 2011, we will strive for improvement in all environmental perforPLANT mance items. Wakamatsu Kokura Tobata Dokai Bay YAHATA PLANT Yahata Toho Titanium Co., Ltd., Kitakyushu The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and P33–34 Principle 2 make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P33–34 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; P33–34 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; P33–34 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and P33–34 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P29–30, P33–34 Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; P26, P28, P45–46 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and P26, P41–42, P45–51 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. P7–8, P13–24, P35–38, P44, P47–48 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. P26, P37–38 51 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Guide to JX Group Websites JX Holdings http://www.hd.jx-group.co.jp/english/ About JX Group News Release • Establishment of JX Group • JX Group Mission Statement Investor Relations • Management Policies • Objectives and Basic Concept • Financial Highlights • Disclosure Materials of the Integration • IR Library Corporate Profile • Shareholder & Stock Information • JX Group Mission Statement • IR Calendar • Group Companies • Latest IR Materials • Management Policies • Corporate Data Corporate Social Responsibility • CSR Reports • Executives • Organization • Corporate History JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration http://www.noe.jx-group.co.jp/english/ http://www.nex.jx-group.co.jp/english/ Corporate Profile Business Activities CSR Report Exploration Development and Production Flow Products Corporate Profile Safety, Environment and Community Recruit JX Nippon Mining & Metals NIPPO http://www.nmm.jx-group.co.jp/english/ http://www.nippo-c.co.jp/english/index.html Corporate Profile Business Segments Toho Titanium Products http://www.toho-titanium.co.jp/en/index.html Corporate Social Responsibility JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 52 Third-Party Opinion We received comments from an outside expert on the JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011. Masaatsu Doi of oil company efficiency alone and that a certain degree of redundancy is Associate Professor necessary to maintain the functioning of the overall supply system even when Faculty of Regional Policy Takasaki City University of Economics a disaster strikes. Although the problem of refinery capacity reduction and location currently being discussed within the JX Group is also an issue that Professor Doi earned his undergraduate degree at the Hitotsubashi University Faculty of Economics, affects the stable supply of energy nationwide, from the perspective of a single and completed his doctoral degree at the company, the relationship with local communities, including the effect on the Hitotsubashi University Graduate School of Commerce and Management in March 2011. He employment situation, is an unavoidable issue when discussing CSR. It is likely joined the faculty of Takasaki City University of Economics in 2006, and is the co-author of CSR that the JX Group will be required to explain the proposed process for discusManagement: Corporate Social Responsibility and sion to the satisfaction of its various stakeholders. Stakeholders and The Rise of Social Enterprise, both published by CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, Inc. In addition, with respect to relations with local communities and the environment, as discussed on page 45, in fiscal 2010 an extremely regrettable One feature of this year’s JX Group CSR report is a detailed description of the fact came to light about the JX Group. For many years the recording of dust relationship between each of the JX Group’s businesses and society, and of concentration data was falsified at the JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation the supply chain in each business from development through to sales. This Mizushima Refinery and the Wakayama Petroleum Refining Co., Ltd. Kainan paints a very clear picture of the importance of the role played by the JX Plant. The Mizushima Industrial Complex is one of Japan’s foremost industrial Group’s Petroleum Refining and Marketing, Oil and Gas Exploration and zones and an area where in the past local residents filed a lawsuit claiming Production, and Metals Businesses in our daily lives, from the supply of petrohealth problems caused by air pollution. I think it is necessary for the entire JX leum products at ENEOS service stations to materials development for mobile Group to recognize anew that its businesses can exist only on the basis of a phones and PET plastic bottles. The report also summarizes the impact of the relationship of trust with its neighbours. Great East Japan Earthquake and the JX Group’s response, describing the Although in fiscal 2010 the JX Group achieved favorable results in an progress of restoration and reconstruction of group companies and the adverse business environment, fiscal 2011 is likely to be a year in which the provision of multilayered support utilizing the management resources of true power of the JX Group as a whole will be put to the test in matters group companies, such as monetary donations, the dispatch of volunteers, including reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake and change in and support for farms in areas affected by rumors of radioactive contaminathe group’s position in the industry. With regard to expectations for new tion. With these points in mind, I would like to mention some aspects of CSR technologies and products, the products introduced on pages 35 and 36 that will be required of the JX Group in the future. — CO2 EOR technology, positive-electrode material for lithium-ion batteries, First, the JX Group’s three CSR focus areas are 1) compliance, 2) social contriand world’s first next-generation high-efficiency fuel cells—hold great prombution, and 3) the environment. In addition to these, as described on pages 13 ise and will bear watching. Furthermore, I have high expectations that the JX to 16, the stable supply of energy, principally oil, is an extremely important Group will demonstrate leadership in new energy fields such as liquefied management issue for a corporate group with an integrated energy company. natural gas, fuel cells, and solar power generation and continue to create new The Sendai, Kashima, and Negishi refineries incurred damage in the recent energy innovations to develop a new paradigm in the industry, as befits a Great East Japan Earthquake, damage that had a tremendous impact on business group with an integrated energy company. I firmly believe that people’s lives, especially in eastern Japan. The earthquake led to discussion beyond those efforts lies a bright “X” (future) for Japan’s energy, resources, and that refinery locations should not be decided from the standpoint materials industry. Response We are very grateful for Professor Doi’s valuable opinions and suggestions technology and product development. The JX Group will continue to for improving the JX Group’s CSR activities again this year. work together with our stakeholders to contribute to the development of This report is the JX Group’s second CSR report. We have endeavored a sustainable economy and society. to explain in an easily understandable way the JX Group’s public mission of providing a stable and efficient supply of energy, resources, and materials and the close links between the JX Group’s businesses and various aspects of people’s daily lives. We are pleased that Professor Doi has recognized our efforts in that regard. Yuji Nakajima Executive Officer, General Manager, We take to heart Professor Doi’s views on relations with local comCorporate Social Responsibility Department munities and the environment and his expectations with respect to new JX Holdings, Inc. 53 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 Independent Review Report JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011 54 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8161, Japan http://www.hd.jx-group.co.jp/english/ Corporate Social Responsibility Department Inquiries (e-mail) csr@hd.jx-group.co.jp As of September 30, 2011, JX Holdings was a constituent of the following major SRI Indexes: DJSI Asia Pacific: A global index of approximately 160 companies selected for their outstanding sustainability from among the 600 largest companies in the Asia-Pacific region. MS-SRI: This index comprises 150 stocks selected from among listed companies in Japan on the basis of noteworthy social responsibility efforts. This is Japan’s first socially responsible investment index. This report was printed using an environmentally friendly waterless printing process and vegetable oil ink. In support of the Kizukai Undo (Tree-Use Movement) promoted by Japan’s Forestry Agency, JX Holdings has printed this report on “3.9 paper,” made from wood produced through forest thinning in Haramura, Suwa-gun, Nagano Prefecture, where JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation is engaged in forest maintenance. This contributes to increased absorption of CO2 in Japanese forests. Original Japanese Version Published in September 2011
