UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IN 2011 EAC GROUP MESSAGE FROM THE CEO EAC is delighted to present its stakeholders with the Group’s second Communication on Progress towards implementing the 10 UN Global Compact principles. EAC supports the international community’s call for improved corporate sustainability governance through new and revised guidelines issued by, for example, the UN, the OECD or the EU, and regulations entering into eﬀect such as the UK Bribery Act. 2011 was a year of continued implementation and set-up of systems following the initial CSR screenings in 2009 and the strategy development and implementation in 2010. During 2011 focus was on implementing systems to strengthen EAC’s capabilities of businessdriven sustainability management. Relevant data collection, performance measurements, target setting, risk assessments, e-learning and a clear delegation of roles and responsibilities will make up the backbone of EAC’s strategy to adequately address the need for sustainability governance including adequate procedures to work against corruption. EAC aims to make the collection of quantitative and qualitative data essential not only for the strategic management of CSR issues, but also to use it as an operational management tool across businesses and countries. Strategic management of sustainability risks and opportunities is an integral part of good governance at EAC. Therefore, EAC applied systematic data collection in 2011, and the plan is to facilitate further expansion of the IT-based data collection programme to Interdean in 2012. In 2011, EAC followed up with the business segments on a continuous basis. This has resulted in policies and systems such as; HR systems, staﬀ manuals, supplier code of conduct, internal grievance mechanism and whistle-blower functions being strengthened. EAC also assisted the business segments with the implementation of improved local organisational anchorage of CSR management, training in CSR performance measurement, internal and external benchmarking and reporting. In EAC’s mindset, running proﬁtable businesses that live up to their social, environmental and economic responsibilities is the best way to contribute to the societies in which EAC is active. For EAC, long-term proﬁtability is based on strategic integration of sustainable social, environmental and economic development. Such integration results in proper risk management for the beneﬁt of EAC’s shareholders, other stakeholders and society alike. In 2012, EAC will focus on using the improved access to performance data to benchmark operational units against each other and set relevant targets locally and at group level. EAC will also continue to further strengthen the businesses’ due diligence processes on human rights in line with the expectations of the international community. Implementation throughout the Group will be facilitated through training programmes, including e-learning. The e-learning tool will be an important part of implementing new policies and guidelines for the anti-bribery activities in 2012. Niels Henrik Jensen, President & CEO The East Asiatic Company Ltd. A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 2 EAC GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN EAC Group CSR policy daily management and coordination of CSR eﬀorts. CSR standards The CSR policy of the EAC Group is based on the 10 UN Global and processes are increasingly integrated into the business segCompact principles (UNGC) along with compliance with internaments’ functional work instructions, procedures and delegation of tional and national laws. Where international minimum standards responsibilities across business and country operations. Despite for CSR are higher than required by national law, EAC strives to upthe progress made over the last couple of years, the EAC Group hold international standards. In addition, EAC goes beyond legal Management is committed to live up to improved sustainability compliance in a number of areas where the Company can contribgovernance, and see it as a continuous learning process. ute to sustainable development by applying its core competences. The CSR policy outlines EAC’s social, environmental and economic Structure of the report responsibility and commitment. For the full CSR policy of the EAC Please see the following sections to read more about CSR impleGroup and more information about how each business segment mentation, performance and planned activities in the Santa Fe implements and plans to implement CSR, see www.eac.dk. Group and Plumrose. The remainder of the report is divided into two sections presenting the progress of the business segments Organisational anchorage one at a time. EAC Group Management oversees the CSR processes and eﬀorts in close cooperation with the business segments including develThis report meets the requirements of the Danish Financial Stateopment of the capacity of the businesses in order to ensure that ments Act section 99a. strategic CSR continues to create value for the Company and contributes to sustainable development. Each business segment has This report is available on www.eac.dk a top-level CSR/ethics committee and persons responsible for EXCERPTS FROM EAC CSR POLICY Plumrose PEOPLE • Continuously improve EAC’s governance system to ensure compliance with basic human rights Group CSR Policy UN Global Compact • Identify ways of maximising the positive social impact of EAC’s business operations National Law where EAC has special skills, products or services to make a diﬀerence. Santa Fe Group PLANET • Assess and reduce the negative impact of EAC’s operations on the environment including climate change • Meet or exceed applicable regulatory requirements wherever EAC conducts its operations • Continuously seek to improve EAC’s awareness, processes and production facilities in order to set new environmental standards in markets whenever possible. PROFIT • Apply a zero-tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery in accordance with principle 10 of the UN Global Compact. • Continuously work to improve governance structures to combat corruption in all its forms. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 4 SANTA FE GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN SANTA FE THIS YEAR’S HIGHLIGHTS AND PLANS FOR 2012 Santa Fe is delighted to present its second Global Compact Communication on Progress to our stakeholders. In a year marked by signiﬁcant expansion, Santa Fe’s progress in overall business performance was matched by positive developments in our sustainability agenda. With the addition of 35 countries to our global footprint in 2011, the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact will continue to play an instrumental role by providing the required framework to bridge the local regulations that diﬀer from county to country. Roll-out of our core CSR programme In 2011, a core eﬀort was to implement an eﬀective sustainability data collection system which would measure and manage the company’s sustainability impacts as well as benchmark operations against each other more eﬀectively. The system was rolled out to all Asian and Australian oﬃces in Q4 2011. Another priority was to continue the roll-out of CSR policies, work instructions and procedures to the remaining country operations, including WridgWays in Australia. Implementation of the core CSR programme was completed in the Hong Kong operation in 2010. The oﬃces in Singapore and China were up and running by end of Q2 2011 and all remaining oﬃces, except Interdean, initiated systematic implementation in 2011 by, as a minimum, completing the ﬁrst round of CSR self-assessment with quality assurance from international CSR experts. Giving back to the community The company strove to maximise its positive social impact through involvement in many locally-based community projects, e.g., by providing free logistic support to NGOs and local schools. This is one way Santa Fe contributes cost-eﬀectively by making use of its existing physical assets and core competences. In Asia and Australia, the Santa Fe Group contributed more than 1,000 hours of work and made monetary contributions of more than USD130,000 in 2011. Furthermore, the Santa Fe Group supports selected fundraising activities and donations to worthy causes in the regions where it has operations. The Group donates a total of USD 10 per move to the Johns Hopkins Breast Cancer Research Fund, raising a total of USD 82,720 in 2011. In 2012, the Australian activities will be included in the Johns Hopkins contributions, whereas the European business will continue its support for the Marie Curie organisation. Impact on sustainability As a market leader with large global presence and reputation, we are in a unique position to make a signiﬁcant impact on sustainability in our industry and the markets in which we operate. Through the relocation of more than 100,000 families in 2011 to all parts of the world, the Santa Fe Group is a major globalisation player facilitating a transfer of skills and competences to markets where they are most needed. While we have made great progress in many areas of sustainability during the past decade, we clearly have opportunity to improve in others. The environmental impact of our operations remains a challenge – and one that we can only address one step at a time as sustainable technologies become aﬀordable, and customer demand for sustainable moving and relocation services increases. Ensuring health and safety of our staﬀ is another concern which needs to be on our radar continually. Accordingly, we have set the following key sustainability goals to measure our progress in 2012:  Relocating more than 24,000 families in 2011 to all parts of the world, the Santa Fe Group is a major globalisation player by facilitating a transfer of skills and competences to markets where they are most needed. SANTA FE POLICY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 5 SANTA FE GROUP Targets for 2012 • In 2012, the Santa Fe Group will develop a formal workplace accident and injury reduction programme across Asia, Australia, Europe and the Middle East with the ﬁnal goal of being able to reduce incidents by 10 per cent. • With the implementation of a new data collection system in 2011, Santa Fe will be able to track and record carbon emissions from its operations worldwide in 2012. This information will help the company lower its environmental impact, reduce emissions by 2 per cent in 2012, and commence oﬀsetting emissions with the long-term goal of becoming carbon neutral. • Starting in 2012, all managers will attend annual training courses in anti-corruption and non-discrimination, and e-learning programmes for selected employee groups will be pilot-tested and implemented. Other types of communication and in-person training will be used to reach employees who do not have easy access to online e-learning modules. • The Interdean acquisition in Q3 2011 added 48 oﬃces and a new continent to Santa Fe’s geographical coverage. Implementing the overall CSR programme and data collection system in these oﬃces will be an important priority in 2012. Our Mission: We make it easy Our Vision: Deliver sustainable value through innovation Our Values: Quality, eﬃciency and people Lars Lykke Iversen CEO UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 6 SANTA FE GROUP OVERVIEW Principles Commitment & Targets Systems Actions Results People – Social sustainability 2011: Supplier Code of Rolled out a standardIncreased employee Monitored continuously our govConduct revised. ised Supplier Code of motivation, retention Principle 1: Support and respect the ernance system to ensure comConduct, grievance and satisfaction. protection of internationally propliance with basic human rights Grievance mechamechanism / whistleclaimed human rights within our organisation and with nism and whistleblower system, health Help Santa Fe customwhom we interact UN Global blower system and safety work instrucers meet their CSR rePrinciple 2: Make sure that we are Compact Principles 1-6. revised. tions – HR manual and quirements and increase not complicit in human rights abuses. ISO 9001 to all oﬃces loyalty. 2012: Health and safety in Australia and Asia. Principle 3: Support freedom of asEnsure that all middle managers work instruction – sociation and the right to collective and above complete newly creHR manual and ISO Implemented SoFi data bargaining. ated e-learning modules on disdocuments recollection system to all crimination and corruption. vised. oﬃces in Australia and Principle 4: Support elimination of Asia. all forms of forced and compulsory Recruitment of a Group Talent SoFi data collection labour. Manager. system. Roll-out of supplier code of conduct to all major Principle 5: Support the eﬀective CSR gap analysis of Interdean. E-learning suppliers. abolition of child labour. discrimination Reduce work-related accidents module created. Standardise key health Principle 6: Support elimination of and employee turnover by 10 per and safety deﬁnitions discrimination in respect of employcent. and targets for the ment and occupation. group. Collect data on social sustainability KPIs / CSR activities. Roll-out of CSR initiative to Interdean. Promote Supplier Code of Conduct. Senior managers engaged in e-learning module. Planet Environmental 2011: ISO – 14001 enviStandardise key ISO enIncreased employee sustainability Reduced the negative impact of ronmental work invironmental objective motivation, retention our business on the environment, structions and speacross the group. and satisfaction. Principle 7: Support a precautionary meet or exceed regulatory reciﬁc objectives. approach to environmental chalquirements and continuously External audit by DNV – Help Santa Fe customlenges. seeked to improve our processes SoFi data collection measure ISO standards ers meet their CSR reto achieve higher standards – UN system. and adherence to UNGC quirements and increase Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to Global Compact Principles 7-9. principles. loyalty. promote greater environmental responsibility. 2012: Roll-out of CSR initiative Cost savings to the orCollection of data to measure the to Interdean. ganisation and customPrinciple 9: Encourage the developGroup’s environmental achieveers. ment and diﬀusion of environmenments. DNV external audit. tally friendly technologies. Reduce carbon emissions by 2 per cent. Ensure minimum Euro 2 norm for trucks by end of 2013. Reuse 100 per cent of packing material where quality is not compromised. Start oﬀ-setting of emissions. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 7 SANTA FE GROUP OVERVIEW Principles Commitment & Targets Systems Actions Results Proﬁt Financial sustainability Principle 10: Work against corrupApply a zero tolerance approach Financial audits. Prohibited bribery and Improved risk managetion in all its forms, including extorwith respect to corruption, extorextortion in Supplier ment and legal complition and bribery. tion and bribery. We continuously Supplier Code of Code of Conduct. ance within the organiidentify ways of maximising the Conduct. sation. positive impact of our business Prohibit suppliers via operations where we have speWhistleblow system Supplier Code of Concial skills, products or services to created for all staﬀ. duct from giving gis to make a diﬀerence in the commuemployees to aﬀect nities where we live and work – Employee manual, conduct of business. UN Global Compact Principle 10. training e-learning and anti-corruption. Revised and updated 2012: employee manual to E-learning training modules. SoFi data collection incorporate UNGC system. principles. Bribery risk assessment. Provide conﬁdential Data collection. whistleblower mechanism to all employees UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 8 SANTA FE GROUP PEOPLE: SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Our community support Santa Fe, WridgWays and Interdean are active in a variety of community events and charitable organisations. This is done to create goodwill, motivate staﬀ and improve the world in which we live. In all markets where Santa Fe is present, sponsorships are given to chambers and other expatriate organisations that are dedicated to fostering international business and social relationships. Some of the community organisations supported by Santa Fe include women’s groups, crisis help-lines, international schools, amateur arts organisations, non-proﬁt organisations, sports leagues, Crossroads International, Goodwill, NGOs, OXFAM, Marie Curie Cancer Care and the Johns Hopkins Research Fund, which focuses on the research and treatment of breast cancer. Santa Fe’s commitment to cancer research Santa Fe Asia and Australia contributes USD10.00 per move to Johns Hopkins and is proud to have raised over USD1.26 million for the Breast Cancer Fund since inception. Interdean held its fourth annual Rugby 7s Tournament in aid of Marie Curie Cancer Care on 7 August 2011. Established in 1948, this charity employs more than 2,700 nurses, doctors and healthcare professionals providing care for over 30,000 terminally ill patients. Interdean via the Marie Curie Cancer Care raised EUR 40,000 in 2011, and as a direct result of their donations Marie Curie now has two more Gardens of Hope. Interdean also has a charity box scheme, collecting unwanted household goods for distribution at Marie Curie’s national network of charity shops. In addition, Santa Fe once again organised a 5 kilometer Fun Run at the annual International Association of Movers conference for Breast Cancer Research – 8th Annual. This year we raised over USD17,000 at the Denver, CO conference. The Hong Kong operation held a charity Christmas party for the Real Estate Industry for the beneﬁt of the Hong Kong Breast Cancer Foundation raising over USD5,000 and supported the Pink Charity Walk with transportation assistance and tents. The Japan oﬃce supported the Run for the Cure in Tokyo, and Singapore supports the Terry Fox Run fundraiser every year by providing free mineral water and tents. Proceeds from this event go to the Singapore Cancer Society research programme. Bangkok ﬂoods In 2011, Thailand faced the worst ﬂooding in over ﬁy years. People, businesses and industries were all greatly aﬀected. People lost their homes and businesses were destroyed. Manufacturing and distribution of food and water practically stopped. During that time, Santa Fe Thailand committed itself to helping those businesses and people in need. The Santa Fe staﬀ, most of whom were eﬀected in one way or another, showed renewed focus, dedication and commitment to helping customers as well as the general public. In some of the worst aﬀected areas, the staﬀ had no time to remove their own goods before the water entered their homes. Yet, they still came to work through multiple means of transportation. Santa Fe Thailand assisted in ﬁnding and paying for temporary homes for staﬀ members, helped move goods out of the aﬀected areas or up to higher ﬂoors for staﬀ members and others in the community, distributed survival kits to the most needy and raised funds to help rebuild and ﬁx homes of those aﬀected. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 9 SANTA FE GROUP Children’s rights and welfare Much of the support oﬀered to communities comes in the form of employee voluntary contributions geared towards local community based projects throughout the region such as beach clean-up, Cub Scouts, Girls Scouts, SOS Children’s Village, International and Local Schools and youth sports programmes. In 2011, Santa Fe became a member of the Leadership Council 100, which is designed to support the Foundation for Social Change of Life – Economic Opportunity for Women & Girls education programme teaching life and business skills to girls and young women in poverty around the world. In October of 2006, Santa Fe donated funds to build the Santa Fe Laoling Hope School in Sichuan, China via EAC’s foundation. Every other year our CEO returns to the school to meet with the staﬀ and students and witness their many accomplishments. In May of 2011, Santa Fe donated 12 air conditioners prior to the height of the summer heat. Santa Fe Hope School in Sichuan, China. Lars Lykke Iversen Santa Fe CEO visits the school in May 2011 to donate 12 air conditioners. FIDI 35 Club, Stuttafords and Interdean are working in a collaborative eﬀort to raise funds for Bertrams Junior School in Johannesburg, South Africa. South Africa is a signiﬁcant market for WridgWays and Interdean. The school, which caters to Johannesburg’s most povertystricken surrounding areas, is drastically over-crowded. The group is actively looking to raise funds and acquire the land next door to the school to facilitate its expansion. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 10 SANTA FE GROUP In 2011, Santa Fe (Asia and Australia) and its employees have contributed more than 1,000 hours and monetary contributions of USD130,000 to NGO’s. More details about contributions are provided in the charts below. Contributions in USD Contributions in Hours 140,000 1,800 129,816 1,666 1,600 120,000 1,400 100,000 1,200 82,720 1,005 80,000 1,000 801 60,000 800 49,403 40,741 600 40,000 400 20,000 200 0 0 Monetary Monetary Value of in kind Value of in kind Hours of in kind Hours of in kind Hours of employee contributions contributions contributions contributions contributions contributions volunteering to NGOs etc to breast cancer to NGOs etc to others to NGOs etc to others research CARING COMPANY AWARD For its CSR eﬀorts in 2011 and 2012, Santa Fe – Hong Kong was awarded the Caring Company Logo by The Hong Kong Council of Social Service in recognition for good corporate citizenship. Companies receiving this prestigious award need to satisfy certain eligibility requirements before they can use the Caring Company logo. Companies that have exhibited eﬀorts on volunteerism, promote employee-friendly initiatives, willingness to accept employees with disabilities, practise environment-friendly eﬀorts, share expertise to charitable groups and giving donations to non-proﬁt organisations. People High standards for high quality service The employees are key to success, and they are the greatest asset, which diﬀerentiates Santa Fe’s services from those of the competitors. Santa Fe strives to retain the best and the brightest employees in the industry. To maintain the high quality standards that result from employee satisfaction and low employee turnover, Santa Fe supports a work environment conducive to good health. Santa Fe strives to be the employer of choice for its 2,823 employees (counting Interdean). This includes respecting and supporting internationally proclaimed human rights including the basic principles of the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Skills, performance and ethical conduct shall be our only indicators for employee qualiﬁcation. Santa Fe will not tolerate discrimination with respect to gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, national origin, social status or any other protected discrimination grounds. In 2011, an e-learning module on non-discrimination in the workplace was created. The module was tested and approved by senior managers and will be disseminated to all managers in 2012. The employee manual, which contains clear guidelines and rules for everyone working in any of our regions and business units, was reviewed and updated in 2011 to reﬂect Santa Fe’s CSR commitments. Grievance mechanism To ensure compliance with all internal policies and regulatory requirements, a grievance mechanism was established in 2010. Through this mechanism employees are encouraged to report their concerns regarding conditions of employment, unfair treatment by management, supervisors or other employees, health and safety issues, working conditions or any other work-related problems or concern to their immediate supervisor. In 2011, the mechanism was shared with all staﬀ in Asia and Australia. The grievance mechanism will be shared with all Interdean colleagues by Q2 2012. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 11 SANTA FE GROUP Corporate health policy Work accidents in Santa Fe Asia and Australia Santa Fe actively manages health and safety risks, providing em2,000 1,843 ployees with regular information about occupational health and 1,800 safety, e.g., avoiding accidents and illnesses and maintaining a 1,600 1,400 healthy lifestyle. The ISO 9001 quality manual and employee 1,200 manual include work instructions for health and safety. In 2012, 1,000 Santa Fe will introduce a group-wide deﬁnition of work accidents 800 to ensure that all stations collect and report data in the same 600 400 manner. In addition, key health and safety performance indicators 204 200 for the entire group will be created. 0 0 Number of Number of Number of work-related days oﬀ due to work-related In 2012, the Santa Fe Group will target a 10 per cent reduction in accidents accidents fatalities work-related accidents (based on a common calculation method when compared to 2011). Training Hours of Hours of training by employee category Training hours Santa Fe is committed to on-going training of all employees and training per employee 25,000 25 consistent delivery of ’world class’ service. This quality can be 21,477 achieved only through a proactive, managed training and develop20,000 19.6 20 ment programme. Our induction programme for all staﬀ regardless of grade covers the following key areas: 15,000 13.6 15 13.5 10,000 10 • Health and safety training and procedures • The quality programmes ISO 9001/14001/ISO27001 and their 5,179 5,000 5 3,090 policies 0 • HR issues – including discrimination, corruption and data security 0 Training senior Training middle Training staﬀ • Company proﬁle / policies management management • Customer service, sales, service delivery, insurance, etc • Whistle-blower system and grievance mechanism nance, global mobility, business management, sales management, All employees are encouraged to further their careers and develhealth and safety, customer service, English and real estate. Santa opment through recognised qualiﬁcations. For example, there are Fe also runs an exchange programme allowing team members employees studying for examinations in areas as diverse as ﬁfrom across the region to experience working in another country. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 12 SANTA FE GROUP In Q2 2011, Santa Fe created and ﬁlled the position as group trainer. The mission of the general managers in the group is to identify the training needs of regional oﬃces and develop a practical induction programme and eﬀective delivery model to ensure consistent service provision across all Santa Fe oﬃces, to assist in providing guidance and support to regional oﬃces in analyzing customer feedback and to implement corrective measures to prevent repetition of incidents. In 2012, the general manager of operations will focus on merging best training practices from Santa Fe, WridgWays and Interdean. Interdean’s philosophy of talent retention is similar to that of Santa Fe and is of paramount importance. In pursuit of this goal in 2007, Interdean introduced the Interdean Academy and opened its training centre which is now located in Brussels, Belgium. The training programmes have been written by Interdean’s HR and training team, who are also qualiﬁed FIDI trainers. The programmes are designed to cover all areas of the relocation service and all areas of the business. Diversity While the moving and storage industry remains male dominated, group data suggests that Santa Fe needs to work towards a more favorable ratio of female and male employees. As oﬃce staﬀ is already very well represented by male employees, it is necessary to ﬁnd a unique approach to recruite females in the operations. The goal will be to increase the percentage of female staﬀ by 3-5 per cent per year. Santa Fe gender ratio 80% 69,4% 72,1% 70,4% 70% 60% 52,5% 50% 47,5% 40% 30,6% 28,3% 29,6% 30% 20% 10% 0% Ratio of total Ratio of total Ratio of senior Ratio of senior Ratio of middle Ratio of middle Ratio of staﬀ Ratio of staﬀ workforce workforce management management management management Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Employee turnover Santa Fe average seniority and employee turnover The average employee turnover increased again in 2011, and we will focus all eﬀorts to reduce this trend in 2012. The reasons for 6.0 30% the increase in employee turnover are primarily due to the high 24% 25% turnover rates in China, Malaysia and Taiwan where employees 21% 5,7 5.5 20% 18% with English-speaking abilities are in high demand. In addition, Australia was added to the 2011 data and is a market with rela5,3 15% tively higher turnover. To deal with these challenges and to further 5.0 5,1 10% develop our staﬀ, Santa Fe will hire a group talent manager in 5% 2012. 4.5 0% 2009 2010 2011 Employee turnover (%) Seniority (years) UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 13 SANTA FE GROUP Overtime – an industry challenge Overtime is an example of one of the remaining challenges we face. The moving and relocation industry is aﬀected by high seasonality and limited availability of qualiﬁed temporary workers, which adversely aﬀect the working conditions of our employees. Santa Fe is addressing this issue by hiring temporary workforce and outsourcing to third party providers, while at the same time complying with local legislation and paying overtime compensation. Suppliers Another area in which Santa Fe has made good progress during the past year is with the global network of suppliers. Santa Fe is grateful for the support and partnership which suppliers have provided in the area of ethical sourcing. All suppliers are expected to adhere to the same ethical principles. For this purpose, Santa Fe has drawn up a supplier code of conduct, which sets the standards for doing business with the company. The supplier code of conduct helps encourage suppliers to adhere to ethical and environmental standards. It covers areas such as child labour, forced labour, compensation, working hours, discrimination, health and safety, business continuity planning, improper payments / bribery and the environment. Since Q1 2011, the supplier code of conduct has been included in new procurement contracts including renewals and existing long-term agreements. All oﬃces in Asia and Australia are using the supplier code of conduct and conﬁrm that 43 per cent of all key suppliers have signed an agreement. In 2012, Santa Fe will target to receive 66 per cent of vendors conﬁrmed and roll out the code of conduct to Interdean’s suppliers by Q2 2012. Examples of people objectives in 2012: • Increase female staﬀ by 3-5 per cent • Hire group talent manager • Reduce turnover ratio by 10 per cent • Identify best “People” practices between Santa Fe, WridgWays and Interdean and implement a common platform where possible • Train all managers on the issue of non-discrimination and equal opportunities UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 14 SANTA FE GROUP PLANET: ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Seeking to conserve the environment is at the heart of our sustainability work. Responding to climate change is the number one environmental priority Santa Fe wants to help preserve the environment for future generations. Reducing emissions and resource consumption A logistics organisation emits CO2 and consumes resources. At Santa Fe, ISO14001 is a key strategic priority for our business to reduce the impact on the environment. It brings together all eﬀorts to manage the impact on climate change across all divisions, regions and countries. It also helps improve the way in which environmental impacts under local regulations are managed. To help track the progress towards achieving a better performance, Santa Fe has set several environmental objectives for all operations. All of the targets are measured, reviewed and audited by a third party, DNV, on an annual basis. The industry is also heavily reliant on natural resources, particularly materials such as paper, cardboard, plastic, tape, etc. for oﬃce use and packing materials. In 2011, Santa Fe recycled 88 per cent of all waste with the remainder going to landﬁll. In 2012, Santa Fe will incorporate Interdean’s waste data and will strive to recycle 90 per cent of all paper packing materials via an external recycling company. As a logistic provider with a ﬂeet of trucks exceeding 490 units in Asia and Australia, road transport is a major environmental impact area for the Santa Fe Group. In 2011, our Asia and Australia stations consumed 1.1 litres of fuel per m3 of goods moved. With the implementation of a new data collection system in 2011, Santa Fe will be able to track and record carbon emissions from its operations worldwide in 2012. The target is to reduce emissions by 2 per cent when compared to the volume to be moved in 2012; and commence oﬀsetting emissions with the long-term goal of becoming carbon neutral. As a group, none of the operations received a ﬁne or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations in 2011. Tree planting in Indonesia Santa Fe Indonesia continues to support the One Million Trees initiative in cooperation with the NGO Yasasan Tanam Pohon Indonesia. Santa Fe plants a tree for every outbound sea shipment as of 1 July 2010. This amounts to approximately 500 600 trees per year. Through the project Santa Fe aims to raise awareness of deforestation and climate change issues in Indonesia. Environmental footprint of suppliers Santa Fe cannot meet the environmental targets alone. That is why environmental guidelines have been speciﬁed in our supplier code of conduct which states that suppliers must comply with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and standards as well as implement an eﬀective system to identify and eliminate potential hazards to the environment. As stated in ISO 14001, all suppliers will be reviewed annually to ensure compliance. In recognition of our environmental eﬀorts, two of the Asian oﬃces received local recognition for promoting environmental practices and management in 2011: • Santa Fe Hong Kong received the Sectoral Awards of the 2011 Hong Kong Award for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE) – Transport and Logistics (Certiﬁcate of Merit) • Santa Fe – Thailand received the American Chamber of Commerce Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Excellence recognition for the second year in a row. Examples of environmental objectives in 2012: • Reduce carbon emissions by 2 per cent • Incorporate Interdean’s waste data and strive to recycle 90 per cent of paper materials • Continue to meet or exceed all regulatory, legal and other requirements • To reuse 100 per cent of packing material where quality is not compromised • Ensure all equipment is Euro 2 norm above by the end of 2013 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 15 SANTA FE GROUP PROFIT: FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Santa Fe is committed to compliance with international anti-bribery standards as stated in the Global Compact and local anti-corruption and bribery laws. Code of conduct for our business The employee manual clearly states that Santa Fe will deal with all customers, suppliers and others in a straightforward manner and in compliance with international anti-bribery standards as stated in the Global Compact and local anti-corruption and bribery laws. In 2012, 29 per cent of management and 32 per cent of staﬀ were trained in anti-corruption practices. In 2011, Santa Fe created an e-Learning module to provide all managers within the organisation an annual refresher on the company policy on corruption and bribery. The module was tested and approved by a group of senior managers and will be disseminated to all managers in the group in 2012. With the acquisition of Interdean, Santa Fe will incorporate the UK Bribery Act in to the e-learning module as it calls for changes to our existing policies and procedures Whistle-blower system In parallel to the revision of our employee manual, we established a whistle-blower system with the purpose of managing the CSR rollout and ongoing compliance management. Employees can report incidents relating to accounting and ﬁnancial irregularities and violations of laws and regulations via the dedicated hotline and / or via a conﬁdential e-mail address, which was launched in the summer of 2010. An ethics and compliance committee was established within the organisation to support the whistle-blower system. In 2011, Santa Fe had one reported incident which was resolved under the new system. A set of risk management policy guidelines has been approved by the Supervisory Board to strengthen Santa Fe’s risk assessment in 2012. These guidelines constitute the Santa Fe Group’s overall control environment along with other internal policies and procedures, management structure, legislation and regulations Santa Fe provides support for all domestic economies in which the group operates through the taxes paid and other tax revenues that are made possible by the economic success. As a group, none of the operations received signiﬁcant ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws or regulations. Suppliers The supplier code of conduct states that a supplier may not oﬀer services, gis or beneﬁts to employees in order to inﬂuence employee conduct in representing Santa Fe. Examples of proﬁt objectives in 2012: • Bribery risk assessment • Regular maintenance of the governance structure to combat corruption • Roll-out of anti-corruption module to all Santa Fe, WridgWays and Interdean managers • Develop e-learning module on anti-corruption for relevant staﬀ SUSTAINABILITY = GOOD BUSINESS The result of Santa Fe’s CSR and sustainability eﬀorts is a more productive and competitive company due to increased employee satisfaction and productivity, improved processes, better relations with key stakeholders and greater customer satisfaction and loyalty. Sustainability is increasingly becoming a parameter of competition for the company as a service provider to major international corporations. Sustainability provides Santa Fe the ability to help our customers achieve their sustainability commitments. For more information regarding the sustainability eﬀorts of Santa Fe please contact Managing Director for Hong Kong, Lance Allen at Lance.Allen@santafe.com.hk or go to www.santaferelo.com UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 16 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 17 PLUMROSE THIS YEAR’S HIGHLIGHTS AND PLANS FOR 2012 Dear Reader, Plumrose is delighted to present you with its second report on corporate social responsibility. The report presents our progress on implementing the 10 Global Compact principles in 2011. Plumrose is the country’s largest company within processed meat and has operated in Venezuela for 58 years. Plumrose owns the entire value chain, from ‘farm to fork’ and intends to continuously improve the nutritious value of foods to the consumers. In 2011, the manufacturing facilities were further expanded. Impact on sustainability Safe and nutritious food is essential. Demographic developments will increasingly lead to water and land scarcity, resulting in growing pressure on food security. These issues place the agricultural sector and food producers including Plumrose as key players in the eﬀorts to ensure high yields and healthy products. Plumrose’s strategy is to turn these long-term development issues into business opportunities, by seeking to provide proﬁtable and sustainable solutions. The rationale for the company’s wider CSR eﬀorts is to increase Plumrose’s ability to operate in an ever changing market, improve the company’s licence to operate, protect and increase its brand value, promote the ability to attract and retain talented and productive employees and increase customer loyalty. From a sustainability point of view Plumrose is committed to producing high quality and safe food products to meet the continuously growing consumer demand in Venezuela. As an integral part of its operations, the company seeks to lower the impact of its production activities on the environment and to promote sustainable social development through job creation and favourable working conditions. People – Promoting health and nutrition While pursuing its core business, Plumrose strives to promote sustainable development by providing know-how and resources to local communities in order to promote health and nutrition. In that way, the company can generate a positive contribution to society as malnutrition is a problem recognised publicly in Venezuela. In 2011, Plumrose expanded its sponsorship of school education programmes from two to six in the Aragua and Carabobo states with the aim of improving nutritional habits. In addition, Plumrose exanded its educational initiatives in communities to more regions in the country and increased the number of activities in the current programmes. Plumrose more than doubled the participation of people in health and nutrition programmes. Plumrose also donated products to municipalities, public service institutions and NGOs. Regarding human rights and labour standards, Plumrose is considered a preferred employer in Venezuela. 83 per cent of its employees are grouped in ﬁve diﬀerent unions and covered by collective bargaining with beneﬁts rating among the top companies in Venezuela. As a corporate citizen, PLUMROSE aims to perform in a socially responsible way at all times promoting fair and ethical dealings with customers, competitors, employees, authorities and communities Excerpt from Plumrose’s CSR policy UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 18 PLUMROSE Plumrose also conducted a comprehensive diversity campaign reaching 2,500 employees focusing on promoting better team work and non-discrimination policy. In regard to food safety, the company improved ratings in 2011 audits through continuous investments in facility upgrades and training. Planet – Implementation of environmental management system In 2011, Plumrose pursued its commitment to reducing environmental impacts, by implementing monitoring systems in the farms of solids seperation from waste water and incorporated reduced environmental impact criteria when acquiring machinery. A core eﬀort the past year was to implement an eﬀective sustainability data collection system, which would measure and manage the company’s sustainability impacts. Plumrose continues to hold a top rating in feed conversion at the pig farms in Venezuela. Based on internal estimates, Plumrose is at least 15 per cent more eﬃcient than its competitors when converting feedstuﬀ into weight gain. Highlights from Plumrose’s environmental performance include zero sanctions in 2011 due to non-compliance with environmental legislation, full compliance in all facilities with solids disposal, discharge and emissions. Plumrose focused on environmental impact and devised a strategy for an environmental management system (EMS) and will start implementation of ISO 14000 in the feed mill in 2012. Proﬁt – Business integrity campaign Actions in 2011 include reinforcement of the company’s code of business conduct throughout the organisation. Plumrose maintains a permanent internal control programme reporting directly to the CEO. A dedicated team plans all-year-round audits on procedures and results in all operations. No incidents or allegations of corruption have been recorded throughout the year. Plumrose’s goal Plumrose’s goal continues to be that every stakeholder, from customers and business partners to shareholders, non-governmental organisations and communities, knows what Plumrose stands for when it comes to sustainability. Bent U. Porsborg CEO EAC FOODS President Plumrose Latinoamericana C.A. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 19 PLUMROSE OVERVIEW OF PROGRESS UN Global Compact Principles Commitment and targets Systems Actions Results People Social sustainability: 2011: Principle 1: Support and respect PLUMROSE recognised that its emHR policy and Improvement of workplace 19,025 medical cases atthe protection of internationally ployees are an essential resource, systems on unconditions. tended on premises. proclaimed human rights. and they are signiﬁcant in making derage recruitthe company successful. Throughment, equal USD 88,000 spent on facil5 unions in co-existence. Principle 2: Ensure not to be out all operations PLUMROSE supopportunity, ity improvements in canteen complicit in human rights abuses. ports the human rights of its emfreedom of and lockers. 83 % employees covered by ployees and stakeholders as association, recollective bargaining agreePrinciple 3: Uphold the freedom established in the UN’s Universal muneration and Co-existence rules for manments. of association and the eﬀective Declaration of Human Rights. communication agement of diﬀerent unions recognition of the right to collecchannels to disin the same workplace. Lower employee turnover rative bargaining. 2012: cuss grievances tio. Continue current donation proand opinions. Employment programme for Principle 4: Support the eliminagrammes. persons with disabilities. Improved food safety ratings. tion of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Communication campaign targetCode of busiProgramme promoting good 3,500 children trained on iming employees to raise awareness ness conduct. nutritional habits and proving nutritional habits and Principle 5: Support the eﬀective about CSR and sustainability ishealthy lifestyle in commuhealthy lifestyle. abolition of child labour. sues. nities. USD 41,000 donation of own Principle 6: Support the eliminaDonations programme. products to municipalities, tion of discrimination in respect public service and NGOs. of employment and occupation. Geographical expansion of school programmes. 36 scholarships provided to young students. Healthy lifestyle programmes and weight control 35 workers received assisof workers at manufacturing tance for home improvement. plants. Planet Environmental 2011: sustainability: PLUMROSE recognises the impact Speciﬁcations Screening of alternative maTop conversion rate in country Principle 7: Support a precauof the business in the environment per facility nure handling and processsaves resources (feedstuﬀ to tionary approach to environmenand complies with local regularegarding e.g. ing to reduce carbon emispig weight gain). tal challenges. tions. In addition, the company is waste water, sions from pig farms. committed to continuous improveemissions and Collected 50 % of organic Principle 8: Undertake initiatives ment and pursues reductions of solid disposal. Implement monitoring sysmaterials suspended in waste to promote greater environmenemissions and waste throughout all tem of solid removal in water at the abattoir. tal responsibility. the value chain. Compliance waste water at farms. report. No sanctions for environmenPrinciple 9: Encourage the deContinues to search for better utiliImplementation of ISO tal issues. velopment and diﬀusion of envisation of resources, especially in Government 14000 in feed mill. ronmentally friendly technologies. energy, water, packaging and other audits. raw materials. Internal and external enviInstallation of ronmental campaigns to rePursues international standards for solid separators duce consumption and proenvironmental, health and safety in at each pig mote recycling. manufacturing facilities. farm to reduce carbon emisParticipation and support in 2012: sions. recycling organisations. Start implementation of environmental management system. Reduce methane emissions at manure lagoons. Reduce resource consumption. Proﬁt Financial 2011: sustainability: PLUMROSE code of business conCode of ethics. Training of staﬀ. No code of business conduct Principle 10: Work against corduct, applicable to all units, prohibinfringements. ruption in all its forms, including its bribery and harassment and Permanent Periodical code of business extortion and bribery. aims to work with suppliers that awareness conduct review. 100% employees agreed and adhere to the same principles. campaign. signed the code of business Regular internal ﬁnancial conduct banning corruption in 2012: Business manaudits of all operations. all its forms. Continue current systems and efagement sysforts. tem tracking Raised awareness among emﬂows. ployees. Implement whistle-blower system. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 20 PLUMROSE PEOPLE : SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY PLUMROSE recognises that its employees are an essential resource and signiﬁcant in making the company successful. Throughout all operations PLUMROSE supports human rights as established in the UN Declaration on Human Rights (1948) PLUMROSE CSR POLICY Preferred employer Plumrose is considered a preferred employer in Venezuela. 83 PLUMROSE per cent of its 3,567 employees in 12 locations are organised in 2009 2010 2011 ﬁve diﬀerent unions and are covered by collective bargaining with beneﬁts rating among the top companies in Venezuela. In Employees 3,380 3,403 3,567 2011, Plumrose spent almost USD 15.8m on beneﬁts and proAverage seniority 6.4 6.9 8.1 ductivity incentives in addition to employee salaries. The table Employee turnover 19.9% 18.5% 16.1% shows selected indicators on Plumrose’s social sustainability Salary + beneﬁts VEF 409m VEF 531m VEF 779m impact. Other indicators are displayed throughout this report. Employee turnover for Plumrose is not comparable to Santa Fe Group due to national decree about ﬁring freeze Beneﬁts are rated among top companies in Venezuela and include: • Primary medical service in meat manufacturing plant, to provide assistance to 1,850 employees in Cagua location. Total medical appointments surpassed 19,000 in 2011. • Cafeteria facility serving more than 695,000 meals per year up from 600,000 meals in 2010 at breakfast, lunch and dinner. • Internal campaign to promote workers’ healthy lifestyles. Plumrose provides medical and nutritional support to all employees who want to reduce weight and change habits. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 21 PLUMROSE Training hours 40,000 120 35,000 97.8 100 30,000 80 25,000 20,000 60 47.4 45.0 15,000 40 25.4 26.2 24.2 10,000 24.2 12.7 23.7 22.7 5.8 13.2 20 5,000 15.4 4.2 14.2 0 0 Support Slaughterhouse Meat processing Commercial Logistics Training 2009 Training 2010 Training 2011 Hours/worker 2009 Hours/worker 2010 Hours/worker 2011 Plumrose makes an eﬀort to ensure a high level of training for employees in their working area and general employment health and safety. In 2011, a total of 73,510 up for 52,000 man-hours in 2010 of training were completed. The consolidated average number of training hours per employee is 22.0 hours/year up from 15.3 hours/year in 2010. Accidents Implementation of the new data collection system has changed the calculation method for average seniority. Therefore, the ﬁgures for 2009 and 2010 have changed compared to the 2010 annual report. Further, the number of work accidents in 2009 and 2010 has increased compared to the 2010 report due to incomplete records in 2010. The number of work accidents reported for 2009 and 2010 are now aligned to the 2011 reporting method. Further, as Plumrose continuously upgrades their production facilities and focus on training, new systems for reporting accidents have also been developed which increase the number of total accidents in the meat processing and slaughterhouse plants because it is more sensitive to minor events in order to anticipate and correct the causes. Knowing is a key part of addressing social sustainability, but an increase is of course not acceptable, and Plumrose continues its eﬀorts to bring down the number of accidents. As in previous years, no fatalities occurred on the premises in 2011. Total accidents by business 395 400 337 2009 2010 2011 350 320 291 300 256 250 220 200 169 146 135 150 100 88 78 50 28 35 52 34 31 15 13 0 1 0 3 Meat Slaughterhouse Logistics AFI Procer Feed mill Commercial processing UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 22 PLUMROSE Code of ethics Plumrose’s code of ethics highlights i.a. the following basic principles which are closely observed: • Ban on recruitment of under-aged staﬀ • Equal opportunity to all people without discrimination of race, sex, origin, language, age, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or disability. • Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining • Fair remuneration according to skills, performance and labour market conditions • Adequate communication channels to allow employees to express TOTAL WORKFORCE BY GENDER DISTRIBUTION their opinions and concerns MALE FEMALE Campaign on diversity and company values 2009 85% 15% In 2011 Plumrose carried out a nationwide campaign promoting di2010 87% 13% versity through billboards, permanent signs, contests and rewards, 2011 86% 14% refreshing values for 2,500 workers in nine locations. Awareness and volunteerism through improved communications In 2011, new channels were developed to communicate programmes and initiatives and to promote volunteerism by establishing permanent sections of sustainable development in all periodical medias like magazines, intranet, web pages, pamphlets, billboards and others. Participation and enrolment in voluntary programmes grew by 15 per cent among employees. Food safety Plumrose continuously invests in upgrading its production facilities and training of its employees. The production facilities are audited regularly by external specialists and achieved improved ratings on food safety in 2011. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 23 PLUMROSE “We are extremely grateful to PLUMROSE for their nutrition school programme, since the fainting of kids during classes was completely eliminated” Teacher Cagua School Promoting health and nutrition Alongside the core business, Plumrose seeks to promote health and nutrition by providing know-how and resources to local communities. In that way, the company can generate a positive contribution to society as malnutrition is a problem recognised publicly in Venezuela. In 2011, Plumrose continued sponsoring of school education programmes in Aragua and Carabobo states with the aim of improving nutritional habits. The results of the initial programmes eliminated the occurrence of fainting of kids during classes. As part of Plumrose’s commitment with communities, the company supports community participation in promoting good nutritional habits and a healthy lifestyle. Speciﬁcally, Plumrose aims to motivate all community members to integrate and multiply the activities of the programme. In the third year of implementation, the programme was expanded from two to six schools, students expanded from 525 to 3,600, and geographically from two to six local community councils to improve the knowledge on basic, nutrition, healthy lifestyle and children’s rights. As part of the programme, Plumrose promotes the celebration of the “Eating Day” in every school in which all students of 3rd, 4th and 5th grades elaborate decorations, billboards, street shows and other activities to raise awareness on the issue. In 2012, Plumrose aims to extend this programme to two additional cities in the country. Donations of own products Plumrose also donated own products to municipalities, public service and NGOs totalling more than USD 41,000. The donations were made to support staﬀ when organising special events. Entrepreneurship programme Plumrose is also engaged in an entrepreneurship programme to help the family of workers to develop additional income by nourishing small businesses at home. The initiative includes a fund of USD 100,000 dedicated to microloans and workshops to teach women how to run a small business. Supporting communities In addition, Plumrose assesses the diﬀerent needs of surrounding communities and seeks to support these through its donation programme. Voluntary programmes by employees are also supported in a fund where the company matches the money given by workers to NGOs or non-proﬁt organisations to repair schools in low income areas. Plumrose continues to support a scholarship programme called “Friendly Hand” and “I Want to Graduate” which gives ﬁnancial support to 14 young students from low income families to get a college degree. For the ﬁrst time in our history Plumrose promoted and sponsored two family events in two cities with a total attendance of more than 6,000 runners and walkers. Proceeds were donated to UNICEF and to a Breast Cancer Foundation (SENOS AYUDA). Plans for 2012 In 2012, Plumrose will continue to expand the current programmes geographically with the aim of promoting healthy habits and to increase awareness on issues of sustainable development. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 24 PLUMROSE PLANET: ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY PLUMROSE pursues reductions of emissions and waste throughout the entire value chain Excerpt from PLUMROSE CSR POLICY Plumrose pursues a strategy focused on reducing its negative impact on the environment, not only by complying with regulations in the value chain “from farm to fork”, but also by analysing where the company can do better. WATER CONSUMPTION IN SLAUGTHERHOUSE 2009 2010 2011 No. of slaughterhouse processed pigs 346,319 325,689 321,905 Litres of water per pig 702 669 659 In its value chain, Plumrose puts special emphasis on its pig farms, where the company has been successful in increasing eﬃciency and reducing the environmental impact. Plumrose holds a top feed conversion rate at pig farms in Venezuela. Based on internal estimates its farms are at least 15% more eﬃcient than the nearest when converting feedstuﬀ into weight gain. Consequently, Plumrose is reducing the need for fabrication, storage, transportation and manure handling when compared with national industry peers. In 2011, the conversion suﬀered a setback due to reduced eﬃciency in both farms, and high mortality in sites I and III in PROCER. Still, it continues to be the leading among pig breeders in Venezuela. AVERAGE CONVERSION RATES Kg Feed/ Kg Live weight EAC Foods Others National 2011 2.72 3.60 3.27 In 2010, we assessed the manure handling at the pig farms with the aim of ﬁnding ways to reduce methane emissions. Where solid separators are installed, Plumrose currently removes 30 per cent of solids from the manure and uses it to fertilize crops and pastures in the vicinities. In 2012, it is expected that more techniques are implemented to further reduce methane emissions, as well as increase the solid separation to further reduce methane emissions. Speciﬁcally in the AFI farm, the system to remove the solid, once it is being separated, will be improved by Q3. In the Procer farm, a new solid separator system is under evaluation to cope with the farm expansion of 2600 sows. This should result in an increased solid separation of approximately 33 per cent, in total. In its manufacturing plants, Plumrose focuses on monitoring water disposal, emissions and solid waste while tracking all recycling of materials. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 25 PLUMROSE Water consumption Water is an important part of the production process to ensure high food safety standards, and it is also increasingly becoming a scarce resource. In 2012, the target is to reduce the company’s water consumption to 9.2 litres while maintaining its high food safety standards. In the slaughterhouse, water consumption was reduced to 212,000 m3 down from 218,000 m3 in 2010 and from 243,000 m3 in 2009. Water consumption in m3 2009 2010 2011 Slaughterhouse 243,000 218,000 212,000 Meat processing 546,500 584,500 605,000 Total 789,500 802,500 817,000 Environmental management system In continuation of Plumrose’s commitment to reduce its negative environmental impact, the company has developed a strategy to implement a structured and harmonised environmental management system (EMS) for the value chain “from farm to fork”. The implementation of ISO 14000 for the feed mill, will begin in the ﬁrst half of 2012 As a result of its work on promoting environmental sustainability and the company’s commitment to continuous improvements, Plumrose received zero sanctions in 2011 due to environmental events. For 2012 Plumrose plans to improve the following indicators for the meat processing plant: Litres of water/ Conversion raten Kg produced Kg/sows/year Kg feed/Kg live weight 2010 actual 9.5 2,700 2.66 2011 actual 9.6 2,960 2.72 2012 target 9.2 3,100 2.62 Reduced paper consumption and recycling campaigns Plumrose’s supports two campaigns to promote recycling. The ﬁrst aims to reduce paper consumption at the locations included in the “Green Project” and to devise a system to collect used oﬃce paper. The second campaign aims to enrol neighbouring companies in Caracas to jointly develop mechanisms to collect and transport used paper to recyclers. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 26 PLUMROSE PROFIT: FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY PLUMROSE’s code of business conduct, applicable to all units, prohibits bribery and harassment and aims to work with suppliers that adhere to the same principles FROM PLUMROSE’S CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT Plumrose continues to focus on maintaining a high reputation of integrity in the way we do business in Venezuela. The company’s code of business conduct has been widely shared in all locations and is used as an integral part of job contracts. The right way to operate is also stated in the core values of the company, and it is a subject in permanent campaigns reaching 2,500 workers in 9 locations. Plumrose’s core values of Integrity, Respect, Commitment and Loyalty and a policy of zero tolerance regarding corruption have been reinforced with the following actions and results: • Updates of the code of business conduct in 2011 • Permanent audits programme performed by the internal audit department reporting directly to the CEO. A dedicated team plans all-yearround audits on procedures and results in all operations. • Zero incidents detected on corruption For 2012, plans include further upgrade in ﬂow control and yields of materials, inventory accuracy, delivery truck tracking and loss minimisation. In 2012, Plumrose plans to implement EAC’s whistleblower system for employees and managers to report on anti-corruption issues. SUMMARY Plumrose’s strategy is to turn long-term development issues into business opportunities – thereby seeking to provide solutions which are proﬁtable and sustainable. The rationale for the company’s wider CSR eﬀorts is to increase Plumrose’s ability to operate in an ever changing market, improve its license to operate, protect and increase its brand value, promote its ability to attract and retain talented and productive employees and increase customer loyalty. For more information regarding the sustainability eﬀorts of Plumrose, please contact CSR Manager, Mr. Arturo Arizaleta, at aarizaleta@plumrose.com UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 27
