NKT Holding A/S | CSR report 2011-12 | xxxxxxx 1/7 Sustainability Report 2011-2012 Nilfisk-Advance | Sustainability Report 2011-12 2/7 Nilfisk-Advance Highlights 2011-2012 Sustainability Concept Nilfisk-Advance Core Values At Nilfisk-Advance we continuously work to improve our products. New products must provide equal or enhanced cleaning efficiency while using less energy, less water and less detergents. We, as well as our customers, see great potential in developing cleaning solutions with a better environmental performance. We want to take a leading position in this development, and we call our approach Green Meets Clean Respect for people The Nilfisk-Advance Group has implemented a set of core values Read more on the that we share in all our companies around the world. To succeed Nilfisk-Advance with our strategy of becoming Customers’ Preferred Choice we all approach to need to work towards common goals, and defined and shared core sustainability here: values can help us achieve this as they guide our internal conduct. Caring for the environment Expanding ISO14001 Certification In 2011 Nilfisk-CFM, manufacturer of industrial vacuum cleaners located in Zocca (Italy), successfully applied for ISO14001 environmental management certification, bringing the count of certified Nilfisk-Advance production sites to eight. The target of ISO14001 is to reduce the environmental impact due to manufacturing activities and ensure enviAn example of reducing the environmental impact is to sort waste, making a distinction between dangerous waste such as ronmental performance improvement. cadmium and lead batteries, spray cans, and urban mixed waste, and special non-dangerous waste, such as wood and liquids. NKT Holding A/S| |Sustainability Nilfisk-Advance CSR report Report | xxxxxxx 2011-122011-12 3/7 Green Meets Clean our sustainability approach Our company has been around for more than a century, and there is no doubt in our minds that respect and proactive behaviour when it comes to sustainability is essential to a company’s long term perspective. Being one of the world’s leading manufacturers of professional ’’ Sustainability and responsibility cleaning equipment, we have an obligation to lead the industry by are crucial to achieving our setting high ethical standards. ambition of becoming Customers’ Preferred Choice Sustainability and responsibility are crucial to achieving our ambition of becoming Customers’ Preferred Choice. We are therefore the first company in our industry to become signatory to the UN ’’ Global Compact. By adhering to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and in all ways acting as a respectable business partner we can create a long-term advantage for both our Our Green Meets Clean customers and Nilfisk-Advance. promise to our customers: The UN Global Compact sets high standards for how we behave We develop products with improved environmental as a global company: Respect human rights, say no to bribery and performance and hereby enhance your capacity for take care of the environment. We are certain that committing to delivering sustainable cleaning services. this agenda will help us develop our business in a new and positive direction and at the same time meet the growing demand from We lower your total cost of operation and maximize your customers for sustainable and more efficient products and return on investment by developing products that uses less offerings. energy, water and detergents. We have named our Corporate Responsibility strategy Green We enable you to deliver on your promises in the long Meets Clean. It is a promise to both ourselves and our customers term in a sustainable way. to dedicate ourselves to offering cleaning solutions that are efficient and that improve the sustainability of the industry. At the same time We respond to the needs for sustainable cleaning and it is a promise to continuously work to improve our environmental develop new opportunities for you to create lasting value footprint as a company. for you, your employees and owners. Our 4th Communication on Progress Report contains data and status on goals and initiatives set forth in Nilfisk-Advance. Data shows that we have improved our performance in many areas and there is a lot to be proud of. We consider the results achieved to be Jørgen Jensen a significant stepping stone on our path to becoming an even more CEO sustainable company. Nilfisk-Advance NKT Holding A/S| |Sustainability Nilfisk-Advance CSR report Report | xxxxxxx 2011-122011-12 4/7 Human and labour rights We consider it important that all our employees are assured good Employee engagement Survey: and fair conditions, and we are committed to setting an example in the countries where we operate. As a global company we operate in parts of the world that have a long tradition of respect for individual rights, and also in parts of the world where these rights are not necessarily prioritised. 6 1,756 Countries Respondents Our approach to Human and Labour Rights is described and globally communicated through the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics and Business Integrity Principles which were introduced in February 2012. Furthermore, it is mandatory that Human and Labour rights are on commitment and engagement 87% Response rate the agenda at local business board meetings at least once a year. a new Employee Engagement Survey was conducted in six ZERO cases selected countries in 2011. Based on the results, key focus areas have been identified and they of discrimination will be the main drivers for Nilfisk-Advance to create an even more attractive workplace regardless of location and ensure that our We are firmly committed to providing equal opportunities to our people have the opportunity to achieve their full potential. employees and will not tolerate discrimination or harassment based on religion, race, colour, gender, age, sexual orientation, Our customers want to make sure that the products they use have political orientation, birthright or other status. Therefore we have been produced in a responsible way. We have therefore started the established a registration system for reporting cases of process of ensuring that not only we, but also our suppliers conform discrimination. Zero incidents were reported in the COP 2012 to our standards and observe the UN Global Compact principles. period. In 2011 we fully integrated the principles of the UN Global Compact in our standard supplier contracts and achieved a 44% To reach our business goals it is crucial to have a dedicated signature rate, an improvement of 8% points compared to last year, workforce, an inspiring working environment and to be able to but we realise that we still have a way to go to reach our target of continuously foster new talents. To ensure dialogue and foster 80%. We will continue our efforts in this area. Goals & actions Human and labour rights Deadline Status 30.06.12 Management All local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments, and have endorsed the policy. () 30.06.11 and ongoing Zero tolerance of acts of discrimination of any kind and hence no cases to be reported. () 30.03.11 and ongoing We will foster talent so that skilled employees have the opportunity to achieve their full potential. 30.06.11 and ongoing () 30.06.13 Derived goal: Conduct global Employee Engagement Survey and set targets for Employee Engagement Index. and ongoing Procurement 80% of the procurement (above 50,000 EUR in value) is to be supplied by partners who have agreed to abide by the principles of the UN Global Compact (30.06.12: 44%). () 30.06.11 Work injuries Regular reporting on the number of occupational injuries followed by definition of target for reduction of injuries (leading to absence). Last twelve months: 93 accidents were reported. Reporting in place, target remains to be defined. 30.06.11 () Labour Rights Code of Ethics is an integrated part of the M&A due diligence process, and non-conformity findings are reported. () 30.06.12 and ongoing Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S| |Sustainability Nilfisk-Advance CSR report Report | xxxxxxx 2011-122011-12 5/7 Environment We see environmental sustainability as an element of sound business practice. If we can reduce our consumption of all forms of resources it will benefit the environment and will benefit us and our customers financially as well. Green Meets Clean is how NilfiskAdvance works with environmental consciousness in developing new products for our customers. Our cleaning machines naturally consume energy, water and in certain product areas also detergents. Designing equipment which can clean to the same high standard, but by use of fewer resources is therefore our greatest challenge. Hence, this is the area where we can make the highest possible impact in our environmental efforts. Hybrid and ePowerTM CS7000 The machine offers 30% fuel savings and corresponding CO2 emission Environmental impact of future products is a high priority parameter reductions compared to other competitive sweeper-scrubbers using of our platform for technology development, ‘Customer Focused conventional hydraulic drive technologies. Technology Development’. 71% of new products launched by Nilfisk-Advance in the present reporting period contain an environmental improvement within at least one of the four environmental focus areas; Energy consumption, water consumption, use of detergents and disposal. Our own internal consumption of resources is another focus area. In our manufacturing entities we continuously strive to minimise In 2011 we established a methodology to identify the environmental environmental impact. We closely monitor our energy consumption footprint of products and we have introduced this methodology in and related CO2 emissions and set reduction targets, e.g. through our Floor Care product development division. Based on this learning our ISO14001 environmental management system in our European we will set targets for reduction of the environmental footprint of and Asian factories. new products. For the present reporting period we have achieved a 7% reduction We actively engage and participate in 30 industry-related boards in CO2 emissions normalised to revenue, which is an important first and committees to push for agreements on industry standards e.g. step in achieving our overall CO2 emission reduction target of 10% for measuring environmental performance on products. over three years; 2012-2014. Goals & actions Environment Deadline Status 30.06.12 Product Development All new products contain sustainability improvements within at least one, and preferably more, of the following four areas: Energy consumption, water consumption, use of detergents and disposal (30.06.12: 71%). 30.06.10 and ongoing () CO2 emissions 10% reduction in 2014 normalised to output as compared to 2011 (30.06.12: 7%, not corrected for climate). () 31.06.14 New goal: 5% reduction of energy consumption for heating and electricity in our manufacturing facilities 30.06.13 compared to 2011. Products environmental footprint Product footprints from best selling products are to be identified. Pilot project conducted. 31.12.11 () Set target for reduction of best selling products’ footprint on environment, based on conclusions from pilot project. 31.12.15 () Actively participate in industry-related activities, boards and committees to push for agreement on industry standard for measuring environmental performance on products. () 31.06.12 Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S| |Sustainability Nilfisk-Advance CSR report Report | xxxxxxx 2011-122011-12 6/7 Anti-Corruption As a global company doing business in all parts of the world, Nilfisk-Advance is committed to working against the negative Code of Ethics effect that corruption has on fair competition and the development of a stable society. Based on the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index (http://www.transparency.org) we have identified areas of the world where business integrity issues Business Integrity Principles are most likely to occur. In order to support the work on business integrity we have drafted and communicated the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics in which Statement of Representation our position on business ethics is stated. To further support our efforts in this area, in February 2012 we introduced a set of Business Integrity Principles providing all individuals in Nilfisk-Advance with guidelines on what to do and what not to do in specific circumstances Whistleblower System and situations related to our business. To ensure management commitment and promote the anticorruption agenda, local management in all Nilfisk-Advance entities are obliged to personally sign a Statement of Representation on the UN Global Compact principles.The Statement of Representation is then consolidated and signed by the CEO of Nilfisk-Advance. ’’ In order to support the work on  business integrity we have drafted and Furthermore, a global whistleblower system in Nilfisk-Advance enables employees to anonymously report anti-corruption and communicated the Nilfisk-Advance other unlawful incidents. Code of Ethics in which our position on business ethics is stated We consider it a substantial asset in relation to our customers that we are not party to unlawful anti-competitive practices and we are ’’ a strong advocate of fair competition and want to always work towards eliminating inefficient and unfair business patterns.  Goals & actions  Anti-Corruption Deadline Status 30.06.12 Management  Local unit general managers are informed of our policies, have issued their comments, and have endorsed our policies. () 30.06.10 and ongoing New goal: Implement global Code of Conduct. 31.12.12 Anti-Corruption  No reported corruption or cartel cases. None were reported in this reporting period. () 30.06.13 and ongoing Ensure employees are knowledgeable on how to act according to Nilfisk-Advance expectations on business integrity issues. () 30.12.12 Apply risk management in growth markets on Business Integrity issues. Markets identified and first step in the process completed. 30.06.12 () Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S | CSR report 2011-12 | xxxxxxx 7/7 Nilfisk-Advance A/S Sognevej 25 DK 2605 Brøndby Denmark
