Ricoh Europe Sustainability Report 2012 Introduction Introduction 2 Corporate Activities 11 Environment 17 People 25 Society 29 Results Summary 35 Scope of this Report The Ricoh Europe Sustainability Report covers the operations and employees of Ricoh Europe PLC within the region of Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and is produced annually. This report relates to the fiscal year from April 2011 to March 2012. Ricoh Europe PLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ricoh Company Ltd. Ricoh Europe has more than 16,000 employees working in 21 countries in the EMEA region. Ricoh’s manufacturing facilities in Europe and activities with partners are not included within the scope of this report. Further details of these activities can be found in the Ricoh Group Sustainability Report. Audited financial figures are published in the Ricoh Group Annual Report. Both reports can be downloaded from www.ricoh.com. We have completed a self-assessment of this report against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and have allocated a “B” rating. Further details of this assessment are available in the “Results Summary” section of this report, and full details are available on our website, www.ricoh-europe.com. This report highlights Ricoh Europe’s performance during the fiscal year ended 31st March, 2012 and previous periods. The Company makes every effort to ensure the accuracy of the data included herein, but undertakes no obligation to update this data subsequent to publication. Your Feedback If you have any comments, opinions or suggestions regarding this report, please contact Ricoh Europe’s CSR Division at csr@ricoh-europe.com. 2 Introduction Chairman’s Statement Steve Saito Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ricoh Europe PLC Welcome to the fifth Ricoh Europe Sustainability Report which highlights details of our economic, social and environmental achievements during the 2011 fiscal year. You will notice our new brand tagline – Ricoh imagine. change. It is derived from a deep rooted belief at Ricoh that the greatest asset of a company, a country, or the Earth itself, is the imagination of its people. It means that we are always moving forward with new thinking and new ways of adding value. We believe that change is driven by imaginative thinking and collaboration. So our tagline describes the way we work with each other, the way we bring value to our customers’ business, the way we interact with the market and the communities where we operate. From the very beginning, we have been energised by this belief in the power of creative ideas. Our predecessors envisioned a world where information could be copied precisely and distributed at the touch of a button a world where critical business knowledge was available anywhere, anytime. Today it is a reality. We provide a potent combination of technology, engineering, and quality manufacturing. Our printers, copiers and fax machines spearheaded the era of office automation and revolutionised business operations. More recently, Managed Document Services have established our reputation as a global document expert. During the last fiscal year alone, we celebrated regaining the recognition as a leader in the Managed Print Services by independent global analyst houses, Gartner, Forrester and IDC. In addition to our expertise in technology development and document process optimisation, we also remain committed to adding client value through our Total Green Office Solutions. During the last fiscal year we confirmed that Ricoh has helped more than 4,300 customers reduce their carbon emissions by an average of up to 35 per cent while at the same time, reduce total cost of ownership of Ricoh devices by 28 per cent. Much of this has been achieved with the Ricoh Sustainability Optimisation Programme, accredited by the British Standards Institution (BSI), and available as a part of Ricoh’s Managed Document Services. We were even able to provide our services during the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals at London’s O2 arena. As a platinum sponsor of the event we took the opportunity to ensure that all document processes at the high profile tennis tournament where carbon neutral. We also launched the Ricoh Carbon Balanced Printing Programme. It is the first of its kind in Europe, and is aimed at commercial printers and corporate print rooms. Also accredited by the BSI, it helps them to reduce the environmental impact of printing using Ricoh Pro™ production printing systems, and to provide a carbon neutral service to their clients. You can read more about our services, our awards, our strategy and our community activities inside this report. Thank you for your interest. 3 Introduction About Ricoh Europe A truly global company, we help customers Ricoh fosters genuine partnerships with its around the world connect disparate departments, customers through exceptional standards of locations and systems, providing the technology, service. With Ricoh’s technical ability and IT services and support to meet their changing knowledge on their team, these companies can needs. As their businesses grow, we grow with reduce costs, eliminate waste and streamline them, working hand in hand to reduce costs, processes yielding tangible benefits for their own eliminate waste and streamline business customers. processes. Most importantly, by freeing employees to think Ricoh’s core offerings include: creatively, and making institutional wisdom more readily available, Ricoh promotes business Managed Document Services transformation that is profound and lasting. Streamlining information workflows and managing document processes, saving businesses time and Ricoh is always thinking ahead. It is designing money while ensuring their information security products and services tailored to specific and sustainability goals are met. industries, emerging markets and businesses Production Printing large and small. It is creating solutions that Offering the services, technology and support for answer local needs and breathing new life into commercial and corporate printing markets, established forms of knowledge sharing. enabling them to profit from new business. Office Solutions Through cloud computing, remote monitoring, and Designed to help businesses manage their other innovations, Ricoh is making information document and information workflows, making the more mobile, and personal. Its consumer products process more efficient, productive, secure, are also enhancing the way people interact with sustainable and ultimately, profitable. the world around them, whether through an award IT Services winning line of digital cameras, or online data Covering all aspects of IT support – for end users, storage services. software and hardware – Ricoh frees its customers to focus on their core businesses, To find out more, please visit: managing the IT network for them. www.ricoh-europe.com Key Ricoh Norway Ricoh Finland Operating Companies GR Advanced Materials UK Ricoh Sweden Ricoh Russia Regional HQ Ricoh Denmark Ricoh Ireland Ricoh Products Ltd UK Production and R&D Ricoh Europe PLC Ricoh UK Ricoh Europe (Netherlands), Ricoh Europe SCM, Ricoh Poland Ricoh Germany Ricoh International, Ricoh Netherlands, ESPC Ricoh Belgium Ricoh France, Rex Rotary France Ricoh Luxembourg Ricoh Industry France Ricoh Austria Ricoh Hungary Ricoh Switzerland Ricoh Italy Ricoh Portugal Ricoh Spain Ricoh Turkey Ricoh South Africa Copyright 2012 Ricoh Company, Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Owner: CCO, Ricoh Europe PLC Our locations in EMEA 4 Operating Companies Introduction Ricoh Europe’s Sustainability Strategy Ricoh has always focused on minimising its co-exist in the communities in which we operate in impact on the world. So much so that Corporate a sustainable and respectful manner. Social Responsibility (CSR) is ingrained in our corporate values and integrated into the very Our CSR Strategy is defined in the “Ricoh CSR heart of how we do business. Charter” that was established in 2003 and developed to integrate Ricoh’s core values and The origins of Ricoh’s sustainability strategy can the ten principles defined in the UN Global be traced back to the Corporate Philosophy Compact into our daily activities. We take a three developed over 50 years ago by our founder, ‘P’s’ approach to sustainability: People, Planet Kiyoshi Ichimura, in his twin vision: ‘To innovate and Profit. This ensures our business model is on behalf of our customers and to pursue maintained and continuously improved to support sustainable business practices on behalf of every our CSR, business and environmental objectives. life we touch’. Today this vision remains an underlying principle in our business. We view business, society and the planet as interconnected. By linking our commitment to forward-thinking business strategies, we promote Planet development that is profitable and sustainable for Environmental all stakeholders, including our own operations, Protection enabling us to be a customer driven organisation that is innovative and profitable – both now and for future generations. We develop ideas to produce reliable and People Profit innovative products and services for our Corporate Social Generation of customers that generate profit for our Responsibility Sustainable shareholders. This means we add value as a (CSR) Business Results business partner, provide a secure future for our employees and preserve the resources of the communities around us. Balance of “3 P’s” When we talk about “sustainability” in Ricoh, we For eight consecutive years, Ricoh has been are looking beyond managing our impact on the named one of the Global 100 Most Sustainable environment. For us, sustainability is about Corporations in the World – strong public developing a business model that delivers lasting recognition of our commitment to sustainability. In value for all stakeholders into the future. Our more addition to external recognition, we set tough recent products are designed to meet the ever targets for ourselves. We achieved our aggressive changing needs of our populations, catering for all target to reduce our CO2 emissions by 20% by the abilities with specific focus on the following: end of 2010 and we are on track to achieve our  Operating accessibility long term vision to reduce environmental impact  Visual accessibility by 87.5% by 2050. Through our Total Green  Wheelchair accessibility Office Solutions, we are also helping our  Aging accessibility customers achieve their own targets. With outstanding corporate success comes great Ricoh takes its role as a corporate citizen very social responsibility. If we are to continue to grow seriously. In order to establish where we need to and prosper in the future, we must strive to be a improve our Corporate Social Responsibility best-practice example of corporate citizenship. activities, we are evaluating our Operating Our market-leading brands are dedicated to Companies’ position using the guidance provided providing businesses worldwide with the by ISO26000. The objective is to identify how well advanced products and services they need to stay we are aligned with the applicable core subjects ahead in competitive environments. We are and issues of social responsibility included in equally committed to fulfilling our economic, social ISO26000 guidance standard, and where and environmental responsibilities, and ensure we necessary, close any gaps. 5 Introduction CSR Steering Committee Supporting the UN Global Ricoh Europe aligns all its Operating Companies Compact through regular discussions within its panRicoh Company, Ltd. signed the UN Global European CSR Steering Committee. The CSR Compact (see below) in 2002 and maintains its Steering Committee is chaired by Hank Sakai, commitment to ensuring these principles are Executive Vice President, CSR Division, who observed in all operations globally. To ensure this, reports directly to Steve Saito, Chairman and Ricoh has defined the “Ricoh CSR Charter” and CEO of Ricoh Europe PLC. the “Ricoh Code of Conduct”. These have been communicated to all employees and are expected The role of the CSR Steering Committee is to: to be actively implemented and observed at all  Develop CSR policies and strategies that will times. In December 2008, Ricoh Europe PLC effectively implement Ricoh’s CSR Charter, at signed the UN Global Compact to show Ricoh’s both a European and local level ongoing support and commitment to the  Co-ordinate the implementation of CSR policy development and promotion of a sustainable and strategies across Ricoh EMEA society.  Agree and implement appropriate measures to report progress on the key initiatives The members of the Steering Committee meet formally, using the most appropriate technologies to minimise the impact on the environment, as well as meet at an annual conference. At these meetings progress is discussed in addition to identifying developing trends and agreeing on actions to address challenges now and in the future. Business Excellence Ricoh recognises that being a customer-centric organisation requires conducting self-reflection on a regular basis and as such is in the process of transforming itself, so it can sense and respond to the ever changing needs of our customers. This enables Ricoh to provide customer driven innovation and deliver value from the perspective of our customers. Ricoh makes sure it is an efficient and effective organisation by using a number of world class frameworks, e.g. EFQM (European Framework for The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Quality Management), Investors in People, etc. Compact These are embedded in the organisation at a regional and local level, which has been recognised on numerous occasions through international awards (see page 9). 6 Introduction The Ricoh Way “The Ricoh Way” is a global philosophy and set of focus, and we must also commit to the highest values shared amongst all Ricoh Group standards of ethics and integrity. companies, and is the foundation of Ricoh’s daily business operations. It consists of Founding Employee Engagement Principles, Mission, Vision and Values. The Ricoh continuously seeks to ensure employees Mission, Vision and Values demonstrate Ricoh’s are engaged. Ricoh incorporates “The Ricoh Way” drive to provide excellence, innovation, values within its performance management continuous improvement and value to its process “Power to Perform” and recognises customers. They define Ricoh’s commitment, exceptional performance by awarding the Minori dedication and behaviour as one global company. Awards in the following categories: Achievement, Creativity, Education, Effort, Environment, The Ricoh Founding Principles Improvement and Social Contribution. The Spirit of Three Loves by Kiyoshi Ichimura, Founder: “Love your neighbour”, “Love your country”, “Love your work”. Global Mission At the Ricoh Group, we are committed to providing excellence to improve the quality of living. Global Vision To be the most trusted brand with irresistible appeal in the global market. Global Values To be one global company, we must care about people, our profession, our society and our planet. We must dedicate our winning spirit, innovation and teamwork to sharpen our customer-centric 7 Introduction Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Charter To enable us to grow as a respected enterprise, all companies within the Ricoh Group must plan their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) within a consistent global framework and throughout all operations. To ensure this, the following principles are to be observed, with the proper social awareness and understanding, compliant with both the letter and the spirit of national laws and the rules of international conduct. Integrity in Corporate Activities Respect for People 1. Every company in the Ricoh Group will 6. Every company in the Ricoh Group will develop and provide useful products and maintain a working environment that is safe services, with high quality, safety, reliability and that makes it easier for its staff to perform and ease of use, while maintaining security of their duties, respecting their richly individual information and giving proper consideration to characteristics and encouraging their the environment. autonomy and creativity. 2. Every company in the Ricoh Group will 7. Every company in the Ricoh Group will compete fairly, openly and freely, maintaining respect the rights of all those connected with normal and healthy relationships with political it, and will seek to create a cheerful working institutions, government administration, environment, free of discrimination. citizens and organisations. 8. No company in the Ricoh Group will permit 3. Every company in the Ricoh Group will take forced labour or child labour, and none will responsibility for managing and safeguarding tolerate the infringement of human rights. its own information and that of its customers. Harmony with Society Harmony with the Environment 9. Every company in the Ricoh Group will, as a 4. Every company in the Ricoh Group will take good corporate citizen, actively engage in responsibility, as a citizen of the world, activities that contribute to society. working voluntarily and actively to preserve 10. Every company in the Ricoh Group will the environment. respect the culture and customs of its country 5. Every company in the Ricoh Group, and all or region, and will operate so as to contribute employees of each company, will seek to to their development. implement technological innovations that 11. Every company in the Ricoh Group will reflect environmental concerns and will engage in the fullest possible communications participate in ongoing activities to preserve with society, seeking actively to provide the environment. proper and unbiased disclosure of corporate information. For more information about Ricoh Global CSR strategy, please visit: www.ricoh.com/csr/foundation/index.html 8 Introduction External Recognition We are proud that Ricoh Europe’s activities in Corporate Sustainability have received the following external recognition: 2012  Ricoh was recognised by FTSE4Good Index for meeting high standards for the ninth consecutive year. Ricoh’s environmental management approach was rated as “Best practice”  For the eighth consecutive year, Ricoh was selected as one of the “Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World” by Corporate Knights  Ricoh’s Private Cloud wins ‘Project of the Year’ in Green IT Awards – ‘Best Cloud / Virtualisation Project of the Year’ awarded to the Ricoh and Infosys design and implementation team 2011  Ricoh won Sustainability Good Practice Competition 2011 organised by EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management)  Ricoh was awarded ‘Prime’ status by oekom research and recognised as one of the “World’s Best Office Electronics Companies in Social and Environmental Performance”  Ricoh Europe received Silver Award in the “Best Green Service Innovation” category organised by International Green Awards 2011  Ricoh was selected as a Finalist in The Climate Week Award 2011 in the category “Best Initiative by a Large Business” for Ricoh Sustainability Optimisation Programme  Ricoh was selected as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the third year in a row by the Ethisphere Institute  Ricoh Italy was awarded a 5 star “Recognised for Excellence” from EFQM 2010  Ricoh Europe achieved a 5 star “Recognised for Excellence” award from EFQM. The application covered all our operations in EMEA  Ricoh Netherlands was awarded a 5 star “Recognised for Excellence” from EFQM  Ricoh European Service Parts Centre was awarded a 4 star “Recognised for Excellence” from EFQM  Ricoh Germany was awarded the prestigious Ludwig-Erhard-Preis for business excellence. The accomplishment acknowledges the excellent results achieved by doing business the Ricoh way – an approach that combines economic, social and environmental thinking 2009  Ricoh UK Products Limited won the British Quality Foundation UK Excellence Award  Ricoh Europe received the “Ruban d’Honneur” in the 2009 European Business Awards for “Corporate Sustainability”, recognising the impact of our activities within the workplace, the market, the environment and the community  Ricoh Europe received the “Ruban d’Honneur” in the 2009 European Business Awards for “Environmental Awareness”, recognising the effectiveness of the policies adopted in reducing our total environmental impact and the extent to which these have been embedded into our culture For more information about Ricoh Awards, please visit: www.ricoh-europe.com/about-ricoh/ourprinciples/awards/ 9 Corporate Activities 11 Corporate Activities “Our goal is to achieve the highest standards of global citizenship and compliance, both internally and across our partners and suppliers. We adopt a highly ethical approach to all our business activities, defined in our Code of Conduct, with extensive awareness and training programmes to help all our people understand their role in ensuring we meet these standards. Internal and external audits are used to review and continually improve the processes and controls we have established, in line with changing requirements.” Nicola Downing, Vice President, Legal Division Our Strategy Our strategy is to adopt the highest ethical standards across our business activities and our supply chain, as defined in the “Ricoh CSR Charter” and the “Ricoh Code of Conduct”. These define the standards, ethics and behaviours Ricoh Europe and our people should adopt in our daily business practices. These are supported by awareness training programmes to ensure our people can apply the standards to their specific role. In addition, we have a rigorous Compliance Management Strategy, based on relevant legislation, regulatory standards and industry best practice. Regular internal and external audits are used to monitor compliance, ensure the validity and robustness of our processes and ensure our Management System is continuously reviewed and improved. Verification of Financial Results Consolidated annual financial results for Ricoh Europe Holdings PLC are lodged with Companies House in the UK and comply with the requirements of the UK Companies Act. These are compiled in line with the UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Ricoh Company, Ltd. accounts are compiled in accordance with the US GAAP. Full details of the financial performance of Ricoh Company, Ltd. are publicly available in the Ricoh Company, Ltd. Annual Report. KPMG conducts an annual audit of Ricoh Europe companies and of the consolidated annual financial results for Ricoh Europe Holdings PLC. In addition, European quarterly results are reviewed by KPMG. To ensure the accuracy and reliability of our financial reporting, all Ricoh Europe companies document their financial processes and map these to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Ricoh Europe has also established controls to effectively Ricoh Europe PLC Headquarters, London manage financial risks. These processes are externally audited by KPMG to ensure compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 12 Corporate Activities Customer Insight Ricoh Europe markets and delivers products and As Ricoh develops its relationships with major services directly through its National Operating accounts, it is essential we understand our Companies (Direct Channel) and through a performance. An example of this is a recent network of Distributors and Dealers (Indirect survey sent out to our top accounts. The feedback Channel). Our customers range from global from these customers will be used to help develop accounts, like Fortune Global 500 companies, to Ricoh’s approach. small businesses. In addition to our daily contact, we use a range of surveys to gather feedback Event Driven Surveys from our customer groups to help us to To fully understand the customer experience of a understand how we are performing, what specific action, we use event driven surveys. One additional services we should develop and areas example is the Service Call Survey, conducted by where we need to improve. We also ensure we Marketii, an external market research company, ask the right questions to the right people. The for all our Operating Companies. The survey is key surveys include: triggered when a customer calls one of our Service Centres and is completed within days of European Customer Survey the call being made. This provides us with an In order to understand what is influencing the accurate reflection of the customer experience. “decision makers” in larger organisations (minimum of 50 FTE) when considering office Complaints Management printing solutions and suppliers, we run an annual We understand that things do not always go right survey. The survey was launched in 2007, and is the first time, but we see this as an opportunity to carried out on our behalf by TNS simultaneously learn and improve. We have processes in place to across ten countries (Belgium, France, Germany, ensure any complaint is investigated and resolved Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden, as quickly as possible, firstly for the customer Switzerland and UK). The survey gathers data on reporting the issue and secondly to ensure the customer satisfaction with their existing suppliers. same thing does not happen again. As a reflection of our need to recognise the needs of customers, it is part of the process to discuss the complaints at the highest level between Customer Experience Steering Group Operating Company Managing Directors and the Ricoh Europe Board of Directors. European Event Customer Survey Specialist Surveys Driven Surveys Implement Improving the Customer Experience Track Internal Improvements Ricoh recognises the need to understand the Performance Measures emotional as well as the rational part of the customer experience. We take the input from our Decision Maker Specialists End Users surveys and develop our process from an “outside-in” perspective to make sure we deliver, at all touch points, value to the customer. Key Customer Groups Managing the Customer Experience The most recent survey was conducted in September 2011. This showed the continuation of the positive trend stating that customers would recommend Ricoh and would re-purchase from Ricoh. Specialist Surveys Our Operating Companies conduct regular surveys to gain detailed feedback from IT Managers, Account Managers and our network of Dealers and Distributors. They can provide additional insight into how our products are working in practice. A range of research companies and tools are used to collect feedback, depending on the topic, target audience and country. 13 Corporate Activities Total Risk Management Legal Compliance To ensure we meet the needs and expectations of To ensure our employees fully understand the our stakeholders, Ricoh has developed a number requirements of European legislation, over the of policies and strategies to manage its corporate past six years we have rolled out a integrity. This includes legal compliance, comprehensive compliance training programme maintaining ISO standards, managing business for all staff, specifically focused on data protection, risks and upholding the Ricoh values and ethics, competition law and bribery and ethics (to train defined in our CSR Charter and Code of Conduct. staff on the new UK provisions affecting our To coordinate our compliance and risk business and our people in all territories in which management approaches, we have developed the we operate). Our Legal team from across Europe “Total Risk Management” Framework. The has run workshops in all our territories to explain framework identifies key risk areas and the our obligations under these areas of law, with stakeholder groups affected by each. scenarios and case studies used to illustrate some of the points in more detail. We have so far captured in excess of 2,000 Establish people with on site training and supporting online policies tools. Our commitment to compliance is ongoing with our training programme being refreshed annually. Focus for FY12/13 is on sales Monitor and Planning documentation to ensure our customer approach Review Establish policies Risk Assessment is streamlined to facilitate a first class customer Reporting Risk Treatment Incident Management Risk Management experience. Audit Programme Implementation Our Compliance Committee consisting of Implementation Organisation Responsibilities Organisation Management Board members meets twice a year Responsibilities Training Training to review our policies and internal audit reports. Communication Communication Documentation Documentation Emergency response Ricoh Europe has, among other policies, a Legal Emergency response Manual which creates common standards across all our Operating Companies throughout EMEA Ricoh Total Risk Management Process for managing legal and regulatory risks. Group Legal monitors compliance with the Legal Manual, carries out spot audits and identifies areas for The annual assessment brings together the improvements. Periodic surveys are conducted to specialist skills, experience and expertise from check all Operating Companies use it consistently. across Ricoh Europe. This process enables us to annually review the effectiveness of our policies In accordance with the United Nations Global and strategies, minimise risk and ensure our Compact 10th Principle, Ricoh does not tolerate practices are continuously reviewed, in line with any form of bribery and is committed to complying the changing business environment. with the highest standards of applicable anticorruption laws in all countries where it conducts Ricoh Europe is committed to delivering an endbusiness. All Operating Companies comply with to-end service to its customers which includes our pan-European Anti-Corruption policy including consulting, ongoing process optimisation, services our Gifts and Hospitality Policy. A Pan-European and technologies. To ensure a best-practice Anti-Corruption Officer has responsibility to review approach, we have developed comprehensive the Anti-Corruption policy and its implementation Quality Management Systems. All Ricoh Group on an ongoing basis. Each Operating Company factories and major Operating Companies have has its own local Anti-Corruption Officer who gained the internationally recognised ISO9001 monitors the risk log where escalations can be standard for quality management and Ricoh is recorded. Our commitment to work against unique in having all Operating Companies corruption is also expressed in Ricoh Global Code certified to ISO27000, Information Security of Conduct that can be downloaded from our Management, ensuring all dealings with Ricoh are website: www.ricoh-europe.com/aboutto the highest possible standards. Having reliable ricoh/our-principles/csr/our-policies/ products is just one factor within the overall customer experience. We provide consultancy, As part of our commitment to global compliance, delivery, installation and after-sales services to we will audit our behaviours and activity in ensure our customers get the right products and accordance with our policies and standards services at the right time to meet their needs. across the Ricoh Group. 14 Corporate Activities Information Security With the development of core capabilities in (ISO27001), Environmental Management Managed Document Services, Production Printing, (ISO14001) and Quality Management (ISO9001) Office Solutions and IT services, Ricoh is across the EMEA region. increasingly trusted with the custody of our customers’ business information. In order to provide assurance of our good Whistle-blowing information security performance, Ricoh has A whistle-blowing policy has been developed, achieved a unique global certification to ISO27001, giving all employees of Ricoh Europe access to a “Information Security Management”. Ricoh’s whistle-blowing hotline. This was developed in certification was established in Japan in 2004 order to further comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Act (certificate number IS85241). A world-wide audit regulations which require companies to provide an programme is conducted every year to confirm anonymous whistle-blowing service for all continuation of certification for Ricoh Group. The employees to aid the prevention of fraud. annual audit programme completed in December All employees must have access to at least one 2011 marked the inclusion of the complete EMEA method of reporting allegations of malpractice region in the scope of the registered certificate anonymously. with the addition of our Operating Companies in Ricoh Europe’s whistle-blowing hotline reporting Russia, Denmark and Ireland. procedure is available to all Ricoh employees via the Intranet. It enables employees to report any Ricoh Europe, in partnership with our Accredited instances of alleged fraud, financial malpractice or Certification Body, British Standards International other issues that could affect the financial (BSI), is continually engaged in maintaining and statements of the Company. improving our Information Security Management System across the region. This involves change management activity to ensure that we continue to protect information as our business evolves. The Product Safety and Security annual audit programme in EMEA is conducted as The health and safety impacts of our products are a coordinated operation, with every Operating assessed in all life cycle stages, from the Company being audited either by BSI or a development of product concept, through certified Lead Auditor from Ricoh Europe PLC. manufacturing, marketing, distribution, customer use and finally collection and recycling. Ricoh Every company within Ricoh Europe is now Europe has developed a “Product Safety Issue registered to the ISO27001 certificate. All Handling Manual” and has distributed it to all its Operating Companies and the distribution Operating Companies. A self-assessment survey operation, Ricoh Europe Supply Chain was issued to make sure the manual was Management, have a nominated manager received, studied, understood and applied by all responsible for developing, maintaining and Ricoh Companies. It is the responsibility of Ricoh continually improving the ISMS, in line with Ricoh Europe, its Operating Companies and Distributors Group policy. We have deployed common policies, to ensure that this policy is applied by local risk management tools and security management operations and any third party organisations that techniques to achieve consistent practice provide services on our behalf. throughout the region. The central team, based in our London Head Office, supported and managed In February 2010, Ricoh the roll-out programme and is now focused on obtained the world's first ensuring the consistent application of Ricoh policy Common Criteria (CC) through programmes of continual improvement, authentication, conforming change management, audit and best practice to the IEEE 2600.1 sharing. Protection Profile, with its imagio MP 5000 SP/4000 SP (released in Our activities for 2012 are: February 2008). IEEE 2600.1 is an international  Achieve greater efficiencies and effectiveness standard for security functions of hardcopy in protecting information and systems across devices, including multifunction devices and the region printers. To assure our customers of the security  Support the “focus on processes” that is a of our products, we offer a broad line of CCfundamental aspect of the business strategy authenticated products that comply with IEEE for Ricoh worldwide 2600.1. For more information, see the Ricoh  Harmonise and eventually integrate the Products Authenticated with CC (ISO/IEC 15408). management systems for Information Security 15 Corporate Activities Procurement We aim to minimise risk and maximise benefit when undertaking central procurement for the benefit of Ricoh. We adhere to Ricoh’s core values set out in our Environmental, Ethical and Corporate Social Responsibility policies during all procurement activity. We work closely with our key suppliers to create relationships of mutual trust and respect for the combined benefit of our respective organisations. The Ricoh Affinity Scheme builds on our supplier network to ensure that the benefits of negotiated competitive rates are passed onto our employees through employee purchasing schemes where possible. We have developed a central procurement toolkit containing key processes, template documents and checklists for procurement activity. It ensures that we are meeting our stated procurement objectives throughout the procurement process from initial recognition of customer needs through to post contract award, contract management and benefits reporting. We report activity and benefits to our business on a project basis and through a regular newsletter. During the coming year we plan to focus on:  Expanding the categories of commodity falling under central procurement arrangements to realise savings and quality products and services for our business and to support our customers  Managing existing Ricoh supplier relationships to ensure a high standard of supplier performance including adherence to our CSR Charter and Code of Conduct  Negotiating the best deals for Ricoh using existing partners and customers where possible and appropriate which drive clear benefits for Ricoh, our employees and our customers  Reviewing our existing Affinity Scheme for our employees, and seeking new opportunities to expand the scope of the Scheme. 16 Environment 17 Environment “At Ricoh, sustainability coexists in both the environment and business. Let’s reduce to grow together. ‘How we grow’ our business has become equally important to ‘how much we have grown’ in recent years. At Ricoh, we strongly believe that this is where our CSR policy plays its fundamental role. Our environmental conservation activities are specifically designed to reduce environmental impact not only in all our business operations, but also in our customers’ document management processes.” Yasunori Naito, Environmental Group Manager, CSR Division Our goals and strategy in EMEA We are committed to being a trusted business partner for our customers in both existing and new business domains by increasing their value in sustainability and reducing their environmental risk through our services. To fulfill this commitment we have set midand long-term environmental impact reduction goals in three areas worldwide:  Energy conservation and prevention of global warming  Resource conservation and recycling  Pollution prevention All Ricoh operations play an important role to achieve the following targets: Ricoh Global Targets 2020 2050 Energy Conservation (from FY2000 level) 30% 87.5% Resource Conservation (from FY2007 level) 25% 87.5% Pollution Prevention (from FY2000 level) 30% 87.5% Ricoh Europe’s environmental management approach At Ricoh Europe all environmental activities fall into one of the two categories: 1. activities designed to reduce our customers’ environmental impact through Total Green Office Solutions (TGOS), e.g. GreenLine resource re-circulation, Sustainability Optimisation Programme, Carbon Balanced Printing, i-Invoicing, etc. 2. activities designed to reduce our own environmental impact through Environmental Management System (EMS), e.g. Green Office Certification Programme, Environmental Sustainability Management Index, Cloud Computing, etc. At Ricoh we strongly believe that it is our responsibility to minimise the environmental impact from our own operations across Europe, and also to ensure that our products and services contribute to the reduction of the environmental impact by our customers throughout every phase of a product life cycle, i.e. Pre-use, Inuse, and Post-use. Working together with our customers we develop mutually sustainable business. 18 Environment Resource re-circulation Smart usage of precious resources is a key area They have 84% less CO2 emissions from for every industry, including Ricoh’s. One of manufacturing and transporting for a typical midRicoh’s answers to this challenging issue is to range black-and-white Multi-Functional printer, offer resource re-circulation products under and 94% less CO2 for a typical mid-range colour Ricoh’s Comet CircleTM concept. The Comet Multi-Functional printers when compared to CircleTM concept, established in 1994 as a catalyst equivalent new models made in Asia. for change, expresses a comprehensive picture of how Ricoh reduces its environmental impact throughout the entire lifecycle of its products and services. It incorporates a cradle-to-cradle approach to recycling. Ricoh believes that all product parts should be designed and manufactured in a way that they can be recycled or re-used. It is on The Comet Circle™ basis that Ricoh established the GreenLine series as one of its “resource smart” offerings, which is a concrete expression of Ricoh’s resource re-circulation business, focusing on inner-loop recycling. Ricoh GreenLine products feature as an industry Products that are returned to Ricoh GreenLine best practice in the recently published McKinsey Centres are subjected to an extensive renewal report “Towards the circular economy. Economic process, including a rigorous quality testing, and business rationale for an accelerated checks and controls, key component replacement transition”. and latest operating software updates, before reMcKinsey, a global management consulting firm, entering the market under the GreenLine label. has developed the fact base and analytics for the These procedures ensure that every Ricoh concept of a circular economy, the type of certified GreenLine device delivers a reliable and resource re-circulating economy that decouples efficient service that a customer would expect sales revenues from new material input. from a brand-new Ricoh device. GreenLine products offer the same high standard, quality and To download the full report, visit durability as new devices, yet are truly sustainable www.thecirculareconomy.org and offer a highly economical printing solution. 19 Environment Sustainability Optimisation Programme Many organisations place the reduction of energy consumption. Second, a plan is designed environmental impacts high on their business to reduce TCO and CO2 emissions, setting clear agenda, with CSR strategy and cost reduction as objectives including optimising the fleet, workflows key rationale and drivers. Ricoh Sustainability and end-user behaviour. Third, the plan is Optimisation Programme is designed to help implemented, devices with Eco Mode energybusinesses in their efforts to reduce saving settings installed, workflows optimised, and environmental impact and improve the efficiency end users educated to enhance their of their document workflows by offering a ‘zero environmental awareness and to understand how carbon footprint’ in printing, while at the same time to use the devices in the most sustainable way – reducing Total Cost of Ownership (TCO). resulting in an average energy reduction of 36%. The fourth stage of the programme involves The largest share of environmental impact of continuous tracking of actual carbon emissions printing is when machines are being used by versus set goals. By analysing this data Ricoh can customers, accounting for 62% of the total life identify how each printing device is being used cycle impact. Ricoh Sustainability Optimisation and implement improvements to drive further Programme focuses on the ‘in use’ phase where reductions in carbon emissions. The final step is normally product manufacturers have limited to neutralise the remaining unavoidable carbon control (see Fig. 1). emissions that businesses can offset through carbon credits generated by Clean Development Material, parts Mechanism under Kyoto Protocol projects in manufacturing which Ricoh has invested. On average, reductions Pre of TCO by 28% and CO2 by 33% are achieved Production use through this programme. Transportation The Sustainability Optimisation Programme is accredited by the British Standards Institution Marketing, sales Maintenance (BSI) and has won several prestigious awards: In Paper, electricity use maintenance Paper Energy Post Recycling use Fig. 1 Impact per life cycle phase The Sustainability Optimisation Programme is a continuous improvement cycle consisting of five stages (see Fig. 2). First, Ricoh analyses a business’s existing document workflows and fleet, to understand the baseline TCO and CO2 Analyse Analyse Design Design Implement Implement Govern Govern Neutralize Neutralize End-to-end process and carbon assessment methodology independently accredited by Fig. 2 Five-step process to reduce impact ‘in-use’ phase 20 Environment Carbon Balanced Printing The Ricoh Carbon Balanced Printing Programme The third and final step involves neutralising the is designed for print service providers. It helps remaining and unavoidable carbon emissions with them reduce the environmental impact of printing Certified Emission Reductions. These carbon using Ricoh Pro™ production printing systems credits have been generated by clean energy and provides a carbon neutral service to their projects in which Ricoh has invested. Print service clients. The programme, which is the first of its providers are then certified as a ‘Ricoh Carbon kind in Europe, is aimed at commercial printers Balanced Printer’ and provided with tools and and corporate print rooms and is accredited by the documentation they can use to confirm to end British Standards Institution (BSI). customers that their print job is carbon neutral. For details, visit www.ricoh-europe.com/carbonbalanced i-Invoicing Ricoh intelligent invoicing (i-Invoicing) is a Document Process Outsourcing service that allows customers to outsource the receipt and production of all invoices to Ricoh. The migration from paper to electronic invoicing takes place at the customer’s own pace and frees up both time and resources allowing businesses to focus on The Carbon Balanced Printing Programme follows their core competencies while realising savings of a three step process, enabling print service 70-90%. providers to: 1. analyse the carbon footprint of each print job Businesses can achieve significant savings by 2. optimise it by improving the way they work switching their invoice processing to electronic. 3. neutralise the remaining, unavoidable With Ricoh’s i-Invoicing service the whole emissions through carbon credits. invoicing process is outsourced leaving companies to focus on their core business. This The first step involves an in-depth analysis of leads to productivity gains, enhanced customer printing activity, to determine annual carbon experience and improved business performance. emissions. Areas of analysis include the operation of Ricoh production systems, the paper used, Ricoh i-Invoicing takes e-Invoicing a step further energy consumed, delivery distances of supplies by providing customers with a complete service, and travelling distances of our service engineers. not just a software solution. By mapping a customer’s current processes, developing a The second step involves optimisation of the print transition plan and implementing a service environment to make it more sustainable. A delivery platform, Ricoh steps in to completely carbon calculator available through Ricoh’s manage the invoicing process allowing Business Driver Programme determines the businesses to make better use of their human carbon generated per print job. More resources. environmentally responsible ways to print are then Customers do not need to invest in equipment to identified and implemented. Through a carbon implement Ricoh i-Invoicing and can therefore assessment, Ricoh consultants review the entire avoid upfront technical costs and ongoing service production process on an ongoing basis. As a fees. result, they will suggest further ways to minimise energy consumption, reduce waste and improve For details, visit the recycling practices of both output and machine www.ricoh-europe.com/i-invoicing supplies. 21 Environment Green Office Certification Case Study: A sustainable Programme approach to sponsorships In order to reduce our own environmental footprint through Sustainability Optimisation Programme In 2011, Ricoh introduced its award winning and ‘practice what we preach’, we developed an Sustainability Optimisation Programme to 13 of internal Green Certification Project in 2009. We the ATP World Tour tournaments it sponsors and award a “Green Office Certification” to our to the Ricoh Women’s British Open. Operating Companies across EMEA when they The outcome? The 80 tons of carbon emissions achieve certain criteria, showing their commitment from the document management activities to Ricoh’s goal of reducing environmental impacts required to organise the tournament in 2011 were through printing and improving document neutralised, meaning document management at workflow efficiency. So far, eleven operating all sponsored events was carbon neutral. companies and two Head Office locations have been certified. At all tournaments, the number of Ricoh devices used was minimised and set to energy efficient Our sites in Europe followed the first four steps of default settings before their arrival onsite. the Sustainability Optimisation Programme. Then Employees and journalists using the devices were each site was independently audited by Ricoh encouraged to minimise their environmental Europe to verify the changes introduced and to impacts – for instance by sending documents by evaluate the benefits of the new way of working. email to avoid unnecessary printing, or by printing In addition to overall improvements in document double sided. At the end of each tournament, all workflow efficiency and security, optimisation at remaining, unavoidable carbon emissions were these sites means that each month in Europe, offset through carbon credits generated by clean Ricoh is on average: energy projects in which Ricoh has invested.  Using 54% less electricity  Emitting 35% fewer carbon emissions  Printing more than a million pages fewer  Using 37% less paper  Saving 27% in energy and paper costs  Using 512 fewer print devices  Printing duplex 32% more often  More secure, thanks to locked print  Using electronic document storage instead of filing hard copies. In 2012, we will continue to implement the Programme at all sponsored events, and have taken measures to optimise the process, and reduce emissions further. For more information please contact cco@ricoh-europe.com Example of Green Office Certificate 22 Environment Environmental Sustainability Management Index As part of our internal Environmental infrastructure and overcome the challenges posed Management, we are certified to ISO14001, without standardised regulations, Ricoh is comply with legal requirements (RoSH, REACH, extremely transparent with its clients, telling them WEEE, etc) and measure our own environmental where its servers are located and where their data impact through unique tools (Environmental is based. Ricoh is also managing its own security Accounting System, Self-Sustainability and data transfer processes. Assessment Programme). We understand that in order to promote activities to reduce environmental impact internally, it is key for Ricoh senior management to fully understand focus areas and the current level of environmental management before tackling challenges. Therefore, we have developed our own internal index scheme, Environmental Sustainability Management Index (ESMI), that has been deployed across our Operating Companies in Europe as well as Head Office locations. ESMI consists of the following key criteria:  Sustainability Management Leadership  Environmental Communication  Resource Recovery and Recycling Ricoh’s private cloud infrastructure in Europe,  CO2 Reduction and Eco Mode of the device designed and implemented by Ricoh and Infosys,  Sustainability Optimisation / TGOS has been chosen as winner of the prestigious  Biodiversity and Pollution Prevention Green IT Awards 2012 in the Cloud/Virtualisation  Environmental Accounting Project of the Year category.  Training and Education All Operating Companies across Europe as well as all Head Office locations will go through an annual cycle of the index assessment, and areas Ricoh’s Eco-Board in London for improvement will be highlighted for the Ricoh’s European eco-board, a billboard powered following annual cycle. This will provide an 100 per cent by wind and solar power, objective view of ‘as is’ status as well as give an demonstrates our long-term commitment to opportunity to measure, benchmark and improve sustainable business. It is estimated that during the environmental management level of each the first year of the Ricoh Eco-Board, it consumed organisation. 1,521 kilowatt hours of energy to illuminate the sign, 1/15 of what would be consumed by a traditional LED sign of the same size. The difference in energy is enough to make a cup of coffee for every spectator at the Olympic stadium Ricoh’s cloud computing in London during the 2012 Olympic Games. Ricoh embarked on its cloud journey in 2011 in order to centralise its IT infrastructure for all its Operating Companies across Europe, with the aim of creating a far more efficient IT and business process environment. It is a critical building block in enabling Ricoh employees and clients to access applications and data securely from wherever they are in Europe with any device. Also at the heart of the implementation was the drive to reduce the company’s carbon emissions. As a result of rolling out the Ricoh Cloud, Ricoh forecasts that the business will gain significant cost savings and carbon emissions reduction. The new IT platform will remove more than 1,000 servers across EMEA and will result in a reduction of 16.8k tons of CO2, the equivalent to emissions from 3,350 cars. To ensure a secure and durable Ricoh eco-board in London 23 People 25 People “Ricoh Europe’s human resources policies and practices reflect the principles of the Ricoh brand imagine.change. and its values which we “Ricoh Europe’s human resources policies and practices reflect The Ricoh communicate internally as the Ricoh Way. It includes our focus upon Way values of customer centricity, innovation, teamwork, ethics and customer centricity, integrity, and innovation, a “winning teamwork, spirit”. We ethics and embrace change integrity, offering and diversity, and a “winning We embrace spirit”.environment a challenging change where employees can beoffering and diversity, a challenging innovative, create value for our customers, environment have a sense where employees of achievement can collaborate, be and grow through innovative, create their work. Learning opportunities are only limited by people’s value for our customers, have a sense of achievement and grow through imagination. Ricoh’s their Academy work. Learning has been consistently opportunities recognised are only limited by by The Institute people’s of IT imagination. Training (IITT). ” Ricoh’s Academy has been consistently recognised by The Institute of IT Greg Holder, Vice President, HR Division Training (IITT).” Greg Holder, Vice President, HR Division Our Strategy “The Ricoh Way” is a part of our focus on helping our employees understand the meaning of Ricoh imagine.change. It is Ricoh’s global philosophy and includes a set of values, promotes a customer-centric approach based on our commitment to the highest standard of ethics and integrity, a winning spirit, dedication to innovation and collaboration. Ricoh’s vibrant culture provides the opportunity for us to build on our strengths, and continually develop skills to anticipate and provide for the changing needs of our customers. Ricoh employees are encouraged to achieve their full potential, and to have personal development plans that link directly to the organisation’s goals. Through an open culture which embraces diversity and encourages innovative thinking and sharing of ideas, our people are empowered to play their part in transforming Ricoh’s business, and the business transactions of our customers. Through the Ricoh Academy, we develop and deliver a blended-learning approach, including online and classroom based training for our people and partners that is recognised by the Institute of IT Training (IITT) as amongst the best in the industry. We promote an open dialogue with our people, through forums like our European Employee Forum and Employee Survey, and use this input to actively engage our people in continuously reviewing and improving our people management strategies and processes. In addition, Ricoh promotes the continued professional development of employees through integrated learning and development programmes, and equal opportunities for all employees. Ricoh Europe Employee Forum To actively encourage an open dialogue with our requirements, meeting a minimum of twice per employees and their representatives, Ricoh year. In the majority of EU-based Operating Europe established the European Employee Companies, this provides a forum for dialogue Forum in 1996 under the 1994 European Works and consultation between senior management Council Directive. This allows us to share our and employees. Employee representatives from plans for the future, and ensure our people each country are invited to sit on the European understand Ricoh’s business strategy and goals. Employee Forum, which meets annually with It gives our employees an opportunity to share senior management. As Ricoh Europe has their views and concerns through qualitative expanded, newly acquired companies have been feedback directly to European Senior invited to establish local arrangements – or Management. This approach underpins our continue with existing arrangements – and to also overall objective of being “an employer of choice” join the European Employee Forum. and to attract the highest calibre of talent to Ricoh. Employees are nominated or elected by their Outputs of the employee forums are shared with peers to become members of the local Employee employees through a range of communications Forum or Works Council, based on local channels, including the intranet. 26 People Senior management appreciates the opportunity language. In the 2011 survey, the question “I’m and the value of appropriate consultation, and the satisfied working for Ricoh” achieved the score of two-way dialogue is encouraged. As a result, 3.7 out of 5. This compares favourably with the there are many examples where initial plans have industry benchmark figure of 3.4, provided by TNS, been improved following employee feedback. our survey partner. Employee Engagement Ricoh Code of Conduct Research shows that employees can be satisfied The Ricoh Code of Conduct defines the without being engaged. The term “satisfaction” behaviours, values and ethics we will maintain as implies a level of contentment with the current an employer and expect all our employees to situation; a passive state. The term “engagement” follow in their day to day activities. It is distributed implies active involvement. Employees who are to all employees and we have included a question “engaged” with the organisation will actively in the Employee Survey to check that people contribute new ideas, innovative ways of working understand how the Code of Conduct applies to and drive the business forward. They want to their job. learn and improve; both themselves and their surroundings. They want to make the organisation The Code of Conduct defines our policies relating perform better. To generate a culture of to the CSR Charter, including political donations, continuous improvement within a company, we corruption and any type of discrimination. Any recognise that it is important to actively engage infringement of the Code of Conduct is dealt with our people in these activities. through our disciplinary process, in line with local legislation. Learning and Development We offer our people a learning culture where they can access learning and development opportunities to support their continued professional development. Training, networking and various open forums encourage employees to share ideas openly and work collaboratively to drive change for the future. We recognise the importance of appropriate learning and development as a means of improving employee Ricoh UK and Ricoh Sweden employees won a VIP trip contribution to Ricoh’s goals, and we actively to the Ricoh Women's British Open encourage continuous improvement and personal development of our employees to help them In February 2008, we ran the first Employee achieve their immediate and longer-term career Engagement Survey for all Ricoh Europe objectives. We support employees to: employees. It provided a baseline of our position  obtain appropriate professional qualifications at the start of a process of company integrations and experience to enhance performance and and gave a clear view of what is important to our grow in their current role, or for their further employees. At a European level, members of our development Executive Board sponsor improvement projects,  develop new techniques, knowledge and skills based on the priorities identified from the survey. in their specialist field, and anticipate trends Improvement teams are also established by local in the broader environment management to encourage employees to get  undertake appropriate training and involved and introduce new activities that will developmental assignments to fulfil their increase internal engagement. The fifth annual potential. survey is scheduled in October 2012. Through the Ricoh Academy, we offer an Our survey includes topics such as leadership, integrated approach to learning and development, communications, working conditions and personal which includes online and classroom-based development, focusing on what it feels like to work training courses across the EMEA region. for Ricoh. The online questionnaires are eLearning platforms and tools allow us to address distributed in 14 different languages to ensure a much larger audience with the most current everyone is able to participate in their native information in a very short time in comparison to 27 People traditional classroom learning. A blended learning approach reduces the need for travel and therefore the overall CO2 footprint. Our eLearning platforms are also available to Ricoh distributors and dealers to ensure that their service engineers can provide the same level of expertise as our own employees. We have established dedicated electronic learning platforms to develop the skills and knowledge of our people. These learning programmes can also help employees achieve internationally recognised certifications:  We provide dedicated self learning and online training packages for our technical specialists and service engineers to develop their knowledge on the latest products, technology and software  We also deliver focussed online service and sales skills interventions to develop product knowledge, interpersonal and other skills We are constantly developing and updating our learning and development programmes, courses and content to meet the changing needs and demands of our business, employees and customers. We have been working in partnership with the Institute of IT Training (IITT) in developing our standards and have an accreditation programme in place across our major training organisations. Our continuing focus is to ensure our employees are equipped with the appropriate skills, competencies and personal development, to better serve our customers’ needs in a rapidly changing environment with an increased emphasis on consulting, project management and change management skills. Ricoh’s Learning and Development professionals have a broad range of external accreditation and qualifications to ensure that the highest standards of development and delivery are maintained. If you would like more information about working at Ricoh, please visit: www.ricoh-europe.com/about-ricoh/ricohoverview/careers 28 Society 29 Society “People have always been at the centre of our brand employees, customers, members of society all of us working in common cause to achieve something greater than a single project goal. We also understand that our employee time can add great value within the regions where we operate. Every year Ricoh people allocate some of their working time to share their skills and expertise to contribute to local communities. During 2011, more than 20% of our employees were involved in community projects all around Europe.” Hank Sakai, Executive Vice President, CSR Division Our Strategy In line with the Management Philosophy established in 1936 by Ricoh’s founder, we seek to enrich the lives of the people around us through the professional expertise we provide and our personal daily actions. We have worked for a number of years with local and national partners across Europe on projects that benefit the local community. We encourage our people to use their skills, energy and ideas to make an active contribution to society through these projects and activities. While we also provide funding for many community projects, we recognise that the involvement and engagement of our people has a far greater impact on the local community than financial contribution alone. Employee involvement We take a proactive approach to encouraging our The Ricoh Europe CSR Steering Committee has employees to become involved in the community. developed a Community Involvement Policy which As a result, Ricoh Operating Companies and defines standard selection criteria for Ricoh Head Offices are engaged in local projects that community projects (see below). This ensures allow employees to use their skills to make a consistency across Ricoh Europe’s activities noticeable difference in the local area. Involving within the community. our people increases engagement and team working. Community Project Selection International projects Criteria Ricoh’s community-based initiatives meet at least two of the following criteria: 1. Complement the core activities and / or core National projects values of Ricoh 2. Create added value to our society:  In relation to education among young and / or underprivileged people and / or  By making a positive impact on the Local natural environment community 3. Involve our employees to increase their projects commitment to Ricoh Range of Ricoh community projects 30 Society Global Eco Action Month 2011 For seventh time Ricoh supported the annual The Wildlife Trust to help improve the local United Nations World Environment Day to raise biodiversity for the area. awareness of its commitment to reducing its environmental impacts and to encourage positive change among employees, suppliers, and customers. This time Ricoh expanded its activities to 30 days, allowing employees more time to get involved and support its sustainability and biodiversity commitments. Activities planned around Europe throughout June focused upon conserving natural resources, reducing CO2 emissions, supporting biodiversity, and encouraging behavioural change. These activities fully align with Ricoh’s environmental commitment to reduce CO2 emissions by 1% per employee per year. All Ricoh companies across Europe Employees creating an outdoor classroom organised their own environmental initiatives designed to save energy and promote environmental awareness among employees and their families, such as switching off the lights, lifts, air-conditioning, biodiversity volunteering, etc. Some examples of activities include:  Ricoh’s neon billboards in Austria, Belgium, Poland and Spain were switched off for the day of 5 June.  In Switzerland employees took part in annual ‘Back to life’ re-forestation volunteering activity. Creating a heath land area  Employees in Belgium took part in a ‘Green driving’ challenge, measuring the impact driving style has on fuel consumption. They had an opportunity to test electric cars and scooters. Also a ‘Green car wash’ without water and a ‘tyre pressure’ checking service were offered to the employees. “Back to life” project in Switzerland  Employees in Italy took part in a recycling programme “Re-use Project” aiming at reducing waste created by employees during working hours. The employees were encouraged to donate items they no longer need to other employees.  In the UK two volunteering events were conducted. The first one helped a local primary school create an ‘outdoor classroom’ area for the children and helped improve the school’s ‘Science Garden’. The second one was aimed at creating a heath land area within the site of a local branch of Electric car tested by employees 31 Society  Employees from the Ricoh Europe Head  In Norway employees collected 250kg of Office in London took part in two Eco Action electric and electronic waste. Days. The first one involved removing litter  Ricoh Luxembourg educated its employees and invasive plant species such as on how to contribute to a more sustainable Himalayan Balsam from the Thames future. Also recyclable shopping bags and marshland in partnership with Thames 21, mugs with Ricoh Global Eco Action logo and the second one aimed at creating a were distributed to all employees. local nature reserve in partnership with the  Ricoh Netherlands carried out a ‘Tyre Woodcroft Wildspace charity. pressure’ campaign and electric cars testing for the employees. Pond digging as part of natural reserve creation Checking car tyre pressure  In Germany, various environmental activities were organised, e.g. “cycle to work” campaign, bicycle safety check up, vegetarian day in the canteen, collection of old mobiles, etc. Removing invasive species  In Spain, reusable shopping bags with Ricoh Global Eco Action Month logo were given to the employees to raise awareness about the impacts of plastic upon the environment.  Ricoh International and Ricoh Europe (Netherlands) B.V. organised a ‘Tyre “Cycle to work” campaign pressure’ checking service for employees and visitors to ensure safe driving, reduced fuel costs and lower CO2 emissions.135 cars were checked and savings from the action included 2.2 tons of carbon emissions and 561 litres of fuel. An average saving per car was €14.79.  Ricoh Sweden provided Ricoh branded company bikes to all 25 branch offices to encourage employees to cycle instead of travel by car while visiting nearby customers. 32 Society Other projects carried out in the 2011 financial of enthusing them and raising their awareness of year across Europe included: different career options and paths. The event was attended by about 800 students. Future Day, Germany Over 40 pupils, aged 10 to 17, from different Running for charity, Netherlands schools visited Ricoh offices in Germany where Since 2006, Ricoh Netherlands has supported they could gain insight into the everyday working War Child, a charity that protects children affected life of various departments, learn about types of by war, through a number of campaigns. One of jobs and apprenticeships offered by Ricoh. them was 60 employees participating in a race in Amsterdam as part of Ricoh’s health management programme, “Ricoh in TopVorm”. Children In Need, UK During the national Children In Need campaign that helps and empowers disadvantaged children and young people, Ricoh’s Call Centre in the UK stayed open throughout the night to process donations from the general public. Over 90 employees volunteered to participate. Moreover, through various fundraising initiatives Ricoh raised and donated £7,000 to Children In Need. Dam tot Damloop race in support of War Child Supporting humanitarian relief agency, Sweden In December, Ricoh Sweden organised a campaign in its headquarters in Solna to collect and donate warm clothes and shoes to the underprivileged. All collected garments were donated to “Ny Gemenskamp” (New Community), Ricoh Call Centre an independent humanitarian relief agency in Careers Fair, Ricoh Europe Stockholm. As the Ricoh Europe employees participated in a number campaign was a of volunteering events, including taking part in a huge success, Careers Fair in a school in London. Volunteers Ricoh Sweden has talked to students aged from 11 to 18 with the aim decided to carry it out on a regular basis. Ricoh Sweden volunteers segregating clothes Supporting an orphanage, Russia Ricoh Russia kicked off its CSR activities by organising a fundraising campaign in an office for children from an orphanage located 400km from Moscow. More than 75% of the children are disabled and are in need of support. The employees collected 27,390 rubles (approximately Ricoh volunteers at the Careers Fair 33 Society €700), and mainly diapers were bought and Cugat since 2009. The latest one was held in donated to the orphanage. December 2011 in cooperation with a local government of Catalunya Health Depertment, and 40 employees participated. Biodiversity project, Italy Ricoh Italy employees created a green space for a local school in Vimodrone, Milan. In the so called “Enchanted Garden”, native plant species were planted and bird boxes installed. The garden has an educational purpose giving children an opportunity to discover biodiversity, observe seasonal changes and animal behaviour. Ricoh Russia volunteers Charity Market, Belgium In December, Ricoh Belgium employees organised a Festive Market on the premises of the Ricoh building to raise money for the MargueriteMarie Delacroix Foundation that gives professional guidance to children and adults with disabilities. The raised funds were used to buy devices to stimulate blood circulation and body position, and will be used by 260 patients. “Enchanted garden” in a school created by Ricoh Coastline clean-up, France Over 50 Ricoh France employees participated in cleaning and clearing the Basse-Normandie coastline of invasive species and litter under the supervision of Sufrider Foundation which is committed to protecting the European coastline. Ricoh Charity Market Blood donation campaign, Spain Ricoh Spain has been involved in a blood donation campaign in its headquarters in Sant Ricoh France volunteers clearing the beach To find out more about our social actions globally, please visit: www.ricoh.com/csr/activity/soc_harmony/inde x.html Blood donation van 34 Results Summary 35 Results Summary Key Sustainability Indicators The following results are the key indicators used by Ricoh Europe to measure the progress of our sustainability strategies and the initiatives described in this report. Integrity in Corporate Activities 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 GRI Turnover (€ Billion) 3.5 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 EC1 Committed customers 47% 51%* 56%** 45% PR5 Customers who would repurchase 59% 62%* 67%** 68% PR5 from Ricoh Customers who would recommend 62% 61%* 68%** 67% PR5 Ricoh Overall customer satisfaction (TRIM 60 61 68 68 PR5 Index) *** * The study included 9 countries ** The study included 10 countries *** TRIM Index is a composite measure of: 1. customers’ intention to repurchase, 2. customers’ recommendation, 3. customers’ competitive advantage in using Ricoh’s products and services, 4. customers’ overall rating of Ricoh’s products and services. Harmony with the Environment 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 GRI Total recycled & reused items (parts 190,936 210,427 228,692 247,576 297,049 410,148 EN26 + toners) Paper used at RE offices (Reams) 181,913 137,340 161,578* 147,005 147,087 181,824 EN1 General waste (tons) 3,611 1,247 1,288* 1,291 953 1,748 EN22 Toner cartridge – recycling ratio 93.0% 94.0% 94.3% 95.26% 95.02% 96.3% EN2 Copiers / MFPs – recycling ratio 98.0% 97.0% 97.8% 93.53% 97.64% 93.68% EN2 Total CO2 emissions (tons) 59,469 56,530 63,819* 53,423 57,503* 60,798* EN16 Year on year reduction of CO2 (tons) 7,959 2,939 -7,289 10,396 -4,080 -3,295 EN18 * 2008 figures have been updated following the integration of Infotec * 2010 figure has increased due to Ricoh acquisitions *2011: our global CO2 reduction of 1% per FTE achieved Respect for People 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 GRI Employees satisfied working for 70% 68% 67% -* Ricoh Employee resignations 7% 12% 2% 6% 8% 6% LA2 Staff receiving appraisal 75% 91% 56% 64% 90% 81% LA12 Training days per FTE 3.7 4.4 3.6 2.8 3.4 2.6 LA10 Accident rate 1.0% 1.4% 1.3% 1.07% LA7 Registered LMS users (direct) 4,392 4,614 5,259 5,889 6,338 11,014** LA11 * Delayed until FY2012 ** Numbers reported for 2010 and before relate to technical training database only. 2011 numbers show all Learning Management System users. Harmony with Society 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 GRI Number of employees involved in 1,660 2,861 3,478 3,887 community volunteering Total volunteer hours spent in the 6,702 9,983 10,591 13,354 EC8 community (during working hours) Total charitable donations €424,715 €683,737 €590,591 €1,053,401 EC8 36 Results Summary GRI Assessment This report has been self-assessed by Ricoh Europe’s CSR Steering Committee and meets the “GRI B” criteria, as it includes more than 20 relevant indicators. Full details of this assessment are available in the CSR section on our website, www.ricoh-europe.com/about-ricoh/our-principles/csr/sustainability-reporting/ Level C Level B Level A Self-Declared Yes Third Party Checked No GRI Checked No About Our Brand Every day, all over the world, Ricoh helps people harness the power of collective imagination to enjoy a more productive, fulfilling and sustainable quality of life. We are always moving forward with new ideas and new ways of improving lives. Change is driven by imaginative thinking. That is the proposition of the Ricoh brand. For those who want to transform their business and leverage the collective knowledge and imagination of their people, the solution is as simple as imagine. change. These two words describe the way we work with each other, the way we bring value to our customers’ businesses, the way we interact with the market. They express our belief in the creative potential of individuals and organisations, our emphasis on forward thinking and positive results. It is more than just a new tagline. It’s the essence of the Ricoh brand experience. www.ricoh-europe.com Your Feedback If you have any comments or questions about this report, please contact Ricoh Europe’s CSR Division at csr@ricoh-europe.com About Ricoh Ricoh is a global technology company specialising in office imaging equipment, production print solutions, document management systems and IT services. Headquartered in Tokyo, Ricoh Group, operates in more than 200 countries and regions. In the financial year ending March 2012, Ricoh Group had worldwide sales of 1,903 billion yen (approx. 23 billion USD). The majority of the company’s revenue comes from products, solutions and services that improve the interaction between people and information. Ricoh also produces award-winning digital cameras and specialised industrial products. It is known for the quality of its technology, the exceptional standard of its customer service and sustainability initiatives. Under its corporate tagline, imagine. change. Ricoh helps companies transform the way they work and harness the collective imagination of their employees. For further information, please visit www.ricoh-europe.com You can also join us on Facebook: www.facebook.com/ricoheurope or follow us on Twitter: www.twitter.com/ricoheurope 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Division Ricoh Europe PLC 20 Triton Street London, NW1 3BF United Kingdom csr@ricoh-europe.com www.ricoh-europe.com
