2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Sustainability ∙ ethics and compliance ∙ governance ∙ health and safety ∙ Communities and Giving ∙ People and Culture Stakeholder Letter even compensation and development. We believe this reflects a culture committed to our RISE values of respect, About CBRE Group, Inc. integrity, service and excellence. About this Report • We recognize that our leadership position requires that we Environmental Sustainability use our voice to positively impact our business community, so we began to engage more fully in public policy matters Ethics and Compliance around commercial real estate. We participated in Governance discourse on effective climate change solutions through Dear Stakeholder, our involvement with The Climate Group, The Center for Health and Safety 2011 marked the fifth year of our commitment to leadership Climate and Energy Solutions, and numerous other NGO in corporate responsibility and over this time, the business Communities and Giving and government organizations. In our own operations, landscape has been shaken by unprecedented global market People and Culture we developed industry-leading corporate policies around shifts. As we protected our company and our shareholders human rights, anti-corruption, conflicts of interest and ethical from the impacts of economic volatility, we also retained our Global Reporting Index performance. corporate responsibility focus because we recognize that • In achieving our goal of carbon neutrality for 2010, we integrated, sustainable business practices are the foundation of learned that our greatest potential impact lies not just success in any economic climate. in greening our own operations but in supporting the In 2011, we reaffirmed our commitment to corporate sustainable practices of both our industry and clients. As a responsibility at the board level and made significant and result, we are establishing a four-year, $1M academic and measurable progress in the six pillars of our program: scientific research program intended to develop gameenvironmental sustainability, ethics and compliance, changing sustainability ideas, tools and practices. We formed governance, health and safety, communities and giving, and the Global Sustainability Steering Committee, which is tasked people and culture. with integrating our sustainable operations and client service offerings into a single force for real industry change. Among our achievements: • Around the globe, our professionals continued to generously • With increased focus on stakeholder engagement, we support people and organizations in need, donating conducted our first all-employee survey on ethics and volunteer hours and funds to more than 330 different compliance, and another one on employee engagement. charitable organizations. Charitable contributions by the These surveys demonstrated that CBRE provides a more company and employees matched the $6.4 million record favorable ethical climate than average, with measurably we set in 2010. less misconduct; that both employee engagement and • We continued to support a safe and healthy workplace and performance excellence exceeded the 75th percentile; and a diverse workforce. We expanded joband clientspecific that our corporate responsibility performance is the single training and safety practices around the globe, we trained most frequently cited contributor to job satisfaction, above more than 200 professionals through CBRE University, our CBRE 2011 2 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter hallmark program of employee training and development; Our success in 2011 and the last five years is the result of our and we continued corporate support for our employee employees, whose initiative, effort and commitment provide About CBRE Group, Inc. networking groups—African-American; Women’s; and fertile ground in which our corporate responsibility efforts About this Report Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT). As a result can grow. Their commitment to and daily demonstration of Environmental Sustainability of this and our ongoing efforts to create a healthy, diverse our corporate RISE values ensures that CBRE is a profitable workforce, CBRE was named to the “Companies That Care enterprise, an employer of choice and a good corporate citizen. Ethics and Compliance Honor Roll” in early 2012 for the fifth consecutive year. Sincerely, Governance • In governance we proved the quality of our long-standing succession planning process for the CEO and other senior Health and Safety executive positions. Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index Brett White Chief Executive Officer CBRE 2011 3 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. including loans serviced by GEMSA—a joint venture between CBRE Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG), a Fortune 500 and S&P CBRE Capital Markets and GE Capital Real Estate—totaled About CBRE Group, Inc. 500 company headquartered in Los Angeles, is the world’s U.S.$118 billion. We completed 115,825 appraisal and About this Report largest commercial real estate services firm (based on 2011 valuation assignments in 2011, and our project management Environmental Sustainability revenue of U.S.$5.9 billion). The Company has approximately contract value was U.S.$18.5 billion, including U.S.$9.8 billion 34,000 employees, and serves real estate owners, investors of projects that were in process as of December 31, 2011. Ethics and Compliance and occupiers through more than 300 offices worldwide. Our Global Investment Management subsidiary, CBRE Global Governance CBRE offers strategic advice and execution for property Investors, had $94.1 billion of assets under management as of sales and leasing; corporate services; property, facilities and December 31, 2011, and our Development Services subsidiary, Health and Safety project management; mortgage banking; appraisal and Trammell Crow Company, had $4.9 billion of development Communities and Giving valuation; development services; investment management; property in process, including $1.5 billion of long-term People and Culture and research and consulting. This report covers CBRE’s global operating assets. operations including our wholly owned, independently operated Global Reporting Index CBRE Group, Inc. is incorporated in Delaware in the United subsidiaries, Trammell Crow Company and CBRE Global States. The company’s Class A common stock is traded on the Investors, unless otherwise noted. This report excludes jointNew York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CBG.” During venture and affiliate office information, unless otherwise noted, this reporting period, there were four significant changes in our and supplier information. company: In 2011, CBRE advised clients on 63,200 property sales and • In 2011, we completed a series of strategic transactions lease transactions valued at U.S.$159 billion. As of December with Netherlands-based ING Group N.V. and its affiliates 31, 2011, we managed more than 3.2 billion square feet (ING), which bolstered our global real estate investment of commercial properties and corporate facilities around the management business. We acquired substantially all of ING’s world (including property managed by our affiliate offices). Real Estate Investment Management (REIM) operations in Commercial mortgage loan originations, including loan Europe and Asia, and its U.S.-based global real estate listed sale advisory, totaled U.S.$22.4 billion; and loan servicing, securities business, Clarion Real Estate Securities (CRES). • These former ING businesses are now part of our Global 2011 Revenue by Business Line Investment Management business segment, which is described in the Operational Structure section below. The 35% Property and Facilities Management 32% Leasing ING REIM and CRES businesses are highly complementary 16% Sales additions, providing us with a significantly enhanced ability 6% Appraisal and Valuation to meet the needs of institutional investors across global 4% Investment Management markets with a full spectrum of investment programs and 4% Commercial Mortgage Brokerage strategies. To reflect our enhanced offering and global 1% Development Services 2% Other footprint, the name of this business was changed to CBRE CBRE 2011 4 Corporate Responsibility Report Global Investors in the fall of 2011. Stakeholder Letter • On October 3, 2011, CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. officially but also independent affiliated offices. As of December changed to CBRE Group, Inc. and this name change was 31, 2011, our Americas segment had more than 20,700 About CBRE Group, Inc. reflected in most of our other businesses that use the CBRE employees and accounted for 62.2% of our 2011 revenue. About this Report name and brand. With the name change we are following • Our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) segment Environmental Sustainability the lead of our clients, investors and others who increasingly operates in 43 countries with our largest operations located refer to the company as CBRE. in France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Russia, Spain Ethics and Compliance • On May 8, 2012, CBRE announced that Brett White will and the United Kingdom. As of December 31, 2011, within Governance retire as Chief Executive Officer, effective December 31, EMEA, we had more than 4,950 employees. Our EMEA 2012. Robert Sulentic, who currently serves as CBRE’s segment accounted for 18.2% of our 2011 revenue. Health and Safety President, will succeed Mr. White, who will remain on the • Our Asia Pacific segment operates in 13 countries. Our Communities and Giving Board following his retirement. Mr. Sulentic, who has held principal operations in Asia are located in China, Hong People and Culture several senior leadership positions at CBRE including CEO Kong, India, Japan, Singapore and South Korea. The of Trammell Crow Company at the time of the 2006 merger, Pacific operations include Australia and New Zealand. As Global Reporting Index has had direct responsibility for all of CBRE’s business lines of December 31, 2011, Asia Pacific had more than 7,075 and operating segments since 2009. The CEO transition employees and accounted for 13.4% of our 2011 revenue. reflects CBRE’s keen focus on executive development • Operations in our Global Investment Management and succession planning at all levels of the organization. segment are conducted through our indirect wholly owned Commenting on the news, the Wall Street Journal wrote: subsidiary CBRE Global Investors, LLC, which we also refer “Management specialists said CBRE’s change of command to as CBRE Global Investors. As of December 31, 2011, represents the type of methodical succession planning that Global Investment Management had more than 1,103 many companies talk about but rarely practice.” employees and accounted for 4.9% of our 2011 revenue. We expect this percentage will increase notably in 2012, Aside from what is noted above, there were no other significant reflecting a full year of revenue contribution in 2012 from changes to the size, structure or ownership of CBRE Group, Inc. the ING acquisitions which closed in the last half of 2011. Operational Structure CBRE Group, Inc. is a holding company that conducts all of its 2011 Revenue by Financial Reporting Segment operations through its indirect subsidiaries and affiliated offices 62.2% The Americas in more than 65 countries. We report our results of operations 18.2% EMEA through five business segments: 13.4% Asia Pacific 4.9% Global Investment Management • The Americas is our largest segment of operations and 1.3% Development Services provides a comprehensive range of services throughout the United States and in the largest metropolitan regions in Canada as well as key markets in Latin America. Services CBRE 2011 are provided through mostly wholly owned operations 5 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter • Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Trammell Crow Since we are a U.N. Global Compact (UNGC) participant, we Company and certain of its subsidiaries provide have also communicated our progress toward the 10 UNGC About CBRE Group, Inc. Development Services primarily in the United States Principles. About this Report to users of and investors in commercial real estate, as Our Index, which contains references to specific GRI Environmental Sustainability well as for its own account. As of December 31, 2011, indicators and standard disclosures, and UNGC principles, Development Services had more than 160 employees and Ethics and Compliance can be found on page 64. In the Index, we made an effort to accounted for 1.3% of our 2011 revenue. show the section(s) and page(s) where each GRI indicator or Governance Please refer to the CBRE Group, Inc. 2011 Annual Report for standard disclosure, and each of the 10 UNGC principles is more information about CBRE and our operations. Health and Safety located, but it is important to note that some are addressed Communities and Giving About This Report across multiple pages and/or sections. This report provides an overview of the social, economic and People and Culture All data presented in our report is supported by environmental impacts of CBRE globally in 2011. This is our documentation, internal systems and information from external Global Reporting Index fifth annual Corporate Responsibility report, with the most organizations. recent previous report (our 2010 Corporate Responsibility report) published in July 2011. After publishing our previous Our goal is to produce a comprehensive report on all of report, we have not received any information—internally or our global operations and we work diligently toward that externally—that requires us to re-state information provided year-over-year. While our report reflects that the majority of and there have been no significant changes in our corporate our operations are in the U.S., each also section contains responsibility strategy from previous reporting periods. global perspective. While some of CBRE’s growth has been organic, most of the company’s growth over the past decade In preparing this report, we referenced the Global Reporting is attributed to the more than 60 acquisitions we completed Initiative (GRI), the globally accepted independent framework in that timeframe. These acquisitions allowed us to build our for reporting on sustainability issues. For this year’s report, global service delivery platform and solidify our industrywe used the G3.1 Guidelines. Our process for determining leading market position. However, growth through acquisitions materiality was conducted by our global Corporate also means there are multiple programs and systems that track Responsibility committee, comprised of practice leaders and our corporate data. One of our key priorities over the past few subject matter experts for each of our six topics, as well as years has been planning, designing and building the systems senior company executives, and vetted with key stakeholders. and structures that will globally integrate vital corporate data. In our materiality assessment, we objectively identified those Over the past year, we have made significant progress in the GRI Performance Indicators that are relevant to our business areas of finance and human resources. Once complete, these as a services firm; report topics are not prioritized within systems and structures will streamline or eliminate many of the report, as we consider all topics equally important. The the manual processes we currently use. We believe these and Corporate Responsibility committee also reviews and refines other efforts underway will benefit our corporate responsibility stakeholders annually. All of these processes are conducted CBRE 2011 reporting in the future. 6 Corporate Responsibility Report via regular strategy meetings during the reporting timeframe. Stakeholder Letter For now, however, there remains information for which the responsible and sustainable business practices across our systems have not yet been developed and/or that we are global operations. Our Corporate Responsibility program About CBRE Group, Inc. unable to report globally. Also, especially outside the U.S., we encompasses: About this Report are just beginning to track certain corporate responsibility• Governance Environmental Sustainability related (and other) data and statistics. As noted above, we are • Environmental Sustainability taking steps to establish a streamlined data-gathering process Ethics and Compliance • Ethics and Compliance and create centralized systems to collect data across the • Health and Safety Governance company. For now and for the next few years, however, this • Communities and Giving process will remain manual and have limitations. Health and Safety • People and Culture Communities and Giving Except where noted, the information covered in this report We run our business in a way that is both profitable and highlights our corporate responsibility initiatives in fiscal-year People and Culture responsible. We focus on providing exceptional service for our 2011 (January 1, 2011, through December 31, 2011). When clients, delivering financial performance for our shareholders, Global Reporting Index available and significant, updates through early 2012 are and making positive contributions to our local communities, the included. This report excludes joint-venture and affiliate office environment and all of our stakeholders. information, unless otherwise noted. This report covers CBRE’s global operations including our wholly owned, independently It is our policy to act responsibly in our day-to-day relationships operated subsidiaries, Trammell Crow Company and CBRE with our customers, suppliers, employees and communities. We Global Investors, unless otherwise noted. This report excludes consciously focus our attention on the areas where we believe joint venture and affiliate office information, unless otherwise we can make the greatest impact: noted, and supplier information. We plan to continue reporting on our initiatives annually. This report and future • helping to mitigate the impact of the built environment on updates can be accessed online through the Corporate climate change; Responsibility section of www.cbre.com. For questions • using our talent, energy and resources to improve the quality regarding the report or its contents, contact responsibility@ of life of others; cbre.com. • and helping our people to reach their full potential while providing a safe and ethical workplace. Our Corporate Responsibility Framework and Vision Being known as a responsible business is an essential Despite continued challenges from turbulent global economic element of our brand and fundamental to our RISE values of conditions, CBRE remains committed to our Corporate Respect, Integrity, Service and Excellence. It is also key to the Responsibility program and agenda. We aspire to be known continued growth and success of our business. For this reason, as much for our commitment to responsible business as our corporate responsibility strategy is backed by tangible for the quality of our commercial real estate services. We commitments and our performance is evaluated annually and are committed to doing the right thing, and integrating assessed against external reporting standards. CBRE 2011 7 Corporate Responsibility Report Awards and Milestones Stakeholder Letter Only commercial real estate services company in the Fortune 500; #416 in 2012 About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report #1 real estate brand Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Highest ranked commercial real estate services company Governance Health and Safety #1 brand for 11 consecutive years Communities and Giving #6 outsourcing company across all industries; #1 among real estate services firms People and Culture Global Reporting Index European Property Brand of the Year Honor Roll member for fifth consecutive year Highest Ranked Commercial Real Estate Services Firm on Black Book of Outsourcing List Global Excellence in Outsourcing Award Recognizing The World’s Premier Commercial Real Estate Services Firm Top real estate company in “green” rankings U.S. EPA 2012 ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award(5 consecutive years of Partner of the Year status) World’s Best Property Consultant Commercial Agency of the Year REIQ Awards for Excellence (Pacific) CBRE 2011 Global Investment Management Deal of the Year 8 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Awards and Recognition Corporate Commitment Global Sustainability Steering Committee CBRE Real Green Research Challenge Sustainable Operations Procurement Client Service Engagement and Influence Professional Education and Accreditation Sustainable Reporting What Lies Ahead Ethics and Compliance Environmental Sustainability Governance Health and Safety In response to the ongoing global discussion about climate change and its impact on the natural environment, CBRE Communities and Giving remains committed to minimizing that impact for our company, clients and communities. By leveraging sustainable People and Culture real estate practices in our operations and on behalf of our clients, CBRE continues to influence and improve the built Global Reporting Index environment through resource conservation, emission mitigation and stakeholder engagement. The data contained in this report pertains to CBRE and excludes CBRE Global Investors and Trammell Crow Company. CBRE 2011 9 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Awards and Recognition Corporate Commitment In recent years CBRE has been consistently recognized as In 2007, CBRE announced our first environmental policy, About CBRE Group, Inc. a sustainability leader in both our own operations and our recognizing the responsibility that comes with our leadership About this Report client offerings. In 2011, those accolades and achievements position in our industry. Under that policy, CBRE made Environmental Sustainability included: improvements to our internal operations, engaged our clients globally in sustainability practices and collaborated with non>>Awards and Recognition • Newsweek ranked CBRE No. 128 in its 2011 Green government organizations to enhance the dialogue around Rankings, a list which measures the environmental >>Corporate Commitment environmental sustainability. performance of the 500 largest U.S.-based publicly traded Global Sustainability Steering companies. CBRE was the highest-ranked firm in the real In the five years since, the sustainability market has matured Committee estate and financial services sectors. rapidly. Recognizing that our policies and practices must CBRE Real Green Research • CBRE offices in New York City, Dallas and Tysons Corner reflect our understanding of and involvement in that market Challenge each earned LEED® Gold in 2010, and 11 more U.S. maturation, CBRE recently revised our Environmental Sustainable Operations offices are currently pursuing LEED®. In Asia, CBRE Sustainability policy, which focuses on resource management, Shanghai earned LEED® Gold and in Australia, four offices occupancy, internal certification, procurement, client Procurement received NABERS (National Australian Built Environment service, engagement and training, public policy, academic Client Service Rating System) ratings. All CBRE UK offices again obtained collaboration, compliance and reporting. ISO 14001 certification. These offices are the latest of nearly Engagement and Influence In 2011, we revisited our carbon neutrality goal achieved in twenty environmentally certified offices globally. Professional Education and 2010 and determined that while carbon offsetting remains • The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) named Accreditation a worthwhile and legitimate practice, CBRE’s real impact CBRE as a 2010 ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award opportunity lies elsewhere. Rather than continue to purchase Sustainable Reporting Partner of the Year, the company’s fourth consecutive year of credits to offset our 2011 carbon footprint, we increased our recognition. What Lies Ahead focus on mitigation programs that minimize environmental • Bloomberg-Maplecroft ranked CBRE 164 of 360 U.S. Ethics and Compliance impact at the point of occurrence and that translate into realcompanies on its 2012 Climate Innovation Index, which world experience for the clients who depend on our counsel Governance tracks companies’ environmental performance in five areas: (see “Lessons Learned: Carbon Neutrality”).We will continue to management, mitigation, emissions reductions, innovation Health and Safety offset carbon in Australia, where carbon neutrality is a common and adaptation. business practice and guided by federal legislation. The next Communities and Giving • The Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) ranked CBRE at evolution of our corporate commitment is CBRE’s Real Green the top of its first CRC League Table in the UK, a position People and Culture Real Estate Challenge, covered later in this section. that reflects our long-term commitment to CRC requirements Global Reporting Index around carbon disclosure. CBRE will continue to monitor and report our carbon footprint • Office Depot awarded CBRE its Leadership in Green annually using the internationally accepted standard known Purchasing for our U.S. commitment to purchasing office as the World Resources Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol. CBRE 2011 products with ecolabels and green attributes. 10 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Lessons Learned: Carbon Neutrality About CBRE Group, Inc. Over time we have come to understand that our most effective efforts may well be in pursuit of meaningful change outside of our immediate About this Report surroundings. We occupy a few million feet but manage 3.2 billion feet worldwide. While we fully recognize our responsibility to establish and perform good practices internally, we also recognize that our properly guided influence and reach can be much greater than our own Environmental Sustainability actions. We occupy a relatively small footprint of space and produce a relatively small footprint of carbon; a footprint certainly large enough Awards and Recognition to mitigate and improve upon. And those things we will continue to do and pledge to do even more of. But we need and want to move past a belief that doing less harm is the aim. We seek opportunities where doing more good is the expectation. >>Corporate Commitment Throughout this report we seek to demonstrate our efforts to meet that expectation. We are no longer content to balance our environmental >>Global Sustainability Steering books through a marketplace purchase and move on. We believe that a meaningful financial commitment, combined with our experiences Committee and leadership, and directly connected to our marketplace knowledge can have a meaningful impact on the built environment. We not CBRE Real Green Research only want to be part of the solution, we want to seek and create the solution, and we think we are uniquely positioned to do so, particularly Challenge through our Real Green Research Challenge. Sustainable Operations Historically our carbon measurement included all global based on innovation and best practices Procurement emissions from sources controlled or owned by CBRE, including • develop a new corporate commitment program to replace Client Service our global fleet of vehicles, and direct electricity consumption carbon neutrality and employ sustainable practices in our Engagement and Influence (or Scope 1 and 2 emissions). In Australia the measurement operations globally included emissions resulting from company activities that the • reflect corporate strategy in our business, including client Professional Education and firm does not directly control, such as corporate travel (Scope 3 engagement and industry solutions development Accreditation emissions). In 2011, we committed to developing a process to • integrate CBRE’s corporate commitment and services in Sustainable Reporting report our Scope 3 emissions for 2013. Our carbon emissions alignment with the developing sustainability market What Lies Ahead for 2011 were 52,232 metric tons. 2012 members include: Ethics and Compliance Global Sustainability Steering Committee • Larry Midler – EVP and General Counsel, Executive Sponsor In response to the increasing globalization of our sustainability Governance for Corporate Responsibility program business and our desire to fully integrate our operations and Health and Safety • David Pogue – Global Director of Sustainability, Corporate business practices, CBRE has formed our Global Sustainability and Institutional Services and Committee Chairman Communities and Giving Steering Committee. Comprised of senior leadership across all • Bob Abberger – Senior Managing Director, Trammell Crow business lines and global functions, the committee will: People and Culture Company • ensure sustainability becomes embedded across every line of • Mark Creamer – Deputy Managing Director, UK Global Reporting Index business and geography • Maureen Ehrenberg – Global Director of Facilities • develop a leading sustainability culture of shared outcomes Management CBRE 2011 11 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter • Karen Ellzey – Executive Managing Director, Consulting “While offsetting carbon emissions remains • Pieter Hendrikse – Chief Executive Officer, CBRE Global About CBRE Group, Inc. a responsible strategy, we recognize that Investors Europe About this Report • Rob Hensley – Managing Director, Valuation & Advisory the market now values innovation and Environmental Sustainability • Steve Iaco – Senior Managing Director, Corporate mitigation above carbon neutrality. CBRE’s Communications Real Green Research Challenge is our Awards and Recognition • Asieh Mansour – Head of Americas Research effort to lead that innovation.” Corporate Commitment • Mindee Metz – Director of Corporate Responsibility and Communications —Brett White, CEO >>Global Sustainability Steering Committee • Rebecca Pearce – Director of Sustainability, Pacific and disruptive solutions to these problems. Conceived as • Ed Schreyer – Executive Managing Director, Brokerage >>CBRE Real Green Research an open competition for ideas and projects that could have Services Challenge significant impact on the sustainable commercial real estate • Tim Shen – Director of Sustainability, Asia landscape, the Real Green Research Challenge is intended to Sustainable Operations • Brian Stoffers – Chief Operating Officer, Capital Markets sponsor and support winning ideas both financially and through Procurement • Steve Swerdlow – Chief Operating Officer, Americas collaboration. In 2011, we began forming a distinguished Client Service CBRE’s Real Green Research Challenge panel of global experts and thought leaders from academia, The environmental impact potential of commercial buildings business and the social sciences to guide the development of Engagement and Influence is widely accepted; they consume significant water and CBRE’s Real Green Research Challenge. Professional Education and energy, and produce significant waste and greenhouse gases. Accreditation Productivity studies, large scale predictive modeling, energy Researchers and academic scholars around the world are efficiency technologies, data management programs, Sustainable Reporting seeking solutions to some of the most pressing problems in diagnostic tools and market-wide sustainability scoring schemes these areas, but they lack critical financial support and access What Lies Ahead are among the many areas in which we hope the Real Green to actionable, real time data to assist in their work. As the Research Challenge will stir activity. By providing funding and Ethics and Compliance world’s largest manager of commercial buildings CBRE has access to our people, managed portfolio and related data, Governance both a responsibility and an opportunity to influence the way and the industry’s largest and most diverse platform, we are buildings are being responsibly and sustainably managed. With Health and Safety optimistic that we can promote breakthroughs in one or more the development and introduction of the CBRE’s Real Green of these areas that could be transformative to the marketplace. Communities and Giving Research Challenge, we are making a real and measureable commitment to finding these solutions. Our own work with the University of San Diego and McGraw People and Culture Hill (see “Engagement and Influence”) has demonstrated Global Reporting Index Through our Real Green Research Challenge, over the next the power of this type of collaborative partnership by four years CBRE will award $1,000,000 to fund independent benchmarkting green building benefits and resulting economic academic and scholarly research specifically seeking answers outcomes. We believe that the unique combination of financial CBRE 2011 12 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter support, collaboration and data access can create tangible 2011 U.S. Operations Certification change in and lasting impact on the commercial real estate About CBRE Group, Inc. 2011 marked the third year of CBRE’s Toward a Greener market. About this Report Tomorrow Certification, which recognizes offices that have most Sustainable Operations fully implemented CBRE’s sustainability standards. Certification Environmental Sustainability Our global approach to sustainable performance is founded criteria are aligned with aspects of the U.S.GBC’s LEED® Awards and Recognition on regionally relevant environmental management systems and EPA ENERGY STAR® programs and are customized to (EMS) implemented at the local office level. We adhere to best the unique operational requirements of a firm of our size Corporate Commitment practices in each geographic and operational area, and vet and complexity. The certification program applies to all U.S. Global Sustainability Steering outcomes against our corporate policy and global strategy. offices over 5,000 square feet (approximately 90), of which 67 Committee completed the certification process. These include: Americas >>CBRE Real Green Research Challenge 2011 U.S. Operations Audit • 5 Gold • 33 Silver >>Sustainable Operations Continuing to build on our 2007 environmental commitment, • 24 Bronze in April 2012 CBRE’s U.S. operations conducted its fifth annual Procurement • 5 not certified office audit. This survey process provides operational best Client Service practices, enhances our understanding of CBRE’s specific These numbers, which are slightly lower than years past, are Engagement and Influence operational challenges, and informs decisions and investments a result of office consolidations and closings. In the Americas, that elevate our environmental performance. Equally significant, these initiatives are developed and implemented by CBRE’s Eco Professional Education and these findings can be leveraged to improve operational Knights, a group of employees in local markets who voluntarily Accreditation sustainability for our client base. support corporate sustainability goals. Sustainable Reporting Chief among the findings was that 100% of our U.S. offices CBRE added LEED® certified offices in Dallas, New York What Lies Ahead recycled paper in 2011. Additional best practices occurred in City and Tysons Corner, Virginia. Additionally, 11 more U.S. Ethics and Compliance more than 90% of offices surveyed, including: offices are currently pursuing LEED®; two are in final review, three are in design review and the rest are in the preliminary Governance • Recycling of toner/cartridges (88%), and aluminum (90%) application stage. These offices are the latest in a list of global Health and Safety and plastic (85%) environmental certifications that include LEED® in Beijing, • Utilization of controlled thermostats (94%) Communities and Giving Denver, Madrid, Minneapolis and Washington, DC, and a • Purchase of recycled paper (84%) 5-star NABERS rating in North Sydney, Australia. People and Culture We also identified two areas needing improvement in 2011. Global Reporting Index These are: CBRE has also committed to seeking U.S.GBC® LEED® CI certification for all • Increasing local “green team” committee participation from 54% • Increasing local environmental philanthropy participation new corporate office locations and tenant 13 CBRE 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report from 21% remodel improvement projects. Stakeholder Letter As part of this process, we installed sub-meters in 663,000 tons of carbon emissions, and recycled over 7,866 pounds of square feet of our office space nationally to accurately monitor wastepaper. About CBRE Group, Inc. and track our energy use. About this Report CBRE’s new Netherlands headquarters was created to facilitate CBRE was recently honored with Office Depot’s Leadership communication and cooperation, and functions as a cultural Environmental Sustainability in Greener Purchasing award. Selected as one of 25 leaders anchor. As a result, the building includes innovative sustainable Awards and Recognition among thousands of Office Depot customers, CBRE was lauded features and CBRE was first real estate services company to for its commitment to purchasing office products with ecolabels be named by NuZakelijk, which identifies the most innovative Corporate Commitment and green attributes. Office Depot developed the award to office spaces across The Netherlands. Global Sustainability Steering recognize companies who purchase green office supplies as an Committee CBRE Italy launched World First, a campaign to raise indicator of broader environmental commitments. environmental awareness aimed at local schools and charities CBRE Real Green Research Challenge Europe, Middle East and Africa working with shopping centers under our management. Begun Language, culture, geography, climate and economic factors in 2008, this program reached roughly 12,000 children in >>Sustainable Operations make EMEA the most complex and varied of all CBRE regional 40 schools and was sponsored by the San Giuliano Milanese Procurement operations around the world. As a result most sustainability Municipality, the Province of Milan and the Lombardia Region. practices and initiatives continue to be driven at the local The project was widely reported in the media and has won the Client Service country level and managed against a regional sustainability Consiglio Nazionale dei Centri Commerciali Merit Award. Engagement and Influence policy. In 2011, this was achieved through shared best Asia Pacific Professional Education and practices and leadership messages delivered via video and The practical implementation of sustainable practices across Accreditation other digital channels. our APAC region is driven by numerous and diverse factors, Sustainable Reporting In November 2011, CBRE was ranked at the top of the first from culture to government, from climate to language. What Lies Ahead CRC League Table in the UK, a position that reflects our longAccordingly, in our sustainable operations we strive to balance term commitment to sustainability and carbon reduction. The local opportunities and requirements with the best regional and Ethics and Compliance CRC requires the largest public and private sector organizations industry-wide practices. Governance in the UK to disclose their carbon emissions. The first League Pacific Table, which features over 2000 organizations, has been Health and Safety compiled based on “early action” taken to control emissions In Australia, where environmental performance is both a topic Communities and Giving over a three year period, namely through metering programs; of government mandate and a core component of business People and Culture and the percentage of emissions covered by carbon certification culture, we see some of CBRE’s most advanced sustainable schemes, such as the Carbon Trust Standard. operations. Accordingly, four of our primary offices have Global Reporting Index received NABERS ratings in our Pacific region: our Sydney In April 2011 CBRE Russia joined a global nature preservation headquarters (3.5 stars) and our Adelaide (5.5 stars), initiative. As a result, we have saved 3,568 kilowatts of electric Parramatta (5 stars) and North Sydney (5 stars) offices. power and 18,851 gallons of water, prevented 6.1 metric CBRE 2011 14 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter CBRE Pacific developed and implemented an ISO 14001 Q1 2011 and is preparing for recertification in 2012. The compliant EMS in 2011. To simplify implementation and Singapore office implemented a robust recycling program About CBRE Group, Inc. enhance effectiveness the EMS was integrated into the existing in the corporate office, aligned administrative support with About this Report CBRE Occupational Health and Safety Management System environmental protection practices, and purchased usage Environmental Sustainability to become an HSE management system, with the intention of monitoring office equipment in 2011. investigating ISO 14001 certification in 2013. Awards and Recognition At CBRE Taipei, we implemented a sustainable fit out program CBRE Australia achieved certification under the Australian that included the installation of occupancy sensors for lighting Corporate Commitment National Carbon Offset Standard – the first government T5 and LED lighting, low VOC carpets and 100% furniture Global Sustainability Steering regulated definition of carbon neutrality in the world. For 2011, reuse. When CBRE Singapore expanded its regional hub, we Committee we offset 3,541 metric tons of emissions from electricity used maximized the level of natural lighting at work spaces, energyCBRE Real Green Research in our offices, corporate air and car travel, paper usage and efficient lighting and the use of U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR-certified Challenge waste going to landfill. CBRE Australia also exceeded our electrical equipment to reduce energy consumption. >>Sustainable Operations 2011 emissions reduction target of 5% over 2010 emissions, In 2011, CBRE India became ISO 14001-certified as part of and has set a new target of 10% reduction over three years >>Procurement an ISO integrated management system (IMS) that includes ISO (2012-2014) against 2011 emissions. We also developed 9001 2008 and OHSAS 18001. Client Service an emissions management plan to reduce our footprint and set reduction targets. In 2011 we also began expanding the The CBRE Japan operations continued to participate in the Engagement and Influence carbon footprint calculation for New Zealand to include the Eco-Cap programs, the philanthropy program that reduces Professional Education and same emissions categories as Australia. plastic waste reduction while providing much-needed vaccines Accreditation to developing countries. We first began participating in during CBRE Pacific piloted a version of the U.S. office audit modified Sustainable Reporting 2010 and in 2011 our participation program prevented nearly for regional requirements, and employed sustainable IT What Lies Ahead a metric ton of carbon emissions and provided nearly 100 standards that include double-sided printing, electronic vaccine doses to those in need. Ethics and Compliance document transfer protocols and automatic hibernation of all personal PCs and office equipment. CBRE Pacific was also the CBRE Kaula Lumpur began to adopt many of the company’s Governance first region to mandate carbon neutral paper purchasing sustainable best practices around energy consumption and Health and Safety waste management. This office’s efforts are a testament to the Asia Communities and Giving depth and pervasiveness of our corporate commitment. Across our Asia operations, we have adopted green interior People and Culture Procurement design and best practices for all new office fit out projects and In 2011, CBRE began to explore supply chain as an avenue Global Reporting Index pursued green building certifications in our larger offices. In for improved sustainable performance. Given the size and 2011, CBRE Shanghai was awarded LEED® CI Gold. complexity of our global operations, centralized procurement CBRE Singapore’s operations were certified as an Eco-Office represents a significant logistical challenge and we are just CBRE 2011 by the Singapore Environment Council between Q4 2010 – beginning to define the related requirements and opportunities. 15 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Understanding that we are on an evolutionary path, we began Dell, our procurement partner for asset resale and recycling by benchmarking our performance in two key areas, technology services for our retired and obsolete PCs. In addition to About CBRE Group, Inc. and travel. wiping proprietary data from the PCs, Dell breaks down About this Report PC components into core materials that can be recycled Technology Environmental Sustainability and ensures no hazardous materials are released into the Appropriately managed technology can significantly enhance environment during disposal. Awards and Recognition environmental performance through both practice and equipment. Since our initial 2007 commitment, CBRE has Providing reliable technology for a company of CBRE’s size is Corporate Commitment been replacing legacy office equipment with ENERGY STAR or no small task, and in 2011 we began to assess and refine our Global Sustainability Steering comparable versions around the globe. Working with RICOH, global IT infrastructure. As a result of this assessment, we have Committee which manages more than 60% of CBRE’s office printers and begun to virtualize data and standardize equipment across our CBRE Real Green Research copiers globally, we implemented performance tracking for data centers. Virtualization, which coordinates different data Challenge the U.S. offices in which most of our print consumption occurs. sources through one point of access, minimizes the energy Sustainable Operations When the program began in 2008, we had a global inventory associated with storage requirements (among other benefits). of 321 devices using 3.1 million sheets of paper monthly; at Currently, we expect that roughly 50% of our data requirements >>Procurement the time of publication, we had 431 devices using 3.6 million will be virtualized in the next five years. We are further reducing Client Service sheets monthly (these increases correlate to CBRE’s company infrastructure energy requirements by standardizing equipment growth through acquisition activity during the same period). to ENERGY STAR or comparable servers and equipment. We Engagement and Influence Yet through a 13% increase in duplexing and by choosing have applied these measures to each of our 16 data centers Professional Education and energy efficient models during those years, the device and around the globe; currently 14 of these centers are collocated Accreditation paper use increases actually netted a 32% reduction in and two operate within the Los Angeles and London offices of Sustainable Reporting energy consumption over the baseline year. We also suspect our investment management business. We expect to reduce the that employee behavior changes – like choosing electronic number of data centers serving our current operations to six What Lies Ahead document transfer over printed or being judicious about over the next five years. Ethics and Compliance printing draft documents – had an unquantifiable impact on Travel Governance these numbers. As part of our commitment to report on our Scope 3 emissions Health and Safety Our global PC inventory totals roughly 40,000, 60% of which for 2013, CBRE has begun to identify corporate travel trends are laptops. Since our initial 2007 commitment PCs have and requirements. With a primary focus on our Americas Communities and Giving become about 25% more energy efficient. Without usage region, in which the majority of our travel occurs, we have People and Culture metrics at the individual level, it is difficult to track energy learned the following trends: Global Reporting Index consumption related to PCs but as a general practice, we • 68% of our travel-related carbon came from long haul, replace laptops about every four years with the most energy domestic U.S. flights efficient models available. Additionally we contract with • employees traveled more than 28,500 miles via rail CBRE 2011 16 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter • economy, compact and standard classes comprised only 28% of our Americas car rentals CBRE and EPA ENERGY STAR About CBRE Group, Inc. Sustained Excellence • 92% of hotel stays occurred in the U.S.; the top 5 states for About this Report hotel stays were Texas (34%), California (31%), New York ENERGY STAR remains a key component of CBRE’s Environmental Sustainability (14%), Illinois (12%) and Florida (9%), which align with our sustainability services, and allows us to connect with clients most active U.S. markets. and employees in a way that makes energy conservation an Awards and Recognition increasingly powerful agent for change. These trends indicate that we can improve travel practices in Corporate Commitment Since 2007, CBRE has expanded the number of managed four key areas: buildings participating in ENERGY STAR by nearly 200% Global Sustainability Steering • minimize long haul travel through virtual presence where and total registered square footage by nearly 100%. More Committee importantly, we continue to show improvement in our average feasible CBRE Real Green Research ENERGY STAR score among buildings with more than 24 Challenge • investigate feasibility of rail travel in place of short-haul months of data. Our 150 million-square-foot portfolio has flights and where appropriate, promote rail travel over car an average score of 79, indicating that the more than 800 Sustainable Operations rentals buildings in that qualified portfolio exceed the level required >>Procurement • increase stays at hotel properties that make a commitment to to earn an ENERGY STAR label. In fact, more than 500 of our reduction of emissions managed buildings have individual scores above 75. >>Client Service • encourage more economy, compact and standard car rentals Engagement and Influence Our corporate travel program, myTravel, has been effective sustainability requirements of our clients, many of whom are Professional Education and similar in size, complexity and geographic diversity. Often the in the Americas for several years. Currently, we estimate that Accreditation 75% of all Americas travel is booked through the program with lessons learned in implementing our own sustainable strategies Sustainable Reporting the remaining 25% booked directly with the travel provider translate into—or are informed by—the sustainability services or travel retailers. In an effort to maximize efficiencies and we provide our clients. What Lies Ahead savings associated with centrally managed travel, CBRE Ethics and Compliance Our sustainability services cover management and operations recently implemented a policy whereby all business travel of, and transactions and consultancy for, our clients’ Governance that is reimbursed by the company must be booked through commercial real estate needs. We manage 3.2 billion square the program. Over time, this will yield the additional benefit Health and Safety feet of client property globally and influence billions more, so of more accurate and robust travel reporting for our carbon our environmental impact potential expands well beyond our Communities and Giving mitigation and management purposes. own occupancy and operations. Following are key highlights People and Culture resulting from our commitment to sustainable services. Client Service Global Reporting Index Environmental sustainability is the only component of CBRE’s United States Corporate Responsibility platform that also represents a In 2011, CBRE completed its 2007 commitment to achieving direct business opportunity. As a result, we have accepted certification for 100 buildings under the U.S. Green Building the challenge of both influencing and learning from the CBRE 2011 Council’s (USGBC) LEED® for Existing Buildings rating system. 17 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter CBRE is the first commercial property manager to attain the 100-building target. U.S. Sustainability by the Numbers About CBRE Group, Inc. Year-end 2011 About this Report Two CBRE-managed properties earned top rankings in the ENERGY STAR EPA’s 2011 National Building Challenge, which featured 245 Environmental Sustainability Buildings Benchmarked and Registered 1,538 buildings competing for recognition in saving energy and SF Benchmarked and Registered 260M Awards and Recognition reducing greenhouse gas emissions. North Suburban Medical Buildings that Earned the ENERGY STAR 287 Office in Denver placed first in the space category and earned Buildings with the ENERGY STAR in Process 35 Corporate Commitment a slot in the national top 10 winners with an impressive 33.7% Buildings Eligible to Apply for the ENERGY STAR 222 Global Sustainability Steering reduction in energy use intensity and a $107,000 savings in LEED® Committee annual energy costs. World Trade Center East in Seattle earned Existing Buildings CBRE Real Green Research a top slot in the category of Office buildings with the Greatest Certified Buildings Managed by CBRE 179 Challenge Percent Energy Reductions by ranking at 17.4%. The building Certified Buildings through CBRE Consultation 126 also achieved a $34,680 reduction in annual energy costs. Buildings Pursuing Certification 169 Sustainable Operations SF Pursuing Certification 66M Procurement United Kingdom Buildings Engaged in Sustainability Services 667 Our UK Property and Asset Management team have built SF Engaged in Sustainability Services 163M >>Client Service rigorous processes around supply chain including certification New Construction Engagement and Influence to ISO14001, procurement guidelines, environmental rules and Certified Buildings through CBRE Consultation 14 Professional Education and risk assessments and many others. Commercial Interiors Accreditation The CBRE-managed Grafton Shopping Centre in Cambridge Certified Projects through CBRE Consultation 64 Sustainable Reporting received an award for its “Contribution to Reducing the City’s Core & Shell What Lies Ahead Carbon Footprint” from Love Cambridge AGM. Certified Buildings through CBRE Consultation 19 Ethics and Compliance 99 Bishopsgate was awarded Platinum in the City of London ACCREDITATION Clean City Awards 2012. In addition to reducing the property’s LEED® Professionals 480 Governance consumption (gas by 20%, energy by 10% and water by 8%), Green Purchasing Professionals 6 Health and Safety BOMA BEEP Training Attendees 11,103 this CBRE-managed property installed an energy efficient plant BOMA 360 Designees 40 Communities and Giving and now sends zero waste to landfill. KNIGHTS People and Culture For CBRE-managed properties not inclined to seek full Green Knights 118 ISO14001 certification, CBRE UK has developed a program Eco Knights 103 Global Reporting Index that slowly advances these properties through certification standards, an approach that is often augmented with CBRE’s Standards of Sustainability. CBRE 2011 18 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter In November 2011, seven CBRE UK managed properties won “The environmental agenda is the single coveted Green Apple Awards in a national campaign to find About CBRE Group, Inc. biggest issue impacting on the real estate Britain’s greenest companies. Green Apples are awarded About this Report by The Green Organisation, an independent environmental sector and as a leading advisor, we have Environmental Sustainability group, dedicated to promoting the positive side of to set an example and lead the way. We environmental endeavor. In addition, each award winner’s work are resolute about that responsibility.” Awards and Recognition will be published in The Green Book, the leading international —Michael Strong, Chairman & CEO, EMEA Corporate Commitment reference on environmental best practices. Global Sustainability Steering The Central London team advised the Canary Wharf Group headquarters of Actiu, an international office furniture design Committee firm. This is only the second building in Spain to achieve on a 250,000 SF pre-let to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in a new office building to be constructed at 25 Churchill LEED® EB status. CBRE Real Green Research Challenge Place in London’s Docklands. EMA will occupy the promenade, CBRE France was asked by the French Ministry of Environment Sustainable Operations ground and the first nine office floors in the 20-story building. to lead the country’s construction and real estate industry The building of 25 Churchill Place began in late 2011 and through a consultancy project to establish new French Procurement will be one of the most energy efficient office buildings on the legislation related to the compulsory energy refurbishment of >>Client Service Canary Wharf Estate. Environmental features include elevators commercial buildings in France. According to the French Plan that store and reuse energy elsewhere in the building, the latest Bâtiment Grenelle, the building plan adopted in response to Engagement and Influence ultra-efficient air-conditioning equipment and a green roof. European Union’s 2020 Climate Energy Package, the energy Professional Education and Europe consumption of all commercial and residential should decrease Accreditation In 2011, CBRE Spain began offering sustainability services by 38% between 2012 and 2020. CBRE will perform a yearSustainable Reporting long consultation with a wide ranging stakeholder group to to CBRE Global Investors’ commercial centers in Southern What Lies Ahead Europe. These include sustainable management and operations influence. Ethics and Compliance strategies and LEED® EB certification. Immoweek gave Maurice Gauchot, Managing Director CBRE CBRE was awarded the management assignment for Iberdrola France a Pierre d’Or sustainability award for his report on Governance Tower, the new international headquarters of Spain-based the renovation of the office and commercial park as part of Health and Safety Grenelle II, a program instigated by former French president energy utilities company Iberdrola SA, the world’s leading Communities and Giving renewable energy operator. At 41 stories and 667,000 square Nicolas Sarkozy that defines key public policy points of on feet, the tower is the fifth largest office building in Spain, and ecological and sustainable development issues for the coming People and Culture is the country’s first building to obtain LEED® Platinum preyears. Global Reporting Index certification. Following the 2011 purchase of ING’s real estate investment CBRE secured LEED® EB Operations & Maintenance management operations in Europe, CBRE Global Investors Gold certification for the 2.1 million square foot corporate began to develop Project Green, a program that focuses CBRE 2011 19 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Lessons Learned: Climate Impact in Action About CBRE Group, Inc. 2011 was a difficult year for Japanese businesses in the wake of the March earthquake, which resulted in significant electricity supply loss in About this Report areas covered by Tohoku Electric Power Company and Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO). Eighteen TEPCO power generators were damaged and while 11 of them all thermal power generators were restored between March and July (the remaining seven generators Environmental Sustainability are nuclear and will never return to operation), the affected areas lost 4.42 million kilowatts of electricity. The summer of 2011 was also Awards and Recognition unusually hot and the Japanese government mandated a 15% decrease in power consumption among large, corporate users to prevent large scale power outage. Corporate Commitment Companies were forced to shift work hours at both offices and factories, give mandatory vacation days, and temporarily consolidate Global Sustainability Steering production facilities. CBRE Asset Services assisted clients across Japan in making these critical adjustments, and provided advisory services Committee on energy conservation techniques. CBRE Real Green Research Challenge on integrating our sustainability goals and ambitions across building disclosure and funding opportunities. In 2011 Sustainable Operations the direct and indirect investment platforms of CBRE Global CBRE provided over 75 NABERS ratings and Building Energy Procurement Investors worldwide. Launched in early 2012, the program Efficiency Certificates for clients, assisting compliance for will establish global guidelines for sustainability best practices sales and leasing activities and providing insight into building >>Client Service throughout its operations, in line with existing company policies. performance. Engagement and Influence In support of the fast growing low carbon economy CBRE CBRE Australia began providing outsourcing services on Professional Education and EMEA’s Global Corporate Services Rating and Taxation team Stockland’s 16 million square foot office and industrial Accreditation began providing services tailored to the unique requirements portfolio valued at a U.S.$3.1 billion. A leading Australian REIT, Sustainable Reporting of onshore wind farm developers. The wind farm sector has Stockland has been recognized by the 2011/12 Dow Jones What Lies Ahead grown rapidly in recent years and CBRE’s expertise has ensured Sustainability Index as the most sustainable property company increased cost certainty and mitigation for European renewable in the world, and by the World Economic Forum as one of the Ethics and Compliance energy developers. Increasingly, this work has also benefitted world’s most sustainable organizations. Governance UK-based manufacturing clients keen to reduce electricity costs CBRE’s Asset Services Pacific team manages some of the and lower their carbon footprint by developing their own onsite Health and Safety region’s most sustainable buildings including 1 Bligh Street, renewable facilities. Communities and Giving Sydney and 123 Albert Street, Brisbane – the first 6 star Green Pacific Star rated buildings in each city – and project managed the People and Culture CBRE Sustainability Pacific provides services to clients to multi-award winning retrofit of 120 Sussex Street, Sydney. This Global Reporting Index assist them in navigating the increasingly complex regulatory 1992 building has achieved a 5.5 star NABERS rating and the environment around sustainability reporting, commercial lowest energy intensity of any office tower in the Sydney CBD. CBRE 2011 20 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Asia CBRE Asia’s Project Management professionals were CBRE Hosts First Green Day in Asia Pacific About CBRE Group, Inc. responsible for more than 4.5 million square feet of LEED® In December 2011, CBRE offices across the APAC region About this Report certified space in China, India and Japan, including Barclays participated in CBRE’s first annual Green Day, in which all Capital, Bharti Walmart, Bloomberg, Johnson & Johnson, offices promoted a “no print” day to educate people about Environmental Sustainability balancing printing habits and productivity. At CBRE Singapore, Ericsson, Shaw Industries, Visa, Wrigley and others. Awards and Recognition one department achieved a zero-print target, and most In 2011 CBRE partnered with GE in China to cohost a client departments managed fewer than ten printing jobs across Corporate Commitment the entire day. Specially designed promotional materials sustainability summit at the Shanghai GE Campus. The event encouraged energy, water and paper savings and promoted Global Sustainability Steering included guest speakers, such as Wu Changhua, Greater Committee recycling. China director for The Climate Group, as well as client case CBRE Real Green Research studies and expert speakers from both GE and CBRE in the U.S. Some regions went even further: CBRE Chongqing created Challenge “Green Your Life” guides for all staff, CBRE Japan participated sharing international best practice. The event was well-received in the Warmbiz campaign to reduce energy demand, and CBRE Sustainable Operations and will be repeated in 2012, with the addition of CITIC Hong Kong hosted a guest speaker from WWF’s Sustainable Capital as a co-host. Seafood campaign. Procurement In 2011, CBRE Sustainability Asia and Asset Services worked In a move that truly conveyed CBRE Hong Kong’s commitment >>Client Service together to implement the CBRE’s global standard of to sustainability, a team including senior management took Engagement and Influence sustainability services in commercial buildings across Asia. Five three trains and a bus to arrive at a client pitch meeting in the task forces were established to guide initiatives around energy, New Territories. The team’s demonstration of environmental Professional Education and commitment led to it winning the assignment. Accreditation water and waste management, green operations, training and education of asset services staff and engagement with landlords Sustainable Reporting and tenants. Road. CBRE Hong Kong Asset Services were subsequently What Lies Ahead appointed to manage the property. CBRE India Asset Services initiated an implementation of ISO Ethics and Compliance 14001 and OHSAS 18001 (in addition to the existing ISO 2011 saw a significant increase in interest for LEED® EB Governance 9001), resulting in a certified Integrated Management Systems certification from clients across Asia. CBRE successfully (IMS). As a part of this certification program, environmental completed LEED® EB feasibility studies for landlords in Hong Health and Safety aspects and risks were identified across 97 million square Kong, and China, where we were subsequently appointed Communities and Giving feet, and operational control procedures were prepared and to work on our first LEED® EB:OM certification program. In People and Culture implemented accordingly. Korea, where CBRE manages a notable LEED® EB Gold certified building, we are actively helping the landlord recertify Global Reporting Index In Pune, CBRE India guided HSBC in its achievement of LEED® to achieve Platinum. Platinum for HSBC GLT 5.0, a property in Kalyani Nagar, Pune. CBRE Singapore Asset Services guided Alpha Investments in CBRE Hong Kong Offices appointed sole leasing agent for the CBRE 2011 obtaining the Building Construction Authority’s Green Mark 21 Corporate Responsibility Report first LEED® certified building in Hong Kong, 50 Connaught Stakeholder Letter Gold certification at 158 Cecil Street. Launched in 2005, the CBRE engaged more than 414 million square feet of client BCA Green Mark drives Singapore’s construction industry support in World Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour 2011, and more About CBRE Group, Inc. toward more sustainable buildings by raising environmental than 300 of our offices around the world participated in the About this Report awareness among developers, designers and builders. 158 event. Environmental Sustainability Cecil Street won the award based on efficiency in energy and One of our most important influences is our collaboration water, sustainable operations and management, green features Awards and Recognition with leading academics and industry partners to shed light on and innovations and indoor environmental quality. the value of green buildings and practices. 2011 marked the Corporate Commitment Engagement and Influence third year of our ongoing study, Do Green Buildings Make Global Sustainability Steering In order to remain at the forefront of environmental leadership Dollars & Sense?, CBRE’s longitudinal study of green buildings Committee in the commercial real estate services industry and the global in collaboration with the University of San Diego’s BurnhamCBRE Real Green Research business community, CBRE has remained actively engaged in Moores Center for Real Estate and McGraw-Hill Construction. Challenge global conversations about climate change and the environment The largest and longest running research project of its kind, the Sustainable Operations as a whole. Some of those efforts are described below. study benchmarks and measures green building benefits and resulting economic outcomes as a framework of investment Procurement CBRE pledged participation in the Better Building Challenge, criteria for retrofit activity. Leading indicators continue to support the U.S. Department of Energy’s national energy efficiency >>Client Service the idea that sustainable buildings generate stronger investment leadership initiative. We also committed to improving energy returns than traditional managed properties. The study included >>Engagement and Influence efficiency by 20% across our national portfolio by 2020. more than 2,500 building occupants and approximately Professional Education and 150 CBRE-managed office buildings that are ENERGY STAR Following 2011 stakeholder interest in CBRE’s policy Accreditation engagement, we met with numerous policy organizations to labeled and/or LEED® certified. It revealed that green building Sustainable Reporting determine the best opportunity for our business – which serves performance continues to trend higher than the general market, a vast client base with divergent interests – to contribute more establishing a clear economic case for the value of sustainable What Lies Ahead directly to climate change discourse. As a result, CBRE began practices in existing commercial buildings. In particular, Ethics and Compliance aggregated data on LEED® certified buildings over three years forging a relationship with the Center for Climate and Energy Governance Solutions’ Business Environmental Leadership Council, which led showed an average 3.1% improvement in both rental rates to membership in 2012. and building occupancy in comparison to the general market. Health and Safety Additionally, the 2011 study reinforced prior year findings that Communities and Giving CBRE continues our relationships with various non-governmental demonstrate sub-metering of utilities for tenant space reduces organizations and environmental specialists around the globe energy costs by 21% on average. People and Culture including The Climate Group, World Wildlife Fund, The Global Reporting Index Natural Resources Defense Council, United States Green CBRE EMEA produced two key papers in 2011 that Building Council and other global Green Building Council address sustainable real estate topics. The first, Planning organizations, and numerous other region-specific entities. for Uncertainty: The Corporate Real Estate Response to Economic Volatility, is based on a study that proves the relevant CBRE 2011 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter business case for sustainability has not been sidelined by of sustainable building attributes and asset value. This checklist recent economic challenges. The second, Valuing Sustainable incorporates sustainability factors into standard real estate About CBRE Group, Inc. Buildings, demonstrates that investors and occupiers appraisal methodology and when deployed fully across CBRE’s About this Report increasingly recognize that commercial benefits often flow EMEA operations will cover approximately 15,000 commercial Environmental Sustainability from sustainability enhancing measures in general, and that properties with a combined value of U.S.$160 billion. sustainable buildings are more marketable and require less Awards and Recognition As a longtime reporter to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), energy than otherwise comparable peers. CBRE recently became a signatory to the Investor and Water Corporate Commitment CBRE sponsors and participates in IPD’s ISPI Monitor (IPD Disclosure CDPs. Global Sustainability Steering Sustainable Property Index Monitor) showing performance results Committee Our professionals are frequently called upon to lend subject of the UK’s more sustainable properties. Results are drawn from matter expertise in the area of sustainability. In 2011, our CBRE Real Green Research a databank of over 1200 properties, from over 100 portfolios Challenge U.S.-based thought leadership was represented at numerous and worth in excess of U.S.$37 billion. The ISPI Monitor sustainability and relevant business events, including Sustainable Operations monitors the relationship between environmental performance Greenbuild, Realcomm, the Environmental Bankers Association and financial return in real time, eventually allowing for Procurement and many others. sustainability to be priced into property values over time. Client Service CBRE Hong Kong hosted In 2011, we formed an alliance with the Institute for Market >>Engagement and Influence USGBC President Rick Fedrizzi Transformation (IMT), a nonprofit organization dedicated to and then Chairman of the Professional Education and promoting energy efficiency, green building and environmental Board Mark MacCracken, Accreditation protection in the U.S. and abroad. Together, we developed providing interaction and Guide to State and Local Energy Performance Regulations, Sustainable Reporting best practice share with local a guide that features energy mandate requirements and What Lies Ahead clients, media and businesses. implementation schedules by U.S. city and state, a valuable Ethics and Compliance resource for building owners and management teams navigating CBRE Pacific contributed to the Building Better Returns: through the compliance process. A Study of the Financial Performance of Green Office Governance Buildings in Australia research study conducted by the In early 2011, CBRE launched Speaking of Green, CBRE’s first Health and Safety University of Western Sydney, Australia and the University of foray into the blogosphere. Speaking of Green explores topics Communities and Giving Maastricht, Netherlands. This study was commissioned by the as diverse as turning trash into cash, to understanding the true Australian Property Institute and Property Funds Association of People and Culture value of environmental vehicles, and getting a building LEED® Australia and has been widely cited as validation of the value of certified. As such, it has become one of our industry’s most Global Reporting Index green buildings. current and knowledgeable sustainability voices CBRE Pacific Valuation and Advisory Services’ Mark Willers In November 2011, CBRE EMEA launched a new Sustainability co-authored the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors’ Checklist that establishes an evidentiary base for the correlation CBRE 2011 23 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Sustainability and the Valuation of Commercial Property, a guide By year-end 2011 more than 11,000 Americas attendees to key topics in the sustainability valuation process. Mark also had participated in the Building Owners and Managers About CBRE Group, Inc. received the Capstone Recruitment Property Valuation Award at Association’s Building Energy Efficiency Program (BOMA About this Report the API NSW Property Excellence Awards. BEEP), an extensive four-part education program that teaches Environmental Sustainability commercial real estate professionals how to reduce energy CBRE Pacific developed and implemented an environmental consumption. The professionals trained by CBRE represent 40% Awards and Recognition HVAC strategy for commercial buildings in the Local of all BEEP attendees nationwide. Government Super Portfolio, which has been lauded as having Corporate Commitment great potential for market transformation and which won two More than 100 CBRE employees have participated in CBRE’s Global Sustainability Steering awards at the Australian Property Institute NSW Excellence in Eco Knights, an Americas volunteer group that supports CBRE’s Committee Property Awards. corporate tasks of becoming a more sustainable organization CBRE Real Green Research and achieving our carbon neutrality goal. Challenge In the Pacific region, CBRE serves on the stakeholder committee for Green Star performance tool development and a member CBRE Pacific has developed training modules that address Sustainable Operations of the Australia and New Zealand Building Councils. CBRE the sophisticated requirements of the Australian sustainability Procurement also participates in the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors’ market. Given the advanced, government-driven sustainable stakeholder engagement groups and sustainability training culture in Australia, training that addresses the resulting Client Service program development. business requirements will provide best-in-industry practices for >>Engagement and Influence sustainable business in other global regions. Professional Education and Accreditation >>Professional Education and In 2011, CBRE began to develop more robust employee CBRE Pacific has Green Building professionals in every business Accreditation training around sustainability. By implementing training paths line, including 10 NABERS Accredited Professionals and 24 Sustainable Reporting at CBRE University, our training series for sales professionals, Green Star Accredited Professionals and Associates. The latter What Lies Ahead and CBRE’s online training portal open to all employees, we is the accreditation offered by the Green Building Council have begun to enable our employees not only to improve our Australia and New Zealand Green Building Council. Ethics and Compliance own sustainable performance but also to advise clients in a The CBRE Singapore Green Office Committee developed a Governance meaningful, experience-based way. comprehensive environmental communications and action Health and Safety As of year-end 2011, more than 480 CBRE professionals program to raise awareness among staff. In 2011, the Communities and Giving worldwide had obtained the LEED® AP designation, which Committee shifted its focus to programs that encourage active signifies advanced knowledge in green building practices. supporters of the Green Action Plan through teambuilding People and Culture exercises around recycling and waste management. Nearly 120 CBRE employees in the Americas have been Global Reporting Index designated as Green Knights, a CBRE Institutional and Sustainability Asia has 39 LEED® professionals and an Corporate Services program that helps clients strategically additional 17 other green building, certified energy and other transform their facility operations via sustainable practices, environmentally qualified professionals. The team delivered CBRE 2011 products and behaviors. green building market updates and LEED® Green Associate 24 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter orientation to CBRE employees in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, our leases comprise only a small portion of the buildings in India, Philippines, Malaysia and Singapore in 2011. which they are located. As a result, we do not have the means About CBRE Group, Inc. to track materials source or use beyond recycling efforts, water About this Report CBRE Malaysia offered withdrawal or discharge, or significant air emissions beyond a staff field trip to Taman Environmental Sustainability those indicated elsewhere in this report section. Negara National Park, Awards and Recognition one of the world’s Our operations are largely based in urban and suburban oldest rainforests, as an areas, minimizing our exposure to protected natural areas and Corporate Commitment educational opportunity potential impacts on biodiversity and endangered species. To Global Sustainability Steering about ecosystem diversity the best of our knowledge, we do not own or occupy facilities Committee and conservation. or land on or adjacent to protected habitats or areas nor have CBRE Real Green Research we participated directly in habitat restoration. Challenge Sustainable Reporting In addition to this report, CBRE reports on sustainability matters We have not been issued any fines in violation of environmental Sustainable Operations through various third-party organizations, including the UNGC, regulations or law, nor have we been responsible for or party to Procurement GRI, CDP and numerous investment indices. Many of these and any significant spills. other reports include criteria that may not directly apply to our Client Service What Lies Ahead company. By way of organizational transparency, we offer the Engagement and Influence As we migrate toward a globally integrated environmental following insights. practice and business, we have developed specific, measurable >>Professional Education and As a service provider, the environmental impact of our targets as reflected in our Environmental Sustainability policy. Accreditation operations is relatively low by comparison to similarly sized >>Sustainable Reporting • In 2012, we will launch our Real Green Research Challenge, firms in other industries. In 2011, we estimate that our global with the intention of funding the first project in early 2013. >>What Lies Ahead operations electricity use was 64,284 megawatt hours and our • We will develop the capability to monitor and measure utility distillate fuel (oil) usage was 28,429,914 megawatt hours. Ethics and Compliance usage in our 50 largest carbon emitting locations through Our natural resource use and waste stream are not related to the installation of separate metering devices by 2017. Governance manufacturing, research and development, logistics and other • By 2017, at least 70% of our occupancy of corporate resource-intensive activities. Since we do not produce, package Health and Safety facilities over 20,000 square feet will use recognized green or transport goods, we do not source sustainably or reclaim any Communities and Giving building standards, and our smaller corporate facilities will products or packaging, nor do we transport hazardous waste or continue to meet minimum requirements based on these People and Culture water. standards. Global Reporting Index The majority of our operations occur in office settings, and in • We will continue to promote and expand the Toward a most cases, we lease but do not own the space we occupy, and Greener Tomorrow office certification program to all global CBRE 2011 25 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter offices over 5,000 square feet by the end of 2013. by the end of 2012, and we will train a minimum of 1,000 • We will continue to implement and advance procurement brokerage, sales and marketing professionals by 2015. About CBRE Group, Inc. standards that incorporate best practices for furniture, paper, • We will take an active role in the public policy debate About this Report office supplies, computer equipment, printing devices and regarding effective solutions to climate change, which will Environmental Sustainability other relevant items. demonstrate our commitment to reducing greenhouse gas • We will continue to develop and grow a comprehensive emissions from the built environment. Awards and Recognition energy and sustainability practice. We will provide advice In these efforts, CBRE will remain committed to keeping Corporate Commitment and services to our clients, encouraging and collaborating pace with the maturing sustainability market, deepening our with them to adopt or enhance responsible environmental Global Sustainability Steering understanding of sustainable performance and employing Committee policies and practices in their real estate holdings whenever that understanding on a comprehensive and integrated possible. CBRE Real Green Research environmental platform. • We will develop enhanced training programs for CBRE Challenge University and the company’s web-based training program Sustainable Operations Procurement Client Service Engagement and Influence Professional Education and Accreditation Sustainable Reporting >>What Lies Ahead Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index CBRE 2011 26 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Ethics and Compliance Overview Ethics and Compliance Programs Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification and Assessment What Lies Ahead Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index Ethics and Compliance CBRE continued to expand globally this year – and the Ethics and Compliance program was no exception. Ongoing growth and recent troubled economic times serve as both a reminder and an affirmation to CBRE that the surest path to financial sustainability is remaining true to our RISE Values. Our leaders around the globe know that maintaining a culture of ethics and compliance is the cornerstone of our business philosophy. Implementing these values consistently in more than 65 countries globally (including affiliates) is easier said than done, especially when viewed through the lens of local cultures and business practices. Conduct that appears appropriate from one culture’s perspective might be perceived differently from another’s. In the midst of dynamic change—both at CBRE and in global markets—the CBRE 2011 challenge for our Ethics and Compliance program continues to be building an integrated global compliance function, 27 Corporate Responsibility Report while recognizing the unique and essential differences that make our company strong in local markets everywhere. Stakeholder Letter Through the uncertain and frail global economy of 2011, CBRE Ethics and Compliance Overview remained dedicated to our RISE values and the underlying In 2011 senior company leadership continued to demonstrate About CBRE Group, Inc. Ethics and Compliance program that bolsters our commitment commitment to a globally integrated and locally significant About this Report to achieving success in the right way. Our leaders understand Ethics and Compliance program. The program expanded the Environmental Sustainability that maintaining a culture of ethics and compliance is the number of dedicated staff in several local regions, created cornerstone of our business philosophy and is essential to innovative (and new) local management oversight roles, rolled Ethics and Compliance assuring and maintaining the valuable trust placed upon us by out important global policy initiatives, and addressed areas >>Ethics and Compliance our clients. highlighted in the previous year’s country compliance risk Overview assessments. Consistent with our culture and similar to all other Building upon the themes and achievements of prior years, Ethics and Compliance units within the company, the program continued its focus on we have continued to implement our values throughout the Programs maximizing impact through prudent and efficient management globe, thereby establishing a global culture and minimizing of our resources. We challenged ourselves to continue to Internal Audit Programs, the types of poor decisions that can ultimately put individual Risk Identification and find new ways to do more with less by leveraging inexpensive offices and the corporation-at large at risk. In 2011, we made Assessment technologies and innovative methods to share knowledge, significant strides in our efforts to improve our global Ethics norms, trends and learning across the global regions. What Lies Ahead and Compliance program, not only from a programmatic Governance perspective but also with regards to impact and penetration in The activities of our Ethics and Compliance program were all markets where CBRE serves its clients. While this work is not stand-alone initiatives. Viewed from an organizational Health and Safety far from complete, our global compliance team built upon the perspective, they are a reflection of a larger set of goals Communities and Giving successes of the past and continued to operate as an integrated articulated by senior management several years ago to: unit, thereby focusing and orienting on common compliance People and Culture • build an organization that attracts and retains the world’s risk and ensuring that appropriate controls and processes are Global Reporting Index most talented employees; evenly distributed across our regions. • base our interactions with clients, employees and others on Unlike 2010, CBRE did not have a circumstance in 2011 which honest, fair and transparent dealings; and necessitated a voluntary or involuntary disclosure to the U.S. • increase our brand recognition as being synonymous Department of Justice (DOJ) or the Securities and Exchange with superior service to our clients, improving conditions “In 2011, the Board Commission (SEC) based on potential violations of our internal in the global community, and adhering to uncompromising of Directors approved a new version of our anti-corruption policies, nor did we have any required actions ethical principles. SOBC, which is the in response to incidences of corruption. While we are pleased With these goals in mind, our Ethics and Compliance first complete update of the original 2004 that our employees did not engage in significant misconduct program is designed to reinforce CBRE’s RISE values and document.” of this sort, our program is still fully operating and capable of ensure compliance with Company policies, and the laws and detecting, investigating, reporting, and remediating events of regulations that apply to us globally. This is accomplished by serious misconduct within the organization. Our employees, incorporating five central programs in business processes, clients, shareholders and stakeholders expect nothing less. practices and culture, including: CBRE 2011 28 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter • clear policies on ethical wrong-doing and consistent In 2011, the Board of Directors approved an updated version procedures related to follow-up and remediation; of our SOBC, which is the first complete update of the original About CBRE Group, Inc. • regular communications and outreach from senior 2004 document. The updated version incorporates new subject About this Report management focused on practical examples of how matters and compliance issues where regulations or laws Environmental Sustainability employees can identify, avoid or report inappropriate have developed since 2004 or our risk assessments identified behavior in all regions of the globe in which we have as significant. Additionally, it is constructed in an interactive Ethics and Compliance business operations; platform that provides applicable links to corporate policies >>Ethics and Compliance • proactive distance learning and employee training programs and “Test Your Knowledge” questions and answers at the end Overview that reinforce our culture and commitment to identifying and of every section. As in prior years, all employees are required >>Ethics and Compliance resolving harassment, fraud, conflicts of interest, bribery and to annually review and acknowledge the SOBC, and attend Programs other material ethical issues; training to absorb its principles. As of this report, the SOBC has • ownership of ethics outcomes in our business units; and been translated into over 20 languages, spanning all regions Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification and • aggressive risk identification, audit and compliance monitoring throughout the globe. Assessment that includes a proactive country-by-country annual risk Ethics and Compliance Infrastructure assessment process, globalized whistleblower hotline, internal What Lies Ahead Because CBRE operates globally, an effective program must investigations program and strict non-retaliation policy. Governance be driven by uniform global ethics standards, but implemented Ethics and Compliance Programs with flexibility, reflecting diverse conditions at the local level. Health and Safety A detailed description of our programs can be found in our To achieve this goal, we created an ethics and compliance Communities and Giving previous reports. It is important to emphasize, however, that infrastructure in which compliance officers from all over in September 2004, the Board of Directors adopted “as the the world interact and learn from one another, but report People and Culture highest policy of this Corporation”— a comprehensive Ethics up through regional compliance officers to a global Chief Global Reporting Index and Compliance program to serve a global workforce that Compliance Officer, who reports directly to the Board of today totals more than 34,000 employees. Implementing Directors. an ethics program across the world is demanding because In 2011, we made the following improvements to our global the program must respect the norms, laws, behaviors and infrastructure: languages of numerous diverse cultures. That is why CBRE 33% makes our Standards of Business Conduct (SOBC) available online, as the heart of our program in every country where • A separate executive position responsible for Global Compliance was hired. At the Senior Vice President growth in compliance we operate, in both English and the local language. It level, this position provides separation of duties from the and legal staff globally provides a universal set of ethical principles and guidelines General Counsel role and is accountable directly to the that every professional, no matter where they work within the Board of Directors in leading an effective global ethics and organization, can refer to as a benchmark to determine if their compliance program. behavior meets the highest standards of ethical conduct. • Ethics and Compliance staff grew by 33% globally. The CBRE 2011 29 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter increase in staff was primarily due to the ING REIM thorough investigation the actual incidences of serious acquisition within our real estate investment management misconduct were small in number and impact. About CBRE Group, Inc. group. • Tone from the Top Communications: Regular monthly and About this Report • The implementation of the “myPolicy” platform in the quarterly publications set the tone at the top, including Environmental Sustainability U.S. MyPolicy is a fully searchable policy and procedure “Compliance Corner” and “Ethics Examiner” circulated to infrastructure, housed within CBRE’s existing intranet, all CBRE employees by the Chief Compliance Officer and/ Ethics and Compliance which was custom designed to provide better transparency or other highly visible senior executives in the company. Ethics and Compliance and clarity to our U.S. workforce. Functionality of the The reports highlight material employee investigations and Overview platform includes version control, notification of changes disciplinary actions and inform employees on the wide >>Ethics and Compliance to or promulgation of policies, and custom organization range of aggressive systems CBRE has in-place to detect Programs of policies tailored as “favorites” for each user. In 2012, wrongdoing, regardless of who is involved. other countries will start incorporating into the myPolicy • Core Legal, Ethics, and Compliance Training: In 2011, CBRE Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification and infrastructure with a long term goal of adopting policies and continued to roll out programs based on core principles Assessment procedures from all countries into this system. of distance learning. We facilitated anti-corruption training • As in prior years, country-level compliance risk assessments in all regions, and continued to ensure all new employees What Lies Ahead were conducted and all recommendations identified during complete several required training programs within 30 days Governance the process have begun to be implemented. of hire (SOBC, Harassment Prevention/People and Culture Health and Safety Behavior, the Employee Handbook with RISE values, and in Systems Training and Communications targeted countries, Anti-Corruption Training). Communities and Giving CBRE has instituted a comprehensive menu of policies, • Specialized Training Based on Risk Assessments: Additional People and Culture education and communications programs to underscore specialized programs were rolled out focusing on various the critical nature of ethics and compliance in our business aspects of ethics and compliance issues. Similar to years Global Reporting Index operations. These training programs, communications, and past, the programs were targeted to relevant employee examples of new policies include: audiences based on topic or need – in some cases reflecting issues identified in our country risk assessments. • Annual Certification: Through our annual global certification • Managing Conflicts of Interest: the company rolled out process, our employees reaffirm their commitment to the 98% RISE values and several specific policies (e.g., harassmenta best-in-class framework for identifying and managing conflicts that arise as a part of our business. Particularly in prevention, anti-bribery/corruption, confidentiality, etc.). employees globally light of the high profile investigations and scandals arising who completed Employees are also required to affirmatively report any from financial services companies’ handling of the global our online ethics suspected material wrongdoing of which they might be certification program financial crisis, we believe that managing conflicts is a aware. For the third year in a row, virtually our entire significant and inherent, compliance, reputational and employee population of more than 34,000 completed the financial risk. The policy acknowledges our responsibilities to certification within the 45-day compliance period. Numerous our clients with regard to conflicts, summarizes the controls CBRE 2011 instances of suspected wrongdoing were reported, but after 30 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter implemented by CBRE to identify and manage conflicts, and 30,800 employees who received the survey, 49.3% responded, sets forth a process by which clients and employees alike well above the 30% response rate typical for these vendorAbout CBRE Group, Inc. may seek information or resolution when the need occurs. conducted surveys. About this Report • Automobile Safety: policies and procedures related to The outcomes of the survey were quite positive, but there is Environmental Sustainability employee travel and automobile safety were developed always room for improvement. Our employees reported an and implemented to provide and maintain a safe working Ethics and Compliance overall more favorable ethical climate than an established environment to protect our employees and the citizens of benchmark average. Additionally, our employees observed less Ethics and Compliance the communities where we conduct business from injury and Overview misconduct than the benchmark average in the aggregate and in property loss. virtually every specific type of misconduct measured in the survey. >>Ethics and Compliance Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification While this was quite encouraging news, the survey did identify Programs and Assessment areas for development from the corporate all the way to the >>Internal Audit Programs, Our Internal Audit group conducts planned and random country level. Compliance leaders at all levels have shared the Risk Identification and reviews of many of our business units to augment our results of the survey with their requisite business leaders and have Assessment compliance programs. Internal Audit dedicates more than begun to build action plans in 2012 to address identified areas What Lies Ahead 10,000 hours each year to financial internal control and within our culture. Governance management assessment related to Sarbanes-Oxley. Whistleblower Hotline, Internal Investigations and NonHealth and Safety Annual country-level legal and compliance risk assessments retaliation Policy were originally launched in 2009 and have continued annually CBRE continues to focus significant energy and resources on Communities and Giving ever since. The risk assessment process is embedded in annual improving our internal avenues for reporting and investigating People and Culture business plans, and owned and implemented by local and suspected unethical or illegal activities. This includes a Global Reporting Index regional business leaders. In addition, risk assessment activities worldwide anonymous reporting system that is available inform our allocation of resources to target and minimize online and through country specific toll-free phone numbers. identified compliance risk while improving the quality of service Once an allegation of serious misconduct is logged into the we provide our clients, employees and other stakeholders. system, internal investigators are required to conduct a prompt, thorough, consistent and unbiased investigation. Uniformity Ethics and Compliance Climate Survey of process and outcomes in an investigation is achieved by 352 In furtherance of our commitment to live by our RISE values and to provide an environment and culture that fosters such requiring our investigators to attend annual training and regular case peer-review meetings. number of cases open behavior, CBRE partnered with an outside vendor to conduct in 2011 as a result of our Hotline process. our first ever ethics and compliance survey. The voluntary The number of whistleblower reports we receive remains steady survey, which was sent to all employees, was designed to help and robust year-over-year which means that our employees both CBRE leadership and employees to better understand are comfortable bringing issues forward, and is a sign that key areas of culture such as openness of communication, our program is working. We believe this is attributable to CBRE 2011 tone at the top and comfort in speaking up. Of the roughly the numerous communications and training programs that 31 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter highlight this channel for reporting misconduct, and from our disclosed and submitted. We anticipate our interest in zero-tolerance policy on retaliation. The percentage of people participating in similar proceedings will continue in 2012, and About CBRE Group, Inc. reporting concerns anonymously, as opposed to identifying we will maintain our commitment to participate in policy debate About this Report themselves, has remained steady and at or above industry in a transparent, informed, respectful and responsible manner. Environmental Sustainability norms. To us, this signals that our employees feel safe and Significant Fines and Legal Actions for empowered to report misconduct. Ethics and Compliance Non-compliance or Anti-competitive Behavior Public Policy and Political Participation CBRE was not subjected to significant fines or sanctions for Ethics and Compliance Overview CBRE encourages our employees to be knowledgeable and non-compliance with the law in any country. No claims of antiactive in civic life, charitable endeavors and political affairs. competitive behavior were filed against the company in 2011, Ethics and Compliance We are proud to support the many employees who serve on nor were there any privacy or data loss claims. Programs countless local and regional boards of organizations working >>Internal Audit Programs, In previous editions of this report we have described in detail on public policy issues of importance to our business and the Risk Identification and our commitment to building aggressive policies, controls, audit communities in which we live and work. It has long been our Assessment systems and training programs to prevent violations in this area practice, however, that the company generally does not lobby What Lies Ahead which includes but is not limited to: (or fund lobbying of) government officials, or make financial Governance or in-kind contributions to candidates, campaigns, ballot • The Global Anti-Corruption Policy, which is translated into measures, political parties or political activities of any kind in at least 30 languages and is applicable to all CBRE Health and Safety any country. employees globally. Communities and Giving • Mandatory anti-corruption training programs for employees While generally we have not taken positions on public policy People and Culture in several targeted countries of operation, including new in the past, in 2011 we continued involvement in two notable employees within the first 30 days of employment. Global Reporting Index areas. First, we participated in the policy debate regarding • New employee requirements to provide a written sign-off effective solutions to climate change; particularly those that to comply with the company’s ethics and anti-corruption will facilitate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from policies; all employee mandatory annual re-affirmations of buildings (which make up a substantial portion of the worlds’ their personal commitment to adhering to our anti-corruption greenhouse gas emissions). This is a position we have taken policy in their daily activities. 53% since 2007 and in 2011 we continued to participate in support of Environmental Sustainability. • Proactive anti-corruption risk assessments conducted in selected countries with the purpose of continuously percentage of hotline cases that result in a Second, CBRE continued to provide thought leadership in strengthening and improving controls. substantiated finding support of several government agencies in the U.S. with direct • Quarterly review and sign-off on anti-corruption and remedial actions. applicability to the business practices of the commercial financial controls. real estate industry. In keeping with our commitment to • Periodic audits of the country-level anti-corruption controls transparency, all incidences of our participation were publicly and activities. CBRE 2011 32 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter What Lies Ahead 4. As a follow through to the receipt of the results of our Ethics 1. To further bolster our anti-corruption program, we will be and Compliance survey, each country will develop an action About CBRE Group, Inc. developing a Global Anti-Corruption Manual and Toolkit plan to address areas within our culture that were identified About this Report to assist all countries in the facilitation and continued as needing room for improvement. Environmental Sustainability development of their mitigation and prevent activities. 5. In accordance with our commitment to our values and our 2. We will facilitate a legal and compliance Risk Assessment communities in 2012, we will develop and employ a global Ethics and Compliance in each country and then build program improvement Human Rights Policy. Ethics and Compliance action plans based on the gaps and areas of improvement Overview CBRE invites the cooperation and feedback of all of our identified during the process. stakeholders in continually improving our Ethics and Ethics and Compliance 3. In the U.S., we will create and implement an effective Compliance program. Our Ethics Helpline is available to all Programs business document retention process to reduce legal risk stakeholders 24/7. and the storage costs associated with archiving unnecessary Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification and records. Assessment >>What Lies Ahead Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index 63% percentage of employees that choose to identify themselves when reporting potential wrongdoing, although they have the option to remain anonymous. CBRE 2011 33 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance Mission, Values, Principles and Codes of Conduct Governance Overview and Structure Managing Conflicts of Interest Enterprise Risk Management Governance Metrics and Stakeholder Engagement What Lies Ahead Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index Governance A business governed by a strictly transaction mindset will realize only short-term and irregular success. At CBRE, we believe one of the reasons we have held our industry-leading position is because our clients recognize and appreciate our rigorous governance practices and the ethical principles that permeate all aspects of our global operations. CBRE 2011 34 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Mission, Values, Principles and Codes of Conduct least a majority of independent directors. No director qualifies CBRE has established a mission and set of corporate values as “independent” unless the Board affirmatively determines About CBRE Group, Inc. that, together with our governance structure and ethical that the director has no material relationship with CBRE or any About this Report practices, allow us to effectively serve our clients, shareholders of our subsidiaries (either directly or as a partner, stockholder Environmental Sustainability and employees with integrity. The guidelines for ethical behavior or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the in our business operations are outlined in our Standards of firm). This is in accordance with standards established by the Ethics and Compliance Business Conduct (SOBC), which include specific policies and NYSE. We have separated the roles of Chief Executive Officer Governance codes related to appropriate behavior and good governance. and Chairperson of the Board since 2001 in recognition of the Every new employee is given a copy of the SOBC, and the differences between the two roles. Our Board Chairperson, >>Mission, Values, Principles and Codes of Conduct document is posted electronically to our intranet and public who is independent of management, provides oversight and website, and is available in 20 languages. guidance to the Chief Executive Officer, sets the agenda for >>Governance Overview Board meetings and presides over meetings of the full Board. and Structure We have also adopted: Our Board Chairperson is independent and leads meetings Managing Conflicts of the full Board and executive sessions of the Board when • A comprehensive Code of Ethics for Senior Financial of Interest Officers that is intended to promote honest and ethical management is not present. Enterprise Risk Management conduct and compliance with the law, particularly as Board candidates are selected on the basis of outstanding Governance Metrics related to the company’s financial record-keeping and the achievement in their professional careers, broad experience, and Stakeholder Engagement preparation of financial statements. personal and professional integrity, their ability to make • A rigorous Anti-Corruption Policy globally to help avoid What Lies Ahead independent and analytical inquiries, financial literacy, mature violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and judgment, high performance standards, familiarity with our Health and Safety similar non-U.S. laws. Our non-U.S. employees receive a business and industry, and an ability to work collegially. In Communities and Giving copy of this policy, which is also posted electronically to our addition, the Board is interested in adding candidates with a intranet and public website. People and Culture strategic marketing or operating background and a passion for • A rigorous Whistleblower Policy and anonymous reporting building a transformative business on a global basis. Other factors Global Reporting Index system for our employees, vendors, consultants and other include having members with international experience, including third parties to report suspected wrongdoing, with every knowledge of emerging markets and/or management of business report subject to investigation. operations and resources that are dispersed across a global platform, as well as various and relevant career experience and Governance Overview and Structure technical skills, and having a Board that is, as a whole, diverse. At Board of Directors least a majority of the Board must be independent as determined The governance of CBRE is supervised by a 10-member Board by the Board under NYSE listing standards, and at least one of Directors, nine of whom are deemed independent, and the member of the Board serving on the Audit Committee should have tenth is our Chief Executive Officer, Brett White. Pursuant to our the qualifications and skills necessary to be considered an “Audit Corporate Governance Guidelines and the listing rules of the CBRE 2011 Committee Financial Expert” under relevant U.S. Securities and 35 Corporate Responsibility Report New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Board must consist of at Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. Stakeholder Letter The Board’s work is partially accomplished through its is adequately focused on identifying and managing risks, and committees: Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance assesses the Board’s own oversight of risks associated with its About CBRE Group, Inc. and Nominating (Governance), Acquisition and Executive. governance and delegation decisions. About this Report The Audit, Compensation and Governance committees are Our Board retains responsibility for the Corporate Responsibility Environmental Sustainability considered key governance committees, and each member is initiatives outlined in this report. Two key non-Board task forces independent under the standards referenced above. In addition, Ethics and Compliance have been set up to advance our goals in this area, one for we have determined that each of our Audit Committee corporate responsibility generally, and the other specifically for Governance members qualifies as an “Audit Committee Financial Expert” environmental sustainability, both of which are led by a member under SEC rules. More information on the roles of our Board Mission, Values, Principles of executive management, who reports to our Chief Executive and Codes of Conduct committees can be found in the Investor Relations section of Officer and updates the Board on the programs on a regular www.cbre.com and in our annual proxy statements. Each >>Governance Overview basis. year, our Board and its key governance committees conduct and Structure an annual performance self-assessment with the purpose of Executive Management >>Managing Conflicts increasing the effectiveness of the Board and its committees. CBRE employs executives who share our vision of sustainable of Interest performance and our corporate RISE values. Aligning our The Board plays an active role, as a whole and also at the Enterprise Risk Management executives’ short-term goals and long-term vision with those committee level, in overseeing management of the company’s Governance Metrics of our shareholders is a top priority. To achieve that goal, risks. The Board engages with management to ensure the and Stakeholder Engagement we reward executives for annual and long-term business Board understands the material risks associated with the performance, based on either global or line-of-business What Lies Ahead company’s strategy and operations, including business financial performance, and strategic progress, and the creation segment, reputation, credit, liquidity and compensation Health and Safety of stockholder value. Our compensation programs are more issues. The Board looks to its key governance committees to Communities and Giving fully described in our annual proxy statements. identify, report on and manage risks relevant to their areas People and Culture of competency. The company’s Compensation Committee is Managing Conflicts of Interest responsible for overseeing the management of risks relating CBRE is the largest commercial real estate services provider Global Reporting Index to our compensation plans and arrangements. The Audit in the world. As a result, there may be times when conflicts Committee oversees management of risks related to our of interest arise. Through the firm’s policies, education and financial reports and record-keeping and potential conflicts of oversight efforts, we proactively manage such conflicts in full interest. The Governance Committee manages risks associated accordance with the law, our Standards of Business Conduct with the independence of the Board of Directors and the and our RISE values. In 2011, we engaged a cross-section composition of our Board and its committees. The Board also of leaders from across the company and around the globe to receives regular reports from our Executive Risk Committee develop a comprehensive, new global conflicts of interest policy (ERC) as to key risks for the company, as well as reports from framed in clear and concise language that will help guide our the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer regarding employees through conflict issues that may come up in their CBRE 2011 litigation and compliance issues. Through management and activities. This revised policy manifests our commitment to 36 Corporate Responsibility Report committee reports, the Board determines whether management put the client first by conducting our business with the highest Stakeholder Letter ethical standards, and to comply fully with all of our legal and expanded or changed business opportunities or significant regulatory obligations. transactions. Under the policy, certain events and/or business About CBRE Group, Inc. activities trigger the escalation of risk information to the ERC in About this Report At the Board level, our directors must report any potential a standard format called the New Venture Risk Template so that conflicts of interest with, or corporate opportunities available Environmental Sustainability appropriate activities (e.g. mitigation, exploitation, etc.) can be to, the company. When a potential direct conflict of interest or taken and the management approval process can be enhanced Ethics and Compliance corporate opportunity situation arises, it is reviewed, and approved with additional risk information. or rejected by our independent Audit Committee. For more Governance information on our conflict management system at the employee Governance Metrics and Stakeholder Engagement Mission, Values, Principles level, see the “Ethics and Compliance” section of this report. CBRE seeks full transparency in its public disclosures and strives and Codes of Conduct to demonstrate a strong standard of governance relative to Enterprise Risk Management our industry. ISS, one of the major institutional proxy advisors Governance Overview and Structure We have adopted an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and a division of MSCI, Inc., rates public companies based process to identify, assess, respond and monitor the most on a corporate governance grid. This grid ranking is based on >>Managing Conflicts significant strategic, operational, financial and compliance a number of factors and is relative to the indices in which ISS of Interest risks to the organization. Annually, senior leaders across the places the company. On the ISS grid as of March 5, 2012, the >>Enterprise Risk Management organization are interviewed by a Chief Risk Officer and/ company was ranked as follows: >>Governance Metrics or head of Internal Audit regarding these risks based on a standard Business Risk Inventory developed and maintained by • Board Low Risk and Stakeholder Engagement our Global Risk Management group, with input from internal • Audit Low Risk What Lies Ahead • Compensation Low Risk and external sources. These risks are aggregated and the Health and Safety ERC assesses them against commonly accepted prioritization • Shareholder Rights Low Risk Communities and Giving criteria (i.e., impact, likelihood, etc.). The ERC is comprised The grid rankings for CBRE reflect, in our view, the continued of the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, emphasis we place on strong governance practices. People and Culture Chief Risk Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Group Global Reporting Index President—Global Services and SVP of Corporate Strategy. For When formulating governance policies, the Board regularly the most significant risks, “risk owners” are assigned and are monitors the analysis of ISS, given its role as a prominent responsible for implementing CBRE’s risk analysis, response governance-activist advisor to numerous institutional and reporting tools for the applicable risk. Quarterly updates shareholder interests, as well as other shareholder advisory for each of these significant risks are then provided to the firms and large shareholders themselves. ERC. This process is proving to be best practice in the industry CBRE has not implemented a formalized process for and enhances our ability to identify and manage risk for our systematically gathering the views of outside stakeholders on company. governance matters. However, in addition to the ISS ratings In addition, as part of the ERM process, we have developed noted above, we engage in dialogue with current and potential CBRE 2011 a new policy to address when and how our formal risk investors, creditors, clients and peer companies to gather 37 Corporate Responsibility Report management process and ERC should be triggered for new, feedback regarding our governance practices and other Stakeholder Letter issues of importance to shareholders. For example, our Chief Except for Works Councils in certain European countries, Financial Officer meets with various institutional investors to we do not otherwise have organized employee councils or About CBRE Group, Inc. discuss our performance during the prior quarter and any formal methods of collecting input from the various employee About this Report concerns or issues these shareholders would like to address. groups throughout the company. Our employees are always Environmental Sustainability We have found this to be a meaningful method to learn what encouraged to communicate directly and informally with issues are of immediate concern to our shareholders, and also management and are given multiple avenues to do so without Ethics and Compliance the general trends in the minds of these shareholders. fear of retaliation, including by filing anonymous reports Governance through the CBRE Ethics HelpLine managed by EthicsPoint, a In addition, from time to time shareholders engage us in third-party provider. Mission, Values, Principles dialogue over specific issues of importance to them as part and Codes of Conduct of our annual meeting process. In early 2011 we engaged What Lies Ahead Governance Overview in a dialogue with one of our institutional shareholders with In 2012, we intend to improve our management of the and Structure respect to its interests in encouraging companies to increase stakeholder communication and outreach process through the Managing Conflicts their public policy activities in the area of sustainability. As following: of Interest a result of these ongoing discussions, we identified an • We anticipate development of a team focused on appropriate policy organization in which we could participate Enterprise Risk Management appropriately evaluating and responding to shareholder and to further our interests in sustainability. We also engaged in >>Governance Metrics other stakeholder communications. This team will expand as a dialogue with a labor organization regarding its interests and Stakeholder Engagement necessary to incorporate appropriate subject-matter experts in encouraging companies to provide a positive work at the company, depending on the issues raised in any >>What Lies Ahead environment for employees and to focus on sustainability stakeholder communication. generally. This organization did not propose specific actions Health and Safety • We previously have not had an organized methodology by CBRE, but rather is interested in maintaining a dialogue Communities and Giving for shareholder outreach. In 2012, we plan to implement with the company. This ongoing dialogue with shareholders a stakeholder engagement process via a survey or similar People and Culture relative to their specific policy interests is an important avenue method. for us to understand issues of concern to our shareholders Global Reporting Index and to determine, where appropriate, how to calibrate our We will report on these efforts in next year’s report. activities. We believe that shareholders are very satisfied with the performance of our Board in governing the company-CBRE has flourished by adhering to the highest ethical all of our directors received at least 97.17% of votes from standards and reinforcing them in everything we do. We intend shareholders in 2011. to continue this path while always being open to opportunities to refine and improve our policies and practices. We know Shareholders, employees and other interested stakeholders with that our leadership can only be maintained by keeping our concerns or recommendations are encouraged to contact our corporate values—respect, integrity, service and excellence—at Board or any of its committees. Information on how to contact the heart of our governance practices. our Board/committees is posted in the Corporate Governance CBRE 2011 38 Corporate Responsibility Report section under Investor Relations on www.cbre.com and is provided in our annual proxy statement. Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Health and Safety Overview Injury and Illness Performance Notices of Non-Compliance Health and Safety Awards and Recognition Health and Safety Training What Lies Ahead Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index Health and Safety Our efforts to improve our health and safety performance in 2011 were successful, and we further refined our Health and Safety platform through new and enhanced programs and procedures, and the addition of more professionals globally. Since 2007, the complement of our health and safety members and their combined expertise and years of experience has grown steadily and deliberately, as has the overall process and platform for health and safety delivery. The health and safety culture we have in place today is more refined and productive than ever before, as evidenced not only by the reduction of incident and injury, but by the increased level of management engagement and leadership within the process. CBRE 2011 39 Corporate Responsibility Report Our overall Health and Safety performance in 2011 was the best on record for CBRE. Stakeholder Letter Health and Safety Overview importance of having a strong health and safety culture and 2011 was a very good year for our Health and Safety support platform. About CBRE Group, Inc. programs. The overall injury rate for company continued to About this Report Injury and Illness Performance decrease, the severity of incident and injury decreased, and Our performance measurement process has given us the Environmental Sustainability overall health and safety compliance improved. The effort ability to not only measure our rates of incidence, but also to CBRE expended in further growing the health and safety Ethics and Compliance research our performance identify trends and specific issues platform was focused and purposeful. In general, we know requiring course corrections to maintain incident reduction Governance what the issues and challenges are that make performing and program improvements. Through this process we have without incident a continual effort, but we have also used Health and Safety improved our performance in a variety of categories including lessons learned, performance data and input from the field to >>Health and Safety Overview improved ladder safety, incident free electrical work, and better create new procedures, adjust our training priorities, and share preparation for seasonal hazards like extreme winter storms >>Injury and Illness Performance the valuable outcomes. and summer heat. Notices of Non-Compliance Health and Safety is a core value at CBRE for two reasons; Over the past year we have presented information and raised first and foremost, we have a profound duty to provide our Health and Safety Awards awareness around an array issues that are often dismissed and Recognition employees with a work environment that is safe and a process or left unrecognized as true hazards; we have done this that eliminates or controls risk relative to the task performance Health and Safety Training through newsletters, monthly performance summaries and our required of our employees. Placing our employees at risk is networking structure. We have promoted awareness relative What Lies Ahead simply not acceptable. Second, the value we bring to our clients to workplace considerations such as stairways, emergency through our services cannot be fully realized if those services Communities and Giving planning, exertion-related injury, and effective incident are not delivered without incident. The impact we can have on People and Culture prevention techniques for managers and supervisors. We also our client’s reputation and the negative position we can place include topics that reach beyond the workplace and address Global Reporting Index them in with their stakeholders can be significant if we fail to hazards that affect our personal lives, such as cell phone use deliver our services to them incident free. and the extreme danger of texting while driving. Our most significant area of opportunity for incident is among The most significant occupational exposures that CBRE has to our employees who are involved in the delivery of outsourced È8% maintenance services; they face some of the more complex manage for its employees who provide maintenance and facility support services. The difference in the hazard exposure for this health and safety challenges we have to manage. They can decline in day lost group is evidenced by the fact our facility maintenance activity from work as a result encounter elevated working environments, hazardous energy, of injury accounted for 39% of exposure hours in the U.S., and 61% of operating equipment, and unplanned tasks that require the recordable injury cases in 2011. By contrast, in 2009 this urgent response and effective resolution in support of our same group represented 33% of the exposure hours, and 64% clients’ operations. For these and other reasons we value the of the recordable injuries. Over a three-year period we have CBRE 2011 40 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter seen exposure increase with a decrease in injury rate, the result vendor non-compliance at two CBRE managed locations in of intentional efforts to raise awareness and manage hazards. Washington State. The citations were associated with one About CBRE Group, Inc. contractor’s failure to follow confined space entry procedures, About this Report In the absence of global safety performance benchmarks, we and another related to an asbestos abatement contractors refer to data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) for a Environmental Sustainability failure to adequately notify tenants in the area of the comparative average to gauge our performance based on the remediation activity taking place. The citations in both cases Ethics and Compliance total recordable incidence rate (TRIR). As a commercial real were $700. estate company our TRIR performance has far outperformed Governance the overall industry average with an injury rate that is 3.25 There were no other notices of violation or citation issued Health and Safety times better (lower). For Facility Management the TRIR in 2011 to CBRE by any other regulators in any other global regions Health and Safety Overview was 2.15 times better than its industry average, and our Asset during 2011. Services group finished 2011 with a TRIR that was 2.5 times >>Injury and Illness Performance Health and Safety Awards and Recognition better that its industry average. In 2011, CBRE received four Gold and >>Notices of Non-Compliance 16 Silver awards from the Royal Society >>Health and Safety Awards CBRE Recordable Injury Rates vs. U.S. National Averages for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA), and Recognition Incidence Rate per 100 Workers and again received elite recognition 5 4.70 with the RoSPA Gold Medal Award, a >>Health and Safety Training 4.5 4.50 4 3.80 3.80 3.30 3.70 recognition that is only reserved for those What Lies Ahead 3.5 3 companies who are able to achieve gold award status for more Communities and Giving 2.5 2 than five consecutive years. This is the sixth consecutive year 1.5 CBRE was awarded the Gold Medal Award. People and Culture 1 0.92 0.63 0.57 0.5 0.00 0.00 0.00 Global Reporting Index 0 Health and Safety Training CBRE U.S. CBRE Canada CBRE EMEA CBRE APAC CBRE LAC CBRE Global Landscaping Services Services to Buildings Facility Support Services Janitorial Services Other Support Services Real Estate Property Mgmt Health and safety training continues to be an important component of our health and safety process. Not only does training satisfy a variety of regulatory requirements, it is one 63 National Averages Source – U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics of the essentials that must be functional and relevant to be effective and drive incident prevention. RoSPA awards for health and safety It is very difficult to quantify the volume of training activity excellence in 2010 Notices of Non-Compliance conducted globally since there are so many different actions In 2011, there were six instances safety and health regulation that result in training in varying degrees. General safety inspection, all of which occurred in the U.S. with the training programs, employee safety orientation, hazard Occupational Safety and Health Administration. In two of recognition training, weekly and monthly safety meetings, safe these instances CBRE was cited as the result of contractor / work planning and instruction, and formal training on more CBRE 2011 41 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter complex issues are performed routinely, involving thousands of What Lies Ahead employees and thousands of hours in training. We are very pleased with our Health and Safety performance About CBRE Group, Inc. and program growth in 2011. Our health and safety culture About this Report Many of our training programs and activities are closely, if not is better than it is has ever been in our company’s history, but directly, linked to those of the clients we support. It is often Environmental Sustainability we are not satisfied. We will continue to identify opportunities necessary for us to adopt or integrate client-specific health and and methods that will make the health and safety process more Ethics and Compliance safety training because of clients’ priorities and the programs inclusive, influential and effective as we move forward. and procedures they have that directly involve our employees. Governance While there are a variety of initiatives already in progress, Health and Safety CBRE’s health and safety training platform over the past more are being added. Our Health and Safety priorities for few years has supported the vast majority of our direct-hire Health and Safety Overview 2012 include more emphasis on employee feedback and maintenance and facility support resources, and has proven improvement through direct outreach to them for their opinions, Injury and Illness Performance itself to be a viable and effective training solution. The observations, and recommendations regarding our Health and curriculum is selected based on a combination of regulatory Notices of Non-Compliance Safety process. We adjusted our injury performance goals to requirements, hazard exposures and incident experience. promote more reduction of incidents, beyond the new lows we Health and Safety Awards and Recognition CBRE does not have a formal joint management-worker health have already reached. We are developing a more structured and safety committee, but we encourage employees at all levels approach and process for our growing fleet vehicle safety >>Health and Safety Training of the organization to provide feedback and advice on health program that will make our fleet vehicle drivers better drivers >>What Lies Ahead and safety procedures relevant to their occupation. We receive and effectively reduce the rate of vehicle related incidents. Communities and Giving input from our employees, and we use it to enhance our health While our HSE policy and program are global in application and safety policies and procedures, as well as our training People and Culture and philosophy, a better HSE management system is being programs. developed that will drive greater consistency in process, Global Reporting Index CBRE does not have any formal trade union agreements that program implementation and collaboration among our HSE cover health and safety topics. professionals around the world. CBRE 2011 42 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving Communities and Giving Overview CBRE Foundations and Programs Local Initiatives around the World Selection of Organizations Supported by CBRE and Its Employees in 2011 What Lies Ahead Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index At CBRE, we approach our commitment to community service and philanthropy with the same enthusiasm and creativity as we approach our business, every day. Our professionals are dedicated to bettering the communities where they live and work, and we continue, as a firm, to build on that passion for assisting those in need, all over the world. CBRE 2011 43 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Communities and Giving Overview individuals in need of assistance. In addition to donationsWith an unmatched arsenal of resources and talent, and in-kind, CBRE and our employees globally donated a About CBRE Group, Inc. feet on the ground in all major markets around the globe, total of U.S.$6.4 million in 2011. The CBRE Foundation About this Report CBRE has long enjoyed the designation of the industry’s top supplemented employee donations via its matching-funds Environmental Sustainability firm. Inherent in this leadership position is the responsibility program, and continued to offer employees paid time off to engage those same resources and talented professionals for their participation in certain volunteer opportunities. Ethics and Compliance to add value to our communities, and make community CBRE recognizes that supporting our professionals’ personal Governance service a top priority in our corporate accountability agenda. enrichment through these efforts boosts morale, assists in Since the CBRE Foundation assumed the governance and talent retention, and contributes to overall job satisfaction Health and Safety execution of CBRE Cares—CBRE’s corporate Communities and a healthy work-life balance. Communities and Giving and Giving program in the U.S.—five years ago, the A commitment to disaster relief has been a central >>Communities and company’s charitable programming has been transformed component of CBRE’s charitable agenda since before Giving Overview from fragmented, grassroots efforts to cohesive, focused the CBRE Foundation was established, and 2011 was no initiatives that align with our business. But one element CBRE Foundations different. In the early weeks of the year, CBRE professionals and Programs has stayed constant through this evolution: our employees’ across the globe rallied around the victims of the charitable spirit and enthusiasm for service around the Local Initiatives around devastating floods in Queensland, Australia, contributing world. This remains the driving force behind our charitable the World more than U.S.$27,585 with the company match via the endeavors, helping to shape and expand their scope at Selection of Organizations Premier’s Disaster Relief Appeal. Weeks later, when an every turn. Supported by CBRE and Its earthquake shook Christchurch, New Zealand, CBRE once Employees in 2011 Following a mandate from our employees, CBRE has taken again supported the call for support, contributing over What Lies Ahead steps to empower local offices to make charitable-giving U.S.$142,145 to the New Zealand Red Cross. And, in decisions by returning 75% of all funds raised through the wake of the earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan People and Culture the CBRE Cares annual campaign to our client account in March, CBRE employee and company contributions Global Reporting Index teams and local offices to be allocated to the causes of totaled U.S.$244,000 to the Red Cross’ relief efforts. CBRE their choosing. Our professionals continue to embrace this executive leadership was at the forefront of the internal encouragement to pursue their individual philanthropic fundraising campaigns for these efforts, encouraging passions, and in 2011 donated volunteer hours and funds employees to give what they could, and leading by example. to over 330 different groups around the world—more than CBRE facilitated the effort by collecting checks and creating ever before (see “Selection of Organizations Supported By customized donation web pages to ensure ease of use by CBRE and Its Employees in 2011”). donors. Moreover, despite the tumultuous economic environment In 2011, we accomplished our goal of facilitating employee in 2011, CBRE honored its charitable commitments donations to CBRE Cares by launching an online site for and provided financial support to organizations and credit card contributions. Featuring a user-friendly interface, CBRE 2011 44 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter the site allows the donor strategies, and the development of locally driven, nationally to earmark the specific sanctioned programs. About CBRE Group, Inc. program to which the About this Report In 2011, CBRE U.S.’s company and employee donations funds will be added. We totaled U.S.$4.0 million. This included U.S.$754,000 of Environmental Sustainability also introduced an online employee contributions to the CBRE Cares 2011 annual submission tool for our Ethics and Compliance campaign and the associated company match. Not included CBRE Cares publication in this total are in-kind donations, such as the 7,500 pairs of Governance to help streamline the shoes CBRE employees donated via a nationwide collection story-submission process for the monthly internal newsletter Health and Safety effort. (See “CBRE Donates Equivalent of 11,000 Pairs of Shoes and assist us in more efficiently capturing the details of our Communities and Giving During Soles4Souls Drive in U.S.”). colleagues’ good works. Finally, we redoubled our efforts >>Communities and to communicate our successes to a larger and more diverse Launched in the final months of 2010 in partnership with Giving Overview audience by engaging social media outlets such as Twitter national housing nonprofits Rebuilding Together and HomeAid, and Facebook. CBRE’s Shelter Program hit its stride in 2011, and has become >>CBRE Foundations and Programs the cornerstone of CBRE Cares in the U.S. Designed to help For the fifth consecutive year, CBRE was recognized for improve housing options for individuals in need, the handsLocal Initiatives around these and other efforts and named to the Companies That the World on program aligns our corporate giving with our business Care Honor Roll—one of only 19 companies on the 2011 and allows our professionals to build on their leadership skills Selection of Organizations list. The Center for Companies That Care, a U.S. nonprofit, to deliver measurable results in their communities. Since its Supported by CBRE and Its bestows this distinction on companies that demonstrate, Employees in 2011 inception, more than 3,000 CBRE employees have donated among other characteristics, a commitment to enhancing nearly 18,000 hours of service through the program, rolling What Lies Ahead the quality of life for employees and communities. up their sleeves to participate in 45 housing rebuilding projects Recognition on this prestigious list brings value to the People and Culture alongside their colleagues. Taken alone, the second-annual organization as a whole, as well as its employees, customers “Get Out and Give Back” BuildMonth in fall 2011 saw more Global Reporting Index and stakeholders. than 900 employees at nearly 20 offices across the U.S. take Americas part in projects at homeless shelters, transitional housing United States facilities and private homes. 1,030 CBRE Cares With oversight from the CBRE Foundation—an independent, In 2011, the company continued its popular tradition of incorporating large-scale rebuilding projects into the birthday cakes non-profit, public-benefit corporation that funds the company’s delivered to homeless programming for our national conferences and corporate and disadvantaged charitable initiatives—CBRE Cares serves as a platform to initiatives, bridging geographies and business lines and children at local further employees’ philanthropic efforts on many levels, organizations offering opportunities for networking in the process. In May, including community outreach and support, disaster-response employees attending the Women’s Networking Forum in CBRE 2011 45 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter CBRE Donates Equivalent of 11,000 Pairs of Shoes During Soles4Souls Drive in U.S. About CBRE Group, Inc. Spearheaded by CBRE Cares and CBRE sustainability group the Eco Knights, the company’s About this Report National Shoe Collection Drive in late 2011 was a collaborative effort designed to provide new or gently used footwear to individuals in need, while reducing waste. To orchestrate this Environmental Sustainability large-scale effort, CBRE partnered with Soles4Souls, a Nashville-based charity that collects Ethics and Compliance shoes to benefit victims of abject suffering and to support micro-business efforts to eradicate poverty. Governance Nearly 50 CBRE offices across the country participated in the two-week-long drive, donating a Health and Safety range of footwear, from running shoes and pumps to sandals, cleats and work boots. All told, Communities and Giving more than 7,500 pairs of shoes were donated to the effort, five times the original goal of 1,500 pairs. Notably, CBRE also donated more than $3,500 through the CBRE Foundation’s fund-matching program, allowing Soles4Souls to provide an additional 3,000 pairs of shoes Communities and to children and adults in need around the world. According to Soles4Souls, this campaign was the organization’s most successful internal Giving Overview company-wide shoe drive ever. >>CBRE Foundations “We couldn’t be more thrilled with the efforts of CBRE Cares and Eco Knights and the amount of shoes and funds they collected. The simple and Programs gift of shoes can bring hope to a child or adult who lives in poverty, and can mean so much more during the holiday season.” Local Initiatives around – Wayne Elsey, Founder and CEO, Soles4Souls. the World Selection of Organizations Chicago, IL, refurbished a women’s shelter and senior center, projects. Housed on CBRE’s internal website, the map displays Supported by CBRE and Its and in June, attendees of the HUD-sponsored National Healthy the various locations of past builds across the U.S., while also Employees in 2011 Homes Conference in Denver took part in a neighborhood providing background information and a photo from each What Lies Ahead rehabilitation project. Notably, CBRE professionals also event. People and Culture participated in Rebuilding Together’s Kickoff to Rebuild charity U.S. employees continued to support CBRE’s signature Birthday event, which is held each year in the Super Bowl host city Global Reporting Index Cakes and More for Homeless Children Program, a grassroots in the days leading up to the big game. At the early 2012 initiative in which volunteers deliver personalized cakes to event in Indianapolis, IN, CBRE was recognized with the homeless children to help them celebrate their birthdays. nonprofit’s prestigious MVP Award (see “CBRE Recognized with In 2011, 1,030 cakes were delivered to children at local Outstanding Service Award at Rebuilding Together Event”). organizations. Since its inception in 2001 and U.S. expansion CBRE launched an interactive online Build Map in 2011 to in 2004, the program has grown to serve more than 77 shelters provide a visual representation of the breadth and success in 53 cities. The program also offers supplemental support to of this program. This tool recognizes the outstanding efforts these shelters through school-supply donations, holiday parties, of our colleagues while encouraging participation in future clothing drives and more. CBRE 2011 46 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter CBRE is dedicated children’s rights, and expands CBRE EMEA’s existing local to continually charity program to all 26 EMEA countries in which CBRE has About CBRE Group, Inc. expanding and honing wholly owned offices. The 2011 plan incorporated specific About this Report our philanthropic commitments in the areas of children’s rights, the environment, Environmental Sustainability strategy, and looks community housing, health and social inclusion, reflecting the to our people for the company’s overall dedication to sustainable and responsible Ethics and Compliance inspiration, ideas and business practices. Governance enthusiasm to maximize its potential. In 2011, the company CBRE EMEA selected UNICEF as its first partner for its regional re-launched its acclaimed CBRE University program, which Health and Safety program due to the nonprofit’s global footprint, alignment offers training curricula to help our leaders and client-facing Communities and Giving with CBRE EMEA’s chosen causes of children’s rights and sales professionals better perform their jobs. As part of the environmental protection, and innovative Climate Positive Communities and University’s Foundations Program, professionals in the first program, which aims to mitigate the often-devastating effects Giving Overview two years of their real estate careers are introduced to CBRE of climate change on children in developing countries. CBRE Cares and its programs, and are encouraged to embrace the >>CBRE Foundations contributed more than U.S.$274,000 to UNICEF in 2011 as and Programs emphasis on community engagement inherent in the CBRE part of a three-year, U.S.$823,000 corporate commitment culture. >>Local Initiatives around focused on supporting the nonprofit’s life-saving work in the World Canada Madagascar, one of the world’s most impoverished countries. Selection of Organizations In Canada, CBRE staged a variety of creative fundraising efforts (See “CBRE EMEA Partners with UNICEF to Build Hope in Supported by CBRE and Its in 2011. Employee, company and private-donor contributions Madagascar”). Employees in 2011 topped U.S.$1.1 million in support of organizations such as the In addition to this regional partnership, CBRE EMEA’s local What Lies Ahead United Way, Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, Parkinson offices supported hundreds of local charitable initiatives during Society Canada, Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada and People and Culture the year. For example, following the success of CBRE’s 2010 several research hospitals. Canada’s corporate giving strategy London-to-Paris charity bike ride, 79 professionals and their Global Reporting Index involves supporting the causes and initiatives most important to, friends, family and clients cycled from London to Amsterdam in and spearheaded by, both its employees and its clients. May 2011, raising U.S.$48,000 for three charities. In addition, EMEA CBRE Spain was responsible for the most successful country$6.4 In 2011, CBRE’s EMEA region—comprised of offices in Europe, the Middle East and Africa—embarked on its first region-wide wide charitable campaign in EMEA in 2011. The team helped million philanthropy program, a strategic move designed to align its CBRE global employee and company charitable efforts with the real estate business and unite its donations in 2011 professionals under a shared set of philanthropic goals. The two-pronged program incorporates a new regional corporate partnership with UNICEF, the world’s leading advocate for CBRE 2011 47 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter sell empty cardboard boxes that conceptually contained love— To support CBRE’s service efforts and raised more than U.S.$137,100 for the San Juan de Dios at both a regional and local level, About CBRE Group, Inc. charity, which helps sick children all over the world. CBRE EMEA also bolstered its About this Report network of Charity Champions— CBRE U.K. donations for 2011 totalled U.S.$533,705, a Environmental Sustainability professionals in each office tasked 143% increase over 2010’s total. This figure encompasses with encouraging colleagues Ethics and Compliance U.S.$152,332 contributed by employees and U.S.$381,373 in to actively engage with their corporate donations, which includes funds from the Charitable Governance communities. As a result of this Trust, an independent registered charity that coordinates CBRE effort, most of the EMEA countries in which CBRE has wholly Health and Safety U.K.’s employee volunteer and fundraising activities. In 2011, owned offices now have a Charity Champion. Communities and Giving CBRE U.K. employees supported 59 national and international charitable organizations through both individual efforts and The region’s enhanced philanthropy strategy enables its Communities and office-wide fundraising activities. employees to contribute tangibly to their local communities Giving Overview while also participating in a collective corporate giving effort CBRE Foundations In addition, 2011 marked the final year of CBRE’s three-year across the region. As a result, in 2011 CBRE EMEA contributed and Programs partnership with LandAid, which helps young, disadvantaged U.S.$873,000 to more than 90 different charities, and individuals in the U.K. learn new skills to improve their lives. >>Local Initiatives around thousands of volunteer hours to local service projects. This the World With its 2011 donation, CBRE’s total contributions to the represents a marked increase over previous years. nonprofit reached U.S.$48,000. Selection of Organizations Supported by CBRE and Its Employees in 2011 What Lies Ahead CBRE Recognized with Outstanding Service Award at Rebuilding Together Event In February 2012, CBRE was honored by Rebuilding Together with their annual MVP Award, which People and Culture recognizes one corporate partner that has demonstrated outstanding support of and dedication to Global Reporting Index the mission of the national housing nonprofit. The award acknowledges CBRE’s overall commitment to Rebuilding Together through year-round involvement in its programs and initiatives, as well as the company’s leadership and support for Kickoff to Rebuild, one of the nonprofit’s largest and most high-profile events. CBRE accepted the award at a ribbon-cutting ceremony following the company’s 75% participation in Kickoff to Rebuild 2012, a pre-Super Bowl charity event in Indianapolis sanctioned by the National Football League. Approximately 80 local CBRE volunteers participated in revitalization projects at CBRE Cares funds 10 homes and a daycare center as part of this effort. returned to U.S. offices and account teams “CBRE has been a superior corporate and mission-based partner for the past three years. Their passion and dedication to providing safe to be allocated to local causes most housing for families in need has helped Rebuilding Together rebuild health and hope nationwide. CBRE was recently awarded Rebuilding important to them Together’s MVP Award at our annual Kickoff to Rebuild event. This award is given to an organization that exhibits superior leadership and commitment for rebuilding and revitalizing our communities.” – Gary A. Officer, President & CEO, Rebuilding Together. CBRE 2011 48 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter CBRE EMEA Partners with UNICEF to Build Hope in Madagascar About CBRE Group, Inc. For the past few years, CBRE EMEA leadership has worked to devise a charitable program that About this Report would seamlessly unite its owned offices—spread across nearly 30 different countries—under a common mission, while affording employees opportunities for volunteerism and ensuring Environmental Sustainability alignment with the company’s business focus. In fulfillment of this goal, in 2011 they launched a Ethics and Compliance partnership with UNICEF under the organization’s Climate Positive initiative. As part of this multifaceted program, CBRE is helping to build sustainable schools and facilities in Madagascar that Governance will be able to withstand the cyclones that regularly ravage the shores of the severely impoverished island-country. Five schools were constructed in 2011 alone, giving hundreds of children access to Health and Safety education and U.N.-approved Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) facilities. CBRE is one of the first companies to partner with UNICEF Communities and Giving to advance its Climate Positive program, and is the first firm in the commercial real estate arena to do so. Communities and CBRE’s financial commitment to UNICEF is comprised of a central corporate donation, to which each country contributes, and employee Giving Overview fundraising. Backed by the enthusiastic support of Mike Strong, Chairman of CBRE EMEA, and executive leadership, the program was immediately championed by our employees, inspiring a number of creative and successful fundraising efforts across the region. These CBRE Foundations included a nationwide run and bike ride in Germany, a furniture auction in the Netherlands, a Christmas-themed market in Austria and and Programs participation in IMMORUN in Belgium. But perhaps the most significant event—and the most challenging to coordinate—was the Build a >>Local Initiatives around School in an Hour initiative, which it launched in early 2012. Aimed at garnering the funds necessary to construct two additional cyclonethe World proof schools by encouraging employees to donate one hour of their salary, this EMEA-wide campaign raised nearly €20,000 ($27,400) in just 10 days. Selection of Organizations Supported by CBRE and Its In April 2011, Gaetan Clermont, CEO of CBRE Belgium and Luxemburg, visited the CBRE-sponsored projects currently underway in Employees in 2011 Madagascar. Upon his return, he narrated a video describing the challenges he witnessed and asking his colleagues to support the effort. What Lies Ahead This video was featured in a dedicated philanthropy edition of CBRE EMEA’s internal newsletter, “Sans Frontières.” People and Culture Asia Pacific and the Run for the Cure Foundation. In addition to CBRE Global Reporting Index CBRE Asia Pacific contributed a total of U.S.$414,844 to a Asia’s fundraising total of U.S.$152,000, Rob Blain—CEO broad range of charitable causes in 2011. & Chairman of CBRE Asia Pacific and a perennial champion of good works—helped raise U.S.$491,000 during the year Asia through four fundraising Professionals in Asia demonstrated a focused commitment to auctions. The auctions philanthropic engagement during the year, serving a number of benefitted Operation local organizations and rallying behind individuals affected by Smile Vietnam and the natural disasters in the region, including the Japan earthquake Foreign Correspondents’ and tsunami and the floods in Thailand. The region’s Club, which benefits the fundraising efforts have benefitted organizations such as the Po Leung Kuk children’s CBRE 2011 Thai Red Cross Society, Peace Boat, Operation Blessing China 49 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Asia Pacific Employees Lend a Hand in Rebuilding Process After 2011 Natural Disasters About CBRE Group, Inc. In fulfillment of its 2011 goal to provide increased support for victims of natural disasters, CBRE made relief efforts a central focus of its About this Report philanthropic agenda for the year, providing both financial and physical support to thousands of victims—CBRE employees and clients among them. Asia Pacific employees in particular were galvanized to action by the widespread destruction in their own backyards. Environmental Sustainability In the wake of Tropical Cyclone Yasi and the severe flooding that ravaged Queensland, Australia, at the beginning of the year, CBRE helped Ethics and Compliance organize the Property Industry Flood Relief Benefit to raise funds for those affected. Over 550 industry professionals gathered at the event, Governance and more than U.S.$319,000 in donations and auction proceeds was raised in support of the Premier’s Disaster Relief Appeal, which CBRE employees also supported via the company’s global relief initiative. Collection boxes placed in offices and CBRE-managed buildings Health and Safety gleaned an additional U.S.$8,223, and employees also made personal donations of money and necessities like diapers for moms in need. Communities and Giving Asset Services staff worked around the clock to provide support to their clients, and other professionals traveled to the hardest-hit areas to assist in the clean-up efforts. Communities and Giving Overview In response to the earthquake that shook Christchurch, New Zealand, just a couple of weeks later, CBRE Pacific rallied around the victims, raising U.S.$77,286 for the New Zealand Red Cross at an auction event. CBRE professionals donated a number of auction items, including CBRE Foundations a week working in the office of CBRE Pacific CEO Tom Southern. Staff raised U.S.$5,823 in personal donations, and this total was and Programs supplemented by the CBRE Foundation. >>Local Initiatives around Following the devastating, 9.0-magnitude earthquake and resulting tsunami that hit the Tohoku region of Japan in March, CBRE Japan the World employees raised U.S.$50,000, including the company match, for the Japan Red Cross. Unable to travel to the area in the weeks following Selection of Organizations the disaster, employees hosted a food drive, partnering with Second Harvest Japan to ensure the donations were transported quickly Supported by CBRE and Its and efficiently to victims. Other employees ventured out to affected areas as soon as it was deemed safe to do so, helping to distribute Employees in 2011 necessities to those whose homes and belongings had been lost, and cleaning debris from those that could be salvaged. In fact, in the final weeks of 2011, 22 employees traveled to northern Japan and, working alongside the nonprofit, Peace Boat, spent two days plowing What Lies Ahead a destroyed field in a nearby fishing village and cleaning mud and other debris from a local home. CBRE Japan’s management team People and Culture facilitated these and other volunteer efforts by instituting the Special Paid Volunteer Program, which allows its people to donate work-day hours toward local service projects. Global Reporting Index When Thailand was ravaged by floods in summer 2011, CBRE’s affiliate offices in the country hosted a fundraising auction, with proceeds benefitting the Rajaprajanugroh Foundation. Additionally, employees collaborated with clients to collect and donate items to flood victims. CBRE|Thailand was also a key sponsor of The Christmas Tree Charity Project, which garnered donations from the public by showcasing 18,000 specially decorated Christmas trees from corporate partners. Finally, CBRE India’s Project Management team partnered with Cisco to construct mass housing for the still-displaced victims of a 2009 volunteer hours donated monsoon and tsunami in Raichur, Karnataka. The project—which entailed building 3,223 flood-relief housing facilities in five different to the CBRE Cares Shelter Program to date villages, two schools and one health care center—cost U.S.$9.6 million to complete. “Thanks to the support and generosity of CBRE and its employees, the American Red Cross was able to provide food, shelter, emotional support and other essential assistance to families stricken by disaster last year. Your contributions have been and remain critical to our ability to fulfill our humanitarian mission to help those in need.” – Neal Litvack, Chief Development Officer, American Red Cross. CBRE 2011 50 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Selection of Organizations Supported by CBRE and Its Employees in 2011 About CBRE Group, Inc. A.G. Gaston Boys & Girls Club | Birmingham, Alabama, U.S. Humane Society of Broward County | Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, U.S. Charlotte Institute of Rehabilitation | Charlotte, North Carolina, U.S. Adler Aphasia Center | Maywood, New Jersey, U.S. Jubilee Women’s Center | Seattle, Washington, U.S. Relay for Life About this Report Adopt A U.S. Solder Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation Right to Dream Academy | Accra, Ghana Environmental Sustainability AIDS Project Los Angeles | Los Angeles, California, U.S. La Rabida Children's Hospital | Chicago, Illinois, U.S. Ronald McDonald House Alliance for Lupus Research Lance Armstrong Foundation Run for the Cure Foundation | Japan Ethics and Compliance American Heart Association Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Salvation Army Oasis-Youth Support Network | Australia American Museum of the Moving Image LifeCare Alliance Shelter from the Storm | Palm Desert, California, U.S. Governance Andean Health and Development | Latin America Los Angeles Children's Bureau | Los Angeles, California, U.S. Smoky Mountain Children’s Home | Sevierville, Tennessee, U.S. Health and Safety Baltimore Leadership School for Young Women | Baltimore, Lower Manhattan Cultural Council | New York, New York, U.S. Special Olympics Maryland, U.S. Communities and Giving beyondblue | Australia Mabel Hoggard Elementary School | Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S. Spring Road Shelter | Washington, DC, U.S. Big Brother Big Sisters Make-A-Wish Foundation St. Anne’s Mead Assisted Living Facility | Southfield, Michigan, U.S. Communities and Bottomless Closet NYC | New York, New York, U.S. March of Dimes St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital Giving Overview Boy Scouts of America Mid-Ohio Foodbank | Grove City, Ohio, U.S. Stamford Center for the Arts | Stamford, Connecticut, U.S. Boys & Girls Club Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation Starlight Children's Foundation CBRE Foundations Cancer Research U.K. | United Kingdom Muscular Dystrophy Association Stop Child Trafficking Now and Programs Cancer Society of New Zealand | New Zealand National Jewish Medical & Research Center | Denver, Colorado, U.S. Sulzbacher Center | Jacksonville, Florida, U.S. >>Local Initiatives around Cardiovascular Research Foundation Night Light | Bangkok, Thailand, U.S. Susan G. Komen Foundation the World Cardon Children’s Medical Center | Mesa, Arizona, U.S. Northwest Assistance Ministries | Houston, Texas, U.S. Swim for Life Carnegie Hall Society Oak Park River Forest Food Pantry | Oak Park, Illinois, U.S. Teach for America >>Selection of Organizations C.A.S.T. for Kids Foundation One Revolution Foundation Tennyson Center for Children | Denver, Colorado, U.S. Supported by CBRE and Its Catholic Charities Operation Blessing China | China The Baby Alex Foundation Employees in 2011 charity: water Operation Mend UCLA | Los Angeles, California, U.S. The ELIJA Foundation Chef's Showcase Foundation | Dallas, Texas, U.S. PATH The Princess Closet | Chicago, Illinois, U.S. What Lies Ahead Community Food Bank of New Jersey | New Jersey, U.S. Peace Boat | Japan Tomorrow's Hope Foundation People and Culture Crossroads Urban Center | Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S. PENCIL Tuesday's Children Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Po Leung Kuk Newcomers' Ward | Hong Kong, China UJA-Federation Global Reporting Index Diabetes Research Institute Police Athletic League United Way Dysautonomia Foundation Preeclampsia Foundation U.S.O of Metropolitan New York | New York, U.S. First Place School | Seattle, Washington, U.S. Progeria Research Found of Michigan | Michigan, U.S. Walnut Bend Elementary School | Houston, Texas, U.S. Fresh Start Women's Foundation | Phoenix, Arizona, U.S. Project Kindle Weave, Inc. | Sacramento, California, U.S. Genesis Women's Shelter | Dallas, Texas, U.S. Prostate Cancer Foundation of Australia | Australia West Suburban Community Pantry | Woodridge, Illinois, U.S. Girls, Inc. Queensland Disaster Relief Appeal | Queensland, Australia YMCA Habitat for Humanity Recording for the Blind & Dyslexic HHS Foundation CBRE 2011 51 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter learning and development center Australia and New Zealand, employees contributed a total in Hong Kong. In addition, in of approximately U.S.$262,032 in support of organizations About CBRE Group, Inc. 2011 CBRE Asia launched the such as Habitat for Humanity – Nepal, The Prostate Cancer About this Report monthly internal newsletter CBRE Foundation and St. Vincent de Paul Society. Environmental Sustainability Today Asia to more prominently Following the inaugural Walk for a Wish fundraiser in 2010, highlight its employees’ good Ethics and Compliance 850 CBRE Australia and New Zealand employees laced up works and engender enthusiasm their sneakers to participate in the 2011 event, which consisted Governance to get involved. of concurrent 10-kilometer walks through Sydney, Melbourne, Health and Safety Founded in 2010, CBRE Hong Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Canberra, Auckland and Wellington Communities and Giving Kong’s Charity & Sponsorship to raise money for Starlight Children’s Foundation Australia Committee continues to advise on and Make-A-Wish New Zealand. Walk for a Wish 2011 raised Communities and the company’s allotment of resources for charitable causes and nearly U.S.$164,000, eclipsing the previous year’s total. The Giving Overview provide support to colleagues pursuing personal service work. annual event is an ideal opportunity to simultaneously engage CBRE Foundations In 2011 the group designated one of its members to focus on the region’s various office locations and unite them under and Programs sourcing and planning philanthropy events, specifically those a common charitable goal, driving cohesion and boosting >>Local Initiatives around that engage both CBRE professionals in Hong Kong and their employee morale. the World clients. This new initiative promises to bolster CBRE’s charitable In addition to these efforts, Pacific employees demonstrated >>Selection of Organizations efforts in the country while employing a creative strategy to enthusiastic support of their colleagues and neighbors affected Supported by CBRE and Its increase client engagement and drive opportunities for business Employees in 2011 by the Queensland floods and Christchurch earthquake in development. 2011, staging fundraising events and reaching into their own >>What Lies Ahead For the sixth consecutive year, the Hong Kong Council of pockets to contribute. With the company match, CBRE Pacific People and Culture Social Service awarded CBRE the “Caring Company Logo” donated U.S.$8,223 to the Queensland Premier’s Disaster in recognition of community involvement and commitment to Relief Appeal and U.S.$5,830 to the New Zealand Red Cross Global Reporting Index being a responsible corporate citizen. (See “Asia Pacific Employees Lend a Hand in Rebuilding Process After 2011 Natural Disasters”). In 2011, CBRE China concluded its fifth year of its Save a Child’s Life program in conjunction with Operation Blessing What Lies Ahead 330+ China. Through this program, CBRE has funded heart surgeries for more than 50 children from impoverished families since We look forward to significantly augmenting our disaster-relief program in the coming years to allow for comprehensive, organizations supported 2007. focused participation across the firm and to include targeted by CBRE in 2011 support for CBRE employees affected by these events. This Australia and New Zealand initiative, which has begun in earnest in 2012, will allow us to In the Pacific region, which is comprised of CBRE offices in CBRE 2011 52 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter specifically identify which local organizations and individuals A number of large-scale initiatives are planned to support the will benefit most from our contributions—and renders us UNICEF partnership in the coming year, including CBRE EMEA’s About CBRE Group, Inc. more involved and accountable in the process. In response first simultaneous regional employee fundraising campaign, About this Report to the devastating disasters witnessed around the world in as well as a visit to the project in Madagascar for five CBRE Environmental Sustainability recent years, CBRE leadership is adjusting the company’s employees. philanthropic trajectory to help fulfill an outstanding need, Ethics and Compliance In line with its objective to give employees more opportunities and generate awareness about these important causes. The for community involvement, CBRE EMEA is also investigating Governance new program is part of an ongoing effort to unify CBRE offices the possibility of launching a regional volunteering plan that around the globe under a shared philanthropic mission. Health and Safety would make available at least 70,000 hours of work time for Communities and Giving In the U.S., CBRE will continue to expand its popular Shelter charitable efforts across the region each year. Program in 2012 by adding more rebuilding projects and Communities and In Asia, CBRE employees will continue to focus on supporting corporate-conference builds to its annual agenda, and work Giving Overview local charities in 2012, with a focus on deploying both funds with Rebuilding Together, HomeAid and other non-profit shelter CBRE Foundations and resources to aid victims of natural disasters. CBRE Japan providers to develop new and innovative ways to engage and Programs employees will continue to volunteer in the Tohoku earthquake CBRE employees. The Shelter Program is, in many ways, the recovery zone, with a large, office-wide effort planned for Local Initiatives around ambassador program of CBRE Cares; bolstering it solidifies the World mid-2012. In addition, the office will extend its Special Paid with external audiences and stakeholders the significance of its Volunteer Program to encourage community service during the Selection of Organizations tie to our business and impact on our communities. CBRE has work week. Supported by CBRE and Its set a goal of increasing office participation in the program’s Employees in 2011 annual BuildMonth event by 10% each year, starting in 2012. CBRE Singapore will continue to support the Down Syndrome >>What Lies Ahead Association, organizing various fundraising events to complete With the ultimate goal of gifting every child in America with the U.S.$39,000 donation it pledged in 2007. In China, CBRE People and Culture a birthday cake, the Birthday Cakes and More for Homeless will continue to sponsor the Save a Child’s Life program in Children Program demonstrates our employees’ commitment to Global Reporting Index conjunction with Operation Blessing. In addition, employees sustaining a cherished, grassroots program that was originated in Beijing, Chengdu and other local offices have planned at CBRE. We will work to expand this program by 15% over the local community-engagement activities throughout the year, next five years. including visits to orphanages. In continuing to support our professionals in their community In Australia and New Zealand, CBRE will continue to expand its outreach efforts, we will work to ensure that, by 2013, fully signature Walk for a Wish program, which has quickly become 100% of allocated match money from the Foundation is put a beloved tradition throughout the region. Walk for a Wish toward local charitable causes. continues to garner enthusiasm and support from employees CBRE 2011 53 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter and executive leadership alike due to its unique, unifying When CBRE Cares was established five years ago, the company concept that engenders teamwork and a sense of community. envisioned a far-reaching yet cohesive philanthropy program About CBRE Group, Inc. In the coming years, CBRE aims to increase the number of that would be global in scale but localized and personal in About this Report charitable organizations benefitting from the event. Based on execution; a program that would bring to bear the power and Environmental Sustainability the success of the 2011 Walk, CBRE has set an aggressive scope of the firm’s abundant resources—its people paramount fundraising goal of more than U.S.$199,400 for the 2012 among them—to make real, tangible improvements in Ethics and Compliance effort. communities around the world; a program whose core activities Governance would intersect with our business goals and our employees’ CBRE Pacific will also continue to develop its recently launched passions; a program that would both benefit from and augment Health and Safety Helping Hands program, which entitles employees to use two the company’s value proposition. Buoyed by our many Communities and Giving work days per year to volunteer in their communities at full pay. successes, our commitment to shaping such a program grows The program was trialed in CBRE’s Sydney offices in 2011, Communities and deeper and more focused with each passing year, and we look when employees volunteered at a Salvation Army facility. Giving Overview forward to the many opportunities that lie ahead. CBRE Foundations and Programs Local Initiatives around the World Selection of Organizations Supported by CBRE and Its Employees in 2011 >>What Lies Ahead People and Culture Global Reporting Index CBRE 2011 54 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture People and Culture Overview The CBRE Workforce Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance and Respect Benefits and Total Compensation Performance Management and Recognition Talent Management What Lies Ahead People and Culture Global Reporting Index As a professional services firm, CBRE recognizes that the reputation and strength of our company directly reflect the quality of the people we attract, hire and retain. We want our employees to know that they have tremendous opportunities to fully utilize their talents in our organization and to make an impact on our business and our clients. We truly believe that the success of our company depends upon fostering a respectful, challenging, diverse and rewarding workplace that provides our employees with a solid foundation upon which they can enjoy continued professional growth and achieve satisfaction from a job well done in serving our clients and driving our business success. CBRE 2011 55 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter People and Culture Overview (HRIS) are not globally integrated, we currently are not able During, 2011 CBRE continued to focus our human resources to compile, compare and report information on our global About CBRE Group, Inc. efforts on supporting our business plans, globalizing the Human workforce demographics and statistics. The project to implement About this Report Resources platform, improving talent management efforts and a global HRIS by expanding and adapting the system used Environmental Sustainability organizational efficiency. This chapter reflects U.S. information in the U.S. to other global operations was delayed to allow unless a specific global or country reference is identified. for coordination with a new global financial services platform Ethics and Compliance implementation. The HRIS global implementation continues Governance “Best-in-practice organizations incorporate with a targeted completion date of 2014. As each phase of Health and Safety diversity and inclusion as a central part this expansion is completed, we will be closer to our goal of a of their business strategy. More than an seamless global employee reporting system. Communities and Giving approach to making employees “feel The CBRE Workforce People and Culture good,” competitive companies focus on The nature of the global commercial real estate services >>People and Culture Overview removing the barriers to full performance business means that CBRE has an extremely diverse workforce. We have a total worldwide workforce of approximately 34,000 >>The CBRE Workforce and contribution from every member of employees (excluding employees in our affiliate offices) located Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance their workforce. By cultivating a climate in 60 countries on six continents. This diversity is as broad and Respect that seeks out diverse perspectives and as our global reach. Our diversity on any dimension, such Benefits and Total experiences, they enable innovative as beliefs, color, backgrounds, religions, sexual orientation, Compensation solutions, enhance their reputation and gender, and the like, serves to make our workplace an engaging environment. Over 35% of our U.S. workforce is Performance Management build brand value.” and Recognition female, down slightly from 2010. —Michael Hyter, President and Managing Partner, Global Novations Talent Management Our workforce includes over 5,500 commercial real estate What Lies Ahead The global business and economic conditions we faced in brokerage professionals who represent clients in all facets prior years moderated during 2011. Despite this improved of sale or lease transactions in major metropolitan areas. In Global Reporting Index business outlook, we remained firm in our resolve to maintain addition, nearly 7,900 Asset Services employees manage real our company’s financial strength, thereby providing more job estate assets on behalf of real estate owners/investors. Our stability for our employees. Our discipline around expense real estate managers perform services such as management management and focus on business growth allowed us to of ongoing property operations and tenant relations, while increase our workforce by nearly 10%, including employees our building engineers provide the daily maintenance gained through acquisition. necessary for the physical viability of the properties. Over 10,000 employees assist our corporate clients in the optimal 2011 marks the fifth year in which CBRE has reported on use of their real estate, including facilities managers, project measures related to our labor practices and workplace managers and our Maintenance & Engineering employees who CBRE 2011 environment. Because our human resources information systems 56 Corporate Responsibility Report provide direction on strategic space utilization, retrofit existing Stakeholder Letter space, and develop and implement capital improvement collective bargaining agreements increase as our business has plans. Our corporate employees include financial analysts, grown in new markets and new industry sectors. About CBRE Group, Inc. information technology specialists, legal and risk management About this Report In the U.S, 99.2% of our employees are considered “regular” professionals, communications and marketing specialists, employees with an ongoing work schedule. Only .8% of the Environmental Sustainability research analysts, human resource professionals, and many employees are considered “temporary,” with employment of others who collectively contribute to the successful operation of Ethics and Compliance a limited work duration. Of those classified as temporary, the company. most are in internship-like positions, allowing college students Governance Despite this diversity, there are some things that all of our to gain practical business experience as they complete Health and Safety employees have in common, regardless of where they work and their studies. Over 99% of our “regular” positions are fullCommunities and Giving the job duties they perform: CBRE only employs individuals 18 time, meaning these employees also have access to our years of age and over; we do not tolerate or engage in forced comprehensive employee benefits package. Ninety eight and People and Culture or compulsory labor in any of our worldwide operations; and one-half percent (98.5%) of our “regular” female employees People and Culture Overview we offer a competitive compensation and benefits package are full-time employees as well. consistent with (and in many cases significantly more generous >>The CBRE Workforce In 2011 we completed the largest employee survey undertaken than) local standards; and perhaps most importantly, they all >>Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance by CBRE. Over 73% of our North American employees share our commitment to our corporate RISE values (Respect, and Respect participated in our employee engagement survey, the results of Integrity, Service, and Excellence). The nature of our service which were excellent when compared to other companies who Benefits and Total sector business does not create the human rights challenges Compensation took this same survey from our survey partner. CBRE’s overall found in other industries, such as manufacturing. With our engagement levels and performance excellence levels exceeded Performance Management minimum working age of 18 there are no issues with child the 75th percentile of the normative data compiled by the and Recognition labor. Our employees work in office buildings, retail centers, survey service provider. The insights gained through the survey industrial parks, and other commercial real estate venues, all of Talent Management were extremely valuable; results were shared with employees which would be considered desirable work environments, free What Lies Ahead and more detailed results were shared with managers, who from traditional hazards of inadequate lighting and work space. were then tasked with engaging employees in those areas Global Reporting Index Although we conduct employee training on non discrimination, identified as needing improvement. Our employees indicated preventing harassment, and business conduct, including our a desire for more learning and development opportunities and values, there is not a business need to conduct human rights reinforced the importance of executive communication. training in our organization. Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance and Respect We support the right to exercise freedom of association and The CBRE workplace culture is grounded in policies and collective bargaining, and 4% of our U.S. employee population practices that foster employee choice, opportunities for career operates under collective bargaining agreements. In our global advancement, mutual respect and principled behavior. The operations, there are no areas where these rights are at risk. company continually implements organizational guidelines and We have seen the number of employees in the U.S. covered by CBRE 2011 57 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter We continue treating people with dignity and respect–when Center for Companies That Care 2012 Honor Roll practical, we provide the affected workforce with advance About CBRE Group, Inc. In early 2012, CBRE was named to the Companies That Care notice of staff reductions and significant operational changes About this Report Honor Roll for the fifth year in a row. To be named to the Honor in excess of the regulatory requirement. In instances where Roll, a company must complete a detailed annual application Environmental Sustainability we could not provide advance notice, employees received addressing each of the 10 characteristics of a company that cares. The application is reviewed by a panel of independent the economic benefit of notice through pay in lieu of notice, Ethics and Compliance judges and the results are combined with the results of a consistent with our severance plan. Governance comprehensive employee survey. Companies that achieve high marks in both the application and the survey are named to the Standards of Business Conduct Health and Safety Honor Roll. We define our ethical values in our SOBC. The document has Companies That Care demonstrate the following 10 Communities and Giving been translated for employees of each country in which we characteristics: 1. Sustain a work environment founded on dignity and operate, and made available via www.cbre.com, our employee People and Culture respect for all employees intranets and in printed materials. Our SOBC is introduced People and Culture Overview 2. Make employees feel their jobs are important during an employee’s first few days with the company. For 3. Cultivate the full potential of all employees example, in North America, New Zealand and Australia, all The CBRE Workforce 4. Encourage individual pursuit of work/life balance 5. Enable the well-being of individuals and their families new employees are required to participate in a self-study >>Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance through compensation, benefits, policies and practices program on business conduct and ethics. The SOBC states and Respect 6. Develop great leaders, at all levels, who excel at our value system regarding—among other things—hiring, managing people as well as results Benefits and Total termination of employment, workplace behavior, severance 7. Appreciate and recognize the contributions of people who Compensation benefits and employee conduct towards each other, our clients, work there Performance Management 8. Establish and communicate standards for ethical behavior our business partners and our communities globally. and Recognition and integrity 9. Get involved in community endeavors and/or public In the last year, over 27,000 employees participated in the Talent Management policy SOBC certification. Our employee investigation process was 10. Consider the human toll when making business decisions What Lies Ahead executed globally with training conducted on a quarterly basis in each global region. CBRE’s RISE values were also Global Reporting Index programs that facilitate an ethical and respectful workplace. prominently displayed throughout our offices and referenced in all relevant employee client communications with employees. We believe our clients, employees and communities are best served by fostering a diverse workforce and an inclusive Please refer to the “Ethics and Compliance” section for culture. We also understand that the term “diversity” can have information on our “Ethics Examiner,” a quarterly publication different meanings in different cultures, countries or global that focuses all global employees on thinking critically about regions. During 2011, CBRE U.S. voluntarily expanded its ethics in the workplace, and educates employees on the equal employment opportunity and non discrimination policy to resulting issues of risks and standards violations. include gender identity. CBRE 2011 58 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Diversity and Inclusion • 2011 saw a continuation of our CREW Internship Program Diversity continues to be a major focus and commitment at with the hiring of eight female students to work in CBRE About CBRE Group, Inc. CBRE. Employees throughout the organization have been active offices across the country. The women gained on-the-job About this Report in a number of diversity-related activities during the year. The training and preparation for careers in real estate. Our Environmental Sustainability following are highlights of our 2011 efforts: Wheel Program for 2011 included 25 new hires, with ethnic diversity and women representing over 60% of the total Ethics and Compliance • CBRE conducted a series of diversity and inclusion executive group. training sessions for senior leaders, starting in the Dallas Governance • CBRE’s support of our veteran employees is worth noting and New York markets. The sessions focused on identifying among our inclusion achievements. As home to more than Health and Safety and addressing those barriers to success that may hinder 900 U.S. service men and women, in 2011 CBRE was Communities and Giving the organization’s diversity and inclusion progress. Market recognized by both Military Spouse and GI Jobs magazines leaders also participated in group learning sessions, focusing People and Culture as a military-friendly employer. Additionally, CBRE piloted a on the leadership and strategic role they play in the work of veteran’s mentorship program, starting in the Washington, People and Culture Overview diversity and inclusion. DC market. The six-month program allows military veterans • Our U.S. Diversity Council, led by the President of the The CBRE Workforce to work alongside CBRE professionals in each of our Americas region and comprised of senior company leaders, business lines, assisting the veterans in transferring their >>Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance the directors of our Networking Groups, as well as HR and and Respect military skills into private sector careers. Corporate Communications representatives, facilitated the Benefits and Total sharing of best practices among our Networking Groups We were pleased with the efforts to incorporate diversity in Compensation and provided feedback on the results of overall diversity our promotional decisions. Our managers maintained diverse Performance Management efforts in our Americas business. For example, during 2011 candidate pools, and inclusion of high-potential, diverse and Recognition we sponsored the Commercial Real Estate Women (CREW) employees in succession planning was a priority. However, Networking and Marketplace Convention in Washington, we remain challenged by our overall diversity representation Talent Management DC, which was attended by 300 female professionals across in management and sales positions, which has held relatively What Lies Ahead the country. CBRE was also a lead sponsor for the 2011 Out constant despite improvement efforts. The focus to improve in Global Reporting Index & Equal Convention held in Dallas and the 2011 Global both these areas is ongoing. Diversity Summit, which took place in Atlanta. We also continue to strive for diversity in Governance. Our • We maintained efforts to incorporate diversity objectives into Board of Directors has 22% gender diversity and 11% ethnic normal business processes, such as succession planning. diversity. In the Americas, our internal Operations Board Recruiting diverse talent on college campuses resulted composed of the senior most executives and key leaders in the in visits to historically African-American colleges and region has 14% gender diversity, an increase from the prior universities, a Hispanic-accredited university and universities year. that had broad international student representation. Our 2011 student outreach included invitations to diverse student CBRE 2011 groups to visit us while on campus. 59 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter Networking Groups also completed the Human Rights Corporate Equality Index There are currently three diversity-focused networking groups survey and came in with an impressive score of 85. About CBRE Group, Inc. within our U.S. operations: the African-American Network; About this Report Harassment Prevention Women’s Network; and the recently established Lesbian, Gay, Unlawful harassment, in any form and regardless of the intent, Environmental Sustainability Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Network. These groups are is a form of discrimination and interferes with our commitment sponsored by senior executives and funded by the company; Ethics and Compliance to equal employment opportunity. It has no place at CBRE. however, their mission and activities are driven by their Our Harassment-Free Workplace policy reflects the strongest Governance members. possible statement in support of CBRE’s commitment to Health and Safety Our networking groups enhance the company’s diversity the prevention of unlawful harassment, discrimination and Communities and Giving efforts by aiding in the recruitment, engagement, retention and retaliation in the workplace. The policy also emphasizes that development of employees from diverse backgrounds, cultures CBRE will not tolerate harassment or retaliation and provides People and Culture and lifestyles. The groups’ help members develop rewarding definitions and examples to help our employees identify them. People and Culture Overview career paths and gain recognition for their leadership through Additionally, the policy clearly describes our expectations of valuable mentoring and educational opportunities; serve as all employees, including noting the special responsibilities of The CBRE Workforce forums for networking and information exchange; and unite managers. We worked with leading legal experts to formulate >>Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance members in community service and outreach. In addition, and draft a policy that is consistent with best practices of great and Respect they are instrumental in helping to establish company policies, companies around the world. Importantly, it implements the Benefits and Total programs and initiatives related to diversity, training and principles embodied in our RISE values and our Standards of Compensation professional development. Below are a few highlights related to Business Conduct. Performance Management our networking groups’ endeavors in 2011: In 2011, we provided our harassment prevention training and Recognition • Our Women’s Networking Group celebrated its 11th program to over 17,000 people in the U.S., Latin America and Talent Management Anniversary when 250 attendees participated in a Japan. Newly hired U.S. employees participate in an innovative What Lies Ahead Networking Forum. Many attendees also participated in online training program, which was expanded to include 2011 Build Day sponsored by the CBRE Foundation for the Canada and Latin America. Developing an inclusive culture Global Reporting Index Women’s Networking Forum, which supported clean up that promotes high levels of integrity and ethical behavior is a efforts at a Chicago shelter. key organizational priority and an ongoing process. We believe • Our African American Networking Group (AANG) held its these training and communications programs have enabled annual conference in Las Vegas during the final day of the us to take an industry leadership role in creating a collegial, Americas Summit. A record number of AANG members had harassment-free workplace in which all employees can develop the opportunity to interact with the CBRE leadership team and succeed. and hosted a number of roundtable discussions ranging from Regretfully, allegations of harassment or discrimination current market trends to career pathing. occasionally occur. Once reported, our internal investigation • The LGBT Network was corporate sponsor of the Out & CBRE 2011 teams act swiftly to uncover and evaluate the facts, take 60 Corporate Responsibility Report Equal conference held in Dallas, Texas. The group/company Stakeholder Letter remedial action if warranted, and eliminate the root professionals who are African-American to consider the real causes of any problematic behavior. Most investigations of estate industry as a viable career path. In addition to being About CBRE Group, Inc. harassment claims are initiated immediately (within a day) a 2011 Gold Sponsor, we laid the foundation to maintain About this Report and are completed within 30 days. CBRE handles allegations programs in New York, Los Angeles, Atlanta and Cleveland Environmental Sustainability of harassment or discrimination with the utmost care and markets. We also work with Catalyst, Inc., a global organization attention. We understand that the only way our employees can dedicated to improving the lives of women in the workplace. Ethics and Compliance succeed at their jobs is if they feel safe, secure and welcome in Governance the work environment. “Since the earliest days of the Real Estate Associate Program (REAP), CBRE has been Health and Safety Regulatory Compliance CBRE acts in accordance with all laws regarding minimum a significant contributor in capital both Communities and Giving and/or living wages. The company also abides by all national financial and intellectual. CBRE has been People and Culture and local requirements regarding overtime pay, timekeeping, a progressive instrument in an industry People and Culture Overview and rest and meal periods. If any compliance issue is brought shedding its past in favor of a richer, more to our attention, it is promptly researched and remedied as The CBRE Workforce diverse model reflective of the world in appropriate. >>Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance which it does business.” and Respect CBRE is also vigilant in jurisdictions where regulatory —Gregg McCort, Executive Director/President, REAP compliance is a continuous challenge. For example, in the >>Benefits and Total Compensation People’s Republic of China, aside from the national Labor Law Benefits and Total Compensation and Labor Contract Law, there are also regional variations in We understand that employee benefit participation is an Performance Management labor rules and regulations. The company is fully committed to important part of the employment relationship. CBRE offers all and Recognition regulatory compliance. full-time U.S. employees a benefits package generally made up Talent Management of the following components: Relationships and Alliances What Lies Ahead Our company has a long-standing, strategic alliance with • Health benefits, including medical, dental and vision Global Reporting Index CREW, the professional network of women in the commercial • Income continuity benefits, such as disability and life real estate industry. During 2011, we continued our relationship insurance, and severance/redundancy programs with CREW by providing a company-paid internship to its • Retirement benefits eight North American college scholarship award winners. The • Convenience benefits, such as time off with pay and internship had both educational and experiential components. employee assistance program We also continued our commitment to CREW as the lead sponsor for their five-year research initiative. Moreover, CBRE We strive to be inclusive of all employees when possible. For provided faculty members for CREW’s Annual Conference. example, in the U.S., a full-time employee is defined as an employee who works at least 30 hours per week. This inclusive We also expanded our relationship with the Real Estate definition of full-time employment results in the eligibility of over CBRE 2011 61 Corporate Responsibility Report Associates Program, which is designed to encourage 98% of our employees for our entire benefits package. The Stakeholder Letter company pays the majority of the cost of our employee medical relevant labor and employment laws, and collective bargaining benefits and we also provide company-paid life insurance, agreements, as applicable. About CBRE Group, Inc. supplemental life insurance and short-term disability. During About this Report Performance Management and Recognition 2011, we announced plans to provide a 100% companyCBRE is a meritocracy, and our employees are empowered Environmental Sustainability paid, long-term disability benefit, allowing us to ensure a and encouraged to achieve the level of success their skills and basic income level for employees unable to work due to a Ethics and Compliance desire allow. Currently, virtually all of our U.S.-based, nonserious health condition. Part-time employees have a more commissioned employees receive formal annual performance Governance limited benefits package, but it does include paid time off and reviews. Outside the U.S., our progress toward this goal is eligibility to participate in the 401(k) retirement savings and Health and Safety subject to local laws, customs, and the building of our global investment program. We do not have a defined benefit plan. Communities and Giving HR information system. In addition, our commission-based During 2011, nearly five percent of our U.S. workforce availed sales professionals receive regular, ongoing performance People and Culture themselves of our leave policies. The vast majority of these feedback and coaching to help them achieve clearly stated People and Culture Overview were for maternity/parental leave. In nearly 100% of the performance objectives. cases, employees who wanted to return to work had the same The CBRE Workforce The company honors our employees globally with more than or a comparable position waiting for them upon their return to Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance 200 individual or group awards that recognize leadership, work. We do not maintain comparative retention statistics on and Respect commitment, ethics, financial performance, community employees who return from leave versus employees who were involvement, philanthropy and more. One example is our >>Benefits and Total not on leave. In addition to the benefits discussed earlier, CBRE Compensation Ambassador Award, founded by the Women’s Network to also provides for flexible work place practices to facilitate a recognize non-sales professionals in North America. Informal >>Performance Management parental employee’s return to work. Examples include reduced recognition is also very important to our organizational culture. and Recognition fulltime schedule, alternative work arrangements and new For example, during 2011, the President of the Americas sent mothers’ rooms when possible. >>Talent Management a thank you note to over 750 military veterans in our company What Lies Ahead Our severance plan, benchmarked to industry standards, for their past and present service in the U.S. military branches. offers benefits to fulland part-time qualified employees, Global Reporting Index As we continue to expand and refine our performance including separation pay, a healthcare stipend and access to management and employee recognition programs, our efforts outplacement services. During 2011 we improved our basic remain rooted in a philosophy of respect in the workplace, outplacement services benefit by increasing the benefit duration stable employment and fair compensation for the work and offering remote access to benefits. This outplacement performed, regardless of age, gender, religion, national origin, assistance benefit offers programs to employees, assisting sexual orientation or gender identification. them with job-ending transitions and providing skills training on how to seek employment in today’s job market, identifying Talent Management transferrable skills, considering alternate careers such as The reintroduction of CBRE University in 2011 was an extremely self-employment, and offering other valuable information. important part of the U.S. implementation of our talent CBRE 2011 62 Corporate Responsibility Report In addition, we complied with the notice requirements of management strategy. CBRE University is an internal university Stakeholder Letter in the U.S. focused on advancing the skills and capabilities Through our Employee Assistance Program we also offer of our new or high-potential, market-facing professionals, programs and resources for employees and their family About CBRE Group, Inc. resulting in increased personal, professional and company members on a variety of professional and personal topics such About this Report success. Three programs have been developed to date, using as the benefits of lifelong learning for professional success Environmental Sustainability internal experts, industry specialists, and key executives. These and personal enjoyment, coping when a loved one develops week-long, immersion training sessions include prework from a Alzheimer’s, financial planning for retirement, and child care Ethics and Compliance prestigious college’s distance learning/self study program. The options for the working parent. In addition to the 23 annual Governance instructors at CBRE University are subject matter experts in their hours of programming available, a resource library is available fields and reflect the company’s RISE values. CBRE University online and accessible at any time. Health and Safety trained over 200 attendees, across all business lines in 2011 Communities and Giving What Lies Ahead and expects to train another 600 professionals in 2012. During In the coming year, we plan to make progress on a number of People and Culture 2011 we also provided management practices training to workplace and employment-related fronts. over 500 managers in 20 cities, which focuses on the people People and Culture Overview management responsibilities and expectations at CBRE. • Continue globalizing HR platform, including completing The CBRE Workforce PS 9.1 implementation, job architecture and competency We continue to invest in distance learning initiatives, allowing Ethics, Diversity, Tolerance projects by end of 2013. our geographically distributed workforce to access over 500 and Respect • Improve talent management processes by end of 2013. prescriptive and optional training programs. Our training This will include the development of career paths for all Benefits and Total records are in various formats and we are currently unable Compensation job families and an increase in the transparency of career to report on the number of training hours per employee. We opportunities through the establishment of the employee Performance Management can say with certainty that a variety of training is available and Careers page. We also plan to incorporate competencies and Recognition occurring for our employees. into HR processes such as selection, performance >>Talent Management During 2011, we also began a comprehensive review of our management, and learning/development. >>What Lies Ahead job architecture and competencies. This review included • Launch CBRE’s Career Planning Module in 2012. This tool the development of position profiles, including specific will be accessible to all segments of our diverse employee Global Reporting Index qualifications for each position level and the identification population and will clearly define career paths, skills and of specific competencies necessary for incumbent success. core competencies required to advance in any chosen career At the conclusion of this process, we will have defined job path. It will enhance managers’ ability to assist and mentor families. While this project has many advantages, one primary employees in their personal and career development as well advantage will be the enhanced ability of our employees to as provide increased transparency of career opportunities to see career paths within our company. We are confident this all employees. enhanced transparency around our jobs, their qualifications, • Assess CBRE implementation of Women’s Empowerment and the paths to get there, will result in additional career Principles, identify gaps and prioritize any action items. opportunities for our employees. CBRE 2011 63 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter About CBRE Group, Inc. About this Report Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Compliance Governance Health and Safety Communities and Giving People and Culture Global Reporting Index GRI Standard Disclosures Index GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index Global Reporting Index As global discussion about climate change and its impact continues, attention to minimizing carbon emissions and conserving our natural resources is increasing around the globe. As buildings are widely viewed as a significant contributor to carbon emissions, CBRE continues to lead the commercial real estate industry in improving how those buildings are built, sourced, managed, occupied and sold. This ability to influence and improve on sustainable real estate practices is a fundamental principal of our environmental leadership. CBRE 2011 64 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Letter GRI Standard Disclosures Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Executive management statement Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3 About this Report 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3; About Environmental Sustainability This Report, pages 6-8 Organization Profile Ethics and Compliance 2.1 Name of organization About CBRE Group, Inc., page 4 Governance 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services About CBRE Group, Inc., page 4 Health and Safety 2.3 Operational structure of the organization About CBRE Group, Inc., page 4 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters About CBRE Group, Inc., page 4 Communities and Giving 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates About CBRE Group, Inc., page 5 People and Culture 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form About CBRE Group, Inc., page 4 Global Reporting Index 2.7 Markets served About CBRE Group, Inc., page 5 2.8 Scale of reporting organization About CBRE Group, Inc., page 4-5 >>GRI Standard Disclosures Index 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership About CBRE Group, Inc., page 4-5 GRI Performance Indicators and 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period About CBRE Group, Inc., page 8 UNGC Principles Index Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period About This Report, page 6 3.2 Date of most recent previous report About This Report, page 6 3.3 Reporting cycle About This Report, page 7 3.4 Contact points for questions regarding the report and its contents About This Report, page 7 3.5 Process for defining report content About This Report, page 6, 7 3.6 Boundary of the report About CBRE Group, Inc, page 4 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report About This Report, page 7 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and About This Report, page 6, 7 other entities 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations About This Report, page 6, 7 3.10 Explanation of the effects of any restatement of information provided in earlier reports About This Report, page 6 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods About This Report, page 4-5 3.12 Table identifying the location of standard disclosures in the report GRI and UNGC Index, page 64 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report About This Report, page 6 CBRE 2011 * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data 65 Corporate Responsibility Report systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Standard Disclosures Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Governance, page 35-36 About this Report 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Governance, page 35 Environmental Sustainability 4.3 Members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Governance, page 35 Ethics and Compliance 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the Governance, page 38 highest governance body Governance 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the organization's performance Governance, page 36 Health and Safety 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are resolved Governance, page 36-37 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance Governance, page 35 Communities and Giving body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental and social performance People and Culture 4.8 Internally developed statement of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Governance, page 35 economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation Global Reporting Index 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and Governance, page 35-36 management of economic, environmental and social performance >>GRI Standard Disclosures Index 4.10 Process for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to Governance, page 35-36 GRI Performance Indicators and economic, environmental and social performance UNGC Principles Index 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principles is addressed by the Governance, page 37 organization 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives to Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3; About which the organization subscribes or which it endorses This Report, pages 6-8; Environmental Sustainability, pages 13-15, 17-22; Communities & Giving, pages 43-54; People & Culture, page 61 4.13 Significant memberships in organizations Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3; About This Report, pages 6-8; Environmental Sustainability, pages 13-15, 17-22; Communities & Giving, pages 43-54; People & Culture, page 61 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Governance, page 37-38 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom organization engages Governance, page 37-38 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Governance, page 37-38 stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Governance, page 37-38 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting CBRE 2011 * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data 66 Corporate Responsibility Report systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Economic GRI Reference UNGC Principle About this Report DMA Disclosure of management approach for economic performance Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3; Environmental Sustainability About CBRE Group, Inc., pages 4-8 Ethics and Compliance GRI EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, CBRE Group, Inc. 2011 Annual operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community Report, Selected Financial Data Governance investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and section: http://annualreport.cbre. governments com/selected-financial-data.html Health and Safety GRI EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3; 7,8,9 Communities and Giving activities due to climate change About This Report, page 7; Environmental Sustainability, People and Culture pages 9-26 GRI EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum People & Culture, pages 61-62 1 Global Reporting Index wage at significant locations of operation GRI Standard Disclosures Index GRI EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Environmental Sustainability, 8,9 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or probono page 12; Communities & Giving, >>GRI Performance Indicators and engagement pages 39-54 UNGC Principles Index GRI EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including Communities & Giving, pages the extent of impacts 39-54 Product DMA Disclosure of management approach for product performance Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3; About CBRE Group, Inc., pages 4-7; Ethics & Compliance, pages 27-33 GRI PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services Health & Safety, pages 39-42 are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures GRI PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Health & Safety, page 41 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes GRI PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Ethics & Compliance, page 32 privacy and losses of customer data CBRE 2011 * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data 67 Corporate Responsibility Report systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Environmental GRI Reference UNGC Principle About this Report DMA Disclosure of management approach for environmental performance 7,8,9 Environmental Sustainability GRI EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Sustainability, 7 pages 11, 25 Ethics and Compliance GRI EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Environmental Sustainability, 7 Governance page 25* GRI EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Environmental Sustainability, 8 Health and Safety pages 13-16 Communities and Giving GRI EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Environmental Sustainability, 7 page 25 People and Culture GRI EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and Environmental Sustainability, 8,9 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives pages17-20 Global Reporting Index GRI EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect consumption and reductions achieved Environmental Sustainability, 7 GRI Standard Disclosures Index pages 13-17 GRI EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental Sustainability, 7 >>GRI Performance Indicators and page 25* UNGC Principles Index GRI EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Environmental Sustainability, 7 page 25 GRI EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Environmental Sustainability, 7 page 25 GRI EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to, protected Environmental Sustainability, 7 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas page 25 GRI EN12 Description of significant activities, products and service on biodiversity in these areas. Environmental Sustainability, 7 page 25 GRI EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environmental Sustainability, 7 page 25 GRI EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Environmental Sustainability, 7 page 25 GRI EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Environmental Sustainability, 7 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk page 25 GRI EN16 Total direct and indirect GHG emissions by weight Environmental Sustainability, 7 page 11 CBRE 2011 * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data 68 Corporate Responsibility Report systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Environmental GRI Reference UNGC Principle About this Report GRI EN17 Other relevant indirect GHG emissions by weight Environmental Sustainability, 7 Environmental Sustainability page 25 GRI EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and reductions achieved Environmental Sustainability, 7 Ethics and Compliance pages 10-11, 13-22 Governance GRI EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight Environmental Sustainability, 7 page 25 Health and Safety GRI EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environmental Sustainability, 7 page 25 Communities and Giving GRI EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environmental Sustainability, 7 People and Culture page 25 GRI EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental Sustainability, 7 Global Reporting Index page 25 GRI EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous Environmental Sustainability, 7 GRI Standard Disclosures Index under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage page 25 of transported waste shipped internationally >>GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index GRI EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Environmental Sustainability, 7 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water page 25 and runoff GRI EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent Environmental Sustainability, 7,8,9 of impact mitigation pages 17-24 GRI EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Environmental Sustainability, 7 category page 25 GRI EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Environmental Sustainability, 7 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulation page 25 GRI EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Environmental Sustainability, 7 materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of page 25 the workforce GRI EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Environmental Sustainability, 7 page 25 CBRE 2011 * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data 69 Corporate Responsibility Report systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Labor GRI Reference UNGC Principle About this Report DMA Disclosure of management approach for labor-related performance People & Culture, pages 55-63 1,6 Environmental Sustainability GRI LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region People & Culture, pages 56-57 6 Ethics and Compliance GRI LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or People & Culture, pages 61-62 1,6 part-time employees, by major operations Governance GRI LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements People & Culture, page 57 1,3 Health and Safety GRI LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health Health & Safety, page 42 1 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety Communities and Giving programs GRI LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total Health & Safety, pages 40-41 1 People and Culture number of work-related fatalities per region Global Reporting Index GRI LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Health & Safety, page 42 1,3 GRI LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee per category Health & Safety, pages 41-42 GRI Standard Disclosures Index GRI LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued People & Culture, pages 62-63 >>GRI Performance Indicators and employability of employees and assist them with managing career endings UNGC Principles Index GRI LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development People & Culture, page 62 reviews GRI LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category People & Culture, page 59 according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other diversity indicators GRI LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. People & Culture, page 62 CBRE 2011 * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data 70 Corporate Responsibility Report systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. Stakeholder Letter GRI Performance Indicators and UNGC Principles Index About CBRE Group, Inc. Social GRI Reference UNGC Principle About this Report DMA Disclosure of management approach for social performance Stakeholder Letter, pages 2-3; 6,10 Environmental Sustainability Environmental Sustainability, pages 9-26; Communities and Ethics and Compliance Giving pages 39-54; People & Culture pages 55-63 Governance GRI SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organization's anti-corruption policies Ethics & Compliance, pages 10 and procedures 30-31* Health and Safety GRI SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Ethics & Compliance, page 28 10 Communities and Giving GRI SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Ethics & Compliance, page 32 10 lobbying People and Culture GRI SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians Ethics & Compliance, page 32 10 Global Reporting Index and related institutions, by country GRI SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and Ethics & Compliance, page 32 10 GRI Standard Disclosures Index monopoly practices, and their outcomes >>GRI Performance Indicators and GRI SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Ethics & Compliance, pages 28, 10 UNGC Principles Index non-compliance with laws and regulations 32 Human Rights DMA Disclosure of management approach to human rights performance People & Culture, pages 55-63 1,2 GRI HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning People & Culture, pages 57-59 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained GRI HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and People & Culture, page 57 1,3 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights GRI HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and People & Culture, page 57 1,2,5 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor GRI HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or People & Culture, page 57 1,2,4 compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor GRI HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies and Health & Safety, pages 41-42 1,2 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations GRI HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved Ethics & Compliance, page 32 through formal grievance mechanisms. CBRE 2011 * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data 71 Corporate Responsibility Report systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. For more information, visit www.cbre.com/responsibility or email responsibility@cbre.com
