C O M M U NIC AT I ON ON P R O GR E S S 2010/2011 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT DEAN’S BEANS: Where Social Activism, Ecological Responsibility and Great Coffee Meet Dean’s Beans is a 100% Fair funding direct, grassroots Trade, 100% Organic Coffee development projects in the coffee company dedicated to peaceful villages where we buy our beans, social change and environmental in partnership with the farmers stewardship. The company is who know better than anybody designed as a vehicle for else how to help themselves. We implementing social justice in the see this as a way to bridge the coffeelands, working directly with North-South divide and bring coffee communities to design and equality to the system of global implement People-Centered trade. We support numerous Development projects. The community programs, including company was founded 16 years micro-credit schemes, women’s Table of Contents: ago, and is regularly recognized empowerment projects, (SCAA, UN) as a business leader educational initiatives, health-care The Ten Principles 2 in sustainable development. clinics, environmental protection Statement of Purpose 3 projects, and technical capacityDean’s Beans joined the Global building projects. Principles 1 & 2 4 Compact in January, 2007. This Principles 3, 4, 5, & 6 8 is our forth Communication in Principles 7, 8, & 9 11 Progress. In this report, we Principle 10 16 discuss our initiatives as they apply to the ten principles. Our company is known for our creative approach to People-Centered Development, designing and 100% Fair Trade Dean’s Beans 50 R.W. Moore Ave. 100% Organic Orange, MA 01364 1800-325-3008 1(978)544-2002 1(978)544-7934 (fax) www.deansbeans.com Page 2 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact At Dean’s Beans, the Global Compact represents the opportunity for widespread, meaningful action by THE 10 PRINCIPLES companies across the world on matters that we all care deeply about, from environmental sustainability, 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed to the protection of human rights. The GC is an human rights. opportunity to share our best practices and progress. Adherence to the Compact has allowed us to make a 2. Business should ensure that they are not fresh assessment of our social and environmental complicit in human rights abuses. impacts, both positive and negative, and has offered us a structure through which to release information 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of regarding our progress. Our hope is that the work we the right to collective bargaining. do in the Orange, Massachusetts Beanery, as well as abroad in 14 different coffee-growing communities, 4. Business should support the elimination of will inspire others to participate more actively and all forms of forced and compulsory labour. responsibly with actors in their supply-chains. In turn, we look to the GC community to further enrich 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. our social and environmental orientation. 6. Business should support the elimination of As a small, family owned business we do not face the discrimination in respect of employment same breadth of issues as large multi-national and occupation. corporations. For this reason, we address some of the principles with more detail than others, as they are 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. more applicable to our business practices. We hope that the following pages demonstrate the importance 8. Business should undertake initiatives to of our People-Centered Development work, and promote greater environmental conveys the magic of our company’s culture. responsibility. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 3 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact Dean celebrates and supports war widows in the Coffeelands of Sumatra STATEMENT OF SUPPORT: For years, Dean’s Beans has been a social justice advocate outfitted in business clothing. We tend to our bottom line primarily as a means to build our social and environmental programs. Many consider this a bold, innovative model, and while it very well may be, we can not imagine doing business any differently. We demonstrate that a successful company can be synonymous with accountable, transparent and ethical business operations. Our company is mission-driven: our values inform our practices, and in turn our practices reflect our values. Our raison d’etre is threefold. We seek to empower small, indigenous agricultural communities across the globe. We promote the care for and respect of our planet. Finally, we offer customers products of superior quality that also have social and environmental value. We believe that the UN Global Compact complements, and adds richness to our mission. In January of 2007, Dean’s Beans became a proud signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. The company recognizes the value, and the critical need, for this important UN initiative that promotes the adoption of ten universal principles by businesses, governments, non-profits and labor organizations. Our company has been a long-time advocate for social and environmental justice and the respect of human rights. Our commitment to the UN Global Compact further aligns us with these values today and as we move into the future; the principles will serve as a guide for our future business decisions. Moreover, they reflect our own standards for sustainable development best practices. We look forward to many years of participation in the Global Compact, and to rich discussion with its growing community. Dean Cycon, CEO Page 4 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact WHAT DRIVES US While the term sustainable development was gaining traction among corporate actors in the 90’s and into the new millennium, we were already tirelessly merging the concepts of Trade Justice with environmental best practices, at home and abroad in the coffeelands. Whenever possible, we helped coffee cooperatives design and implement community action and development programs that created both environmental and social benefits. We quietly celebrated the growing awareness of sustainable development, but never swayed from our own firm commitment to doing business in a way that treasures and respects the world and her people. Read on to learn more about these initiatives, and their reflection of the Global Compact Principles. A family benefits from fair trade in Papa New Guinea Page 5 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact PRINCIPLES 1 & 2: Business should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights; Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Dean’s Beans has a deep committed to human rights. We have a 100% commitment to sourcing Fair Trade coffee, cocoa, sugar, and clothing products. The Fair Trade system promotes human rights through fair labor practices, women’s empowerment, democratic process and transparent trade relations. Fair Trade, an internationally recognized trading scheme, is regulated by the Fair Trade Labeling Organizations International (FLO). Fair Trade brings direct, respectful, mutually beneficial relationships back into the international trade equation. Small farmers, no longer subject to the erratic fluctuations of commodity markets, are able to concentrate on growing their crops and building strong, healthy communities. Dean’s Beans supports the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and applies the declaration to its business operations. The company meticulously selects the actors in its coffee, sugar and cocoa supply-chains, working with democratically organized, transparent and FLO registered cooperatives (or those actively seeking registration). In addition, we have a strong commitment to educating the public about fair trade, believing that public awareness is a key component to fostering social and economic justice. PROCESSES/SYSTEMS: Fair Trade commitments, Social-Equity Premiums, People-Centered Development, third-party verification Dean’s Beans was founded on a deep commitment to social, economic and environmental justice. We are a member of TransFair. Our Fair Trade, sustainability practices are verified by Quality Assurance International. A copy of our verification in available on our website: www.deansbeans.com. As part of our commitment to Fair Trade, we have developed the Social-Equity Premium Program (SEP). This program returns to coops six cents for every pound of their coffee roasted in a given yearabove and beyond the fair trade prices paid. This gives Dean’s Beans the distinction of paying farmers more per pound of coffee than any other coffee company in the United States. Delivered on an annual basis, the SEPs provide the necessary seed money to establish effective programs tailored to the needs of specific communities. We provide additional funding above and beyond the SEPs when necessary for people-centered development projects. Finally, Dean’s Beans works closely with cooperatives in the actual project design and implementation, providing crucial technical and logistical support and expertise to make these development projects a success. ACTIONS: Development work abroad, distribution of SEPs, travel to the coffeelands. 100% sourcing of fair trade products, our people-centered development work, and our SEP program are ongoing actions that support human rights. See County Reports starting on page 6 to learn how our 2008-2009 development work has supported human rights this year. Page 6 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact 2010-2011 Country Reports In the Coffeelands: Brazil: We are proud to offer the first certified Organic Fair Trade coffee from Brazil. The grower's cooperative, Association of Small Producers of Poco Fundo, is an amazing, dynamic group of farmers that has been working since 1985 to gain international accreditation for their work in organics and to be accepted on the fair trade registry. The group's mission is to improve the social, economic and ecological conditions of the families of Poco Fundo, a small municipality of 15,000 people, located in the southern part of the state of Minas Gerais. Colombia: In 2007, we funded the purchase of land in the sacred Sierra Nevada Mountains to create a center for learning of traditional knowledge, to be run by the Mamos (Elders) of the Kogui people. Dean Cycon visited Colombia in 2007 to spend time with coffee farmers, consult on quality control issues, and to investigate the impact of Global Warming on the Kogui people. To returned from Colombia with a renewed commitment to educating the public and Dean’s Beans customers about the devastating effects of Global Warming on third world and indigenous, fourth world communities. Dean’s Beans released an information sheet to the public called Global Warning, and a chapter of Javatrekker: Dispatches from the world of Fair Trade Coffee by Dean Cycon was devoted to the issue. Costa Rica: We continue to provide support and funding to Hijos del Campo, a revolving student loan program developed by seven coffee cooperatives, including the CoCafe Cooperative from which we have been purchasing coffee for thirteen years. Since 1997, Hijos del Campo has provided over 1000 high school and college scholarships, and has provided insurance to students who are at risk of injury when traveling through rough, rural terrain. East Timor: Working with a local NGO, we began funding a new initiative to help farmers grow crops in addition to coffee that will provide nutrition and variety for their families, and a surplus for sale in local markets, supplementing their income. Ethiopia: We funded an extension of our water supply system in Jimma, the birthplace of coffee. In Yirgacheffe, we held community planning sessions to consider the future needs of the school, and created a fundraising project using note cards with photos of the children of the village. We are currently working to expand our Miriam’s Well project, the first revolving loan well building project in the world. Mexico: Last year’s SEP was used to fund the installation of solar panels, in collaboration with Honor the Earth, an organization dedicated to supporting indigenous communities in the US and Mexico. The renewable energies project is administered in Chiapas, where we purchase our quality Mexican coffee beans. In addition, we continue to work with the Polis Center, a disability rights organization, to return Latin American refugees disabled by the Death Trains and trapped in Mexico, back to their homes. The Death Trains are freight trains Latin American refugees ride North to try to make it to America. Many fall off, getting caught under the tracks, dying or becoming disabled. Page 7 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact Guatemala: Working with Cultural Survival, an indigenous rights organization, we have conceptualized and funded Coffee Talk, a radio program to spread technical and other information about coffee to rural farmers throughout Guatemala. The programming is made available to rural farmers who have historically had limited access to this sort of critical information. It is the first of its kind in Guatemala. The program has been wildly successful, being picked up and broadcast by 26 rural stations. We have launched a regional program to make Coffee Talk available throughout Latin America. In addition, are proud to announce the creation of CHICA!Communidades Inteligentes de Hermanas con Corazones Abiertos (translatedCommunity of Intelligent Sisters with Open Hearts). CHICA! is a Guatemalan indigenous girl’s empowerment organization founded by three Amherst, MA High School students in partnership with Dean’s Beans and APROSa grassroots women’s health organization founded by Guatemalan indigenous women from rural coffee villages with technical and financial assistance from Dean’s Beans. CHICA! organizes health and social forums for indigenous girls to share vital health information, increase self-esteem, build community, and support each other in reaching their dreams. In addition, CHICA! Provides scholarships to indigenous Guatemalan girls to attend high school and college. Kenya: We funded International Organic Inspector training for John Njoroge, the head of the Kenyan Institute of Organic Farming, to begin creating organizational capacity for organics in that country. John is the first Kenyan to be certified internationally for organic inspection. Peru: We were the first US roaster to purchase Fair Trade coffee from the Pangoa and Oro Verde cooperatives. Now their coffee is one of our biggest sellers. In 2007, the Pangoa cooperative used their over $4,000 in social equity premium (SEP) to construct latrines for all farmers making the transition to organic crop certification. Oro Verde used last year’s SEP to create and staff a daycare center so that women can attend and more fully participate in coop meetings. This year, Oro Verde’s SEP will be used to improve their coffee processing plant. In May 2007, we signed the industry’s first ever Long Term Fair Trade Contract with our partners at Oro Verde Cooperative, modeling what a serious commitment looks like. Besides purchase and pricing targets to help create stability for both sides, we agreed to joint development and marketing of products in Peru and the USA, the creation of cafes and roasting operations in Peru, technical training and support, and industry advocacy. We also appointed a member of Oro Verde to our Board of Directors and joined the cooperative as a dues paying member. Dean’s Beans has become the first importer of Oro Verde sugar, paving the way for others to follow suit. As well, the Pangoa Cooperative’s Reforestation Initiative has expanded (seed money provided by Dean’s Beans). And we are proud to announce that we will be launching a reforestation initiative with the Oro Verde Cooperative starting this year. Nicaragua: Long-time partner Prodocoop is using their SEP to support the construction and management of their very own cafe. This will help them build local interest in fine, gourmet coffees, while also diversifying their income stream. We have funded a study and provided money for initial equipment purchases for a new café/roasterie in Esteli, to be owned and operated by our partner, Prodecoop. The café will provide jobs as well as education to visiting tourists and buyers about the types and qualities of Prodecoop’s coffees. Dean Cycon visited Prodecoop in 2007 to nurture and strengthen this important partnership. He reports that the café project is going well. Rwanda: We partnered with Men’s Resources International to provide Men Overcoming GenderBased Violence training for the first time in Rwanda, including training representatives of three major coffee cooperatives. The response was overwhelming, and we will be bringing the training directly to the cooperatives this year. Page 8 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact Papua New Guinea: In 2005, the Tribal Aromas Cooperative used their SEP to purchase hand depulpers, which have saved farmers countless hours in labor. Previously, they had depulped coffee by hand, a practice that is virtually unheard of in the world of coffee. The remaining funds were used to implement a micro-loan fund for cooperative members. In 2007, we funded international organic inspection for Tribal Aromas Cooperative , which did not have sufficient cash to pay for the inspection. The impact of these projects has been dramatic. Hand depulpers have dramatically improved quality and quantity, and organic inspection has increased their coffee’s value on the world market. The result is that the coop can sell their coffee for a significant premium on the world market. Increased sales, combined with the availability of micro-loans are making their community stronger. We advanced the SEP to the following a trip in late 2005. Sumatra: Our farmers coop in Sumatra split into three groups in 2007. We funded construction of a new office building for one of the groups. And here at home: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Somali Women’s Sewing Project: We continue to work with the Somali Women’s Project, The Center for Popular Economics, and New World Theater to develop and fund a major economic development project for Somali women in Springfield, MA. Springfield, MA has a large population of Somali refugees. Dean’s Beans is providing supplies, funding and technical support and assistance for a sewing project to make coffee bags into reusable grocery totes. Dean’s Beans will market the bags to our whole sale customers and through our website. All proceeds support the Somali Women’s Project. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Our comprehensive environmental management system includes energy conservation, the use of renewable energy, solar panels, environmentally sound waste management, recycling and composting, and the installation of a new exhaust cleaning system which has decreased our use of natural gas, and has decreased our particulate emissions. PUBLIC EDUCATION Dean’s Beans has a strong commitment to educating the public about the importance of Fair Trade, and social, economic and environmental justice. We create and distribute Field Notes about our work, and raise public awareness through media interviews and public presentations at universities, businesses, trade and non-profit organizations, andin 2008at the United Nations. We continue to have a relationship with Catholic Relief Services (CRS), by which any customer can ask that the coffee they order be attributed to the organization. In turn we donate 2% of the profit of these sales to CRS. In partnership with Partners in Health (PIH), we sell a special blend of Fair Trade Haitian coffee to support health care development projects in Haiti. Our NoCO2 coffee raises awareness about global warming. In partnership with the Pangoa Cooperative and the Vernonica House for girls rescued from sexual slavery in Peru, proceeds from Veronica’s blend support the building of loving, healing community, support, skill-building and economic empowerment for these wounded girls. Project Explorer Javatrekker: Dispatches from the World of Fair Trade Coffee by Dean Cycon received the 2008 Independent Publishers Book Award Gold Medal in the Travel Essay category. With 9,000 copies in circulation and a new Korean edition, we have high hopes that this book will continue to increase public awareness. Page 9 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact PRINCIPLES 3, 4, 5, and 6: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; business should support the effective abolition of child labour; business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We are committed to all Global Compact principles related to labor conditions and workers’ rights. At the Beanery, we foster a work environment of mutual respect and learning. Each full-time employee (95% of our workforce) receives above the Massachusetts state minimum wage, full health-care coverage (employer pays 100% of the health care premium and employees are reimbursed for co-pays), quarterly profit-sharing, a 401K plan as well as life insurance. While we are committed to upholding the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, this issue has never been raised by our employees. We imagine that as we grow over time, employees may voice their desire to unionize, which we would enthusiastically support. In adherence to its Fair Trade model which promotes employees’ right to association., Dean’s Beans is committed to working with democratically run and represented organizations; Dean’s Beans practices Fair Trade specifically because this international system ensures that human labor practices, including gender equality, are respected and abided by. We are also assured that our primary productscoffee, sugar and cocoaare not harvested under harsh and disempowering conditions that promote human rights abuses. FLO standards adhere to ILO Convention 111, which does not allow discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. In addition, our company adheres to US state and federal employment laws, and does not discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation and other protected classes. In addition, FLO standards support Conventions 87 and 88, promoting the right to organize, to self-governance and the protection from anti-union discrimination. Finally, the Fair Trade model restricts the practice of child labor. Indeed, with the extra money earned from Fair Trade premiums, coops often invest in education for their children. This defies the norm in the conventional coffee trade, where young people are often found working side by side with their parents, especially during the harvest season when extra labor is actively sought out on large plantations. . PROCESSES/SYSTEMS: 100% commitment to Fair Trade, external audit Dean’s Beans maintains its 100% commitment to Fair Trade products which adhere to strict humanitarian standards as laid out by the fair Trade Labeling Organizations International. To ensure our own transparency in the marketplace, our practices are externally verified by quality Assurance International. Visit our website (www.deansbeans.com) to see the results of our latest audit. In-House Update: Improving our HR Department Dean’s Beans is located in the rural hill towns of Western Massachusetts. Our workforce resembles the area’s racial and ethnic demographics. Orange, Massachusetts, where our only facility resides, is over 96% Caucasian. While we do not discriminate in our hiring or employment practices, we find it difficult to attract local people of color for employment. That said, we have strong representation of women in management and beanery floor positions. A company-wide code of ethics, as well as a comprehensive employee manual is currently being developed, which will include policies and procedures that reflect our company-wide commitment to human rights, fair labor practices, equal opportunity employment, excellent benefits, and family-friendly policies. As well, we are developing an internal grievance procedure to resolve potential instances of discrimination. Page 10 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact ACTIONS: Spreading the word about Fair Trade, signing of long-term fair trade agreement, restructuring of our own HR department Part of our commitment to the Fair Trade movement involves engaging directly with the public about the social benefits of Fair Trade products and how Fair Trade working conditions are guaranteed to respect the principles of the ILO Conventions. We consider awareness building to be a key component to our business model (see Country Reports, pages 6-8 for more information on our efforts to raise public awareness). Dean’s Beans has long believed that we must work hand in hand with our own employees, and with coffee cooperatives to render our labor and trade relationships as equitable as possible, empowering farmers, supporting healthy working conditions and raising the bar on Fair Trade. 2008 and this current year have been marked by important initiatives to meet this objective, including the first year of the first-ever long-term fair trade agreement by an American coffee company (see our Country Reports, pages 6-8 for more information) Page 11 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact PRINCIPLES 7, 8, and 9: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Dean’s Beans is a long-time advocate of environmental sustainability, and enthusiastically supports Principles 7, 8, and 9 of the Global Compact. Our commitment spans product design, facility management, supply chain oversight, and the funding of peoplecentered environmental initiatives. Currently, Dean’s Beans is implementing an Environmental Management System, which encapsulates its existing CO2-neutral strategy, its renewable energies program, and its recycling and reclamation program. Dean’s Beans PeopleCentered Development work allows the company to promote and fund environmental initiatives in coffee growing communities., including well-building, sustainable income diversification, land preservation and tree planting. In addition, the company purchases 100% organic coffees, sugars and cocoas, which help promote environmental sustainability in grower communities, while offering our customers healthier product alternatives. FLO criteria requires that coops strive to prevent soil erosion, and promote soil fertility and sound irrigation techniques. The standards also prohibit the use of various agrochemicals, as well as safe handling, disposal and storage of any agro-chemicals that are permitted (though this rarely applies to organics). Finally, FLO prohibits the collection of protected plant species. Dean’s Beans recognizes the promise, usefulness, and need for environmentally friendly technologies. The company is committed to purchasing them when economically viable, and communicating their utility and environmental benefits to its various stakeholders. SYSTEMS / PROCESSES: Environmental Management, CO2 audit, supplier engagement, people-centered environmental initiatives in the coffeelands Although a small company, Dean’s Beans is eager to implement and sustain environmental stewardship initiatives. These include the creation and maintenance of an Environmental Management System that models ISO 14001 standards. Our environmental management program includes energy efficiency initiatives (the purchase, for example, of Energy Star equipment), reliance on an on-site solar electricity system, environmentally sound waste management, and the use of bio-diesel for the company-owned van. Our company also administers an annual CO2 audit, calculating and assessing our CO2 sources. We have taken an active interest in understanding the breadth and complexity of our coffee supply-chain., and how much CO2 is generated by indirect emissions sourcesthose sources which we can’t control on our own. Our 2007, 2008 and 2009 CO2 reports are available on our website. Working with UPS and Maersk Line, for example, we have been able to quantify the emissions associated with the delivery and shipment of our product across the world. We were one of the first companies to work with UPS around CO2 issues, and are one of only a handful of companies in the world that use UPS’s CO2 calculation tool. FIGHTING GLOBAL WARMING At Dean’s Beans, we apply the precautionary principle to our pro-active response to Global Warming. We have established an approach to the threat of Climate Change that integrates low-impact renewable energy sources, such as solar and bio-diesel use, as well as tree-planting in the coffeelands that supports land regeneration. We believe it is our moral responsibility to fight global warming. Page 12 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact ACTIONS TAKEN IN 2010 / 2011: CO2 audit, implementation of environmental management system, installation of a particulate emissions system, land purchases and tree planting 2011 was a year marked by our growing concern about Global Warming. Dean Cycon traveled to Colombia and saw and heard first hand the devastating impact of Global Warming on Colombia’s indigenous peoples and coffee farmers. We are more impassioned than ever to fight Global Warming through our business practices. To this end, we are implementing a comprehensive environmental management systema system of assessment and accountability which will help us to continually evaluate and decrease our environmental impact. We have completed our third CO2 audit which shows a 6% reduction in CO2 emissions, despite a 20% increase in the size of our business. This reduction was achieved through energy conservation and renewable energy solutions, including a 10KW solar panel which provides 65% of our electricity. To raise public awareness, we continue to sell NoCO2, a CO2 neutral coffee, which was developed by quantifying the amount of CO2 related to our coffee supply chain, including the transport, roasting, and even brewing of one pound of our Peruvian coffee. We sequester the emissions associated with this product by planting trees in partnership with the Pangoa Cooperative, Peru, as well as by using renewable energies and by efficiently running our facility. In addition, we conducted an energy audit which concluded that we are running a highly energy-efficient operation. Finally, we have a comprehensive composting program. SO M ETH I NG NEW AND EXCI TI NG ENVIRONM ENTALLY Dean’s Beans has a close relationship with the Pangoa Cooperative in Peru. We were the first company to bring in a container of their coffee to the US, back in 2003. The indigenous Ashininkas are part of the cooperative, and Dean met with them the same year. During conversations with the Ashininkas community, members talked about how their land has been severely degraded by previous “ development” projects which ultimately promoted deforestation in the region. The Ashininkas turn to the forest for sustenance, medicines and for spiritual solace. It was their great hope to restore their sacred lands. In 2006, we provided the necessary seed money to launch a tree--planting initiative with the initial cultivation of 500 native hardwood trees. The project, managed by the Ashininkas, dovetailed with our own carbon-neutral goals, and served as the basis for our NoCO2 coffee. All 500 trees have been planted and are thriving; at maturity, they will annually each sequester 50 lbs of CO2. Regular contact with the president of the Pangoa Cooperative, as well as two on-site visits in 2006 and early 2007 have assured the proper tracking of the program. Our funding for this model program has allowed the farmers to leverage more money, expand the program, and plant 80,000 trees. Knowing a good investment when they see one, the Green Development Fund has committed $15,000 dollars to the project’s continuation. This program is so successful that we are expanding it to other coffee communities in 2008, including the Oro Verde Cooperative in Peru which wants to replicate the success of the Pangoa project in their own community. D o n V i nce nte Ny ak o, a me m b er o f the P a n g o a C o o p e r a t ive, ten ds t o t he tree nursery. Page 13 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact What Our CO2 Audit Captures We use the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Protocol to guide our decisions about what emissions “scopes” to include in our own calculations; the World Resources Institute’s report “Working 9 to 5 on Climate Change: An Office Guide” was an invaluable resource for us as we made these calculations. The following were included in our 2006 and 2007 CO2 Audit Reports:  In-house emissions These emissions include the burning of propane to power our coffee roasters, as well as the small amount of CO2 emissions generated by the use of our company van, which primarily runs off of locally sourced bio-diesel.  Electricity emissions Our carbon dioxide emissions related to electricity has significantly decreased since the installation of our 10 kW solar panel system. We include these Scope 2 emissions, as suggested by the GHG protocol.  Employees’ commute emissions We include these scope 3 emissions in our calculations. Each employees supplies their average gas mileage, and the distance of their daily travel to the beanery to help us make the most accurate calculations possible.  Travel to the coffeelands Although flying can create large quantities of CO2, visiting coffee farming communities is an integral part of our Trade Justice business model. We include these emission as we think it is vital that businesses recognize their contribution to global warming via these scope 3 sources.  Shipment of coffee to the Beanery Coffee is our number one product, and we spent significant time in the past year and a half figuring out how to quantify the emissions related to the delivery of our coffee once it reaches US ports, including rail transport.  Delivery of our product across the US The vast majority of our shipments to customers run through UPS. In 2005, we wanted to quantify these emissions, and began collaborating with the shipping company. They were able to provide us with a special tool that takes into account the CO2 emissions related to each and every package that leaves the Beanery. In 2008, we are working to include CO2 generated by the transport of our coffee via ocean liner. Page 14 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery We fully support the last Global Compact principle, calling on companies to bring an end to corruption in their operations. Working with a global commodity that typically must be traded through a series of middlemen and suppliers can be a tricky, complicated business. We recognize that the global commodity trade can lend itself to corruption. For this reason, and for the many others explained in this Communication in Progress, we have chosen to adhere to the Fair Trade model. When we work directly with FLO certified cooperative farmers, we cut out much of the ambiguity that defines complicated supply chains. We know that cooperatives are managed using a participatory, democratic process minimizing the risk of coercion and unfair dealings. In addition, by visiting cooperatives, we gain a clearer sense of who our business partners are, creating mutual trust and long-term relationships based on honest dealings and mutual benefit. We do not currently have an anti-corruption policy, per se, in place. Because of our size and the fact that we occupy one small facility, corruption and bribery issues have never come into play or been raised within the context of our operations. We assume that as we continue to grow, a more formalized approach may be necessary to deal with potential incidents. SYSTEMS / PROCEDURES: 100% commitment to Fair Trade, external audit We maintain a 100% commitment to sourcing Fair Trade certified coffee, cocoa and sugar products. These practices are externally verified by Quality Assurance International. We have no internal systems to monitor potential instances of corruption. ACTIONS PLANNED for 2008: Drafting a code of ethics, exploring our supply-chain We fully support this 10th principle which takes a stand against corruption in all business activities. As this Communication in Progress has alluded to we are dealing with rapid growth. This growth calls us to bolster some aspects of our business practices so we can continue being a successful, triple bottom line oriented company. Just as we plan to create policies that address some of the other principles, we are currently creating a code of ethics and comprehensive employee manual. Page 15 Communication in Progress 2010/2011 United Nations Global Compact CONCLUSION At Dean’s Beans we look forward to another amazing year, marked by a continued commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. At Dean’s Beans we have proven that you can build a profitable business based on social, economic and environmental justice. In the coming year we will continue to develop in-house policies and systems that support human rights, fair labor standards, and environmental responsibility. As well, we look forward to continuing to support people-centered development projects throughout the coffeelands. TOWARDS THE FUTURE GREATER TRADE JUSTICE STRONGER ENVIRONMENT DEEPER COMMERCE 100% Fair Trade 100% Organic Dean’s Beans 50 R.W. Moore Ave. Orange, MA 01364 1800-325-3008 1(978)544-2002 1(978)544-7934 (fax) www.deansbeans.com
