UNITED NATIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 GLOBAL COMPACT ABOUT NIRAS NIRAS is an international, multidisciplinary NIRAS was founded in Denmark in 1956. engineering and consultancy company. Today, NIRAS is an international consultancy company with 1400 consultants and We provide sustainable technical solutions specialists. We have permanent offices in for global challenges within construction, more than 10 countries in Europe, Asia and infrastructure, environment, water, wastewaAfrica, and we have completed projects in ter, energy, natural resources and developmore than 180 countries all over the world. ment consulting. Our special trademark is an inter-disciplinary and innovative approach to We are independent of contractors, projects, and we take pride in transforming manufacturers and suppliers. NIRAS is a clients’ visions and challenges into sustainmember of the Danish Association of able solutions. Consulting Engineers (FRI) and the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Carsten Toft Boesen Chief Executive Officer It is of fundamental importance to NIRAS environment and climate into consideration that employees, clients and societies are able whenever possible. Our new head office in to rely on our business ethics and concern Denmark is climate-friendly and has one of for the environment. At NIRAS, we are aware Denmark’s largest, privately owned solar cell of our social and environmental responsibility systems. and consider the Global Compact a natural part of doing business. We take a very serious approach to corporate responsibility. However, there is even During 2011, we continued our efforts to greater potential in helping our clients and ensure that our mission, vision and values societies across the world improve the way in become deeply rooted within our organisawhich they work with corporate responsibility. tion. To this end, we have developed the We can do this when we design biogas NIRAS Fundamentals. plants in China and offshore wind farms in the North Sea, when we develop climate We have upgraded our management training adaptation strategies for Danish municipaliprogrammes to ensure that one common ties to prevent flooding or when we give standard applies to the management of our advice on land management in Africa to help business, projects and employees. governments distribute land rights to their populations. Based on our NIRAS Fundamentals, we have implemented employee and management We are proud, yet humbled, to be involved in portals that ensure easy access to relevant efforts to improve social and environmental information and tools for both employees conditions for our clients and societies and managers. around the world. NIRAS’ aim is to develop sustainable solutions, both for our clients and for ourselves. In order to do so, we take the Carsten T. Boesen Chief Executive Officer 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES We have further developed our fundamen1. Businesses should support and respect tals by defining a code of conduct for the the protection of internationally way in which we act and interact in order to proclaimed human rights. live up to our mission and values. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS supports the United Nations Universal ACTIONS AND OUTCOME Declaration of Human Rights. Especially when working in developing countries, our project managers on internaNIRAS wishes to take a holistic approach, tional projects are specifically informed about making space for “the whole person”. The NIRAS’ participation in the United Nations aim is for this to be reflected in the way in Global Compact, its principles and the which we relate to and act towards one implications of this participation. another. Thus, our values encompass the following: We have participated in the “World’s Best News”, a campaign in which the UN, the –– We are human, receptive and dedicated, Danish International Development Agency as well as committed to our work and and a number of Danish aid organisations open towards our colleagues. focused on the positive outcome of helping developing countries and called for further –– Job satisfaction and good cooperation action to ensure that the UN’s goals for 2015 permeate our daily lives. are reached. –– We have a great degree of freedom and NIRAS believes that personal growth and, we take responsibility for the interests of hence, the growth of our company will our colleagues, the client and the prosper if there is an open and trusting company. relationship between managers and employees, and we encourage this in many 4 different ways on a continual basis. LABOUR PRINCIPLES REFERENCE TO POLICIES 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Employment Conditions of the right to collective bargaining. NIRAS’ employees are free to enter into 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination associations and to enter into collective of all forms of forced and compulsory bargaining with management. All NIRAS labour. employees have individual contracts, and the 5. Businesses should uphold the effective employment conditions comply with current abolition of child labour. national legislation and requirements. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employOccupational health and safety ment and occupation. NIRAS must be a safe and healthy workplace, where employees have good job satisfaction ACTIONS AND OUTCOME and good potential for development. In 2011, NIRAS implemented both an employee and a management portal to Activities related to NIRAS’ projects and support our fundamentals and to ensure easy in-house operations must be performed such access to relevant information and tools for that the health, safety and welfare of the both employees and managers. One element affected human beings are ensured to the of this was the formalisation of our action greatest possible degree. plan for dealing with stress. Diversity and discrimination We focus on work-life balance by being NIRAS considers diversity to be a business flexible and supporting the needs of the advantage that ensures our clients a better individual in order to ensure that all our quality of service and promotes inspiration in employees are able to achieve their potential house. and reach their goals. NIRAS ensures all present and future Furthermore, we have upgraded our employees equal opportunities, regardless of management training and executive gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic programmes in order to provide our and social origin, disability, political or sexual managers with adequate tools and knowlorientation and family status. edge to ensure and enhance the motivation, well-being and job satisfaction of our The culture and values at NIRAS are based on employees. respect for the individual and this also implies acceptance and tolerance of diversity among NIRAS does not employ children who are colleagues and clients. We are open minded under age. and welcome employees and business partners with different cultural, political and religious backgrounds. 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES In developing countries, NIRAS provides 7. Businesses should support a precautiontechnical assistance regarding the environary approach to environmental chalment, climate change, natural resource lenges. management, watershed management, 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to water supply and sanitation, and health. promote greater environmental responsibility. We take the environment and climate into 9. Businesses should encourage the consideration whenever possible and have development and diffusion of environrecently relocated to a new and climatementally friendly technologies. friendly head office in Denmark. Our new head office has one of Denmark’s largest, ACTIONS AND OUTCOME privately owned solar cell systems. The NIRAS develops sustainable solutions, both system will be able to cover more than 25 % for our clients and for ourselves. of our electricity consumption with carbonfree electricity. We integrate environmentally friendly technologies into an increasing number of REFERENCE TO POLICIES client projects relating to buildings, construction in general and industry as well as water, NIRAS accepts responsibility for the society energy and wastewater systems. and the environment. This applies when we design biogas plants in NIRAS maintains an open dialogue with China and offshore wind farms in the North clients and stakeholders and seeks solutions Sea, when we develop climate adaptation that are compatible with the principles of strategies for Danish municipalities to sustainable development. prevent flooding or when we give advice on land management in Africa to help governNIRAS supports the International Federation ments distribute land rights to their populaof Consulting Engineers’ (FIDIC) recommentions. dations on the environment and sustainable development. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE REFERENCE TO POLICIES 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion NIRAS has a Business Integrity Policy as well and bribery. as an internal Business Integrity Management System, which is a tool for the prevention of ACTIONS AND OUTCOME corrupt behaviour and the promotion of Requirements for compliance with NIRAS’ integrity. Business Integrity Policy are strongly emphasised in all contracts with employees, NIRAS agrees with and has adopted the managers, sub-consultants and agents. Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct as defined by the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). 7 NIRAS A/S Sortemosevej 19 3450 Allerød, Denmark T +45 4810 4200 F +45 4810 4300 www.niras.com
