GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2012 (TBSP) Thai British Security Printing Public Company Limited joined the UN Global Compact in 2002. The Directors and Managers of TBSP support the 10 principles of the Global Compact and have communicated their commitment to these principles regarding Human Rights, The Environment and Anti corruption both to our staff and to third parties. TBSP is proud to be associated with the Global Compact and will do its best to live up to its objectives and promote its principles. Vision Being a world class Security Solutions Provider in terms of Quality, Services and Productivity Mission 1. Develop high value added products & Services beyond customer’s expectation. 2. Strengthen international trade both exporting and sourcing. 3. Improve overall productivity 4. Focus on people development to fit with TBSP’s values. Mr. Suchai Korprasertsri Managing Director HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As a public company TBSP must respect the laws of Thailand which encompass the majority of the 30 Articles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Apart from these regulations prescribed by law, the company tries to ensure the well being of staff in areas such as Health, Safety, Compensation, Development and Retirement. Medical facilities on site. Periodic X Ray and Screening plus health education. TIS&OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Free bus service Uniforms and protective clothing are provided Annual appraisal and review Profit sharing bonus Provident Scheme with matching contribution Emergency loans Air-conditioned working environment Annual leave in addition to 14 days national holidays Seminars and courses with overseas visits TBSP received National Safety Award from Ministry of Labour in2012 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Apart from ensuring TBSP respects Human Rights and operates on a basis of fair treatment to all its staff and others, TBSP tries to ensure that they do not indirectly enable or allow others to abuse Human Rights. In this respect TBSP will not knowingly deal with companies who abuse Human Rights especially in the area of child or forced labour. TBSP staff are encouraged to engage in activities outside their normal duties in work with charities and religious groups who are helping society. TBSP donated money to help Rangsit Baby Home from flooding TBSP donated used desktop calendars to the Blind Foundation in Thailand. (These calendars will be used for contain Bell Language for the Blinds) LABOUR 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. The Company allows labour unions according to the Thai labour law. The Company supports group activities such as Sports Days, New Year Party, Small Group Activities, and Social Activities. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Staff are selected based on their suitability for the work and education. Staff can resign when they like subject to notice period. All staff have a written contract of employment. Overtime is voluntary and extra payments are made for overtime and holiday working. Staff keep their ID documents. Termination of staff is in accordance with Thai labour laws. The company gives long service awards for 25 years The company provide scholarships to the children of employees. The company will not use suppliers who use compulsory or child labour. 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. There are no staff employed at TBSP below the age of 18 years and contractors are not permitted to bring under-aged children for employment on the site. Human Resources check applicant’s ID prior to employment and Security check visitor ID. The company provides scholarships to disadvantaged local children to help keep them at school. Suppliers are visited to evaluate their suitability and compliance. TBSP provided Scholarships to local students 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The company employs staff based on their suitability for that position. No discrimination is allowed regarding gender, religion or ethnic group. Women occupy positions on the board and at senior management level. Mrs. Nuanchan Boonpoijanasoontorn Mrs. Wunwisa Tantivejakul Ms. Duangrat Dararuja Chairman of Audit Committee Financial Controller Human Resource Director ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. The company appointed an environmental manager and continues to be ISO 14001 approved. TBSP and Wat SuanSom School have been creating vegetable garden and mushroom cultivation area to support community development 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Members of the community and students from municipal schools visited the company to learn about Cleaner Technology from the Industrial Sector and how industry can live in harmony with the community. TBSP educated school students in the treatment of waste water at our plant TBSP provided knowledge to school children about the Environment atKungkaben Bay Chonburee 27-28 January 2012 The Construction of Minor check Dam Project at Banpubon Ratchaburee July 2012 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The company uses energy saving technology in production where heating and cooling are required. Insulation for energy conservation and recycling of waste materials is encouraged. TBSP received FSC Certificate from Bureau Veritas TBSP manager sign an MOU support 3 R (Reduce,Reuse,Recycle). This project is made for managing the waste and environment of the factory, 7June 2012 at Century Park Hotel Bangkok CORRUPTION 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. TBSP has a board of 11 directors elected by shareholders, who meet quarterly. There are five independent directors on the board. At each AGM one third of the directors retire by rotation. Separate Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees report to the board. The company, as far as possible, operates a principle of dual control with checks and balances. The chairman and CEO are two separate positions. Two signatures on cheques and company documents are required and two staff at supplier meetings. Both internal and external auditors are used for financial, operational, environmental and security checks. The Company Code of Ethics is provided in two languages. ______________________________________________
