2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Table of Contents To Our Stakeholders 2 About This Report 4 Reporting Methodology 4 Profile and Governance 7 Vision, Mission, Values 7 Company Profile 8 Key Indicators 8 Organization and Governance 14 Our Responsibility 19 Corporate Responsibility Approach 19 Corporate Responsibility Strategy 20 Dialogue with Stakeholders 21 Business Ethics and Management of Sensitive Aspects 22 Our Stakeholders 29 Clients 30 Employees 43 Shareholders 57 Suppliers 63 Environment 67 Community 79 Annexes 87 VUB’s adhesion to the Global Compact Principles 87 Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Table 88 Statement of External Verifier 95 1 To Our Stakeholders To Our Stakeholders Environmental Consciousness Recycled envelopes, electronic account statements, support of green corporate projects of Slovak companies. These were in short our last year’s activities in the realm of environmental protection. VUB Bank has been supporting the green energy and energetic efficiency projects aimed at progress in obtaining energy from renewable sources, energetic savings and production of energy from alternative energy sources. We have a team of people providing financial and expert support to clients in preparing and implementing these types of projects. These projects contribute to protecting the environment – reduce CO2 emissions, Dear partners, protect people’s health as well as natural resources, reduce energy consumption. 2011 was a year full of changes for VUB Bank and for the economy alike. At some points, there were also Awards unexpected twists and turns in the development and the Europe’s economy declined. In the past year, we celebrated a significant jubilee – the tenth anniversary of VUB Bank’s relation with its majority owner the For the third consecutive time, VUB Bank gained the prestigious award Banka roka annually awarded by Intesa Sanpaolo Group, which meant a remarkable milestone in the Bank’s history. Let’s have a look at the TREND economic weekly. Significant is also the award The Safest Bank in Central and Eastern Europe what the year 2011 brought important to the Bank and its stakeholders. from the prestigious Global Finance magazine. According to this magazine, VUB Bank is the safest bank in Central and Eastern Europe (World’s Safest Banks 2011 in Central & Eastern Europe). In the ranking of top Listening to Clients ten safe banks in Central and Eastern Europe it ranked first. Within the evaluation exercise, the magazine was deriving from long-term credit ratings (agencies Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch) and the overall Within the Listening 100 % Programme, coordinated at the Intesa Sanpaolo Group level, we have been asset volumes. VUB is the only Slovak bank, which was placed in the ranking among the selected banks monitoring client satisfaction looking for solutions how to further improve the level of our services. The of our region. survey in Slovakia takes into consideration the five strongest banking houses. Among these, we repeatedly reached the highest customer satisfaction index also in 2011. It is thus visible that our customer-oriented 2012 Plans approach has been set up correctly and our focus on quality is bearing fruit in form of satisfied clients. Inquiries from clients point at our reserves, which are solved by the team around the bank ombudsman. In the coming year, we would like to use the gained knowledge and maintain our high level of quality. Pleasing is that year-on-year the number of inquiries made by clients has again dropped. Priorities for the next period include constant enhancement of our service quality and a good relation with clients, introduction of employee-inspired innovations, simplification and improvement of corporate Employee Dialogue processes’ efficiency. Our Bank employs more than 3,500 people, thereof nearly three fourths are women. It were precisely In Bratislava, April 2, 2012 women who were targeted by the special survey to detect their career ambitions, satisfaction with labour conditions and harmonisation of their work with family life. Opinions from the survey involving also personal meetings with our female colleagues from around Slovakia served as an important feedback and ground material for approximation of the current working conditions to the women and their ideas. The survey showed that VUB Bank was a place with no critical gender inequality spots and in overall the situation was assessed as good up to better in comparison with the general perception of these topics in Slovakia. The Bank elaborated a series of measures for a gradual elimination of those parts that had been identified as problematic. The measures will take effect in the course of 2012, while several of the changes to support balance between work and private life have been introduced already towards the close of the last year. Ignacio Jaquotot Financial Education CEO and Chairman of the Management Board Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. Nowadays, anyone can happen to find themselves in a financial emergency. Satisfied clients should understand our products, be able to make a correction choice in order not to get existentially burdened by the potential indebtedness. The surveys have also shown that in financial literacy the Slovaks are lagging behind the European average. A great part of the population is not capable of sufficiently analyzing the information available to them and as a result they may get into useless financial problems. Therefore, in the past year we concentrated on financial education and we started with the children. We developed an Internet game for younger pupils, which playfully teaches them how to manage and plan their finances. We believe that such training would contribute to educating the children to prudence in handling the money. We also continued supporting development of the economic science in Slovakia, namely in form of the Economicus award for active doctor graduates at the faculties of economy. Just like every year, we brought to the Slovak universities foreign professors, who spent one entire semester working with our students and the university scientific teams. 2 3 About This Report About This Report Compliance with Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines The content was compiled under the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the third edition of the Global Reporting Initiative Edition. Reported is the profile, management approach and 49 indicators. The annex contains a transparent table listing the reported indicators and management approach for each indicator category. Compliance with the GRI guidelines was verified by the external verifier the Pontis Foundation, which is an organizational stakeholder of GRI in the Slovak Republic. The verifier’s statement is contained in the annex to this report. The verifier did not deal with verification of quantitative or qualitative data contained VUB Bank is issuing already its fifth annual corporate responsibility report in a row compiled under the in this report. G3 version of the international Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) guidelines. The Report informs on VUB’s performance in the financial, social and environmental areas. The report being submitted contains qualitative data for the calendar and simultaneously the financial year 2011. They are comparable with the previous financial periods. Similarly to the last year, the report is distributed to VUB’s stakeholders along Pursuant to with the financial annual report. It is published at http://www.vub.sk/en/about-us/values-principles/socialthe GRI responsibility/. In the interest of saving the natural resources, we are issuing the report in electronic version guidelines C C+ B B+ A A+ only. Reactions and questions can be sent to csr@vub.sk or mslezakova@vub.sk. Mandatory Self Declared ✔ Overview of Corporate Responsibility Reports Issued Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Issue Date Level of Reporting Under GRI Methodology 2011 Report 02/04/2012 B+, audited Third Party 2010 Report 31/03/2011 B+, audited ✔ Checked 2009 Report 31/03/2010 B+, audited Optional 2008 Report 31/03/2009 B+, audited 2007 Report 20/08/2008 B+, audited GRI Checked Reporting Methodology Structure and Content The report is divided into several chapters mapping individual areas of our impact on the individual stakeholder categories. The whole content is split into two main parts. The first part contains the Profile and Governance, chapter describing VUB Group’s profile, identity, governance system, mission, values and the Our Responsibility chapter focused on corporate responsibility management and implementation of its principles. The second part of the report consists of chapters dedicated to individual stakeholder categories, i.e. those entities that are significantly impacted by VUB Bank’s activity and towards which we feel the greatest responsibility. These are the clients, employees, shareholders, suppliers and the community. In a separate chapter, we also deal with our impact on the environment. When identifying these categories we took into consideration the corporate responsibility strategy of our parent bank Intesa Sanpaolo, which used the methodology under the AA1000 principles (in particular the AA1000 SES standard) issued by the London-based Accountability Institute. The report documents the results which the Bank achieved with respect to the objectives set out within its business plan. All data had been collected and processed by the members of the VUB corporate responsibility working group and the Corporate Social Responsibility Staff Unit. The report documents exclusively the activities of VUB Bank, whereas the activities of its subsidiaries are not included. The only partial exception is the area of our responsibility towards the community, where the information and data related to the activities of VUB Foundation overlap. This procedure was chosen in case of activities that VUB Bank and its foundation performed and financed jointly. Annex to the report is an overview processed under the GRI guidelines containing the publishing of profile, management approach for all indicator categories and the list of performance indicators. 4 5 Profile and Governance Vision, Mission, Values Vision To be the Best Bank in Slovakia for customer satisfaction, while maintaining excellence in profitability and operating efficiency. Vision, Mission, Values Mission We are part of this country and we want to grow together with our customers, be it a big corporation or a small individual. We should make our customers feel that they are the most important to us, that their Company Profile satisfaction is in the centre of any decision we make. Values Financial Indicators We provide our clients with bank and financial services on a high level. At the same time, by means of our services, we create and activate the tools for development of the economic system of Slovakia. Our aim is to build a relation with clients and shareholders based on trust and satisfaction, solidarity of our employees and closeness to the actual needs of the whole society. Therefore, VUB’s corporate culture and Organization and Governance Code of Ethics contain the values that help us be successful and accomplish the expected results. Values direct our behaviour in situations when we must choose from among several paths. They form the basis for our success at work as individuals and also as a bank. They are published on page http://www.vub.sk/ en/about-us/values-principles. We act We improve We are We respect fairly quality transparent differences We do not We listen We are discriminate attentively responsible 6 7 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and Governance Company Profile VUB Shareholder Structure as at 31/12/2011 Key Indicators By Shareholder Type Value of shares in € * Stake in % Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A. – majority shareholder 416,875,694.61 96.764 Financial 2011 2010 2009 Other legal entities 3,847,913.20 0.893 Loans to customers in euro 6.9 billion 6.1 billion 5.6 billion Individuals 10,095,456.00 2.343 Customer deposits in euro 7.5 billion 7.3 billion 6.6 billion TOTAL (VUB share capital) 430,819,063.81 100.00 Share capital in mil. euro 430.82 430.82 430.82 By Shareholder’s Citizenship Values of shares in thous. €** Stake in % Number of clients 1,255,997 1,257,033 1,248,236 Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A. – majority shareholder 416,876 96.764 Number of sales points in Slovakia 249 249 253 Local shareholders 12,507 2.903 Percentage of local suppliers 90 91 92 Other foreign shareholders 1,436 0.333 TOTAL (VUB share capital) 430,819 100.00 Social Number od VUB Bank´s employees (without the branch 3,520 3,465 3,456 * Value of VUB shares in € means the value of owned shares of VUB expressed by nominal value in euro multiplied by the number of shares owned. in the Czech Republic) ** Number of shares by shareholder’s citizenship is expressed in thousand EUR. – thereof women 2,606 2,591 2,617 – thereof with grave disability 26 17 19 As at December 31, 2011 the shares of VUB were held by 43,486 shareholders. Foreign shareholders come Turnover percentage 12.2 12.0 12.6 from the following 11 countries: Luxemburg (96.764 %), Germany (0.077 %), Switzerland (0.074 %), Czech Republic (0.127 %), Austria (0.049 %), United Kingdom (0.004 %), U.S.A. (0.002 %), Canada, Number of injuries 6 8 8 Romania, Poland and Cyprus. In 2011, there were no changes in the share capital issued. Support to non-profit organizations (in EUR thous.) 274.0 108.0 90.7 Environmental About Intesa Sanpaolo Group Energy consumption per employee (kWh) 9,767.6 11,434.9 11,411.9 Paper consumption per employee (kg per year) 148.0 177.3 151.6 The Italian banking group Intesa Sanpaolo, based in Turin and Milan, is the majority shareholder of VUB Bank with a stake of 96.76 % in the Bank’s share capital. It was established in January 2007 by a mergWater consumption per employee (litres per day) 65.5 59.2 51.4 er of two significant Italian banks, Banca Intesa and Sanpaolo IMI. The Group has a leading position in Italy and it is one of the leading banks The Italian banking VUB Bank was established on January 1, 1990 by spinning off commercial activities for corporate providing financial products and services to households and also compaclients in the territory of the Slovak Republic from the Czechoslovak State Bank. VUB Bank is a public nies across Europe. Intesa Sanpaolo has a strategic business representagroup Intesa Sanpaolo joint-stock company operating in the Slovak and Czech Republics. A break-through for our activities tion in the region of Central and Eastern Europe and in the area of the is the majority was the year 2001, when a significant Italian banking group IntesaBci (nowadays Intesa Sanpaolo) Mediterranean Sea. Through its subsidiary banks, it operates in Serbia, acquired a majority stake in VUB Bank. VUB Bank is currently the second largest bank in Slovakia. It where it ranks first, then in Albania, Croatia and Slovakia, where its conshareholder. administers deposits amounting to EUR 7.5 billion and loans worth EUR 6.9 billion. The Bank’s porttrols the second largest banks in the market, in Hungary with the third folio holds currently more than 1 million retail clients, 90 thousand sole traders, 9 thousand small largest bank, fifth largest bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Egypt and in Slovenia, where it owns and medium enterprises and 600 large corporations. VUB has been one of the most profitable banks the sixth most significant bank. The Group is represented also in Ukraine, in the Russian Federation and in Slovakia in recent years. in Romania. In 2011, it has been 10 years since VUB’s acquisition. VUB Group Providing a Wide Range of Services Banking Leasing Factoring Consumer Asset Pension Finance Management Saving 8 9 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and Governance Presence of Intesa Sanpaolo in the Region Market Shares As at 31/12/2011 As at 31/12/2010 As at 31/12/2009 Total assets 19.0 % 18.7 % 17.9 % Customer deposits 18.0 % 17.5 % 17.5 % Loans to customers 18.9 % 18.1 % 17.7 % Mortgage loans 46.5 % 44.1 % 37.5 % Branch network 20.6 % 20.4 % 20.7 % Payment cards 24.7 % –* 25.5 % ATMs 23.3 % –* 24.2 % EFT POS terminals 20.2 % –* 18.4 % * data not available The complete financial performance is published in VUB’s 2011 Annual Report (www.vub.sk/o-banke/profil-banky/vyrocne-spravy/). VUB Bank’s Headcount (without the branch in the Czech Republic) as at December 31 2011 3,520 2010 3,465 2009 3,456 Employee Structure as at 31/12/2011 Management Board members 9 Managers 582 Non-managers 2,938 Financial Indicators Subsidiaries with Majority Stake of VÚB, a.s. In 2011, the Slovak economy continued recovering from the recession of 2009. In the first half-year, the econo■■ Consumer Finance Holding, a. s. my’s performance exceeded the pre-crisis maximum, the number of new jobs as well as financial performance of Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % companies were on the rise. Coupled with a positive outlook, investments and demand for financial products Core business: Provision of non-banking loans were increasing as well. Especially strong was the interest shown in mortgages, which form one of the key elements of VUB Bank’s product portfolio. ■■ VÚB Asset Management, správ. spol., a. s. In 2011 we again Stake of VÚB, a.s., 100 % However, in the second half-year the positive trends were not sustained. Insecurity Core business: Collective investment, portfolio administration and management in financial markets intensified due to a persisting debt crisis within the Eurozone. improved efficiency. Confidence of citizens as well as of companies gradually started decreasing. The ■■ VÚB Factoring, a. s. threat of a new recession in the countries of our business partners caused a deferral of investment decisions in Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % many companies, but also households. Profitability of firms ceased to improve and the unemployment rate began Core business: Factoring and forfaiting transactions to increase again, which was reflected in a decelerated growth of demand for credit products and stagnation in volumes of primary deposits. ■■ VÚB Leasing, a. s. Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % Against this background, VUB Bank has had a successful year. We were able to leverage our sound financial condiCore business: Financial and operational leasing tion and improve our share in the total volume of loans and also deposits. We achieved the planned results in profitability indicators and also last year we managed to improve our efficiency indicators. Looking forward, 2012 will be a very demanding year. The insecurity related to the economic and also regulatory environment is extremely high. We will keep focusing our attention on the basic priorities in relation to our clients and simultaneously on measures for maintaining adequate liquidity and capital adequacy in order to remain one of the healthiest banks in the region. 10 11 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and Governance ■■ VÚB Poisťovací maklér, s. r. o. Membership in Organizations Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % Core business: Insurance mediation In 2011, VUB Bank was an active member in several associations and professional associations. The most The company was voluntarily wound up without liquidation on 22/12/2011 for the purpose of a merger. important professional association is the Slovak Banking Association, which is a key association in the The company ceased due to a merger on 01/01/2012. Its successor company is VÚB Leasing, a.s. Slovak financial sector and the only organization representing the interests of banks operating in the Slovak Republic. Other significant organizations, in which VUB Bank was a member, include the Italian, ■■ Recovery, a. s. U.S. and German Chambers of Commerce, the Association of Securities Dealers and the Slovak Chamber Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % of Commerce and Industry. We are a member of the Business Leaders Forum association joining leaders Core business: Administration, collection and purchase of receivables in enforcement of corporate responsibility principles in Slovakia. ■■ VÚB Leasingová, a.s. in liquidation Awards Core business: Leasing deals The company ceased by means of its voluntary elimination from the Commercial Register on 19/01/2011. Banka roka (Bank of the Year) The economic weekly Trend honoured VUB Bank with a prestigious award Banka roka. VUB received this Daughter company with a 50% stake is: award for the third consecutive time. The Trend evaluation model traditionally compares the ability of ■■ VÚB Generali, dôchodková správcovská spoločnosť, a. s. banks to grow their market shares in deposits and also loans, their profitability and operating efficiency. Stake of VÚB, a. s., 50 % Trend accentuated VUB Bank‘s traditionally strong profitability and mainly Core business: Management of old-age pension saving funds the exceptionally good parameter of operating costs to revenues, which was above the average ranking it among the most effective banks in the market. VUB received the Banka Business Network roka Award and the Najbezpečnejšia banka v strednej Európe World‘s Safest Bank in The VUB business network servicing more than 1.25 mil. clients, is the second largest in Slovakia. (Central and Eastern Europe’s Safest Bank) VUB’s management is based in Bratislava, Mlynské nivy 1. According to the prestigious financial magazine Global Finance, VUB Bank is CEE Award. the safest bank in the Central and Eastern Europe (World’s Safest Banks 2011 2011 2010 2009 in Central & Eastern Europe). VUB Bank ranked first among the top ten safest banks in Central and Eastern Retail branches 206 206 210 Europe. In its assessment, the magazine derived from long-term credit ratings (of agencies Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch) and the total volume of assets. VUB is the only Slovak bank, which placed Mortgage centres 11 11 11 among the selected banks in the region. Corporate branches 32 32 32 Number of ATMs 560 554 558 Zlatá minca (Golden Coin) Also in 2011, VUB became the most successful bank in the Golden Coin competition. Within the competition, products of financial institutions are assessed by experts from the circles of financial journalists, representatives of broker companies, universities, research companies, professional associations. Out of seven banking product categories, VUB Bank succeeded in six. VUB scored in the categories of housing loans (Flexi Mortgage), consumer loans (Flexi Loan) and business financing (Profi Loans), for which it was awarded golden coins. It won silver in the category of electronic banking (Internet Banking) and a bronze coin in the categories of bank account (Flexi Account) and investment banking (Internet Banking for private banking clients). VUB simultaneously received the award Best Newcomer of the Year 2011 for the FLEXImore Saving, which was introduced to the public in August 2011. 12 13 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and Governance Organization and Governance Corporate Social Change Management Responsibility Office Supervisory Supervisory Board Board Internal Audit & Customer Corporate & Mark. Control Care Communication Management Management Board Board Corporate Strategy & Econ. Research Business Continuity CEO CEO Compliance Corporate Governance Units Management General Legal Secretariat Services Deputy CEO Deputy CEO Business Competence for Support for Business Strategy Centre Business Support Units Operational Finance, Planning & Risk Financial and Capital Corporate Retail VÚB CR Prague IT Human Resources Services Controlling Management Markets Division Banking Banking Branch IT Support Banking Tax Strategy & Enterprise Risk Personnel & Corporate Small Business Depository Office Operations Management Program Management Compensation Customers Segment Management Delivery Corporate Middle Administrative and Market Personnel Relationship Institutional Small & Medium Product Centre Office Financial Governance Risk Management Sales Enterprises Management Cash Flow Planning & Operational Risk & Training and Custody Corporate Business Customer Relationship IT Development Management Controlling Capital Management Development and Sales Support Development & Support Management Facility Fin. Reporting & Corporate and Trade Retail Branch IT Operations Trading Administration Account. Governance Retail Underwriting Finance Management Global Asset Quality Project & Real Estate Security Sales Payment Cards Reconciliation Management Finance Internal Balance Sheet Private Recovery Services Management Banking Archival Policy & Alternative Services Methodology Channel Development Procurement Internal Banking Recovery, a.s. CFH, a.s. VÚB Generali DSS., a.s. VÚB Factoring, a.s. Accounting VÚB Leasing, a.s. Slovak Banking Credit VÚB AM, (incl. subsidiary VÚB Bureau, spol. s r. o. správ. spol., a.s. Poisťovací maklér, s.r.o.) Support units Control units Support units Business units 14 15 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and Governance Governance As at 31/12/2011 the Management Board had nine members: Similarly to its parent company Intesa Sanpaolo, also VUB Bank applies a dual administration and control Name Position, Area of Responsibility model, within which the control activities and strategic management are separated from the management of Ignacio Jaquotot Chairman of Management Board and Chief Executive Officer business activities performed by the Bank’s Management Board. Ownership and management are thus clearTomislav Lazarić Management Board Member and Deputy Chief Executive Officer for Business ly defined and the Supervisory Board functions as a filter between the shareholders and the Management Elena Kohútiková Management Board Member and Deputy Chief Executive Officer for Support Board. The Bank’s management disposes of a full execution power, whereas the Supervisory Board performs the control function. This model provides for transparency and reduces the risk of conflict of interest. Domenico Cristarella Management Board Member and responsible for finance, planning, controlling (until 31/07/2011) Andrea De Michelis Management Board Member and responsible for finance, planning, controlling (since 01/08/2011) Supervisory Board Daniele Fanin Management Board Member and VUB Prague Branch Manager Jozef Kausich Management Board Member and responsible for corporate banking Supervisory Board is the top control body of the Bank. It supervises the Management Board and perforSilvia Púchovská Management Board Member and responsible for human resources mance of the Bank’s business activities. Save for members of Supervisory Board elected by the employees Alexander Resch Management Board Member and responsible for risk management of VÚB, a.s., a member of the Supervisory Board may not be an employee of VÚB, a.s. Adrián Ševčík Management Board Member and responsible for retail banking The Supervisory Board inspects and submits conclusions and/or recommendations to the General Meeting regarding the following: The curricula vitae published in the 2011 Annual Report (http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/profil-banky/vyrocne■■ fulfilment of tasks assigned to the Management Board by the General Meeting; spravy/) and on page in the About Us/Bank’s Profile section contain information on professional qualification ■■ compliance of VÚB, a.s.’s activities with the Articles of Association, and with legal regulations; and of Supervisory Board members and Management Board members in the area of finance and banking, as well ■■ business and financial activities of VÚB, a.s., accounting, documentation, accounts, condition of propas information on their practical experience serving as assurance for an efficient management of the comerty, payables and receivables of VÚB, a.s. pany in line with the Bank’s strategy in financial, environmental and social spheres. All Management Board members are evaluated on the basis of key performance indicators (KPIs), for which they bear responsibility. The number of Supervisory Board members is minimum three, out of which one is the Chairman and at All managers in the respective positions are evaluated depending on the fulfilment of these KPIs also with least one is a Vice Chairman. Members of the Supervisory Board are elected and removed by a decision of respect to financial, social and environmental performance. The evaluation is based on the Performance the General Meeting. The term of office of the Supervisory Board members is three years. In 2011, there Assessment guidelines and is fully in the competence of the Supervisory Board. were no changes in the Supervisory Board’s composition. General Meeting Supervisory Board as at 31/12/2011: General Meetings are the Bank’s top decision-making body representing all shareholders and their deci■■ György Surányi – Chairman of Supervisory Board sions approved pursuant to applicable legal regulations and Bank’s Articles of Association are binding for ■■ Fabrizio Centrone – Vice Chairman of Supervisory Board all shareholders. The General Meeting consists of all attending shareholders. Members of the Supervisory ■■ Adriano Arietti and Management Boards regularly attend General Meetings facilitating their smooth course and simul■■ Antonio Furesi taneously answering the questions and inquiries presented by shareholders. The Management Board is ■■ Massimo Malagoli obliged to convene a regular General Meeting within the period of three months from the compilation of ■■ Janka Finková regular financial statements and its verification by an auditor. Should the interests of VÚB, a.s. require so ■■ Ján Gallo and in cases stipulated by legal regulations an extraordinary General Meeting may be convened. ■■ Juraj Jurenka Internal Audit and Control Management Board The mission of the Internal Audit and Control Department is to provide independent, objective assurance and consulting services designed to add value and improve VUB’s and its affiliates‘ operations. It helps Management Board is the statutory body governing the Bank’s executive management. It is authorized to VUB Group accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluation and act on behalf of the Bank in all matters and to represent VÚB, a.s. in relations with third parties, in front improvement of the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. Independence of courts or other authorities. of the Internal Audit and Control Department is expressed in the organizational structure by its direct reporting to the Supervisory Board, which established also an Audit Committee for the needs of a more The Management Board mainly: detailed communication concerning the Bank’s internal control system. ■■ exercises the executive management of VÚB, a.s., ■■ exercises the rights of the employer, Committees ■■ convenes General Meetings, In VUB Bank, the following bank-wide top committees are charged with the task of coordinating, escalat■■ implements decisions made by the General Meeting and the Supervisory Board, ing and adopting decisions in the following bank-wide procedures and initiatives: ■■ ensures the keeping of accounting and other records, commercial books and other documentation of VÚB, a.s., as prescribed, ■■ Assets and Liabilities Committee, ■■ after a prior approval and upon recommendation by the Supervisory Board, it submits proposals to ■■ IT – Business / Risk / IT Architecture Committee, the General Meeting for approval. ■■ Corporate Credit Committee, ■■ Credit Risk Committee, ■■ Operational Risk Committee, ■■ New Product Committee, ■■ Audit Committee, ■■ VUB Crisis Management Committee. 16 17 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Approach Corporate Responsibility Governance Management board Corporate Responsibility Approach CEO CSR unit Dialogue with Stakeholders Businees Ethics and Management of All Bank divisions CSR working group Sensitive Aspects Corporate Responsibility Staff Unit The unit is included in the Bank’s organizational structure as an independent department reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer. It is managed by the corporate responsibility manager, who is simultaneously a member of the international coordination group for corporate responsibility of the parent company Intesa Sanpaolo. The department’s task is to provide support, guidance and where necessary also coordinate the corporate responsibility activities through designated representatives from each bank division. Corporate Responsibility Group A bank-wide corporate responsibility group has been continuously working in the interest of implementing corporate responsibility principles into all aspects of the Bank’s activities. Representatives for each bank division were nominated to this group by the Management Board. The group is responsible for: ■■ implementation of corporate responsibility principles into the division’s activities, ■■ management and monitoring of all corporate responsibility aspects in their divisions, ■■ supply of qualitative and quantitative data for the purposes of compiling the annual corporate responsibility report, ■■ quarterly supply of qualitative and quantitative data for the parent company. Managerial decisions in the area of corporate responsibility are in the competence of the Chief Executive Officer, whereas all activities are regularly reported to the Bank’s Management Board on a quarterly basis. Codes and policies concerning corporate responsibility are always approved by the Management Board, which is responsible for performance in the financial, social and environmental areas. 18 19 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Strategy Dialogue with Stakeholders VUB Bank runs several programs aimed at dialogue and communication with our stakeholders influenced by our business activity. We focus mainly on dialogue with stakeholders by means of the following channels: ■■ customer satisfaction surveys, ■■ solving of client inquiries, ■■ employee surveys and polls, Satisfied clients Satisfied employees ■■ discussion between employees and Bank’s management, ■■ communication with the community. Greatest attention is paid to the category of clients, mainly through several types of client satisfaction surveys. The survey is built on the basis of a recognized European indicator ECSI – European Customer Satisfaction Index. Client inquiries and complaints are examined by the Customer Care Department, which Our aim consistently accepts and analyzes all inquiries, their justification and causes providing a feedback to other sub-departments in form of proposals for improvement in processes, products and prevention of similar potential wrongdoings in the future. For more details refer to the Clients chapter. Attentive listening and dialogue are important also in relation to employees. Their satisfaction is periodically examined in form of employee surveys and by promoting Bank’s values and principles anchored in the Code of Ethics. In 2011, a regular survey identifying employee satisfaction was performed in the whole Satisfied shareholders Satisfied public Intesa Sanpaolo Group. During the whole year, we are carrying out also internal polls on various topics. Employees have a chance to pose questions directly to the Chief Executive Officer by means of an Intranet form. We designed a new structure of benefits, in which all changes had been inspired by the employee survey and subsequently supported also by an internal campaign. We also carried out a new internal survey entitled Ladies, let´s talk. Its goal was to find out more about the opinions of our employees – women regarding working conditions in VUB and harmonization of their work and personal lives. For more details Subsidiary banks implement into their activities corporate responsibility values, policies and principles idenrefer to the Employees chapter. tical with the ones of their parent bank Intesa Sanpaolo. The model that the parent bank applies is based on the premise that equally as the bank itself also all employees are owners of responsibility in their dayIn order to learn about the needs of communities the Corporate Responsibility Staff Unit organizes meeto-day activities. Important is a complex approach to sustainability and addressing the needs of Bank’s intings with the representatives of communities, the third sector, education system and other entities. dividual stakeholders, whether it is company owners, employees or clients. The result is implementation of unified corporate responsibility policies and principles. All forms of dialogue and communication with stakeholders we engage in are specified in individual chapters of this report. The stakeholder dialogue results in measures and commitments that the Bank implements into its business and action plans. All these measures help us deliver the Bank’s mission, improve our services and products, as well as manage our relations with the Bank’s stakeholders in order to achieve Corporate Responsibility Section on Intranet an evenly balanced relation satisfying for both parties. On the Intranet there is a special section for employees dedicated to corporate responsibility. It conAdvocating Corporate Responsibility Principles tains all corporate responsibility related documents adopted (Code of Ethics, Internal Code of Conduct, policies), corporate responsibility reports, presentations and information materials. Basic corporate reVUB Bank engages also in advocating corporate responsibility principles and raising awareness among ensponsibility documents of our parent bank are available to employees as well. trepreneurs and the wide public alike. Since 2004, it has been a member of an informal association called the Business Leaders Forum (BLF) joining leaders in enforcement of corporate responsibility principles in Slovakia. VUB Bank has been actively participating in the association’s activities and it has been a member of working groups for a responsible supply chain and for climatic change. In 2011, BLF concentrated on the topic of raising awareness about corporate responsibility among small and medium enterprises. The association was also dedicated to supplier chain responsibility. Transfer of best practice related to supplier chain responsibility from companies belonging to the BLF onto their suppliers and risk management in supplier chain were addressed by the TWINS project, in which the BLF companies were helping their suppliers to run their businesses responsibly. VUB participated in the project with one supplier. 20 21 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Responsibility Business Ethics and Management of Sensitive Aspects ■■ Compliance Policy, ■■ Internal Group Code of Conduct, We are a bank that committed itself to corporate responsibility and our clients, shareholders, employees ■■ Gift Acceptance Policy, and suppliers expect us to be ethical in conducting our business. This is the very reason why VUB decided ■■ Query Resolution Policy, to implement ethics into its business taking specific steps and within various important measures it intro■■ Policy for Management of Relations with Political Parties and Politically Engaged Parties, Clients duced also a Code of Ethics. It is a set of principles, which have a strategic meaning for us and regulate the Operating in Armament Industry and Risk Industries, Clients from Risk Countries and Transactions with behaviour of our employees. Each employee, without any exception, is required to get familiarized with it, Risk Countries in VUB Group. while its observance is continuously monitored and its breach penalized. This Code of Ethics is followed up by a corporate anti-corruption program with specific system and organizational measures, including an Code of Ethics of Intesa Sanpaolo Group internal audit control system. The Code of Ethics defines values honoured by the Intesa Sanpaolo Group and represents one of its corporate culture pillars. The Code applies to all subsidiaries of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group around the Considering the great responsibility that we as a bank bear towards our shareholders and naturally toworld. It represents a framework of ethical and moral values, observance of which is the basic prewards our clients, we must comply with a variety of legal regulations. Their observance is supervised by requisite for a successful growth and sustainable development. It contains principles of conduct in reregulators. But we take it even further. We follow also such rules that are not imposed on us by any law lation to all stakeholders which raise the level of standards that each individual within the company or required by any authority, but which we consider commonplace as they give our business an ethical must adhere to in order to have the trust of all parties involved. Values, which Intesa dimension. Sanpaolo proclaimed by means of the Code of Ethics, express its corporate culture and history. As a management tool and a part of a wider vision of the Group’s soEMPLOYEES Overview of 2011 Proceedings cial and environmental responsibility, the Code of Ethics attributes the highest importance to all stakeholder relations. Electronic version of the document is published on VUB Bank was a party to a proceeding heard by the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic in the http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/hodnoty-principy/. matter of a suspected conclusion of agreement with other two banks limiting the competition. The administrative proceeding was lawfully terminated in 2009 and VUB Bank was sanctioned with a penalty Internal Group Code of Conduct amounting to EUR 3,810,461. Since, in the opinion of VUB Bank, the administrative proceeding was The Code sets the basic principles of conduct by the company’s representatives, employees and external not conducted in compliance with the law, in January 2010 the Bank brought a legal action against agents, who are obliged to execute their functions responsibly, honestly, fairly and professionally, while the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic to the respective court appealing the decision. In its promoting the Bank and Group’s interests as well as taking into consideration the interests of clients and ruling dated September 28, 2010, the Regional Court in Bratislava cancelled the appealed decision of shareholders. Therefore, execution of decision-making authorities and each business activity must reflect the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic and returned the matter to it for further action. The all values and principles contained in the Code. The parent company and all Group’s companies promote Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic filed an appeal against this ruling. In 2011, no decision was by means of suitable internal control system and adequate trainings and information systems – respecting taken in the matter. of applicable laws and regulations as well as compliance with general principles of conduct specified in the Code on all executive and operational levels and in every geographical context, where Intesa Sanpaolo In 2011, VUB Bank was a party to three proceedings brought to the Advertising Standards Council as an performs its activities with the aim of protecting property, integrity and reputation of each company and ethical self-regulatory authority. In two cases, the Council’s findings were negative and in one case the the whole group. advertising was evaluated as conflicting the Ethical Code of Advertising Practice. In line with this Code, the advertising was withdrawn from broadcasting without any undue delay. Environmental Policy Environmental Policy represents a written commitment to environmental protection, which sets a mission Ethical Codes and objectives in the area of environmental management. The policy defines VUB Group’s approach to prevention, management and where possible also reduction of direct and indirect environNo lying. We repeatedly state these words, which reflect the essence of all ethical codes VUB Bank acmental impacts it generates as a result of its business activity. As a responsible company, ENVIRONMENT ceded to. The effort to bring clear and true information is a reflection of one of our basic values in practice, VUB committed to manage the impacts of its business activity and reduce the impacts of being the transparency. its activities on the environment in cooperation with its stakeholders. We do not belong among significant direct polluters of the environment, but we preferentially strive to mini■■ Consumer Protection Code of Ethics mize potential negative impact on the environment to the lowest level possible. ■■ European Agreement on a Voluntary Code of Conduct on Pre-Contractual Information for Home Loans ■■ The European Code of Conduct on Home Loans (ESIS) Global Compact (UN Global Treaty) ■■ Ethical Code of Advertising Practice VUB is a signatory of Global Compact, a strategic initiative of the United Nations aimed at corporate responsibility. Worldwide, it was joined by over 5,000 companies from more than 100 countries. VUB comVersions of all ethical codes are published on the Internet site http://www.vub.sk/en/about-us/valuesmitted to support the ten basic principles concerning human rights, labour conditions, environment and principles/compliance/codes-ethics/. anti-corruption with its activities. These principles fully correspond with VUB’s values. Internal Ethical Standards VUB Bank has continued in a targeted building of its Corporate Governance and in cooperation with its parent company Intesa Sanpaolo has been setting up its own internal corporate responsibility rules significantly beyond the basic scope required by the Slovak legislation. Currently applicable internal regulations are: 22 23 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Responsibility Equator Principles ■■ List of VUB’s mediators in the area of personal data processing and parties provided personal data conIntesa Sanpaolo committed to observe the Equator Principles. It consists of a set of interstituting a bank secret, national rules for project financing designed by a group of international banks based on ■■ List of third parties and recipients provided and made available personal data of clients and data conthe policies of the International Finance Corporation. The principles are based on environCLIENTS stituting a bank secret. mental and social standards of the World Bank and applied in project financing worth more than USD 10 million. The principles assist financial institutions in selecting projects Investor Protection (MiFID) with the aim of reducing social and environmental risks in project financing. They oblige the financing applicants to prepare a compulsory report on environmental impacts. These principles are VUB keeps providing the highest possible level of protection not only to its retail clients, but also to clients observed also by VUB. In conclusion of 2011, CSR staff from our parent company gave training to Corporate included in the higher category of professional clients. It implements several measures aimed at invesBanking and Risk Management divisions on implementation of Equator Principles in VUB. tor protection and solving of investors’ complaints. This legal regulation is embedded in the directive on financial markets, the so-called “MiFID” (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive), implemented in the Gift Acceptance Policy Securities Act. Our clients have online access to documents that will help them to better understand the This internal policy deriving from the Code of Ethics of VUB Bank governs principles and limitations to financial instruments and provision of investment services. behaviour of Bank’s representatives and employees in accepting unsolicited gifts. It also sets the limits and rules of behaviour in gift acceptance. Client Protection in Payment Services Provision Policy for Management of Relations with Political Parties and Politically Engaged Parties, Clients Operating VUB Bank continues in application of effective measures aimed at a better awareness of clients in provision in Armament Industry and Risk Industries of payment services in connection with implementation of the new “PSD“ (Payment Services Directive) The policy stipulates mainly: directive in Slovakia by means of the Payment Services Act. Simultaneously, the Bank keeps enhancing ■■ management of relations with political parties and politically engaged parties in the interest of preserthe knowledge of its employees through internal training activities as to guarantee the highest possible ving impartiality and independence comfort in practical use of the payment services by its clients. Aiming to prevent potential reputation risk related to political parties and politically engaged parties, VUB Group is obliged to act impartially and independently. This means that companies, which are a part of Client Protection in Financial Mediation VUB Group will approach the starting of business relations with political parties and politically engaged parties with utmost prudence. VUB Bank brought its activity into compliance with the requirements of the Act No. 186/2009 Coll. on Financial Mediation and Financial Advisory and on the Amendment ■■ management of relations with clients operating in the armament industry and Supplementation of Certain Acts as amended, as to provide clients with the protecCLIENTS In connection with preservation of values and principles outlined in the Code of Ethics, the main goal of tion required by law. In the interest of securing a higher protection of client rights, in this policy is to prevent that VUB and its subsidiaries participate in the financing of activities and transacfinancial mediation VUB Bank is trying to approach each client as a non-professional clitions concerning manufacturing of arms equipment as well as trading of this equipment for military purent. The basic information on financial mediation, products subject to it and on affiliated poses. and subordinated financial agents, with whom VUB Bank cooperates, is published on our Internet pages. ■■ management of relations with clients operating in risky business fields (industry risk) Client Protection in Consumer Lending Within VUB Group, clients and potential clients operating in the below industries/business fields are considered as risky: VUB Bank provides consumer loans in accordance with the Act No. 129/2010 Coll. on Consumer Loans and – exchange offices; Other Loans for Consumers and on the Amendment and Supplementation of Certain Acts as amended. – pawnbroker’s shops; – bars, night clubs, casinos; Conflict of Interest Policy – gambling rooms with more than 3 gambling machines; – security agencies; VUB Bank commits to avoid a conflict between private interests of its employees and the interests of – sex shops and pornography distributors; the Bank. The employees are liable to take all required measures in order to avoid a conflict of interest. – debt collecting agency; In case a conflict of interest occurs, employees shall solve such a conflict to the benefit of the Bank. The – broker companies; employees may never misuse their connection with the Bank to promote their personal interests or harm – betting offices. the Bank’s reputation by their actions nor can they misuse their position or confidential information to prefer a job applicant or a person aiming to start a business relation with the Bank. The Bank evaluates ■■ management of relations with clients and transactions from/to risk countries (country risk) the measures and procedures implemented to prevent, minimize and solve a potential conflict of interest Pursuant to the requirements of the binding regulation and Intesa Sanpaolo regulations, clients and poon a regular basis. VUB introduced measures for minimization of occurrence of an external conflict of tential clients from selected countries are considered risky, as well as all types of transactions and payinterests in economic activities of employees and in transactions between the Bank and an employee or ments from and to these countries. a person related to an employee. The employees should consult their working activities outside their main employment or involvement in business activities with their superior. The Bank has no objections against Confidential Data Processing employees getting involved in activities outside their work as volunteers or otherwise provided that the activity does not obstruct performance of their regular work for the Bank or is not in conflict with internal We respect client privacy and protect it. Pursuant to the law, we handle our clients’ data with utmost care rules of the Bank and the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. and principally with their awareness and consent. On page http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/hodnoty-principy/ compliance/spracovanie-dovernych-udajov/ we post and continuously update the list of third parties that VUB also applies and adheres to special measures designed to prevent conflicts of interests in the area of were provided data of our clients: investment services. Their main aim is to prevent conflicts of interests or cope with inevitable conflicts of 24 25 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Responsibility interests as to prevent the risk of harming the clients’ interests. These measures are monitored and their shortcomings and errors in this area in the future. Due to this reason, the managers and also employees efficiency is regularly evaluated. In relation with occurrence of a potential conflict of interest, VUB Bank are informed of some cases that occurred in the past. declares that it will notify clients of the nature and source of the conflict prior to provision of an investment service or prior to performing an activity and in case of their provision or execution it will always prefer Within initial trainings, all new hires in the retail network are given a special presentation on fraud and the clients’ interests to its own ones. In case of a conflict of interests between the clients themselves it will corruption risks including typical signs of a risky behaviour. The main objective of this training activity is to ensure an equal and fair treatment of all clients. increase prevention and/or minimize occurrence of these cases. In 2012, VUB Bank will be implementing strict rules of Intesa Sanpaolo Group for personal deals perforDiscrimination Ban med by the Bank employees. On all levels and in relation to all its stakeholders, VUB Bank observes the non-discrimiAnti-money Laundering and Anti-terrorism nation principles, which are firmly anchored in our Code of Ethics and system of values. One of VUB’s values is that “We do not discriminate – We commit that we shall exclude EMPLOYEES In the anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing, we are progressing in line with the Slovak and from our actions any discrimination and shall respect differences based on sex, age, race, also the European legislation ensuring protection of our clients as well as of the Bank itself. In the banfaith, political opinion, participation in unions, language skills or impairment.“ For more king sector, we are a stakeholder of the Financial Investigation Unit (FIU), which operatively evaluates the information on its application refer to the Employees chapter. clients’ behaviour signals we report and is under a permanent supervision of the regulatory authority of the National Bank of Slovakia. Corruption and Fraudulent Actions Our activity in the area of Bank’s protection against money laundering or terrorist financing is intensifying Clearly Defined Approach and Principles and we dedicate this area greater attention. We do not want to support these negative phenomena not even indirectly by enabling financial flows by means of our products, services or in any connection with VUB Bank has been fulfilling and committed to fulfil high moral and ethical standards built on clearly dethe Bank. Therefore, we follow strictly set up internal rules to prevent money-laundering and terrorist clared principles. All bank employees have been informed of these principles by means of various forms financing in form of detection of unusual business transactions. For this purpose, the Bank developed and (distributed brochures, internal campaign, posting on Intranet). The principles are as follows: implemented its own program of anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing activities deriving ■■ The Bank requires all its employees to act honestly, with integrity and protect sources and information from: in their work environment or for which they bear responsibility. ■■ The Bank committed to ensure that fraud and corruption risk would be reduced to the lowest level pos■■ Slovak legislation, sible. ■■ European legislation, ■■ These principles relate to all unusual cases involving employees as well as external consultants, suppliers, ■■ international FATF recommendations, recommendations of The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision contractual stakeholders and/or any third party in a business relation with this organization. and Wolfsberg Principles, US Patriot Act, ■■ All employees must take decisions individually in line with the Bank’s interests. They must not act with ■■ Intesa Sanpaolo Group rules concerning money-laundering as well as against risky entities and countries. the aim of gaining financial or other material advantage for themselves, their family or close ones. We apply Customer Due Diligence pursuant to the valid legislation and take into consideration the risk Zero Tolerance profile of individual clients. VUB Bank clearly proclaims its absolute zero tolerance principle regarding corruption and frauds. All bank Within its organizational structure, the Bank defined a specialized unit charged with implementation, exemployees are informed about the following principles: ecution and coordination of activities related to protection of the Bank against its misuse for the purposes ■■ The Bank shall not accept any form of fraudulent or corrupt acting, therefore each case will be thorof money laundering or terrorist financing. The unit reports directly to the Deputy CEO and is responsible oughly examined and relevant measures drawn from it. also for detection of unusual business transactions and cooperation with the respective regulatory au■■ Each participation in a fraud or fraud attempt shall lead to dismissal and potential criminal charges. thorities. It also ensures monitoring of all financial transactions as required by the law and the international ■■ Necessary investigation shall be performed irrespective of the relation of the given person to this orgalegislation. The unit’s activities include also evaluation of international payment transactions in real time nization, his/her work position or employment duration. constituting first-level prevention of connection between the bank sector and a sanctioned or risky person and/or entity. Measures for Corruption and Fraud Reduction Awareness Internal Control System The Bank incorporated into its processes various control mechanisms in order to reduce the corruption The Bank created a specialized unit dedicated to disclosure of frauds and corruption, which is a part of the and fraud risk to the minimum level possible. The Bank clearly sets the necessity of a control mechanism Risk Management Division. It closely cooperates primarily with the Internal Audit and Control Department for each bank process, where corruption and fraud risk is imminent (e.g. verification of decisions, 4-eyes and the Compliance Department. All bank employees are informed of internal ethical standards and the control, access rights management etc.). The internal control system consists of three levels: statutory, zero tolerance principle while having access to the basic information on the steps that are necessary to executive and control. take in case of any corruption or fraud suspicion. Since the Bank has an eminent interest in disclosing corruption and frauds, it implemented the so-called Whistle Blower Policy enabling each bank employee to communicate his/her suspicion preserving his/her anonymity. The Bank does not conceal the detected corruption and fraud cases from its employees, but on the contrary it decided to inform and educate its managers in order to constantly improve their work and eliminate 26 27 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Our Stakeholders Internal Audit Clients The Bank established an internal audit and control unit, which is an independent supervising body (unit directly reporting to the Bank’s Supervisory Board and not to the Management Board). One of its main roles is to verify the functionality of internal control system, compliance with external and internal legislation including the Bank’s Code of Ethics, verification of internal control failures and internal fraud suspicions. In 2011, the Internal Audit and Control unit examined the internal control system in all corporate branches, in more than one third of the retail branches and it also carried out several specialized audits related to internal fraud and corruption risk. Verified were also all key processes in the Bank selected based on an annually prepared risk map. On the grounds of the risks identified within individual audits, the Bank immediately adopted corrective measures and set up a regular monitoring of such areas and if necessary notified the respective state bodies. CLIENTS Individual clients Corporate clients Public and Non-profit sector Financial markets area 28 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Clients are one of our most important stakeholders and therefore our priority and in the centre of our Further Classification of Corporate Clients (retail and corporate clients) interest. We strive to offer them products and services they request in order to achieve their utmost satisfaction. It does not matter if the client is an individual or a large company, we treat every client equally 2011 responsibly and professionally. A prerequisite for permanent success is the ability to correctly identify Retail clients 91,969 clients’ needs. Therefore, we continued in the Listening 100 % project aimed at enhancing the quality of Corporate clients 10,441 Bank’s services, improvement of its processes, innovation of its products and distribution channels. Client Segmentation Our Clients We continuously monitor and every three months evaluate changes in the structure of our clients. This Individual (Private) Clients evaluation allows us to regularly revise and improve the offer of our services. The focus of our interest lies in retail banking, where we provide services to more than 1.2 million clients: Our Individual Clients ■■ citizens – individuals, ■■ small businesses and sole traders, Classification by Age ■■ self-employed, ■■ non-governmental organizations. age: > 61: 234,940 age: 0 – 25: 169,770 In many banking areas, we hold a significant market position in this segment (mortgages, credit cards, direct banking), whereas we are often the first ones to bring new product solutions to the market. Corporate (Business) Clients In VUB Bank, corporate clients represent a significant segment. A unique network of 32 corporate branchage: 41 – 60: 395,710 es around Slovakia ensures the clients professional and personal approach, whether they are small, meage: 26 – 40: 353,167 dium or large companies, towns and municipalities, farmers or administrators of flats and apartment buildings. We leverage our local expertise connected with an international know-how, which enable us Average age of a VUB client is 44.7 years. to provide a variety of attractive banking products and services starting with classical and ending with specialized and tailored products and services. Moreover, we offer also products aimed at contributing to permanent sustainability of the environment. Classification by Relationship Duration Municipalities less than 1 year: 49,620 over 10 years: 574,571 1 – 3 years: 166,000 In 2011, VUB Bank kept strengthening its position within the segment of self-administrations, as well as improving the quality of its products and services. Despite fierce competition in the market, self-administrations are considered reliable and stable partners. This was reflected also in many successful projects we executed. We participated to a great extent in co-financing of projects supported from EU funds aimed at developing the infrastructure of towns, municipalities and regions. 4 – 6 years: 169,808 Financial and Capital Markets 7 – 10 years: 193,588 We render services to a wide spectrum of clients, which are financial institutions and the business clientele including legal and natural entities. We support and have a close cooperation with the clients of retail and Average duration of a client’s relationship with the Bank is 10.14 years. private banking and communicate with many partners in the global interbank market on a daily basis. At the end of 2011, VUB Bank counted 1,255,977 clients, thereof 1,153,587 individuals (citizens) and 102,410 corporate clients (sole traders, large companies, small and medium enterprises and other corporate clients). 2011 2010 2009 individual clients 1,153,587 1,153,997 1,146,865 corporate clients 102,410 103,036 101,371 TOTAL 1,255,997 1,257,033 1,248,236 30 31 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Our Corporate Clients Number of ATMs Number of Corporate Clients 600 600 540 540 8000 480 480 7000 420 420 31/12/2011 360 360 6000 Year 2009 300 300 558 ATMs 31/12/2010 5000 240 240 Year 2010 180 180 554 ATMs 4000 120 120 Year 2011 3000 60 60 560 ATMs 0 0 2000 year 2011 year 2010 year 2009 1000 0 SME MuniciNon-proﬁt Large Availability to Disabled Citizens businesses palities organizations corporates We strive to make our branches easily available to people with physical disabilities. All newly opened sales Closer to Clients points dispose of a barrier-free access and when reconstructing older sales points we always make sure they are barrier-free. Fifty percent of ATMs have hardware arrangements for communication with sightAs at 31/12/2011 VUB Bank’s clients had at their disposal: impaired individuals. ■■ 206 retail branches, Number of Barrier-free Branches ■■ 11 mortgage centres, COMMUNITY ■■ 32 corporate branches. 200 200 In the course of the year, 1 new retail branch was opened in Bardejov and 1 retail branch in Bratislava 160 160 was closed. All VUB Bank branches are available to clients 5 days a week. Four retail branches operate 6 days a week and 17 retail branches and 1 mortgage centre are available to clients even 7 days a week. 120 120 Corporate branches are located in all big towns around Slovakia in order to be as close to the clients as possible. 80 80 Available is also the Contact Centre providing services to all clients, whether in Slovakia or abroad, for 40 40 Slovak Republic citizens and also foreigners. It operates non-stop 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The operators ensure service and consultancy by telephone and also e-mail. They also carry out activities related 0 0 to safety of our clients’ funds, whether it is safe working with Internet Banking or payment cards safety. year 2011 year 2010 year 2009 ATM Network and Its Safety Direct Banking As at 31/12/2011, VUB Bank operated 560 installed ATMs, whereas in 2011 6 ATMs were installed in In 2011, VUB Bank continued to improve the quality of our non-stop banking services including the sernew locations and 10 ATMs were moved to other locations more interesting for our clients. In addition, vices Kontakt, Internet Banking, Internet Banking Plus, Mobile Banking and Business Banking. we replaced 52 old ATMs with new ones. All ATMs have been installed new credit recharge services for prepaid cards. As at 31/12/2011, the Bank counted more than 737,000 clients with activated electronic banking services. Compared to 2010, we recorded an increase in the number of clients with Nonstop Banking services. In For the purpose of increasing security in PIN entering, in 2011 we introduced in the ATMs a security screen payments, the number of transactions performed through electronic channels went up by 34 %. with the information on safe entering of PIN. In 2011, the ATMs were being equipped with the latest antiskimming protection. We plan to continue in this activity also in 2012. 32 33 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Number of Clients with Activated Electronic Banking Services Active Listening and Dialogue with Customers 740,000 740,000 Customer Care and Query Resolution 692,000 692,000 The goal of Customer Care Department is to constantly improve products and services, actively listen to the clients and look for ways of improving mutual communication. By listening actively to our clients, we 644,000 644,000 want to understand their needs and expectations in the area of banking products and services better. We want to do our best to meet these needs and expectations and so become the best bank in customer sat596,000 596,000 isfaction. In accomplishing this goal, we draw mainly on the feedback we receive from our clients in form of compliments, comments and queries. Client queries are divided into complaints, claims and requests. 548,000 548,000 Although the feedback in this form is negative for us, it enables us to look for ways towards our improvement. We offer several options for the clients to contact us and forward their feedback to the Bank: 500,000 500,000 year 2011 year 2010 year 2009 ■■ electronically (using the Internet form) through the Kontakt tab on www.vub.sk, During 2011, in the interest of accommodating the clients in the nonstop banking services, we performed ■■ by a freely formulated e-mail sent to the Contact Centre, Customer Care Department or any several changes: Bank’s electronic address (its forwarding to the correct place is internally ensured), ■■ possibility of confirming payments through SMS authorization and also through the Kontakt Service, ■■ telephonically to the Kontakt Service, ■■ activation of SMS authorization also for international telephone numbers, ■■ in writing to the Customer Care Department, ■■ modification of the contact form in Internet Banking aimed to improve the speed and quality of respon■■ In person – at any of the Bank’s sales points. ses to our clients. The fact that our clients still prefer personal contact is shown also by the figures below. Security and Personal Data Protection Communication Channels Used by Clients to Send Queries to the Bank Number of Queries % Protection of confidential data and privacy of our clients is commonplace for us. All information and docubranch network 8,340 55.09 ments about our clients, which are not publicly accessible, mainly the information on clients’ transactions telephonically – Kontakt Service 5,661 7.39 with the Bank and on account balances, are subject to bank secret. Head Office – Customer Care Department 1,139 7.52 Branch Security 2011 2010 2009 All VUB Bank branches are, in compliance with the relevant regulations, equipped with a security camera Number of Queries 15,140 16,351 19,071 system and other security equipment. The basic security rule at branches is that security and protection of our clients’ lives and health come always before the protection of the Bank’s property. Query Types 2011 2010 2009 Direct Banking Security Complaints 338 206 386 Claims 13,669 14,103 14,035 In 2011, VUB Bank increased the security in the area of Internet Banking Plus, namely by enhancing the Requests 1,133 2,042 4,650 encryption algorithm. Payment Card Security Query Resolution Since 2008, VUB Bank has increased the security of payment card use by gradually transferring to chip Query 2011 2010 2009 technology. Since 2008 all new cards have been issued as the chip cards. The existing “non-chip” card number % number % number % after their expiry have been gradually replaced by new cards using the chip technology. Anticipated terAccepted (justified) 8,777 57.97 9,248 56.6 13,522 70.9 mination of transfer to chip technology on the whole VUB Bank payment card portfolio is planned for 2012. Higher security was reached also by introducing a compulsory insertion of a PIN code at payment. Rejected 6,095 40.26 6,645 40.6 5,296 27.8 Unclassified 268 1.77 458 2.8 253 1.3 Another form of securing payment cards is insurance in the event of misuse, of a lost or stolen card. This Total 15,140 100.0 16,351 100.0 19,071 100.0 insurance covers holders of payment cards for legal entities and it is provided automatically and without any fees. The insurance covers unauthorized transactions made during 24 hours prior to reporting the The most frequent client queries concerned transactions through payment terminals and ATMs, deposit blockage of the lost or stolen card. products and electronic banking. In 2011, VUB Bank started issuing cards with contactless technology, which increases comfort and speed In 2011, we performed the following improvements and new initiatives: of payments up to EUR 20. Security is ensured in form of insurance against its misuse up to EUR 100. ■■ unification of all inbound channels, ■■ improvement of data monitoring and mapping, 34 35 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders ■■ number of justified claims and complaints related to a specific sales point or employee enters the branch In order to make our actions speak louder than words, we designed the “Listening 100 %“ program foquality evaluation and directly influences remuneration, cused on a better understanding of client needs. For the purpose of improving the quality of our services ■■ continuous staff trainings, and a joint building of a stable relationship based on trust, it is very important to listen to our clients. ■■ in case of an error on our side, we provide for its rectification and take measures to avoid its recurrence. Therefore, VUB Bank carries out client satisfaction surveys, in which it tries to get opinions on the quality of its services and products. In resolving queries, we apply the following principles: ■■ we respect each client and resolve each query professionally, In 2011, we ran three different types of satisfaction surveys: ■■ we make effort to understand clients and their views, ■■ we are consistent in examining the reasons of queries and we try to solve them in the shortest time 1. retail and SME client satisfaction survey – we addressed nearly 20,000 clients, spent more than possible, 5,000 hours doing telephone interviews and posed over 1,500,000 questions. We were finding out ■■ in case a claim/complaint is justified we take the necessary steps to avoid the same mistake in the future, how our clients perceive our bank, how they are satisfied with our services, products and our approach. ■■ clients are always provided true, correct and verified information, The level of satisfaction of our clients is expressed by the European Customer Satisfaction Index (ECSI). ■■ clients are given clear, comprehensible and transparent clarifications, The results of surveys serve as input for elaboration of action plans aimed at improvement of areas ■■ we make effort to give advice and find a satisfactory solution for the client, where the satisfaction value does not reach desirable values. ■■ sensitive client data are handled confidentially within the scope of client consents and in compliance with legal regulations, ■■ we always treat our clients in good faith and without any prejudice, European Customer Satisfaction Index ■■ transparency and ethics have the same value as technically and administratively flawless servicing. 85.00 % 85.00 % The result of query resolution is communicated to clients in a manner identical to the one they used when 84.50 % 84.50 % submitting their queries. Maximum period for claim/complaint resolution is stipulated by law and we 84.20 % 83.90 % observe it at all times. From the perspective of time, the average time of query resolution was shortened 84.00 % 83.60 % 83.60 % 83.80 % 83.60 % 84.00 % compared to 2010. 83.50 % 83.30 % 83.30 % 83.50 % Average Query Resolution Time (number of days) 83.00 % 83.00 % 82.80 % 82.80 % 20 20 82.50 % 82.50 % 18 18 82.00 % 82.30 % 82.00 % 16 16 I. Q II. Q III. Q IV. Q I. Q II. Q III. Q IV. Q I. Q II. Q III. Q 2009 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 14 14 12 12 10 10 2. interbank satisfaction survey of retail and SME clients (Bank benchmarking, retail customers 2011) 8 8 carried out by external company on a sample of 2,250 respondents. Addressed were clients of the larg6 6 est Slovak banks. The respondents evaluated VUB as a bank, the services and products of which they 4 4 are definitely most satisfied with in the fierce competition and they also showed the highest degree of 2 2 loyalty. Our aim is to maintain a leading position and continue to increase the quality of products and 0 0 services we provide. year 2011 year 2010 year 2009 ECSI Index Client Satisfaction 81.00 % VÚB 82.30 % We realize that not only figures, charts or volumes, but also the “client satisfaction” category is the indicator of and key to our success. It is rooted in quality service and our effort for continuous improvement on Competitor No. 1 80.30 % the basis of communication and feedback from clients. 82.10 % 80.10 % COMMUNITY Competitor No. 2 Our aim is to be the best bank in client satisfaction in Slovakia. In this connection, in 2011 81.40 % we executed two new initiatives: student competition Customer Satisfaction University 75.90 % Competitor No. 3 Award. Read more about this in the Community chapter. 81.20% 78.30 % Competitor No. 4 Clients Day was the first ever organized in VUB on 20/09/2011. On this occasion, we prepared an infor80.60 % mation flyer for clients on VUB Bank’s activities in client satisfaction; at entering the branch each client 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 was welcomed directly by the branch manager and the clients were leaving with a small present. We will Research 2011 organize this special day for our clients every year in September. Research 2010 36 37 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders 3. s urvey of retail clients’ satisfaction with Internet Banking service – the survey included ran■■ interactive sale – access to the sale of term deposits through the “touch application“ in the VUB Bank domly selected clients and all answers from completed questionnaires were statistically processed. The branch in the Bratislava shopping centre Aupark. By means of a touch screen, the client can set up the aim was to identify the level of satisfaction with the Internet Banking service and based on the answers parameters of his/her term deposit (currency, volume of funds, fixed period) and at the same time auidentify problems to subsequently provide for improvements. For each fully completed questionnaire, tomatically get information on interest rate and gross interest for the whole fixed period of the deposit. VUB Bank donated 1 euro to the Plamienok (Flicker) children hospice. Current Accounts The Listening 100% supplements the ZAPNi (SWITCHon) employee program aimed at capturing valuable ideas and implementing them into practice as efficiently as possible. ■■ automatic switching of older types of packages to the current product Flexi Account for all For more details refer to the Employees chapter. EMPLOYEES individual mass clients and Flexi Business Account in case of legal entities; the product provides clients with more possibilities and a more flexible set up of products and services; Branch Evaluation ■■ extension of products and services included in the Start Account (product for the young under 26 years) by the EURO 26 payment card, which combines the function of a debit payment card and In 2011, we carried on with evaluating the quality of services we provide by awarding the sales points qualthe EURO 26 bonus card; ity certificates. The objective is to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the specific branch, determine ■■ extension of products and services included in the Flexi Account, Senior Account and Start the manner of increasing its quality and also the number of satisfied clients. Quality Certificates are not Account by the VISA Inspire Card – international debit payment card featuring contactless technology; awarded for quantity, but rather for the quality of service and sale. ■■ extension of options how to become a “Good Angel“– VUB Bank enables its clients, Flexi Account holders, to contribute via Flexi Saving with each payment by debit card they make to the benefit Product Development and Innovation of the Good Angel account in form of rounding a performed payment to a whole euro; on page www.dobryanjel.sk the client can see what amount he/she donated within his/her Flexi Saving and to Quality Product Offer whom specifically his/her donations were sent. VUB Bank dedicates increased attention to a continuous development of products and services and their Bancassurance improvement. In 2011, we confirmed our achievements from the past years and won the most awards in the financial products competition entitled the 2011 Golden Coin. Out of seven banking product catego■■ convenient real estate and household insurance to Flexi Mortgage in form of parameter modification; ries, VUB Bank succeeded in six. It took three golden, one silver and two bronze coins. ■■ extension of insurance assistance services on Flexi Account and AMEX Gold Card by new risks and also insurance limit increase; VUB scored mainly in the categories of housing loans (Flexi Mortgage), consumer loans (Flexi Loan) and ■■ adding of a new insurance – medical assistance services within the basic Flexi Account probusiness financing (Profi Loans), for which it was awarded golden coins. It won silver in the category of duct offer; this insurance will provide for assistance to clients at home and also during hospitalization electronic banking (Internet Banking) and a bronze coin in the categories of bank account (Flexi Account) in a hospital already after 48 hours of hospitalization (e.g. above-standard room, transport, shopping, and investment banking (Internet Banking for private banking clients). VUB simultaneously received the cleaning, care etc.) and financial payment after 14 days of hospitalization; award Best Newcomer of the Year 2011 for the FLEXImore Saving. ■■ modification in life insurance for clients’ higher flexibility when deciding about saving and risk coverage; The ranking in individual categories was decided by experts from the circles of financial journalists, re■■ extension of the scope of available information from the insurance company at VUB presentatives of universities, news agencies, financial servers, financial advisors, professional associations Bank’s branches in identifying the current status of clients’ insurance claims resolution with the aim of and market research companies. The Golden Coin competition’s objective is to help the lay public orient enhancing client comfort. themselves in the myriad of financial products provided and point at the most quality ones. For more details refer to the Profile and Governance chapter. Payment Cards ■■ introduction of a new product “Bratislava City Card“ (Bratislavská mestská karta) – it is a nonIndividual Clients embossed debit payment card with the option of contactless payments. Bratislava City Card is issued in cooperation with the Capital City of Bratislava to citizens with permanent residence in Bratislava. The In 2011, in retail banking VUB Bank brought its clients the following innovated and new products: card combines several functionalities with the following use options such as: international payment card, identification chip card the so-called “tram pass”, library card, electronic ticket, discount and beSaving and Investments nefit card. Bratislava City Card is issued free of charge and its main benefit includes public transport discounts, which makes the Bratislava citizens’ travel cheaper. ■■ new fixed periods for term deposit in EUR – 36 and 48 months on a standard term deposit with ■■ introduction of a new product “Visa Inspire“ – it is the first joint payment card issued within the bana more favourable interest rate; king group Intesa Sanpaolo. The international non-embossed debit card VISA Inspire featuring con■■ new product FLEXImore Saving – saving with a more favourable interest rate and a bonus for regular tactless technology enables their holders to pay at the merchants in a simpler and faster manner. In saving. During the whole fixed period, it is guaranteed that the interest rate does not drop below the addition, the clients will get an automatic insurance against card misuse. The key benefit for the clients agreed minimum level; is a free-of-charge cash withdrawal from ATMs of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group abroad. ■■ 3 new issues of a guaranteed deposit with a fixed periods of 3 and 4 years and a guarantee of a minimum yield and the possibility to get a bonus yield; ■■ 2 new issues of mortgage bonds with a fixed periods of 4 and 5 years with the possibility of an interesting yield; ■■ kombiprodukt VII – combined investment into a term deposit and selected mutual funds of VUBAM; 38 39 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Lending ■■ Introduction of the Invoice Payment Through EFT-POS Terminals service, which brought: ■■ VUB’s corporate clients – recipients of invoice payments, an accelerated collection of receivables without ■■ Flexi Mortgage for refinancing – improvement of conditions at paying off other loans and extension any fees charged by the Bank, of refinancing options by further loan types. At the same time, the client has a possibility to get certain ■■ VUB’s corporate clients – merchants, an extension of services to customers, additional funds when consolidating various loans, i.e. that a part of loan can be disbursed for any ■■ Retail customers, an extension of invoice payment options and invoice payment-related fees. purpose; ■■ Flexi Mortgages – we extended the offer of interest rate fixations by the 3-year fix. Simultaneously, IT Innovations the mortgage certificate as a free-of-charge creditworthiness confirmation became more available, since the client can obtain it with any flexi mortgage and directly at the branch; The objective of the Bank is to provide top quality services with high level of accessibility to the clients. ■■ Flexi Mortgage with favourable interest rate – the client himself/herself can reduce his/her interest Hence the Bank continues investing into the development and upgrade of information technologies. The rate in case he/she chooses also other products or services to go with the Flexi Mortgage; efficient technologies used by the Bank employees contribute to enhance the services. In 2011 we repla■■ Flexi Loans for the young – new product for young clients under 23 years. It is all-purpose consumer ced more than 1,700 PCs at branches. New computers have been installed the latest version of the OS finance; Windows 7 and Microsoft Office 2010. ■■ Simplification of Flexi Loan conditions for students and introduction of benefits for active students. Benefit: 50% discount on the up-front fee and reduction of interest rate by 1% p.a. for the Furthermore, the Bank keeps improving the quality and the range of provided services via continuous whole loan maturity period for students with excellent study results, participating in extracurricular acupgrading of its software applications. In 2011 we invested more than 23,000 man days of analytical, tivities and engaging in volunteering activities; programming and testing work into the development of existing and new applications. ■■ Free-of-charge modification of contractual conditions – clients, who lost employment or whose income had been reduced due to other serious reason are allowed to defer their instalments or extend One of the priorities of the Bank in 2011 was the mitigation of operational risk in compliance with the maturity free of charge. This change enables clients to overcome the adverse life period more easily. requirements of business continuity management. With regard to that objective we have built a modern backup data centre into which the Bank’s information technologies were moved by the end of October Small Business Lending 2011. The new centre has been built using the most advanced technologies assuring high accessibility and emphasising electricity savings in line with the concept of green IT. ■■ Extension of the maximum maturity period for all-purpose Profi Loan up to 48 months, made the loan availability better also for clients with a lower annual turnover; ■■ Convenient loan offers –TOP ups (in form of an all-purpose Profi Loan) for clients, who had been Simplicity and Transparency in Communication granted a loan in the past, which they have been repaying without any defaults and who meet also further terms and conditions set by the Bank. The benefit consists in providing a more convenient inWe want our bank’s cooperation with clients to be always simple, comfortable and beneficial. We are conterest rate, with a more convenient up-front fee, without having to submit documents necessary for cerned about them being able to exercise their rights and knowing the Bank’s obligations towards them. approval of a loan application; As a signatory of Consumer Protection Code of Ethics we inform clients on everything in the most open ■■ Loans provided via Business Credit Line – it is a service that clients can get when actively using our manner possible. We provide them with information on our products and services through: products for at least 6 months. Owing to this offer, they can obtain additional funds to develop their ■■ employees, business basically instantly also without meeting the condition of minimum period in business applied ■■ sales points, in case of standard loans. We also prolonged the maximum maturity period for instalment loan from 24 ■■ information flyers, to 48 months. The benefit consists in providing a loan without submission of any ground documents ■■ brochures and user handbooks, (subject to average monthly credits on business accounts), at a more convenient up-front fee and inte■■ web pages (www.vub.sk, www.flexihypoteka.sk, www.flexiucet.sk; www.flexibiznisucet.sk; rest rate. www.startkonto.sk). Corporate Clients In addition to current information about the Bank and its products and services, clients and the general public as well are made available also various interactive calculators, e.g. for calculating the maximum We consider it essential that the offer of our products and services correspond to our clients’ needs. In loan amount. In order to raise the clients’ financial awareness, on our Internet site we prepared a section order to be able to react to these requirements in a timely fashion, we have been continuously conductdedicated to financial education, where clients and non-clients alike can: ing market surveys, personally meeting with our clients and based on the facts identified, we have been ■■ get information on the financing options in various life situations, developing new products or enhancing the existing ones. Our constant interest of bringing to the market ■■ explore the world of bank products and see that it is not so complex, new products and services and their enhancements was visible also in 2011. Our innovated products and ■■ learn to manage their finances in a more efficient and time-saving fashion. services include: For clarification and facilitation of working with Internet Banking, we prepared instructional videos ■■ FLEXI Loan for Farmers – in 2011 we prepared for the farmers an innovation of the bridge loan for our clients (one to two-minute video instructions containing advice on how to proceed in individual enabling the clients to obtain a loan of up to 100% of anticipated direct payments even prior to their operations). payout by the Agricultural Payment Agency; ■■ FLEXI Soil – is a novelty we have prepared for farmers. It is an investment loan for purchase of lands Professional Associations designed for agricultural production; ■■ Loans for Associations of Owners of Apartments and Apartment Houses – in the effort of In VUB, we honour our clients and therefore we adjust our range of products and services to their needs supporting projects aimed at energetic efficiency we are setting up new, more convenient terms and and specific requirements. We are trying to know our clients and differentiate our product portfolio so it conditions of these loans; would meet the requirements of our client base in the maximum extent possible. 40 41 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report One of the forms of coming closer to our clients, communicating and cooperating with them is to conEmployees clude agreements with professional associations (chambers and associations). It is VUB Bank’s interest to foster possibly most intense cooperation with professional associations in terms of mutual communication, promotion of activities, marketing activities and utilization of bank products and services by their members. The cooperation is intended to make the Bank’s products and services as available to the members of professional associations as possible. For this reason, our website features a special section for professional associations. Continuous progress, trustworthiness, reliability and honesty are the main values we follow in satisfying the needs of professional association members. Our partners include: ■■ A ssociation of Private Physicians, ■■ Chamber of Slovak Republic Veterinaries, ■■ Slovak Dentist Chamber, ■■ Slovak Medical Chamber, ■■ Slovak Sole Trader Chamber, ■■ Slovak Agricultural and Foodstuffs Chamber, ■■ Slovak Chamber of Commerce and Industry – Banks and Insurance Companies Section, ■■ other chambers with special offers. EMPLOYEES Employees and their families Trade union 42 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Strategy Employment by Region 2011 % 2010 % Bratislava 1,558 44.26 1,507 43.49 We realize that our success is based on expertise of our employees and quality of services provided to Trnava 236 6.70 233 6.72 our customers, therefore we consider creating interesting work and a stimulating environment the main Trenčín 246 6.99 246 7.10 tasks in developing the human capital. In relation to our employees, we follow the principles of the Code Nitra 273 7.76 270 7.79 of Ethics of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group and we commit to exclude from our actions any discrimination Žilina 282 8.01 287 8.28 and respect differences based on gender, age, race, faith, political opinion, political opinion, participation in unions, language skills or impairment. We honour the value, contribution and professionalism of each Banská Bystrica 366 10.40 365 10.53 individual as well as the uniqueness of conditions in which he/she operates. Prešov 289 8.21 286 8.25 Košice 270 7.67 271 7.82 Our Strategy in 2011: ■■ Significant objective was to retain quality employees, mainly in the retail branch network. VUB has curStaff Structure by Position Type rently employees of quality education and training in direct contact with the client, in whom also other banks show interest, and therefore their stabilization was a priority. As a result we have modified the Number Men Women compensation policy in order to be competitive in the basic wages against other banks in the market, Senior management positions 68 44 24 which in terms of the basic wages was not the case in the past. Other managerial positions 514 175 339 ■■ For the purpose of stabilizing well-performing employees we kept on supporting the development of Non-managerial positions 2,938 695 2,243 professional careers of employees by preferring internal staffing of available vacancies. ■■ The key topic within the development of employees in the retail network was communication with client at the sale and service aimed at relationship building through a training entitled “My Client“. Staff Structure by Gender ■■ The second significant topic in the area of training was the obligatory topic of “Financial Education“ embedded in the Financial Mediation and Financial Advisory Act of 2009. Men: 914 ■■ The specialist employees at the Head Office were provided an increased number of specialist trainings compared to the preceding two years. ■■ In recruitment, aside from the common recruitment we were focusing mainly on the group of students, whom we offered a unique opportunity within the “Internship and Work“ project to get an internship in VUB and so expand their horizons in the area of banking. ■■ We gave our strong support to university students also through the Customer Satisfaction University Award project. This competition, organized in cooperation with our parent bank, gave a chance to the talented students to present their innovative ideas as far as the level of VUB Management Board. In the Women: 2,606 international final, the Slovak students won the first place and got a chance to go on an internship in our parent bank in Milan. ■■ Besides a traditional employee opinion poll at the level of international group, for the first time we performed also a survey of employee motivation with a benchmark in the Slovak market (Aon Hewitt). Staff Structure by Age Owing to the survey we obtained valuable feedback up to the level of individual VUB divisions, which gave us an opportunity to enhance the weaker aspects of our banking units in an individual and tar50 – 59 years: 468 60 years and over: 23 geted manner. ■■ We created a strategy of a new approach to employees’ health care and work-life balance. We proposed up to 29 years: 835 a new structure of benefits that took effect on 01/01/2012. All changes were driven by the employee survey and subsequently supported also by an internal campaign. ■■ We carried out a new internal survey entitled Ladies Let´s Talk. The goal was to find out more about the opinions of our employees – women regarding working conditions in VUB and harmonization of their work and personal lives. 40 – 49 years: 928 30 – 39 years: 1,266 Staff Structure Type of Employment Agreement 2011 % 2010 % Indefinite period 2,995 85.09 3,017 87.07 Average Employment Duration Definite period 525 14.91 448 12.93 Men Women Total Type of Employment 2011 % 2010 % 2011 7.71 10.50 9.77 Full-time 3,511 99.74 3,458 99.80 2010 7.60 10.23 9.56 Part-time 9 0.26 7 0.20 2009 7.50 9.91 9.32 44 45 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Staff Structure by Education ■■ changing the compensation policy in retail network with the aim of adjusting the ratio of fixed and variSecondary without secondary able wage components in favour of the fixed one in order to approximate our set up to the competition school leaving examination: 25 (0.71 %) Basic education: 2 (0.06 %) and at the same time to have the amount of variable component sufficiently motivating to meet the targets set, University education: ■■ conducting interviews at employment termination, finding out the reasons for departures and subse1,628 (46.25 %) quent work with these reasons. Overview of Departures in 2011 Secondary with secondary Gender number of departures turnover in % average headcount school leaving examination: 1,701 (48.32 %) men 131 14.62 862 Bachelor’s degree: 164 (4.66 %) women 296 11.44 2,598 Total 427 12.25 3,460 Job Classification by Regions Age category No. of men No. of women men in % women in % below 30 166 19.77 840 Head Office Total 537 759 15.26 21.56 30 – 39 161 12.78 1,260 Corporate Network Total 55 87 1.56 2.47 40 – 49 67 7.41 905 Regional Management Bratislava 8 14 0.23 0.40 50 – 59 32 7.00 457 Regional Management – West 17 26 0.48 0.74 60 and over 1 4.71 21 Regional Management – Centre 11 27 0.31 0.77 Total 427 12.25 3,460 Regional Management – East 19 20 0.54 0.57 Retail Network Total 322 1,760 9.15 50.00 Region Regional Management Bratislava East 52 156 1.48 4.43 Bratislava 146 9.7 1,507 Regional Management Bratislava West 50 165 1.42 4.69 Trnava 34 14.7 231 Regional Management Banská Bystrica 25 199 0.71 5.65 Nitra 27 9.9 274 Regional Management Košice 31 193 0.88 5.48 Trenčín 29 12.3 236 Regional Management Nitra 31 200 0.88 5.68 Žilina 35 11.9 294 Regional Management Prešov 37 206 1.05 5.85 Banská Bystrica 69 19.1 362 Regional Management Trenčín 33 186 0.94 5.28 Poprad 43 15.1 285 Regional Management Trnava 18 190 0.51 5.40 Košice 33 12.2 270 Regional Management Žilina 34 198 0.97 5.63 Total 416 12.0 3,459 Regional Management of Alternative 11 67 0.31 1.90 Distribution Channels Total 914 2,606 25.97 74.03 Recruitment In recruiting and hiring new employees we follow the rules based on assessment of individual knowledge, skills and personal prerequisites relevant for the vacant position being staffed. We pay due care to adTurnover hering to the principles of impartiality and avoid protectionism, misuse or discrimination. Job applicants interested in working with us can refer to our Internet page in the “Career” section, which provides an In 2011, the turnover remained at approximately the same level as in 2010 – 12.25%, which represents an overview of the current vacancies. Using an electronic questionnaire, the job applicants can apply for the increase by 0.23 p.b.. In total, 427 employees quit thereof 131 men and 296 women. The turnover rate vacancies and send their curricula vitae. reflects the current trends, which are demonstrated also by an increased movement of labour force in the labour market. Besides external factors, we strived to reduce the turnover also by the following: However, one of the most important sources in staffing vacant positions is the VUB employee base itself ■■ elaboration of an adaptation plan at joining of each employee, through internal recruitment. Open or newly created positions present an opportunity not only for exter■■ continuing in regular meetings with new hires within the trial and adaptation period, nal candidates, whose main contribution is the “fresh wind” they bring, i.e. new experience and practice, ■■ continuous motivational interviews with the employees following the adaptation period with the aim of but also a chance for internal employees in their further career growth. An employee who is successful in obtaining their feedback, (simultaneously it is a source of findings about potential departures of new hires the internal recruitment, he/she has to go through a standard adaptation period, which will enable him/ and solving of such undesired situations), her to better manage the process of joining and learn the new job in the position. ■■ improving quality of recruiting tools in key positions (assessment and development centre), ■■ preventive solving of personnel issues through HR relationship managers in regions and at the Head Office, Last year, we continued in the Find Your Colleague activity around Slovakia aimed at engaging internal employees in searching for and recommending candidates for vacancies. In case of all candidates, we were 46 47 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders assessing how suitable they were for the given position. Only the best of the best made it through the The basic tool for setting up the compensation policy is the Catalogue of Working Positions defining the standard recruitment process. After six months and subsequently also after the candidate spends a year in working positions in the Bank, their job descriptions (brief characteristics), “sizes“ of individual positions the position, the employee is paid out a motivation reward. across the Bank measured based on: ■■ complexity of work, During 2011, about 24,650 people showed interest in employment with us, whereby we have been main■■ work with confidential information, taining our position of a strong and desired employer in the Slovak market. VUB ranked among TOP ■■ impact on company’s performance, companies preferred by students. This is evidenced also by the award we received in a competition an■■ core-business and support, nounced by the AIESEC student organization – The Most Wanted Employer (3rd place). In 2011, we hired ■■ initiative and performance monitoring, 488 external candidates. We staffed 333 vacancies with candidates from internal sources. ■■ knowledge and experience, ■■ management and independence. Besides common recruitment, we concentrated also on the group of university students. Within the “Internship and Work“ project, we offered them a unique opportunity to get employed as interns in VUB The compensation policy is made up of a fixed and a variable component. The fixed component reflects and so widen their horizons in the field of banking. In 2011, 40 interns participated in the project. the work position, its “size”, complexity and performance from a long-term perspective. The variable component corresponds to the employee’s performance and it is simultaneously a motivation tool designed to increase the personal involvement of employees in accomplishing the tasks set and to reward their Performance Management and Career Development performance and contribution to the Bank. In the Bank we guarantee equal opportunities in professional development and growth, approach to Overall annual as well as individual results are evaluated by the Compensation Committee consisting development tools and work positions. We provide all employees with a possibility of expressing their of CEO, deputy CEO for support, deputy CEO for business, Executive Director of Finance, Planning and individuality and creativity at work in the best way possible, while supporting innovations. Professional deControlling Division, Executive Director of Human Resources Division. The Committee is also charged with velopment and growth of employees is covered by the Performance and Development Management approval of annual evaluation results, variable wage components, base wage adjustments and nominaSystem aimed at: tions to the Retention Program. ■■ creating conditions for individual development of employees and enabling so the Bank’s development as a whole, ■■ strengthening the employees’ engagement in Bank’s development, Benefits ■■ ensure that all employees efficiently contribute to meeting goals, ■■ increasing transparency and fairness of the compensation policy. The Bank provides its employees with a wide range of benefits (i.e. financial and non-financial benefits) equal for all employees irrespective of their job classification. An important change in 2011 was that the value of We enable our employees to develop their careers horizontally and also vertically, while growing within the meal ticket was increased and the food allowance was fully financed by the Bank without the employee the company. The point of this development path is that everybody gets a targeted support in develophaving to pay any additional fees. The Bank continued to provide an allowance at the birth of a child and ment of their competencies needed to succeed at their work. It always starts with an adaptation prepafinancial aid to employees facing complex life situations. The retail network employees who are in daily ration, which is later on followed by trainings according to the type of position, knowledge and skills contact with the clients are provided a clothing allowance. We also make contributions to supplementary required to accomplish tasks. pension saving, while the contribution made by the employer and by the employee is 1:1. A novelty we introduced in 2011 was an allowance for regeneration and transport which replaced the benefit vouchers An important part of the Performance and Development Management System is the evaluation process. from previous years. The employees can also use some products under more favourable conditions e.g. freeIts main task is to evaluate the employee’s targets for the past period and plan key tasks and targets supof-charge bank account maintenance, favourable interest rates on term accounts, consumer or mortgage porting the Bank’s strategy for the future period. Each year, all employees are evaluated by their direct loan at favourable interest rates or discounted rates on insurance. We also keep developing an interesting superiors subject to their work position and classification. Within the whole process, an important role is benefit in form of an employee discount system. Our employees are provided a possibility to use advantages played by the employee himself/herself, who declares his/her ambitions and ideas regarding his/her future and discounts for various products and services provided by external partners around Slovakia. Also this year, career. The superior employee, based on employee’s performance, motivation and potential coordinates employees’ children got a present at the occasion of the International Children’s Day. In summer, 28 children his/her further development and growth. of employees spent two weeks in a children camp in a facility of Intesa Sanpaolo, in the Italian seaside town of Follonica. Employees are informed of the current offer of benefits via Intranet. Based on evaluation results and upon meeting criteria defined in advance, the Bank’s employees can be nominated into a program for stabilization and motivation of key employees the so-called Retention Last year, we developed a strategy of new approach to employees’ health care and balance between their Program. We continued in it also in 2011, while nominated were 340 employees. Those got a limit of work and private life. We designed a new structure of benefits, which became effective on 01/01/2012. The funds, which they invested into capital life insurance. In case the employee works through the whole penew benefit structure has been inspired by the employee survey and subsequently supported also by an riod of contract, the employer will pay him/her out the amount of appreciated funds. internal campaign. Nearly 1,400 employees voiced their opinions in the survey. A balanced life and harmonization of work with the private life are important for everybody. In this connecCompensation tion, we prepared and incorporated several novelties related to employee benefits based on the results of our internal survey. One of the novelties was also a three-day event organized in the Bank’s premises entitled The main principles of our employees’ compensation policy are transparency, fairness (internally and also “Health Days“. The employees underwent several medical measurements free of charge and they could have externally) and motivation factor. The system is set up as to enable the Bank to be competitive in the laan exercise at a physiotherapeutic lecture “The School of the Back“. bour market and at the same time sufficiently attractive for its employees. The Bank monitors and reacts to the wage and inflation development in Slovakia so that the real wages would correspond to these trends. 48 49 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders In 2011, we started also an interesting program called My Company, in which we are striving to reward Number of Training Days by Position 2011 2010 2009 active employees engaging in the life of VUB through activities that are not necessarily directly related to Managers 4,559 days 5,190 days 2,255 days their work duties or job description. It is a way we can show them our respect and at the same time proOther 22,986 days 19,060 days 18,628 days mote activities such as blood donation, advisory for secondary grammar school and university students or volunteering in leisure time. Since 2007, the Bank has been traditionally organizing a so-called Welcome Day for new employees. It Employee Benefits Contributions is held each month and its aim is to give the new employees a basic overview of the Bank in which they are about to start working. They will learn about the history of the Bank and Intesa Sanpaolo Group, its Form of Employee Benefit 2011 market position, portfolio of products and services provided, company structure but also of employee 3rd pillar / supplementary pension insurance 24.75 % rights, obligations and benefits. Retention Program 13.53 % Another program, in which we are trying to form our own professionals, is the Mentoring Program. Day off under Collective Agreement – health care 13.62 % Employees in senior positions become the mentors, who hand over their practical experience to junior Day off under Collective Agreement – single mothers 0.34 % colleagues, mostly to the newly hired employees or employees after returning to work from maternity or Work disability, non-work, work injury 4.13 % parental leave. With the mentor’s assistance, the employee will adapt to the working position more easCare of employees’ children 0.77 % ily. In 2011, we set up and tested several changes in mentoring, which will be implemented in the whole branch network starting from January 2012. Clothing allowances 7.64 % Regeneration and transport 7.73 % Within the ZAPNi (SWITCHon) program, we give our employees space to search for innovative solutions Food allowance 21.18 % with the purpose of improving satisfaction of clients or employees themselves. In 2011, the staff submitSocial contributions in emergency 0.89 % ted altogether 212 suggestions for improvement, thereof 26 ideas are currently being implemented. Since Anniversary bonuses 5.24 % the program’s launch, we have so far implemented 64 proposals in practice. Within the special financial training activity in cooperation with the Slovak Banking Association, we The Bank accommodates its employees by means of several measures supporting a more efficient harmoensured compulsory legislative training for individual positions in form of e-learning courses. By the end of nization of their work and private life. These measures include flexible working hours (beginning optional 2011, within the basic level of professional expertise, our employees had been trained in the following secbetween 7.00 am and 9.00 am and end between 4.00 pm and 7.00 pm), four days off per year for intentors: receiving deposits, capital markets and lending. Within the medium level of professional expertise, sified healthcare beyond the framework of legal title to holiday. Single employees taking care of a child which was represented by trainings aimed at insurance and assurance sectors, we had 1,846 employees under 15 years of age (in case of disabled children until 26 years) and pregnant women from the fourth pass the compulsory tests. month of pregnancy are allowed to use two additional days off per year. These days off are paid as the base wage in a calendar half-year. Employee Survey In 2011, a regular employee satisfaction survey coordinated directly from the Head Office of our parent Training and Development bank was performed, identifying the climate and satisfaction among employees across the whole Intesa Sanpaolo Group. The total participation in VUB was 2,255 employees, which represents 56 % of all emVUB Bank creates preconditions for a continuous and systematic growth of its employees’ qualification, ployees. In the electronic questionnaire, the employees could anonymously express their views on five supporting their training in the areas crucial from the perspective of the Bank’s needs and their personal areas. The survey outcomes showed that the overall satisfaction reached 82.2 %, which within the Intesa development. Specific training requirements are addressed according to inSanpaolo Group is a better result than the average countries and simultaneously the result from the predividual needs in collaboration with external training organizations in the The staff is trained at the vious survey has been confirmed. Slovak Republic and abroad in form of internships or participation in selected training activities. VUB Bank has its own training centre VUB own educational center Suggestions from the employee survey and subsequent focus groups resulted in proposal of two areas of Academy which organizes technical courses and also corporate and perVUB Academy and by the improvement approved by the Bank’s management as priorities and these were incorporated in the action sonal development courses. The Academy prepares professional and skilled e-learning system AMOS. plan. First of all, we would like to increase engagement of employees into the decision-making process employees, supports continuous development of employees and their caby their superiors. We will address this topic also in the upcoming year within the managerial skills devereers, motivates and stabilizes the employees. lopment. The second priority is supporting balance between the work and private life of employees. In connection with this topic, we have prepared several changes in the area of employee benefits and also In 2011, the total time of employee trainings organized by the Bank reached 27,545 days, which means recommendations for managers. In late 2011, we carried another employee satisfaction survey. Its results an increase vis-à-vis 2010 by 16%. The average number of training days was 7.9 days (in 2010 the average will be evaluated in the first quarter of 2012 and subsequently implemented. was 6.9 days). E-learning training time reached 13,043 days. In 2011, we continued developing e-learning and e-testing through our e-learning system AMOS. In the Diversity and Equal Opportunities system the employees can view the catalogue of educational and training activities and take an initiative approach to their development and career growth. The e-courses and e-tests are available at any time and VUB committed not to discriminate, respect the principles of equal treatment, exclude from its actions any the users can repeat them several times. The application contains courses about current topics, trainings discrimination and respect differences based on gender, age, race, faith, political opinion, participation in for individual working procedures and freely available tests up-to-date for the given position or product unions, language skills, impairment, marital or family status, political or other opinion, national or social and many trainings. 50 51 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders origin, property or other position. By signing the Collective Agreement, it also undertook to observe the Protection of Health at Work discrimination ban in compliance with the Labour Code. The employees must not be harmed for exercising their rights ensuing from industrial relations. In 2011, no action was filed regarding a case of discriminaThe Bank considers its obligation to create a working environment and conditions pursuant to the Slovak tion. The Bank provides everybody with equal opportunities for personal and professional growth giving technical standards and hygiene regulations. The topics of safety and protection of health at work are coneach employee an equal opportunity to assert himself/herself. Differentiation of employees according to tained in internal regulations and Collective Agreement. The rights of all employees in this respect are reptheir work prerequisites and performance is however not considered discrimination. resented also by the Trade Union representatives. In accordance with Article 20 of the Act of the National Council of the Slovak Republic No. 124/2006 Coll. on Safety and Protection of Health at Work, the main Work Safety Commission is nominated in the Bank. It consists of 7 members: 4 employee representatives The majority of our employees are women – at the end of 2011, there were 2,606 women working in the (trade union members) and 3 employer representatives. Besides the main commission, nominated are also Bank out of a total of 3,520 employees. This disproportion in favour of women occurs mainly in the reregional work safety commissions for each region, which carry out regular annual preventive inspections. tail business network, it is mostly women that work at the branches. Two women are represented on the The regional commission works at least in a five-member set up: employee representative, two employer Bank’s Management Board and one on the Supervisory Board. Also in 2011, we were employing disabled representatives (regional facility management technician and branch manager), work safety technician and citizens altogether 26 persons. representative of a work medical service. Altogether, there are 294 work safety commission members, i.e. the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint work safety commissions falls in the category of up to 25% of the total employee count. The indicator in regard to protection of rights of aboriginal inhabitants is not relevant due to the geographic location of our business activities. Types of Trainings, Risk Preventions and Controls Each new employee is obliged to participate in an inception training pursuant to Act No. 124/2006 Coll. Women Satisfaction Survey in VUB on Safety and Protection of Health at Work and on amendment and supplementation of some acts. Periodical trainings on safety and protection of health at work in accordance with the above-stated legisBeing successful at work and having also a happy family background. This was the motto of the new lation and the Bank’s internal regulations are taken by all Bank employees biannually in electronic form. survey dedicated to all women working in the Bank. It was dealing with the topic of working conditions The Bank ensures also training for employee safety representatives (trade union members) and a first aid for women in VUB aimed at work-life balance. Out of more than 2,600 female colleagues addressed, course. Activities in the area of safety and protection of health at work (annual inspections, provision of nearly a half participated. The questionnaire survey was supplemented by focus groups in several regions personal work protective equipment, training, investigation of work injuries, measures for enhancement of Slovakia (Bratislava, Banská Bystrica, Žilina, Košice). Participation of women working at the Head Office of work environment, updating of internal regulations) are semi-annually submitted for evaluation of and in the branches was balanced, in various regions of Slovakia and in various positions – managerial and Collective Agreement. Training and consultancy concerning the employees is ensured by the work safety non-managerial as well. The survey sample thus comprehensively represented the VUB female staff. The technicians from an external company. survey topics focused on position of women, personal experience with gender (in)equality, satisfaction at workplace, extent of stress, harmonization of work and personal life, position at the workplace – career Within prevention and risk control, a Work Medical Service performs an inception audit at the opening of development and experience after returning from maternity leave. a new branch as well as regular annual inspections aimed at safety and protection of health at work with the participation of a work medical service. Medical services, first aid trainings, workplace supervision and The survey was anonymously processed by a renowned sociological institute. The results served as an impreventive medical examinations according to the type of work performed are ensured by a work medical portant feedback for a gradual approximation of the current working conditions of women to their ideas. service from an external company. The Bank ensures safe working conditions not detrimental to health The survey showed that VUB was a place where no critical cases of gender inequality were occurring and in premises where cash is handled and in premises where works of technological nature are performed. thus we can say that in overall the situation is good to better compared with the general perception of In case an employee uses a company car, he/she is obliged to take a driving capacity examination every 2 these topics in Slovakia. Also despite this, the Bank elaborated a series of measures for a gradual eliminayears and simultaneously the Bank, ensures medical examinations for him/her. As our company operates tion of those areas that have been identified as problematic. The measures will become effective in the in the banking market, at times it happens that employees find themselves in situations endangering their course of 2012. Some findings from the survey: lives, e.g. in case of a branch’s robbery. In these rare cases, they are provided professional psychological assistance and are entitled to 5 business days off for recovery. The female respondents expressed a relatively low satisfaction with the possibilities of harmonizing their personal and work lives. Even though 59% of women claim that they are able to reach work-life balance, Despite the above-mentioned measures taken within the trainings on safety and protection of health at other answers showed that this can be to the detriment of their private life. Harmonization of work and work, prevention and risk control, in 2011 we recorded 6 occupational injuries and related 185 business family is harder to achieve for the women outside Bratislava, for women working at the branches and for days out of work. In the given year, we did not record any diseases related to the performance of profeswomen with children. The most frequently cited sources of stress included excessive load of spasmodic sion. work and the problem of harmonizing working and personal duties. As the biggest help in managing their work and personal family life they would appreciate for example flexible working hours. The women also state they do not have negative experience regarding their career growth; nearly two thirds of women stated that they did not aspire to a managerial position in the Bank, 28% of them did and were successful (today’s managers). 9% stated they were applying, but without success. There were no gender differences detected, not even in terms of professional education and training. 52 53 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Number of Work Injuries, Days Lost and Out of Work as a Result of Work Impact in 2011 influenced also the nature of activities towards the employees and the anniversary topic resonated also in internal communication. Also our parent company appreciated the cooperation and thanked the employRegion Number of Injuries Number of Business Days Number of Calendar Days ees also through specially prepared videos, which were shared across the whole VUB Group. Employees out of Work had the opportunity to discuss the topic on a special portal and also the chance to participate in a comBratislava 1 22 30 petition for attractive prizes. In overall, the aim was to strengthen the awareness of belonging to a strong Trnava 1 11 16 multinational group and the importance of people, who make up the Bank. It was a time to remind everybody of the Group’s direction, our strategy and priorities in a changing socio-economic environment. Trenčín 1 43 61 Nitra 1 7 9 Also in 2011, corporate Intranet was being built as the key and most efficient tool of internal communiŽilina 1 10 13 cation, whereas employees themselves were drawn into creation of its content even to a greater extent. Banská Bystrica 0 0 0 Each piece of information on Intranet has its owner, and so employees know at any moment, whom they Prešov 1 92 130 should turn to in case of need. In overall, approximately 5% of all VUB Group employees coming from Košice 0 0 0 various units take care of its content. In 2011, we brought more than 170 news reports on the happening in the VUB Group or in the international group Intesa Sanpaolo. The periodicity of the internal magazine Total in 2011 6 185 259 WORLD remained on the bi-monthly basis also in 2011. Its design and also content sections observed the Total in 2010 8 350 490 uniform concept of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, so employees get regular information from the international level. The magazine kept being distributed in the volume of 4,000 prints to all employees of VUB Group including the subsidiaries. Information on key events is regularly brought by the Chief Executive Officer Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining via an electronic bi-monthly CEO Newsletter and the topics from the human resources management and benefits are addressed in the HR Newsletter issued four times a year. Understanding the message Freedom of association and collective bargaining are regulated by the Labour Code, Collective Bargaining is the key element in setting up internal communication well. If the people are to understand what and Act and the Act on Freedom of Association. Collective Agreement governs relations between the employer how is happening in the company, a dialogue and two-way communication are a must. Employees have and employees, which are more convenient than the ones stipulated by the Labour Code or any other genertherefore always the possibility to ask the CEO questions by means of an Intranet form, comment on topally binding legal regulation. The Bank committed to preserve the trade union rights, namely the freedom of ics important for the Bank and the employee as such, e.g. on the system of benefits, form and content of association of employees in trade unions and collective bargaining in accordance with the generally binding Intranet and internal magazine. All these open forums are on the Intranet in a special section. Evaluation legal regulations. Collective Agreement is concluded for the period of 3 years between VUB and the Council and surveys of internal communication channels is carried out regularly on an annual basis. of VUB Trade Union Representatives. It applies to all employees in an employment relation with the employer irrespective of their membership in the trade union. The provisions of the Collective Agreement supersede the Bank’s internal regulations in the scope of commitments concluded in the Collective Agreement. As at Active Engagement of Employees into Bank’s Life 31/12/2011, 16.7 % of employees were members in the Bank’s Trade Union. Also in 2011 we continued preparing internal campaigns as a unique and original method of communicaNotification Duty tion with the employees in order to motivate them with each topic to active engagement and interactivity. We appreciate pro-activeness of people and in 2011 we launched an internal campaign entitled My The Labour Code imposes on the employer a notification duty against employee representatives in connecCompany. Campaigns aimed at the inside of VUB are introduced on a monthly basis each time with tion with the economic and financial situation and the projected development of its activities. Notification a new topic, up to date for the given period. The face of the campaign is always an employee involved is to be performed “in a comprehensible manner and at a suitable time“. Under the Labour Code, the in the topic. Thus, he/she becomes the carrier of the information, which gets closer to the others. In supemployer is obliged to negotiate fundamental changes regarding, among the other, status, structure and porting the company’s brand perception, values and naturally also the business we make use of all internal projected development of employment, decisions that could lead to fundamental changes in the organicommunication channels including posters, Intranet, magazine or personal e-mails, or for example also zation of work as well as organizational changes with employee representatives in advance. Provision of computer screen savers. further information including specific deadlines is agreed, under the wording of the Labour Code, in the Collective Agreement. With the aim of supporting the team spirit and informal relations, a sports and nomination event named VUB CUP was held. The best employees from the event went on to represent VUB at international sports Internal Communication and Dialogue tournaments organized by the parent company. At year-end, we had the traditional Christmas meetings that were supplemented by announcement of the most active employees in the My Company program. In VUB Bank, we understand that if we expect our employees to deliver the best possible performance, The meetings were organized in three towns, while transportation was arranged as to enable all employwe must regularly inform them of what is happening and why and where the organization is heading and ees to attend. In order to support the delivery of business objectives, motivation and competitiveness in what is the place of each of them in this fulfilment. At the same time, we are giving them the space to 2011 we continued in the employee competition called VUB Super League. voice their own opinions and ideas engaging them also in the decision-making processes. Internal communication is based on seven values common for the whole Intesa Sanpaolo Group and it helps in delivering our vision and mission. In 2011, we continued improving the quality of cooperation among employees and different units. Similarly, drawing on the outcomes of the employee survey performed back in 2010, we concentrated on the topics of balance between the work and private life. Last year was quite specific for VUB from the perspective of the history. The Bank celebrated its tenth anniversary within the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. This milestone 54 55 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Shareholders SHAREHOLDERS Legal entities Individuals 56 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders VUB Share Capital and Shares ■■ Inheritance of VUB shares – legal steps and title to dividend, ■■ Donation of VUB shares – legal steps, The share capital amounts to € 430,819,063.81 and is divided into: ■■ Power of Attorney for payout of dividend from VUB shares and transfer of the right to dividend, ■■ Power of Attorney for participation at the General Meeting, ■■ 4,078,108 registered and book-entered shares with a nominal value of EUR 33.20 per share and ■■ Requirements related to documents legally certified abroad, ■■ 89 registered and book-entered shares with a nominal value of EUR 3,319,391.89 per share. ■■ Participation of shareholders at the General Meeting of Shareholders – rights and requirements, ■■ Full wording of documents and draft resolutions subject to discussion at the General Meeting, VUB paid up its whole share capital. VUB shares are traded in the public equity market organized by ■■ Results of voting at the General Meeting. the Bratislava Stock Exchange, under share numerical code ISIN – SK 111 000 1437 in the total number of 4,078,108 units. Information on these shares is also available at the official web page of the Stock Besides the above-mentioned procedures, the Internet site provides shareholders also with the following Exchange under the section securities/markets, list of securities, quoted market and issue detail useful information: of VUB. VUB Bank issued also 89 registered shares that are, however, not publicly tradable. ■■ Decisions on dividend payout for individual years, ■■ Information on their taxation, Information on VUB shares traded on public equity market ■■ Development of VUB share price, ■■ Information on Bank’s share capital and VUB share distribution, Name Share of Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. ■■ Information on shareholder structure, Form book-entered share* ■■ Information on the majority shareholder, Type registered share ■■ List of Bank’s Management Board and Supervisory Board members, Issuer Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. ■■ Press releases and analytical reports, Country of Issuance Slovak Republic ■■ Financial statements and important basic information on the Bank’s activities, Number of Shares Issued 4,078,108 units ■■ Information on VUB Bank’s market position and its evaluation, ■■ Market shares, Nominal Value € 33.20 ■■ Rating, Placement of Shares Issued Bratislava Stock Exchange ■■ Bank’s vision and mission and its awards, Equity Market Main listed stock market ■■ Abstract of VUB Bank’s data from the Commercial Register of the Slovak Republic, Trading Currency euro (€) ■■ Annual reports. ISIN ISIN SK 111 000 1437 Ticker symbol 1VUB02A Overview of Dividend Payout from VUB Share Share index SAX Dividend for Year Dividend Amount per VUB Maturity Date Note: Share * a book-entered share means an electronic record in the register of the Central Securities Depository of the Slovak Republic 2010 4.60 euro June 1, 2011 2009 4.50 euro June 4, 2010 VUB has a great number of minority shareholders, who acquired their shares in the first wave of the 2008 0.00 euro – coupon privatization in 1991. The number of shareholders fell from the original approx. 80,000 to the 2007 4.48 euro June 2, 2008 current number of over 43,000 shareholders. The majority shareholder is the Italian bank group, Intesa Sanpaolo, which became the owner of VUB in 2001. The shareholder structure is described in detail in the 2006 7.20 euro June 4, 2007 Profile and Governance chapter. Note: Dividend maturity date is the date when the dividend payout starts and it was determined by the decision of the General Meeting. Dialogue with Shareholders The priority of VUB Bank is to strive for efficient communication with all the Bank’s shareholders and VUB Share Development ensure that they are informed accordingly. The General Secretariat Staff Unit provides for a constant dialogue with the shareholders and the Corporate Strategy and Economic Research Department bears Information on the current price of VUB shares in the public equity market is regularly published in daily responsibility for communication with the rating agencies and analysts. The dialogue with shareholdpress with national coverage releasing stock exchange news, e.g. PRAVDA, Hospodárske noviny or on the ers involves several forms, formal and also informal, in the Slovak and also English language, in writsite of Bratislava Stock Exchange (www.bsse.sk). The VUB share is included in the Slovak Share Index SAX ten form, over the telephone and by means of personal meetings. The main medium is the web site and influences its development to a significant extent. www.vub.sk with a separate section entitled “Information for Shareholders” containing necessary information, instructions and forms. There are also practical procedures for legal acts related to the transactions most frequently required by the Bank’s shareholders, mainly: ■■ Method and place of dividend payout, ■■ Change of shareholder’s address or name – whom to notify and how, 58 59 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Average Development of VUB Share in EUR Prior to the General Meeting, VUB Bank sends all shareholders an invitation with an agenda of the General Meeting including annexes and basic information that will be subject to the discussion. Additional information is available to the shareholders for viewing in the Bank’s registered office or they are sent upon 100 request. The invitation and basic documents are also published on the Bank’s Internet site and in peri95 odical press with national coverage publishing stock exchange news. Instructions on shareholder rights under Article 180 Sect. 1 and Article 181 Sect. 1 of Act No. 513/1991 Coll. Commercial Code as amended 90 and documents and data pursuant to Article 184a Sect. 1 and 2 of Commercial Code are published on 85 Internet site of VUB Bank in the “Information for Shareholders” section at least thirty days prior to the General Meeting. 80 Members of the Supervisory and Management Boards regularly attend all General Meetings facilitating 75 their smooth course and simultaneously answering the questions and inquiries presented by shareholders. VUB Bank accepts all its obligations resulting from the legislation with regard to the shareholders. The 70 Bank observes the provisions of the Commercial Code applicable to protection of shareholders’ rights, in 65 particular the provisions on timely supply of all relevant information about the company and provisions on convening and conducting its annual General Meetings. The Bank adheres to the principle of equal access 60 to information for all shareholders pursuant to the Code. 04.01.2011 18.01.2011 28.01.2011 07.02.2011 15.02.2011 23.02.2011 03.03.2011 11.03.2011 28.03.2011 05.04.2011 18.04.2011 18.05.2011 26.05.2011 06.06.2011 14.06.2011 22.06.2011 30.06.2011 11.07.2011 20.07.2011 01.08.2011 09.08.2011 18.08.2011 26.08.2011 07.09.2011 20.09.2011 28.09.2011 07.10.2011 17.10.2011 25.10.2011 04.11.2011 14.11.2011 23.11.2011 01.12.2011 09.12.2011 19.12.2011 28.12.2011 2011 Shareholder Protection Initiatives Source: Bratislava Stock Exchange The 262 Project has been running in VUB since 2007. Its aim is to achieve compliance with the requirements of the Italian Act No. 262 inspired by the American Sarbanes Oxley Act. The Act 262 was issued in order to ensure significant strengthening of protection of investments. The measures deriving from the Shareholder Rights and Obligations Act cover a wide area and are aimed at various activities, such as governance of joint-stock companies, rules for accounting audit, rules for financial instruments, conflict of interests, transparency and market reThe rights and obligations of shareholders are stipulated by relevant legal regulations and the VUB Articles gulations. This Act is a part of a legal scenario aimed at consistent enhancement of governance. The basic of Association. All shares are attached a shareholder’s right to take part in the management of VUB and objective of the activity related to Act No. 262 in VUB is to review the internal control system, identify its the title to a share in its profit. The shareholder’s right to take part in the management of VUB Bank can shortcomings and based on the results adjust it in order to eliminate the potential risk and ensure a true be exercised at the General Meeting. Profit distribution to shareholders in form of dividends is subject to and fair representation of the financial situation. the General Meeting’s decision. The shares are freely transferable either by registering their transfer in the Central Securities Depository of the Slovak Republic or by registering their transfer with a member of the The Act No. 262 requires that individual companies identify processes, which influence the financial inforCentral Depository based on a transfer and/or transition registration order. mation, evaluate associated relevant risks and based on this propose adequate design of internal controls with the purpose of eliminating potential risks. The fundamental objective of the project is to identify The General Meeting is the Bank’s top decision-making body representing all shareholders and its decisiand promptly respond to a potentially insufficiently functioning of the internal control system as to assure ons approved pursuant to applicable legal regulations and Bank’s Articles of Association are binding for improvement in the quality of financial reporting also by means of business ethics, efficient internal auall shareholders. It is competent for the following most important decisions: dits and good corporate governance. The Act No. 262 unambiguously assigned the responsibility for the contents of financial reports, accounting procedures applied, adequately set up control system and pro■■ decision on amendment of the Articles of Association, cedures and a true and fair view of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and cash flows to the Chief Executive ■■ decision on increase and decrease of share capital and decision on authorizing the Management Board Officer. Both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer sign a representation confirming to increase the share capital, that adequate and efficient procedures of accounting and financial reporting have been applied. Benefit ■■ decision on issuance of preference bonds or convertible bonds, of the whole project is providing shareholders with security concerning a true and regulatory presentation ■■ decision on change of rights connected with any type of VUB shares and on limitation of transferability of the capital, economic and financial position of the VUB Group and adequacy and efficiency of the inof VUB shares, ternal control system and procedures. ■■ election and dismissal of Supervisory Board members, with the exception of Supervisory Board members elected and dismissed by VUB employees, ■■ approval of regular and/or extraordinary individual and/or consolidated financial statements, decision on profit distribution or settlement of losses and determination of the amount of profit bonuses, ■■ decision on distribution of retained earnings from previous years and/or settlement of unsettled losses from previous years, ■■ decision on utilization of reserve fund, ■■ decision on amount, method and place of dividend payout and determination of the decisive date for designation of persons entitled to exercise their title to dividends. 60 61 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Suppliers SUPPLIERS Small and medium enterprises Large supplier firms and chains 62 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Strategy Share of Purchased Volume of Goods and Services by Individual Purchase Areas 2010 Suppliers represent one group of VUB Bank’s stakeholders that are significantly influenced by our corpoFacilities: 22.21 % rate responsibility and observance of the Code of Ethics ensuing therefrom. VUB Bank requires that its suppliers adhere to principles it itself believes in and which form a part of its business. VUB Bank realizes that the Bank’s good business performance is a benefit for all stakeholder groups, a significant position among which belongs to the suppliers. VUB is one of the largest Slovak companies Technology and security: 48.38 % and as such it also has a broad network of suppliers. By purchasing goods and services it indirectly generates benefits for the society in form of employment and financial performance of its suppliers. Marketing, material and services: 29.41 % One of the VUB Bank’s commitments with respect to suppliers includes responsible practices in the social and environmental areas. Origin of Suppliers The attributes, which most adequately characterize VUB Bank’s responsible approach in relation to suppliers are transparency, equality of opportunities and efficiency, in selection of suppliers as well as Czech Republic: 3.07 % Other countries: 6.0 % in the process of defining internal supplier processes. An efficient manner of spending funds for goods Italy 1.64 % and services that VUB Bank needs for its activities, is one of the basic prerequisites for its success in the competitive market. The total amount of such costs directly impacts the Bank’s profit. Suppliers in Figures In 2011, VUB Bank purchased goods and services in the total amount of approximately EUR 92.76 mil.. The total Slovak Republic: 90.44 % United Kingdom: 1.5 % number of our suppliers represented 1,314, thereof at least 90.5% were companies based in the Slovak Republic. Overview of Development of Purchase Volume and Number of Suppliers Transparent Selection of Suppliers Year Goods and Services Procured in EUR Number of Suppliers Suppliers of VUB Bank are significantly influenced by observance of the Code of Ethics. In relation to 2011 92.76 mil. 1,314 suppliers, the Bank professes values such as fair play and transparency and its intention is to principally cooperate with those suppliers that respect these values in the interest of creating and building an open 2010 93.44 mil. 1,279 partnership. 2009 92.12 mil. 1,362 Procurement in VUB Bank is open to a wide spectrum of suppliers. VUB Bank gives Share of Purchased Volume of Goods and Services by Individual Purchase Areas 2011 a chance to all that are not its business partners yet and have an ambition to cooperate ETHICS with us, while for the existing partners it simultaneously presents a challenge to continuFacilities: 20.30 % ously improve the quality of their products and services in order to be a valuable partner of VUB Bank also in the future. VUB Bank expects its partners to have a flexible, proactive and forthcoming approach and a high efficiency. We are interested in developing long-term business relations built on open prices with the aim of achieving the most convenient supplier conditions possible. Technology and security 53.60 % Marketing, material and services 26.10 % Application of Electronic Auctions System For selecting suppliers VUB Bank has been using, in the maximum possible extent, the electronic auctions called Access Point (http://accesspoint.vub.sk). This system enables suppliers to submit their price bids in electronic form at the same time and in one virtual place. Electronic auctions are thus available to all companies meeting For selection of suppliers we use the conditions set in advance and VUB Bank transparently acthe system of electronic auctions celerates and makes the procurement process as well as correct price negotiation more effective. Electronic auction is one of Access Point. possible forms of negotiation ensuring in procurement of go64 65 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report ods and services equal opportunities and fair play in the process of supplier selection. Out of the total Environment number of tenders, in 2011 VUB Bank performed approx. 20% of price negotiations by means of using the electronic e-auction. The percentage reflects the fact that this form of selection may not be applied to all purchases. Legislation Governing Procurement Process in the Slovak Republic and Its Impacts on VUB Bank’s Activities Selection of suppliers in VUB Bank is not subject to the Public Procurement Act applicable in the Slovak Republic. In 2011, VUB Bank was not imposed any fines for inobservance of any laws or regulations concerning procurement and purchase of products and services. Pursuant to the Act on Employment Services, each employer in the Slovak Republic employing more than 20 employees is obliged to employ disabled citizens. Another option is using a supplementary solution by submitting orders or purchasing goods and services from a sheltered workshop employing disabled people, from a citizen with a grave disability or from an employer employing citizens with grave disabilities. In view of the above-stated legal obligations, VUB Bank COMMUNITY gives a part of its orders to sheltered workshops also despite the fact that prices they offer are oftentimes higher and delivery deadlines longer than with common suppliers. For more information refer to the Community chapter. Environmental Supplier Management Materials VUB Bank manages the usage and consumption of office paper, consumption of toners for copying machines and printers, collection and liquidation of packaging used. In the area of facility management, it cooperates with ISO 14001 certified companies (this system helps the companies to successfully participate in domestic and also international tenders, but it also ensures growth of value, company’s economical operation as well as increased trust of customers). Purchase of office paper is limited to chlorine-free (TCF/ECF) and recycled papers. Bulk correspondence to the Bank’s clients is sent exclusively in recycled envelopes. In the area of facility management and maintenance, VUB Bank cooperates with companies with a systematic approach to environmental protection through their activities in all aspects of their businesses. In the area of redesign, reconstructions or other construction works VUB Bank collaborates with construction companies that include environmental care in its business strategy and also common operations. The same applies also to the suppliers of lighting and interior, the activities of which are, in addition to production and provision of services, oriented on energy saving, waste minimization and minimization of environmental fees and sanctions for pollution of the environment. Since VUB Bank is not a production company and its activity does not result in products that would require ENVIRONMENT purchase of input materials, the report does not deal with materials used or recycled input materials used Employees in greater detail. For more information refer to the Environment chapter. Clients Suppliers ENVIRONMENT Future generations 66 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Strategy In all interiors of the Head Office building, we have installed promotional information stickers in order to alert and raise awareness about saving light and energies. VUB Bank is not a producing company or a direct polluter of the environment and therefore the environmental impacts of our business are not significant. Yet we committed to reduce our negative impact on the environment to the minimum level possible. We are looking for solutions beyond the scope of the Management Approach legislation, we are interested in our environmental performance in relation to the inputs and outputs, we have been mapping the relevant environmental indicators. Our management system defines rules and processes related to implementation of the environmental policy. As already mentioned, VUB Bank is not a direct polluter of the environment, our impact can therefore Measures for reduction of direct (resulting from our activities) and indirect (generated by clients and supbe split into: pliers) environmental waste are stipulated in VUB Group’s Environmental Policy. As a member of an international banking group, we adhere to the Equator Principles and Indirect: UN Global Compact. We have firmly defined internal regulations and our decisions on SUPPLIERS ■■ we comply with international and national environmental protection protocols, investments and lending take into account both social and environmental risks. We try ■■ we support projects with a high environmental value (loans), to influence our impact on the environment also by procedures for selection of suppliers. ■■ our lending system clearly incorporates standards concerning the environment and the Equator Principles. We prefer those suppliers that respect the environment and adopt necessary measures to VUB Bank principally does not grant funds for financing of certain activities that could endanger the minimize negative impacts of their activities. environment; VUB Bank’s main initiatives and investments in environmental protection in 2011 ensued from our appliDirect: cable environmental policy aimed at: ■■ energy saving measures, ■■ support of projects focused on energy saving and renewable sources, ■■ introduction and observation of internal regulations and notices, e.g. ■■ aving measures for reduction of energy and consumer material consumption, – economical usage of electricity in the offices, ■■ waste separation and measures for reduction of its production. – air-conditioning (principles of its utilization), – cooling and heating (setting of interior temperatures in both cold and warm periods of the year), Environmental Policy – turning off of computers overnight and during the weekends. This document defines VUB’s objectives in environmental protection and permanently sustainable deOur environmental management involves: velopment. Environmental policy is a written commitment to environmental protection, which sets the ■■ Facility Management Department and Procurement Department, Bank’s mission and objectives in the area of environmental management. It forms the basis of manage■■ specialists and employees of the Internal Services Department, ment and also the business strategy. It defines the principles and guidelines concerning direct and indirect ■■ external suppliers of products and services, impact on the environment. It allows the Bank to communicate its intentions and objectives to employees ■■ Risk Management Division (ensures control of project financing and lending), and other partners. ■■ regular inspections and controls in branch and also headquarters buildings focused on reduction of energy consumption and identification of potential savings, UN Global Compact ■■ internal regulations and notices, ■■ internal communication employee awareness. VUB Bank undertook to act in accordance with the international standard UN Global Compact, to which it acceded in 2009. It includes also principles aimed at environmental protection. In 2011, we focused on the following direct activities regarding environmental protection: ■■ waste separation, Equator Principles ■■ collection and liquidation of waste classified as hazardous (toners, fluorescent lamps) in cooperation with external service supplier, We take a responsible approach to project financing. Managing a great volume of funds, we significantly ■■ utilization of electronic mail and electronic banking to reduce paper consumption, impact the flows of capital. Therefore, it is important for us that projects, which we decide to finance do ■■ use of envelopes made of recycled paper for all mail consignments to our clients, not have a negative impact on the environment we live in. Compliance with the Equator Principles con■■ energy saving technical solutions saving the environment, firms our commitment to the society. ■■ employee awareness raising – lectures, e-mails, articles in the internal magazine, ■■ taking care of greenery in the vicinity of branches and in their interiors, Education and Awareness Raising ■■ collection and ecological liquidation of non-functional mobile telephones, accessories and batteries. VUB Bank is not only limited to minimization of negative impacts of its business on the environment, but Environmental Management Indicators rather supports also ecological thinking and behaviour of its employees. Over the year, all staff are enNumber of employees directly appointed to implement environmental policy within their job description 1 couraged in form of awareness raising activities (internal promotional campaigns) and internal notices to: Number of internal specialists 0 ■■ save Number of external specialists 2 paper and consumer material, ■■ turn off their PCs outside working hours and on holidays, Percentage of employees regularly informed of environmental policy implementation 100 ■■ separate waste, ■■ use the energies economically – focus on cooling equipment in the summer period. 68 69 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Materials Energies Among the aspects influencing the environment, we include consumption of office paper, consumption of toners for copying machines and printers, collection and liquidation of used packaging and also cooperaDirect Energy Consumption tion in the area of facility management with ISO 14001 certified companies. Purchase of office paper is limited to chlorine free paper (TCF) and recycled paper. VUB Bank is constantly striving to reduce the consumption of energies. Similarly to last year, also in 2011 we were putting emphasis on purchasing highly efficient cooling and heating equipment for an efficient Paper Consumption (kg) and economical heating and cooling of our premises and on selection of possibly the most economical lighting units in our premises. 650,000 650,000 VUB Bank needs for its operation two primary sources of energy – electricity and gas. In 2011, electricity 520,000 520,000 consumption dropped compared to 2010 by 4.1 % and gas consumption by as much as 12.1 %. This drop is the result of an ongoing effort to lead employees towards an efficient utilization of sources, purchases of highly efficient equipment and last but not least continuous supervision of used technology and its 390,000 390,000 regulation. The data do not consider the impact of the weather. Direct Energy Consumption 260,000 260,000 2011: 130,000 100,000 ■■ Electricity: 16,786,396 kWh year 2011 year 2010 year 2009 ■■ Gas: 1,138,475 m3 = 10,701,670 kWh ■■ Total: 27,488,066 kWh Consumption of Recycled Paper in kg and its Percentage Share out of Total Quantity of Paper Consumed 2010: 85,000 85,000 ■■ Electricity: 17,500,480 kWh ■■ Gas: 1,295,968 m3 = 12,182,099 kWh 68,000 68,000 ■■ Total: 29,682,579 kWh Year 2009: 84,703 kg 2009: 51,000 51,000 16.2 % of total paper consumed ■■ Electricity: 17,997,537 kWh Year 2010: 81,331 kg ■■ Gas: 1,372,193 m3 = 12,898,614 kWh 34,000 34,000 13.2 % of total paper consumed ■■ Total: 30,896,151 kWh Year 2011: 77,481 kg Notes 17,000 17,000 14.9 % of total paper consumed 1) 1 m3 = 9.4 kWh 2) The data were obtained from counter statuses of contractual supplier 0 0 year 2011 year 2010 year 2009 Electricity is supplied by the largest local suppliers (ZSE, VSE and SSE). These companies guarantee that In the interest of its ecological approach, VUB Bank adopted also the following measures / commitments a minimum of 15 % of the energy they supply is produced from renewable sources. In accordance with for the next period: the relevant provisions of Act No. 656 / 2004 electricity suppliers in the Slovak Republic must inform their buyers on the share of individual types of primary energy sources in produced and supplied energy, includ■■ reduce overall paper consumption ing the supply of electricity produced in other EU member states and third states. In 2011, the share of ■■ reduce consumption of “non-certified paper“ primary sources for production of electricity supplied by our suppliers was: ■■ use ecological certified paper ■■ Renewable (water, air) 14 % ■■ prefer to purchase and consume paper ■■ Coal 11 % ■■ from certified producers with marked origin of the paper ■■ Nuclear 22 % ■■ recycled paper – use 100% recycled paper as much as possible ■■ Other 53 % ■■ bleached paper – use paper of the ECT TCF (tetrachlorine) type Gas is purchased from a local supplier, which is Slovenský plynárenský priemysel. Recycled paper is used for envelopes to send clients their account statements. Since 2010, we have been executing a project for electronic sending of statements and this was reflected in a reduced consumption of recycled paper. Since VUB Bank is not a production company and its activity does not yield products, which would require purchase of input materials, the report does not deal in more detail with materials used or recycled input materials used. 70 71 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Indirect Energy Consumption Share of Energy Savings Secondary Energy Purchased (heat energy in the form of heat) in kWh Year Energy savings in kWh Energy savings in % 2011 2,071,000 6.02 10,000 10,000 Energy Consumption in thous. kWh 2010 2,506,000 7.92 2009 2,000,000 5.07 9,200 9,200 8,400 8,400 Water 7,600 7,600 All VUB Bank’s branches in the whole territory of the Slovak Republic are supplied water by local water companies. In 2011, water consumption grew by 11.4 % mainly due to construction modifications per6,800 6,800 formed on buildings. Total Water Consumption (in m3) 6,000 6,000 year 2011 year 2010 year 2009 90,000 90,000 Compared to 2010, heat consumption dropped by 28.6 %, while the savings were considerably driven by the nature of the weather. Heat is procured from various bigger and smaller heat energy producers; 82,000 82,000 therefore it is not possible to state the primary energy source. 74,000 74,000 Total Energy Consumption 66,000 66,000 Total Energy Consumption (heat + electricity + gas) in kWh 58,000 58,000 43,000 43,000 Energy Consumption in thous. kWh 50,000 50,000 year 2011 year 2010 year 2009 39,750 39,750 In 2011, our average daily water consumption was 230.7 m3, which is on average 65.5 l a day per employee. 36,500 36,500 Average Daily Water Consumption Per Employee (in litres) 70 70 33,250 33,250 60 60 50 50 30,000 30,000 year 2011 year 2010 year 2009 40 40 30 30 Vis-à-vis 2010, the total energy consumption dropped by 13.2 %. The percentage does not reflect the impact of the weather. The data are taken from the Chastia application; they are not based on the invoices. 20 20 10 10 Saving Measures 0 0 year 2011 year 2010 year 2009 Saving measures are actually VUB Bank’s investment into environmental protection and modernization of its operations. Majority of them concerned thermal insulation and prevention of heat loss, reconstruction VUB Bank is not a production company, so our water consumption is not significant. We use water mostly of lighting systems and boilers modernization. Other direct investments included: for personal hygiene, watering and minimally for the operation of facilities (heating, cooling circuits, etc.). At present, we do not initiate any measures aimed at reducing water consumption, since we are convinced ■■ costs on liquidation of waste and other office equipment = EUR 6,019 (during 2011, we stopped that we use water efficiently and our consumption falls below the Slovak average. transporting paper waste to an incineration plant) ■■ costs related to environmental management = EUR 14,046. We do not take water directly from a water source, but from water companies or small local suppliers. We do not request our suppliers to provide us with the data about water sources and use of recycled water. Our activity does not significantly influence local water sources in any way. 72 73 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Biodiversity Types of Wastes Liquidated (in kg) 2011 2010 Absorbents, other filtration materials 1,240 None of VUB Bank’s activities affects the biodiversity. We do not perform any activity that would directly Packages containing hazardous waste 1,240 disrupt the environment, and therefore indicators related to biodiversity are not relevant for us. VUB does Waste toner from printers 50 not own any facility, neither does it dispose of any leased premises that would interfere with or be directly Voluminous waste 1,170 3,410 located in a protected territory. Lead batteries 170 310 For 2011, we do not record any contamination of environment in the surroundings of our facilities. Since Plastic and rubber 480 we are not a production company, we did not cause any considerable water pollution. We do not own faDiscarded equipment 12,890 cilities, from which sewage would be discarded into the environment and pose a threat to the biodiversity Discarded equipment (fluorescent lamps) 100 of water reservoirs. Water is drained off in a standard way to the sewerage system and then processed in Discarded equipment (other) 1,660 waste treatment plants. Discarded equipment containing hazardous waste 194 150 We contribute to protection of the environment also by keeping accounts and providing loans and borDiscarded transformer 2 units rowings to companies and non-governmental organizations having as their core business ecological activities. Waste – separated paper (in kg) Emissions of CO2 and Substances Damaging Ozone Layer 60,000 60,000 54,000 54,000 Being a financial institution operating only small and medium sources of pollution, we do not produce 48,000 48,000 42,000 42,000 significant volume of harmful emissions. However, we are aware of the least we ourselves can influence 36,000 36,000 (use of passenger cars, business trips, logistics, etc.). So far, we have not been measuring the emissions 30,000 30,000 attributable to electricity use (diesel generators), nor do we employ any individual specialists that would 24,000 24,000 be dedicated to this activity. 18,000 18,000 12,000 12,000 Pursuant to Act No. 286/2009 Coll., based on which each operator of cooling equipment is obliged to 6,000 6,000 inform the relevant District Environmental Authority data on fluorinated greenhouse gases, the Bank 0 0 fulfilled its notification duty and provided information on volumes of substances directly influencing the year 2011 year 2010 year 2009 damaging of the ozone layer. Our supplier submitted to us an overview of all cooling equipment (in operation) with more than 3 kg of refrigerant in the circuit containing gases harming the ozone layer. These are refrigerant mixtures such as R407c, R410a, R22. In 2011, the total volume of such refrigerants was Environment and Lending Policy approximately 2,724 kg. It is impossible to state the volume of emissions produced by company cars (combustion engines, diesel Green Energy and Energy Efficiency – “Twin Pillars“ – Projects aggregates), since this information was not monitored even in 2011. Due to the same reason, we are not stating NOx, SOx and other significant emissions into the atmosphere.Bank´s cars and diesel aggregates Sustainability of the environment is one of the basic pillars of our corporate responsibility strategy. Within consumed 302,808 litres of gas. our lending policy, we do not finance companies breaching the legal regulations concerning the environment. We do not support companies not meeting the requirements for environmental protection stipuWastes lated by the legislation of the Czech and Slovak Republics or the European Union or in conflict with the EBRD/IFC (European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Financial Corporation) Waste separation is the responsibility of all employees. Waste separation is managed through the process requirements. Loans within corporate financing are granted also to clients from sectors, where environwe have in place, which is binding for all employees. Its wording is available on the Intranet page and the mental risks can be expected, however we examine them in detail. employees have been informed of it in form of personal e-mails. In our objects in the whole territory of Slovakia, we separate paper waste only. In the VUB Bank’s Head Office building in Bratislava we separate From the green-energy oriented perspective, we offer product contributing to a permanent sustainability waste into: of the environment. We confirmed our effort to bring to the market new or innovated products and ser■■ paper (cardboard), vices also in 2011, while paying increased attention to the areas of: ■■ plastic, ■■ metal, ■■ agriculture, ■■ glass, ■■ self-administrations, ■■ mixed communal waste, ■■ renewable sources, ■■ hazardous waste. ■■ energy efficiency. Hazardous Waste – Packaging Containing Remnants of Hazardous Substances (in kg) The projects financed contribute to environmental protection – reducing the CO2 production and thereby 2011 1,240 improving the environment, protecting people’s health and also natural resources, contributing to reduc2010 600 tion of air pollution and reducing energy consumption. 2009 950 74 75 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders The projects financed contribute to environmental protection – reducing the CO2 production and thereby ■■ production or trading in electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB), improving the environment, protecting people’s health and also natural resources, contributing to reduc■■ production or trading in products containing asbestos, tion of air pollution and reducing energy consumption. ■■ foreign trade in waste or waste products. VUB Bank supports the Twin Pillars projects aimed at energy savings and energy Investment Loans from EBRD Sources to Support Energetic Efficiency (SLOVSEFF Program) production from alternative energy sources (water power plants, biogas stations, VUB Bank supports the biomass combustion equipments and photovoltaic power plants). We have a team Green Energy projects VUB provides loans for support of energetic efficiency from the EBRD sources based on the credit line of people providing financial and professional assistance to potential investors in aimed at development of Slovak Sustainable Energy Financing Facility (SLOVSEFF II). The SLOVSEFF program is aimed at supporting preparing and executing these types of projects, whether in the industrial, agradevelopment of energetic efficiency in the industrial sector, in the area of renewable energy sources and rian or communal area. In 2011, we executed tens of Twin Pillars projects. We the use of energy from at energetic efficiency projects in the housing sector. assisted our clients in searching for the best possible form of financing – either by renewable sources. direct financing or co-financing (EU structural funds, SLOVSEFF program). Following a successful execution and verification of each project’s completeness, the client will be paid out a stimulation payment calculated as a percentage of the loan volume. The levels of stimulation payments For several years, we have been cooperating with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on are as follows: projects financed from the SLOVSEFF I and SLOVSEFF II programs aimed at supporting development of energy efficiency in the industrial sector, in the area of renewable sources and in the apartment housing sector. ■■ energetic efficiency in the industry: 7.5 % of loan volume ■■ renewable energy sources: 5 15 % of loan volume (whereas the amount of subsidy shall not be lower Funded Projects Regarding Renewable Sources than 5% of loan volume) ■■ energetic efficiency in the housing sector: 10 15 % of loan volume (depending on the level of reached 2011 2010 energy savings). Project Type Number Investment Volume in mil. € Number Investment Volume in mil. € Stimulation payments are paid out to the clients directly. The project is designed for the private sector, Photovoltaics 9 39.5 16 54 legal and natural persons in business based on the applicable legislation of the Slovak Republic meeting Water energy 0 – 2 3.5 the following criteria: Biogas 4 8.3 2 4 ■■ the company may not have a majority ownership in the public sector, ■■ the company may not be involved in production, marketing, distribution of tobacco products, hard Funded Projects Regarding Energetic Efficiency alcohol, alcohol (except breweries, wine producers and other firms producing drinks with low/medium alcohol content), firms operating hazardous games, production and trading with weapons and projects 2011 2010 conflicting the environmental policy of EBRD, ■■ the company may not pollute the environment with its activity. Number Investment Volume Number Investment Volume Project Type in mil. € in mil. € Energy savings and reduction of CO2 emissions 1 23 1 0.8 Electronic Account Statements Since 2010, we have been successfully replacing paper account statements with electronic ones. Not only Replacement of grinding plant technology 0 3 1.6 because an electronic statement is more modern and easily available in one place and at any time, but it Thermal insulation for apartment buildings 74 14.1 87 15.9 is rather also a demonstration of our responsibility towards the environment. Thermal insulation for administrative buildings 3 0.8 10 6.9 Currently all VUB Bank clients from the residential segment with access to Internet Banking are able to view their electronic statements to their current and term accounts, as well as to loans and mutual funds. Initiatives for Reduction of Environmental Impacts of Our Products and Services These clients are sent a paper statement only once a year in form of a so-called “summary annual statement”. Lending Policy As at 31/12/2011, in addition to an electronic statement (available through Internet Banking) the following One of VUB Bank’s main activities, the lending, incorporates standards concerning the environment. percentage of clients requested also a regular sending of a paper statement with a frequency other than The Bank does not provide funds for financing of some activities from the environmental point of view annual (monthly, quarterly, semi-annually): including: ■■ 82% clients with a current account (approx. 520 thous.) ■■ 33% clients with a term account (approx. 28 thous. clients). ■■ trading in wildlife and products made of it, ■■ release of genetically modified organisms into the natural environment, Exclusively electronic statements in VUB have been used by: ■■ production, distribution and use of prohibited pesticides, herbicides, chemical or agrochemical substances, ■■ 7 % of clients with a current account opened prior to 01/03/2010 ■■ fishing by means of floating nets, ■■ 45 % of clients with a term account opened prior to 01/03/2010 ■■ radioactive substances including radioactive waste. and as much as: ■■ 95 % of clients with a current account opened after 01/03/2010 If a client consciously engages in areas risky from the environmental point of view, the Bank requires a due ■■ 99 % of clients with a term account opened after 01/03/2010. diligence aimed at client’s environmental risk management. Below, we specify examples of risky activities and business areas from the perspective of the environment: The high percentage of new clients exclusively using electronic statements was reached primarily due ■■ storage of hazardous waste, its modification and liquidation, to intense internal communication with the branch employees, who have the possibility to influence the ■■ production or trading in freon-containing equipment and appliances, 76 77 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report client’s decision-making when buying new products. Besides saving the mailing costs, implementation of Community electronic statements brought also a considerably lower consumption of paper for statements. In 2011, we used 2 forms of communication – inserts in statements and print on envelopes, in order to communicate the advantages of electronic statements to VUB Bank clients. Community Projects Through VUB Foundation, we supported also several ecological projects and events organized by non-governmental organizations. The most significant of them included: ■■ Ekotopfilm – international film festival on permanently sustainable development conCOMMUNITY nected with ecological education of children and youth, ■■ Clean Waters – a project focused on cleaning of mountain tarns, lakes and rivers in the protected territory of High Tatras, ■■ Grants for primary grammar schools within the employee grant program, ■■ Financial aid to flood-stricken municipalities. Conference on Potential of Biomass Development in Slovakia Renewable energy sources are one of the key topics of the discussions about energy of the future. Their correct implementation and targeted utilization of their potential has undoubtedly a wider reach to our whole society. One of the prospective alternatives is to use biomass, which has seen an ever increasing interest in our country as well as abroad. It was precisely this alternative that the experts and interested parties concentrated on at an international conference organized in Bratislava by VUB Bank. The discussions included talks on the current legislation governing support and use of renewable sources, practical experience with construction and operation of biogas stations and possibilities of financing projects for utilization of biomass in Slovakia by banks and leasing companies. It was an event with extensive international participation, on the part of the speakers as well as on the part of the interested parties and conference participants. The organizers were pursuing the goals of taking and shifting the segment of renewable energy sources and use of biomass towards a practical implementation of knowledge. Practical not only in the progress of technical arrangements in biomass use, but also in the area of a successful appreciation of invested funds. VUB Bank representatives introduced the participants to the possibilities of project financing, use of leasing products for financing green energy and also to a specific financing example in practice. World Environment Day Every year on June 5, the world is remembering the World Environment Day announced by the UN. In 2011, VUB Bank joined the initiative for the first time. The activities were focused on employees, clients and community. For example, employees could propose measures for reduction of paper consumption, they were being prompted to order electronic account statements, sensible use of air-conditioning during COMMUNITY the hot summer weather, electricity saving, waste separation or environmental note in the signature of Society e-mail communication. The clients were also addressed with an offer of electronic account statements to NGOs replace the classical paper statements and targeted with a communication campaign – banners, special environmental note on mail envelopes, flyers in statements and microsite with detailed information. Non-profit organizations State institutions Bright Ecological Light in VUB Bank Our Head Office building counts among the dominants of the city of Bratislava. Its architect is akad. arch. Ján Bahna, who in 1997 received the prestigious award Building of the Year for it. The building is characteristic not only of its height (23 storeys), but also of its blue evening and night lighting. Towards the end of the year, we re-launched into operation the blue neon lighting of the Head Office building in Bratislava, which had been switched off nearly for 6 months due to reconstruction. Within the reconstruction works, it was necessary to remove and re-install 1,850 m of new, ecological neon argon-filled tubes. 78 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders In 2011, VUB Bank continued in helping the community, where our clients, partners and employees live. Non-financial Aid We perceive our responsibility in the social sphere mainly as an investment into the society. VUB Bank engages in this area together with its foundation. Our activities to the benefit of the community have been In 2011, VUB Bank donated 8 units of excluded IT equipment to applicants including mainly medical concentrated for a long-time on the support of: facilities, non-profit organizations and schools. ■■ third sector, 2011 2010 2009 ■■ education, Number of IT Equipment Units Donated 8 units 38 units 89 units ■■ sheltered workshops Last year, we financed public projects with the volume of more than EUR 274 thousand. For the fifth year Other Types of Aid already, we have been supporting the humanitarian system Good Angel through charity payment cards. Their number increased to as many as 22,724. A completely new project we launched at the beginning Cooperation with Non-profit Sector of 2011 was the financial education for grammar school children. We developed an interactive online VUB Bank has cooperated with the Good Angel non-profit organigame for them. This project, unique in Slovakia, teaches children about relation to finance leading them zation since 2007, for which it issued unique charity payment cards. VUB Bank issues unique charity to a responsible handling of money. Furthermore, we supported women in starting up their businesses One percent of the payments performed goes to the account of the within the EMMA Business Academy project. In the field of university education, we continued in the non-profitable organization helping oncological patients and famipayment cards Good Angel, grant scheme, which brings international guest professors to the Slovak universities as well as in supporlies with gravely sick children. This percentage is not donated by the which help families with serious ting the development of economic science via the Economicus competition. Within a premiere, students cardholder, but by VUB Bank on his/her behalf. This is thus a nonof economic universities competed to win an award for the best student project in customer satisfaction standard manner of matching without a client’s primary deposit, as chronic diseases. in a new international competition Customer Satisfaction University Award. he/she is helping only with his/her good will and willingness to help. For 5 years of its existence, the Good Angel card has been used by 22,724 clients. In the area of philanthropy, we continued in our long-term initiatives aimed at preservation of cultural heritage and support of fine arts. Through the VUB Foundation, we contributed to the renewal of several 2011 2010 2009 historical sights. We held five exhibitions of young contemporary art in the field of painting and photograNumber of Good Angel Maestro cards issued 22,724 19,704 15,631 phy. We organized an exhibition of the winning paintings from the Painting competition in two regional VUB’s contribution in euro (1% from payments performed by clients’ cards) 163,165 121,025 90,373 galleries. VUB Bank systematically develops its philanthropic activities and financially supports its foundation in difCooperation with Schools ferent ways: One of VUB Bank’s priorities is education in the realm of our “core business“ – economy and finance. ■■ by assigning 2% of its income tax (EUR 863,463 in 2011), Our projects offer to talented pupils and students a possibility to put forward their original ideas and de■■ by financial contribution, monstrate their talent. Their goal is to financially educate children in form of game, increase the quality of ■■ in terms of personnel, research and university education in finance and develop the economic science and research. VUB Bank ■■ from the material and administrative perspective, has had a long-term cooperation with universities and secondary schools. We support the growth of ■■ by providing know-how and services of its suppliers. education sector’s quality and in the interest of making education in the finance, economy and banking fields more attractive we perform: VUB Foundation is a separate legal entity, however, it executes some of its activities and projects in close ■■ consultation activities in elaboration of a thesis or annual school project, managerial and financial cooperation with VUB Bank and this is the reason we list these activities also in ■■ possibility of an expert internship for secondary school and university students, this report. All activities of VUB Foundation in 2011 are presented comprehensively in its Annual Report ■■ technical topical lectures at secondary schools and universities. published on the web site www.nadaciavub.sk. A great synergic effect is created by interconnecting these activities with The VUB Foundation, which Financial Aid annually provides: ■■ grants for engaging international professors for a semester – the Guest Professor grant scheme, VUB Bank supports projects in identical fields, which are targeted also by VUB Foundation in order to ■■ award to young economists for a scientific paper Economicus, achieve a synergic effect. These are the areas of education, culture and charity. In 2011, VUB Bank funded ■■ award for the best student project in customer satisfaction – Customer Satisfaction University Award. 29 entities in the amount of EUR 274 thousand. International Guest Professor Overview of Funds Donated 2011 2010 2009 The grant program allows universities of economic specialisation to invite guest experts from abroad for Number of entities funded 29 31 29 a semester. The program entered its third year of existence, in which it was funded by the amount of EUR 90,000 to cover the costs of two guest professors. The aim of the grant program is to enable engagement of significant internatioVUB Foundation granted Total amount of donations in € 274 thous. 108 thous. 90.7 thous. nal experts at our universities, bring knowledge about the forms support to hosting of scientific work at foreign universities, and motivate students of international experts economy, doctor graduates and pedagogues to actively engage in the economic science. The students get the chance to get familiar at Slovak universities. 80 81 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders with the procedures used at other universities around the world and learn in a way never experienced Cooperation with Sheltered Workshops until now. Last year, the grantees of the EUR 99,000 to host foreign professors were the Faculty of VUB Bank aimfully supports also the functioning of sheltered workshops by purchasing their products Management at the Comenius University and Faculty of Economy at the Slovak Agricultural University. and services. The Bank gives a part of its orders to these sheltered workshops also despite the fact that During the whole semester, professor Joan Winn of the University of Denver and professor Marian Rizov of prices they offer are oftentimes higher and delivery deadlines longer than with common suppliers. In 2011, the London Middlesex University were giving their lectures. The Guest Professor program has been awarwe purchased from them goods and services in the total amount of EUR 82,599. ded by the TREND Weekly as an exceptional project in the area of cooperation between the universities and companies in developing educational activities. Products and Services Purchased from Sheltered Workshops Economicus – Award of VUB Foundation to Young Economists 2011 2010 2009 The development of economic science in Slovakia is supported also by a competition of scientific papers in Products in euro 77,924 68,892 11,310 the area of economy for young economists aged below 40 years. The winner will receive EUR 10,000 and Services in euro 4,675 541 5,039 an award for the best published scientific paper issued in renowned international magazines. The comTotal in euro 82,599 69,433 16,349 petition intends to motivate young pedagogues, scientific workers, doctor graduates to scientific work, original concept and publishing. In its second year, the competition winners were Eduard Baumöhl and Tomáš Výrost of the Faculty of Business Economics at the University of Economy in Košice. In addition to purchasing products, sheltered workshops are supported also by VUB Foundation, which provides grants for creation of new jobs. They can obtain support in the annual open grant scheme. In Customer Satisfaction University Award – Award for Best Student Project in Customer Satisfaction 2011, grants worth over EUR 11 thousand were awarded to three sheltered workshops. In 2011, we held the first year of an international competition organized in cooperation with our parent company Intesa Sanpaolo. A competition for students of economic universities is held simultaneously in 8 In December, the VUB Head Office building hosted the first Christmas Fair, to which the employees could countries. The competition’s goal is to obtain an independent, critical view of students on the Bank’s acbring also their children. During two days, they could enjoy the holiday atmosphere and the products sold tivities and proposals of measures leading to improvements in customer satisfaction. The competition there by eight sheltered workshops from around Slovakia Dom Svitania from Jakubovo, Jazmín from develops the students’ potential for creative, non-traditional ideas how to do common things in a different Handlová, Grodo from Banská Bystrica, Ayrton from Prievidza, Impulz, Inklúzia, Scarabeus and Manna way. The students’ task was to elaborate a customer satisfaction project. The students were preparing for catering from Bratislava. the competition at a workshop, where they received a lot of information and ground materials for their projects. At the same time, we enabled the students to take a look at the Bank’s premises – we gave them Engaging Employees in Community Life a tour of a branch and also our Head Office. In preparing their projects, the students were assisted by Just like in the recent years, we ran an internal employee campaign focused on the topic of donating tutors from VUB. Out of 43 teams enrolled, 6 made it to the finals of the national round of the competi2 % of individuals’ income tax and individual donations. Many employees have activated the Good Angel tion. These teams got rewards amounting to EUR 12,000 in total, an internship in VUB and participation charity payment card. Each year, the employees make a free donation of blood during the campaign at the super-finals in Milan. There the one to reap success was the team of the Faculty of Economy at the “VUB Blood Drop“ organized in cooperation with the National Transfusion Service. The activity always Technical University in Košice. Martin Bodnár and Bianka Bodnárová won in the category Implementation enjoys big popularity, in 2011 97 donors participated in the donation. Altogether, they donated nearly and received a summer internship in Intesa Sanpaolo as a reward. 45 litres of the lifesaving liquid. Financial Education for Children In the effort of engaging VUB employees in the activities beneficial for the community and supporting The educational interactive online game www.uplnazverina.sk is a unique project in Slovakia teaching their volunteering, VUB Foundation continued in the existing employee programs. In the grant scheme children about the relation to finance and responsibility in handling money. In a playful manner, the chilTreasures of My Heart, employees can receive financial support for preservation of cultural and dren may learn to take decisions about finance and develop their financial skills. The game is designed for natural heritage objects. Employees submit these projects in cooperation with the non-profit sector children aged 9 – 12 years. It was launched in February 2011 in cooperation with the advertising agency and municipalities. Last year, our employees submitted 160 projects and received support of nearly Istropolitana Ogilvy and already during the first month the page recorded more than 80 thousand visits. EUR 50 thousand for 10 projects. The need for a similar project was driven by the level of financial knowledge in Slovakia, which according to a survey of the Slovak Banking Association is average or below average. In the survey, 74 % of responIn the second type of employee program, employees can submit projects of educational and charitable dents were unable to choose the more convenient offer between two credit offers and more than a half nature. The condition for obtaining the grant is the employee’s active participation in the project’s exof people could not even select the more convenient term deposit. A financially educated client has better ecution in form of volunteering. Employees submit the projects in cooperation with non-governmental self-awareness, disposes of his/her bank account in a different manner, makes sensible investments and organizations, schools or local self-administration. This is a way to support the ideas and projects that borrows only as much money as he/she is able to repay. Simply said, such client does not live a life beyond employees consider meaningful and useful: together they are solving a certain problem in the community, his/her actual possibilities. support community activities or a civic association, in which the employees are engaged. In 2011, our employees submitted altogether 166 projects and received support in the amount of EUR 66,056 for 36 With the game www.uplnazverina.sk the children can learn why it is convenient to deposit money to organisations. In the evaluation committees, aside from experts from the given areas, represented are also a bank account, how to divide one’s savings so that one part would bring them profit on a long-term the Bank’s employees. deposit and the other part would be always available to them in case of an emergency. The game is based on the principle of real-life strategy and has a taste of philanthropy. Children take care of various animals Support of Employee Projects in a shelter, provide for their food, toys, and play with them, while at the same time they have to manage their finances in order to have always enough money to keep their animal household. They get their 2011 2010 2009 money in form of packet money from their parents, they can earn them also by doing small jobs (lawn Number of projects submitted 326 160 146 mowing, cleaning etc.) and they can increase their profit also through sensible investments into term deNumber of projects supported 46 31 17 posits. On the other hand, the game brings also unexpected tasks, such as a thief that can steal a part of Grants provided in euro 116,011 135,742 86,844 the money that had not been deposited. 82 83 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders 2011 Most Significant Community Projects For Education Foundation Program In addition to the above-mentioned projects contained in the section Cooperation with Schools (Guest Trainings for Starting Female Entrepreneurs Professor and Economicus), we concentrated also on the support of universities of economic specialisaIn collaboration with the Emma magazine, already for the third year VUB Bank continued in the Emma tion – financial support was provided for example to University of Economy in Bratislava and its foundation Business Academy training project. It is designed for women, who are fresh graduates, after maternity Národohospodár. The oldest and the biggest scientific library in Slovakia – University Library in Bratislava leave, unemployed and would like to start a business. The course was attended by 12 women. They has been a long-term partner of VUB Foundation. We funded its expansion of library funds of internaacquired the know-how that will help them in starting up their own businesses. The lectures were tional literature. Further support went to the Bank’s employees for execution of 18 educational projects given by VUB managers – experts in the areas of finance, business loans, marketing and advertising. at various schools around Slovakia. Also female entrepreneurs that have been already for several years successfully running their businesses including the successful academy attendees from previous years came to support and advise For Art Foundation Program them. The seminar revealed the female participants’ potential for running a business by means of their personal assessment, provided them with valuable advice on how to communicate with the customer The activities of VUB Foundation focused on cultural heritage and fine arts derive from the tradition of and what business practices to use for which types of customers. The lecturers revealed not only the enhancing the country’s artistic and historical heritage, which is characteristic also of the Italian owner of stumbling blocks of a feasible business plan, but also creative tactics and advice how to sell oneself. VUB Bank, the banking group Intesa Sanpaolo. In identifying and selecting the monuments in need for The participants could subsequently test the theory in practice at a workshop where in teams they had help, we cooperate with local partners and experts. Besides reconstructions, our objective is also to raise to create business plans on the given topic and the best plan was even rewarded. awareness of the treasures of our country and at the same time of our national heritage’s vulnerability. In 2011, VUB Foundation contributed to preservation of cultural heritage with the amount of more than EUR 400 thousand, which was dedicated to reconstruction of objects in different corners of Slovakia. Treasures of My Heart AC Milan Junior Camp The interest of VUB Foundation is to achieve that attention be paid also to monument objects of regional In cooperation with the Italian top football club AC Milan, VUB Bank organized in Slovakia already the significance, the preservation of which is equally important as the restoration of national cultural monuments. third children’s training camp AC Milan Junior Camp. During three days, at the sports ground of ŠKP For this purpose, we created a unique grant program Treasures of My Heart, in which funds for preservation Dúbravka club, the best coaches and experts of AC Milan were coaching boys aged 9-13 years. The of cultural and natural heritage objects in various regions of Slovakia can be obtained. The program’s goal is three-day camp program represented an excellent combination of sport, relax and fun. The coaches, to financially support smaller objects, which are our country’s cultural, artistic and natural treasures. These are holders of the ISEF diplomas and former professional football players, were guaranteeing a high qualfinancially less demanding projects that can be executed with a financial amount of up to EUR 6,000. Owing ity of the trainings. The children’s football camp was attended by 60 young talents nominated by the to this program, last year it was possible to preserve several Slovak treasures such as reconstruction of the Slovak Football Association. The children were divided into groups by their age and football skills. entry gate of the town park in Trebišov, preservation of the county greenhouse in Stupava, reconstruction of Thanks to the financial support of VUB Bank, the young football players could take the all-day traina fountain in the park in Spišský Hrhov or cartouches on the New Fort in Komárno. In the fifth year of the proings free of charge and besides beautiful experience and cup trophies they got to take home also footgram’s existence, VUB Foundation supported 10 projects with the amount of EUR 50 thousand. balls signed by the world football legend and at the same time the camp’s Head Coach Pierino Prati. Also the general public is engaged in the decision-making on monuments to be supported. Last year, statues from 8 towns and municipalities from various regions of Slovakia in need of support were competing for 2011 VUB Foundation Activities people’s votes in an Internet voting. Based on results of the voting, which was held during the whole month of October on a special Internet page, VUB Foundation supported the reconstruction of a set of statues of VUB Foundation has developed its activities in the field of philanthropy already for eight years. Last year, antic gods in Piešťany, which received the most votes. In total, more than 17 thousand participated in the it contributed to several community projects with the amount of over EUR 1 mil., whereof the majority of voting on the web page. funds went to the area of charity (39%) and support of art and cultural heritage (35%). Restoration of Calvary in Banská Štiavnica Overview of Grants Provided In 2011, the cooperation between VUB Foundation and the Calvary Fund Association in the project of preservation of the Calvary in Banská Štiavnica continued in its already fourth year. This UNESCO protect2011 2010 2009 ed national monument Calvary in Banská Štiavnica has been in a dilapidated condition for a long period of Support provided in euro 1.1 mil. 1.2 mil. 903 thous. time and in 2007 it was put on the list of 100 most threatened monuments in the world. Over the period of 10 years (2008-2017), VUB Foundation annually provides the Fund with a contribution of EUR 66,400. Number of projects supported 124 174 138 Support of Contemporary Fine Arts For Hope Foundation Program Inspired by the example of its parent bank, VUB engages itself also as a supporter of art. In cooperation with the Foundation, each year it organizes two competitions for talents in fine arts and photography. A program aimed at charity that helps various disadvantaged groups to equalize their chances in life. It supports the development of sheltered workplaces, sheltered living, funds therapy for the disadvantaged In 2011, it organized already its sixth year of the competition entitled Painting VUB Foundation’s Award and also assists foster families. In the area of healthcare, we donated EUR 166 thousand for medical therato Young Artists for an Artwork, which counted 89 enrolled artists. Artworks by the competition finalists pies, purchase of devices and equipment of hospital wards. The grant recipients included Vranov Hospital, were showcased at an exhibition in Dvorana Exhibition Hall of the Ministry of Culture of Slovak Republic General Hospital with Policlinic Lučenec, Poprad Hospital, Children’s Intensive Care Unit in Košice, Upper in Bratislava from 24/11 to 22/12/2011. In 2011, we brought the Painting exhibition also to the regions: to Orava Hospital in Trstená, Children’s Hospice Plamienok and ADELI Rehabilitation Centre in Piešťany. the Orava Gallery in Dolný Kubín and to the Museum of Vojtech Löffler in Košice. The exhibitions presen84 85 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Annexes ted the collection of winning paintings from the previous years of the competition. Besides direct financial support of artists, the competition also helps promoting the contemporary fine arts. This ambition has lead us also to creating a new web page malbaroka.sk featuring a virtual gallery of the finalists of all preVUB’s adhesion to the Global Compact Principles vious years of the Painting competition. Objective of the competition Photo of the Year – VUB Foundation’s Award to Young Photographers is to support young artists under 35 years of age and promote artworks in the category of photography. Winners of the 2010 Photo of the Year were announced in February 2011. The announcement and exGlobal Compact Principles VUB action GRI KPI hibition of finalists took place in the premises of the University Library in Michalská Street in Bratislava. 1. Businesses should • Code of Ethics page 23 Subsequently, we held also the competition’s fourth year 2011 Photo of the Year, which culminated in an support and respect • Internal and External Ethical Standards pages 22 – 24 Human Rights open-air exhibition at Hviezdoslavovo Square in Bratislava. The exhibition lasted three weeks presenting the protection of HR4, HR6, HR7, HR9 • Adherence to international standards in project finance internationally Labour Practices: the competition finalists by means of their 66 large sized photographs on the theme “People and Street“. proclaimed human (Equator Principles) page 24 LA4, LA6-9, LA13 By transferring the exhibition from the gallery premises to the square, the art of talented photographers Human rights • Social inclusion of disadvantaged people page 83 rights came closer to the people. We created also a new web page for the competition www.fotoroka.sk fe2. B usinesses should aturing a virtual gallery of competing photographs from the finals of previous years of the competition. • Code of Ethics page 23 make sure they are not Human Rights • Internal and External Ethical Standards pages 22 – 24 complicit in human HR4, HR6, HR7, HR9 • Promote social and environmental sustainability pages 65 – 66 rights abuses 3.Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Labour Practices: • Labour/management relations page 54 effective recognition of LA4-5 the right to collective bargaining 4. B usinesses should Human Rights: uphold the elimination HR7 • Code of Ethics page 23 of forms of forced and Governance: Labour standards compulsory labour 4.8., 4.12. Human Rights: 5. Businesses should HR6 uphold the effective • Code of Ethics page 23 Governance: abolition of child labour 4.8., 4.12. 6. Businesses should • Enhancement of human resources pages 48 – 51 Labour Practices: uphold the elimination • Labour/management relations pages 51 52, 54 55 LA2, LA13 of discrimination in • Respecting differences pages 44 45, 51 – 52 Human Rights: respect of employment • Internal control mechanisms pages 27 HR4 and occupation • Environmental Management System 7. Businesses should Governance: and Strategy pages 68 69 support a precautionary 4.8., 4.12. • Adherence to international standards in project finance approach to Environmental (Equator Principles) page 24 environmental Performance: • Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects page 75 challenges EN26 • Environmentally Responsible Procurement page 66 Environmental 8. Businesses should Performance: • Strategies for the environment, adhesion to international undertake initiatives EN1, EN2, EN4-6, EN8, standards pages 68 69 Environment to promote greater EN12, EN14, EN 19-20, • Environmental culture pages 23, 68 environmental EN22, EN24, EN26 • Green initiatives and community projects pages 75 78 responsibility Product Responsiblity: PR3 9. Businesses should encourage the Environmental • Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects pages 75 78 development Performance: • Fostering innovative green technologies pages 75 78 and diffusion of EN2, EN5-6, EN10, • Financing energy savings projects page pages 75 78 environmentally friendly EN26 technologies • Code of Ethics page 23 10. Businesses should work • Internal and External Ethical Standards pages 22 23 Society: Anti-Corruption against corruption in • Transparency in internal processes pages 65 66 SO2, SO3, SO4 all forms • Internal control mechanisms pages 25 27 86 87 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Annexes Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Table Profile Disclosure Profile Disclosure Description GRI Coverage Page Description GRI Coverage Page Strategy and analysis Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 1.1  2–3 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 1.1  2–3 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 1.2  10 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 1.2  10 Organizational Profile Organizational Profile Name of the organization. 2.1  8, 94 Name of the organization. 2.1  8, 94 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2.2  38 – 40 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2.2  38 – 40 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3  11 – 12, 14 – 17, 19 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3  11 – 12, 14 – 17, 19 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Location of organization’s headquarters. 2.4  8, 94 Location of organization’s headquarters. 2.4  8, 94 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with 2.5  8 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with 2.5  8 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. covered in the report. Nature of ownership and legal form. 2.6  8 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2.6  8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7  8, 9 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7  8, 9 customers/beneficiaries). customers/beneficiaries). Scale of the reporting organization. 2.8  8 Scale of the reporting organization. 2.8  8 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or 2.9  9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or 2.9  9 ownership. ownership. Awards received in the reporting period. 2.10  13, 38 Awards received in the reporting period. 2.10  13, 38 Report Parameters Report Parameters Reporting period. 3.1  4 Reporting period. 3.1  4 Date of most recent previous report. 3.2  4 Date of most recent previous report. 3.2  4 Reporting cycle. 3.3  4 Reporting cycle. 3.3  4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 3.4 4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 3.4 4 Process for defining report content, including determining materiality; prioritizing topics 3.5  21 Process for defining report content, including determining materiality; prioritizing topics 3.5  21 within the report; and identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. within the report; and identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 3.6  4 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 3.6  4 ventures, suppliers). ventures, suppliers). State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 3.7  4 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 3.7  4 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8  4 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8  4 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 3.9 4 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 3.9 4 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 Not relevant reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 88 89 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Annexes Profile Disclosure Disclosure on Management Approach Description GRI Coverage Page Page Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or 3.11 Not relevant Economic measurement methods applied in the report. Economic Performance. 8 – 12, 22 – 28 GRI Content Index. 3.12  87 – 92 Market Presence. 8 – 12 Assurance. 3.13  93 Indirect Economic Impacts. 19 – 28, 80 – 85 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Environmental Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the 4.1  14 – 17 Materials. 68, 69, 70 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or Energy. 68, 69, 71, 72 organizational oversight. Water. 68, 69, 73 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 4.2  17 Biodiversity. 68, 69, 74 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of 4.3  Not relevant Emissions, Effluents, and Waste. 68, 69, 74, 75 the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Products and Services. 68, 69, 75 – 78 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction 4.4  17, 21, 51,52 Compliance. 68, 69 to the highest governance body. Transport. 68, 74 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 4.5  17 Social senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the Labour Practices and Decent Work organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). Employment. 44, 50 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are 4.6  16 Labor/Management Relations. 54, 55 avoided. Occupational Health and Safety. 53 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7  17 Training and Education. 44, 50, 51 governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, Diversity and Equal Opportunities. 52 and social topics. Human Rights Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 4.8  7 Investment and Procurement Practices. 64, 65 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their Non-discrimination. 52 implementation. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining. 54 55 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the 4.9  16 – 17 Child Labor. Not relevant organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social Forced and Compulsory Labor. Not relevant performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance Indigenous Rights. Not relevant with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Product Responsibility Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly 4.10  16 – 17, 19 Customer Health and Safety. 32 34 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Product and Service Labeling. 35 – 38 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 4.11  23, 76 Marketing Communications. 41 by the organization. Customer Privacy. 24, 25, 34 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or 4.12  22 – 24 Compliance. 22, 23 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Society Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ 4.13  13 Community. 80 international advocacy organizations in which the organization. Corruption. 27, 28 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.14  21, 41 Public Policy. 24 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.15  21 Anti-Competitive Behavior. 22, 23 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 4.16  30, 35, 36, 37, 44, 51, Compliance. 22, 23 and by stakeholder group. 52, 55, 58, 59 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17  35, 51, 52, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 90 91 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Annexes Performance Indicators Description Labor Practices and Indicator Core Coverage Page Aspect Indicator Core Coverage Page Decent Work Employment LA1. Total workforce by employment type, employment x  44 – 45 Economic contract, and region. Economic Performance EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed, x  8 – 10, LA2. Total number and rate of employee turnover by age x  46 – 47 including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, 58 – 59 group, gender, and region. donations and other community investments, retained LA3. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not  49 – 50 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major Market presence EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyx  65 operations. based suppliers at significant locations of operation Labor/Management relations LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective x  54 Indirect Economic Impacts EC8. Development and impact of infrastructure investments x  81 – 85 bargaining agreements. and services provided primarily for public benefit through LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational x  54 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. changes, including whether it is specified in collective Environmental Indicator Core Coverage Page agreements. Performance Indicators Occupational health and LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal  53, 54 Materials EN1. Materials used by weight or volume. x  70 safety joint management–worker health and safety committees that EN2. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input x  70 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety materials. programs. Energy EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. x  71 LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and x  53, 54 EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source. x  72 absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region. EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency  72 – 73 LA8. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskx  50 improvements. control programs in place to assist workforce members, their EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable  75 – 78 families, or community members regarding serious diseases. energy based products and services, and reductions in energy LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements  53 requirements as a result of these initiatives. with trade unions. Water EN8. Total water withdrawal by source. x  73 Training and education LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee by x  50 – 51 EN9. Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of  73 employee category. water. EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and  73 LA11. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning  50 – 51 reused. that support the continued employability of employees and Biodiversity EN11. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, x  74 assist them in managing career endings. or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity LA12. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance  48 value outside protected areas. and career development reviews. EN12. Description of significant impacts of activities, x  74 Diversity and equal LA13. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown X  46, 47, 52 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and opportunity of employees per category according to gender, age group, areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. EN13. Habitats protected or restored.  74 EN14. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for  74 Human Rights Indicator Core Coverage Page Non-discrimination HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions X  52 managing impacts on biodiversity. Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. x  74 taken EN20. NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and x  74 Child labor HR6. Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for X  Not weight. incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to relevant EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. x  74, 75 the elimination of child labor. EN23. Total number and volume of significant spills. x  74 Forced and compulsory labor HR7. Operations identified as having significant risk for X  Not EN24. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or  74, 75 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to relevant treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of Indigenous rights HR9. Total number of incidents of violations involving rights  52 transported waste shipped internationally. of indigenous people and actions taken. EN25. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value  74 of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of x  75 – 78 products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 92 93 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Annexes Product responsibility Indicator Core Coverage Page Statement of External Verifier Product And Service Labeling PR3. Type of product and service information required by X  24, 25 procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR5. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including  36 – 38 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing Communications PR7. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with X  22 regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Compliance PR9. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance X  66 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Society Indicator Core Coverage Page Corruption SO2. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed X  27 – 28 for risks related to corruption. SO3. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiX  27 corruption policies and procedures. SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. X  27 Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive  22 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8. Monetary value of significant fines and total number X  22 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 94 95 Issued by: Všeobecná úverová banka, a. s. Mlynské nivy 1 829 90 Bratislava Slovak Republic www.vub.sk csr@vub.sk External Verifier: Pontis Foundation, Bratislava Layout: Istropolitana Ogilvy The report was issued on April 2, 2012 The 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report has been translated from Slovak into English solely for the convenience of international readers. The original document in Slovak prevails over any translation and will be made available upon request.
