S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 CONTENTS This Sustainability Report was printed with soy-based inks on FSC-certified, environmentally friendly paper. 02 CEO’s Message 04 Stakeholders and Key Issues 06 Major Sustainability Performances 08 SPECIAL REPORT 1. Expansion of the Onsan Refinery 10 SPECIAL REPORT 2. Climate Change, Challenge and Opportunities 12 SPECIAL REPORT 3. Construction of the Head Office Building 14 SI 1. Enhance Customer-Centric Management Pricing Policy / Compliance with Rules and Demands on Fair Competition / Understanding Customer Needs / Customer Satisfaction / Enhancing Brand Value 22 SI 2. Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment Recruitment and Job Creation / Human Resources Development / Job Security / Retirement Management / Human Rights and Labor / Ban on Child Labor and Forced Labor / Working Conditions / Work Smart / Harmonious Labor-Management Relations / Activities to Improve Corporate Culture / Trust and Communication (Conversation with CEO) / HR-Related Indicators 30 SI 3. Achieve Operational Excellence S OIL Environmental Management System / Environmental Organization (Environmental Council) / Abiding by Environmental Laws / Eco-Friendly Management and Minimum Environmental Impact / Environmental Communication / Safety Management / Safe Driving of Transportation Vehicles / Oil Spill Prevention 40 SI 4. Contribute to Society Contribution Through Stable Energy Supply / Sustainability Report 2011 Contribution to Trade between Korea and Saudi Arabia / Contribution Through Exports / Contribution as a Taxpayer / Local Purchasing / Green Purchasing / Social Contribution Activities /  Biodiversity (Endangered Natural Monuments Protection Campaign) /  Support to Victims of the Japan Earthquake / Support for Local Residents / Preservation of Local Culture / Mitigating Negative Side Effects of Urbanization / Education for Local Youngsters / Nurturing Scientists / Promoting Local Community Sports / Reflecting Stakeholders’ Opinions 48 SI 5. Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance Transparent Corporate Governance / Transparent Management System / Supply Chain Monitoring and Management / Supporting Partners’ Sustainability Management 54 SI 6. Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency Optimal Working Capital and Management of Financial Indicators / Maintaining a High Credit Rating / Effective Budget Management / Reasonable Dividend Policy / Integrated Risk Management System / Closer Communication with Shareholders and Investors / Financial Achievement 60 SI 7. Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth Strengthening Competitiveness of the Oil Refining Business / Establishing 2020 Roadmap to Reinforce Long-Term Growth Engine / Efforts to Supply New and Renewable Energy / Development of Eco-Friendly Products & Services and Clean Energy / Efforts to Improve Fuel Efficiency at Consumption Stage 65 APPENDIX Independent Assurance Report GRI/IPIECA Content Index UNGC Index S-OIL Recognitions and Memberships in Associations Head Office 192, Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoul, 121-805 Rep. of KOREA Readers’ Opinions Onsan Refinery 68, Onsan-ro, Onsan-eup, Ulju-gun, Ulsan, 689-892, Rep. of KOREA www.s-oil.com Sustainability Management Scheme Established in 1976, S-OIL is Korea’s first joint venture corporation formed between entities in an oil-producing country (Saudi Arabia) and an oil-consuming one (South Korea). Today, the company is one of the most competitive refiners in the Asia-Pacific region. About This Report Number of 2,661 Mission Executives and Employees Sustainable, Profitable Growth Report Scope S-OIL has annually published a sustainability report since 2007. This one is our fifth sustainTotal Assets KRW 13.2 trillion ability report covering our business activities at our Seoul Head Office, Onsan Refinery, prod• Further Investment in the uct terminals and 25 domestic sales offices during the period from January 1 to December Refining Business 31, 2011. The performance indicators are based on data of three years, from 2009 to 2011, in Business Sites Head Office: marketing, finance, administration, etc. Strategic • Integration with the Petrochemical order to show trends more clearly. In addition, important management initiatives include data Onsan Refinery: production and shipments Direction Business • Seeking out Opportunities in the that extend into 2012 (the year of publication). However, as our accounting standards were changed into the K-IFRS beginning in 2011, we contained financial performance data of only 11 Product Terminals/Depots: product storage and shipments Renewable Energy Industry two years, 2010 and 2011, in this report. Data subject to frequent changes such as informa4 District Sales HQs/25 Domestic and 3 Overseas Sales tion on human resources were reported as of December 31, the last day of the fiscal year, and offices: product sales notes were added for special cases. Change in Data Production Standards Performance Strategic We reestablished data production standards on account of the expansion of the Onsan Affiliated Hankook Silicon: 33.4% share (the 2nd largest shareholder) Measurement Imperatives Refinery, the introduction of the K-IFRS and the expansion of the reporting scope of the Companies S-OIL Total Lubricants Co., Ltd. (STLC): Shared 50:50 with sustainability report. Total Lubricants of France Guidelines S-International Ltd.: A 100%-owned overseas subsidiary The S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 is based on our 7 Strategic Imperatives and is in accordance with the AA1000APS (2008)1). Moreover, the GRI G3.1 Guidelaines2) and the IPIECA/ API Guidance3) have been used to highlight the important indicators. Notes have been used to Action Plan indicate cases where the company’s management standards have been applied instead. Assurance Fuel Business Expectations of Stakeholders and Company Mission The reliability of the report was verified by an independent and objective assurance group S-OIL’s sustainability management begins with the expectations of its C.E.O. — its Customers, Employees and Owners and based on the AA1000AS4) (2008) and the ISAE30005) international assurance standards. The Crude Distillation  669,000 BPD other stakeholders. The company strives to achieve its mission of sustainable, profitable growth by understanding those 25.9 assurance report can be found in the appendix to the report. expectations and by ensuring they are reflected in management policies that prioritize its C.E.O.’s values — economically, Bunker-C Cracking  148,000 BPD environmentally and socially. Further Information/Suggestions Bunker-C Desulfurization  149,000 BPD The report and additional information on S-OIL’s sustainability management can be viewed KRW trillion Diesel and Kerosene Strategic Framework on S-OIL’s homepage, at www.s-oil.com. If you have questions or need further information, Desulfurization 120,000 BPD S-OIL has established a strategic framework to accomplish its mission. The framework comprises three axes. The first is the please contact the Sustainability Management Team of S-OIL at +82 2 3772 5237 or email us company’s strategic direction, which indicates what the long-term growth directions for the future of S-OIL should be. The at sustainability@s-oil.com. second involves strategic imperatives. These refer to the management principles that S-OIL needs to adopt to realize optimum 1) AA1000APS (2008) provides a framework for an organization to identify, prioritize and Petrochemical Business outcomes whichever strategic directions it chooses to pursue. The final axis is performance measurement, which is to assure Benzene 580,000 tons/year that the first two are implemented effectively. 3.5 respond to its sustainability challenges. 2) The GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guidelines provide sustainability report guidelines Paraxylene 1,790,000 tons/year that were written and revised by the GRI in 2011. The GRI was established by CERES and 7 Strategic Imperatives UNEP. KRW trillion Propylene 200,000 tons/year With that strategic framework in place, the C.E.O.’s expectation of S-OIL and the company’s responsibilities in meeting them 3) IPIECA/API (International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association/ Sales Revenues and achieving sustainable growth are embodied in its 7 Strategic Imperatives. American Petroleum Institute) Guidance refers to sustainability report guidelines governing the performances reported by companies in the petroleum industry. in 2011 31.9 4) AA1000AS provides international verification standards that are used to evaluate the 1. Enhance Customer-Centric Management 7 inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of sustainability reports. Lube Business 2. Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment 5) ISAE3000 provides international verification standards governing the reliability of Ultra-S Base Oil  26,000 BPD 2.5 3. Achieve Operational Excellence information other than financial data. Super Base Oil 5,100 BPD KRW trillion 4. Contribute to Society Strategic 5. Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance KRW trillion Premium Base Oil  8,600 BPD Imperatives 6. Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency 7. Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth CEO'S MESSAGE Dear Valued Stakeholders of S-OIL: change, and alongside organizations and government It gives me great pleasure to greet you in our we are participating in activities to tackle the issue. As a fifth sustainability report. part of those activities, we have developed an advanced Strategic Carbon Management System that enables us As you may know from our previous reports, S-OIL has to systematically manage and reduce greenhouse gas formulated and implemented Action Plans to meet the emissions caused by business activities both now and expectations of our stakeholders, reviewed its activities going forward. Our efforts in this area were recognized on the basis of a strategic framework, the core of its susinternationally when we became one of the first compatainability management, and delivered you the results nies in Korea to receive a “Carbon Trust Standard” cerof our efforts through our sustainability reports. Indeed, tificate from the Carbon Trust, an international carbon they have been well rewarded. S-OIL has performed exmanagement certification agency. With a similar sense ceptionally, posting strong financial results, constructing of responsibility, we also intend to preemptively tackle the #2 Aromatics Complex, attaining seven million accienvironmental issues such as biodiversity and water dent-free man-hours, and achieving its largest-ever retail shortages and share our progress with our stakeholders. market share through its active marketing activities at home and abroad. We also forayed into the photovoltaic We sincerely believe at S-OIL that companies should business and inaugurated our new head office building, interact with communities, and that their activities and which has provided improved working conditions for our efforts can make society a better place in which to live. employees. We owe all of these achievements to your With that conviction, we will continue to run our “Sunsteady support and encouragement for our sustainability shine Sharing” campaign, which operates on the three management. Thus, on behalf of everyone at S-OIL, I ofprinciples of genuineness, impact and timing. Through fer you our heartfelt thanks. the campaign, we will continue to provide practical help to our local communities and citizens in a wide range In the current business environment of growing uncerof areas. Specifically, by practicing the universal human tainty in the global economy caused in part by the fiinstinct of “sharing,” we will expand our care for the less nancial crisis in Europe, companies trying to enhance fortunate among us and carry out social contribution actheir corporate sustainability face numerous challenges. tivities for local communities under a long-term plan. In Nevertheless, bolstered by our conviction that growth addition, we support the UN Global Compact and its ten and prosperity should be for the mutual benefit of both principles related to human rights, labor, the environment company and stakeholders, we aim to lead the way in and anti-corruption, all areas in which we aim to live up sustainability management by thoroughly reflecting your to the expectations of our various stakeholders. expectations in our business activities. Valued Stakeholders and staunch supporters of S-OIL, In accordance with this plan, we will actively promote you should know that all of these activities are motifollowing activities: vated by the unique value we assign to satisfying your S-OIL aims to harness all of its resources and capabiliexpectations. In the future, we will continue to pursue ties in pursuit of balanced strategies in the oil refining, our economic, environmental and social values based on the petrochemical, and the renewable energy busiour 7 Strategic Imperatives, all the while listening to your nesses. With our resolve to pursue this initiative, in close diverse voices and communicating with you. We pledge communication with the Board of Directors we have dethat in doing we will ultimately grow to become the comveloped a roadmap through 2020. We will steadily impany that you envision us to be. Our sustainability report prove this road map by reflecting the expectations of our will serve as constant to convey our ceaseless efforts stakeholders. In addition, we will enhance the status of and their results as we move ever closer to our noble the company not only in the domestic market but also goals. 2+3 S-OIL aims to harness all of its resources and capabilities in pursuit in the global market by rapidly adapting our strategies to effectively cope with changes in the energy market. Once again, I deeply appreciate your trust in and support of balanced strategies in the oil refining, the petrochemical, and the We thereby expect the company to achieve “sustainable, for S-OIL. profitable growth” and ultimately to provide greatly enrenewable energy businesses. At the same time, we will continue to hanced value for stakeholders. balance our economic, environmental and social values based on our We will also devote greater effort to protecting and pre7 Strategic Imperatives, so that we will ultimately grow into a valuable serving the environment—in particular that of climate company that meets your expectations. change, which affects us all. We wholeheartedly support Nasser Al-Mahasher S-OIL the international community’s efforts to address climate Representative Director and CEO Sustainability Report 2011 Stakeholders and Key Issues S-OIL operates a variety of C.E.O. engagement channels, considering each group’s characteristics, in order to identify what their expectations are. We establish action plans to fulfill these expectations by correlating them with our own strategic directions and imperatives; the results are applied to our management activities through analyses and reviews. c Customers e Employees o Owners & Other Stakeholders Stakeholders Shareholders / Business Local Government/ Stakeholders Individual Stations/Dealers Corporations Employees Investors Partners Communities NGO/Media Communication · Customer Complaints · Seminars to support · Strategy Round Tables · Meetings with CEO · General Meeting of · Technical exchange · Public hearings/seminars · Public hearings Communication · Production site visits by Channels Processing System service stations · Customer Appreciation top management Stockholders meetings · Conferences · Seminars/conferences Channels · Customer Satisfaction · Station visits Days · Telephone/e-mail · Occupational Risk · Visits to the refinery · Employee Satisfaction · Information sharing Suggestion Program · Service Station · Dinner for customers Survey consultations Evaluation Workshop · Activities through meetings · Customer Satisfaction Management Magazine · Brochures · Grievance Committee · Investor relations/ · Safety and health associations · Responses to surveys Index Survey · Company Newsletter · Visiting customers · Monthly Employee Meeting conferences/ educations/trainings · Sunshine Sharing · Customer monitoring · Labor-management group (Supporters) conferences Investor meetings · Waste Treatment Training (CSR activities) · Bonus card website · Employee Suggestion · Meetings with · E-procurement System · External evaluations/ Program analysts · Site visits assessments (including smartphone · Ethics management help desk applications) · Internal IR session · Website postings · Call center · Company Newsletter · Visits to financial institutions · Intranet · Credit rating meetings · HR Webzine Interactives Products/Services Products/Services Human Resources Capital Management Manufacturing Communication Communication Interactives Products/Services Development Production Communication Communication · Corporate Sales Team Organizations · Refined Product Marketing Organizations Strategy Team · Refined Product Export Team · Refined Product Operation Team · HR Policy Team · Petrochemical MarketingStrategy Team · Personnel Team · Procurement Management · Petrochemical Sales Team · HR Development Team Team · Customer Service Team · Petrochemical Operation · Labor Cooperation Team · Procurement Team · Government Affairs Team · Customer Relationship Team · Organizational Culture & · Contracting Team · Environment Affairs Team · Customer Service Team Development Team · Lube Marketing Strategy Communication Revitalization · IR Team · Management Coordination · Government & Public Team · Customer Relationship · Network Upgrading Team Team · Management Coordination Team · Government Affairs Team Affairs Team · Lube Base Oil Export Team I Development Team · Sales Offices · Management Coordination Team · Safety & Health Department · Operation Support Team · PR Team · Lube Base Oil Export Team II · Membership Marketing · Agent Sales Team · Lube Base Oil Domestic Team Team · Treasury Operation Team · Environment Management · Government & Public Affairs · Sustainability Team · LPG Team · Overseas Offices · IR Team · Finance Planning Team Team Team Management Team S-OIL S-OIL 4+5 Key Issues and Reporting Contents ①F  ind common issues among C.E.O.’s expectations identified through engagements and global standards and guidelines, such as UN Global Compact, GRI, and ISO 26000 This sustainability report encompasses the most important concerns of the C.E.O., from economic, ② Add the most recent issues to the list of common issues by analyzing news articles Included in Higher published in 2011 Covered by sustainability environmental, and social viewpoints, while following global guidelines for such publications and ③ Add major issues covered by sustainability reports of leading domestic and overseas website or report other channels companies the company’s 7 Strategic Imperatives. In addition, through the following materiality test, S-OIL Significance to ④ Select reporting content for each strategic imperative by considering its significance to identified major subjects and indicators that might influence the C.E.O.’s decision-making and society and to S-OIL’s strategic directions ⑤ Review the materiality of the reporting content in three stages: team leaders, division  Stakeholders Being Covered by included them in detail in this sustainability report. heads, and top management monitored website or other channels S-OIL ⑥ Have outside experts verify the materiality of the reporting content Sustainability Report Lower 2011 Lower Significance  to S-OIL's Higher Strategic Operations Major Sustainability Performances Key Performance Index Economy Environment Society Safety 2010 2011  (Unit: KRW million, KRW million, %)  2009 2010 2011 (Unit: tons CO2, thousand tons, tons)  2009 2010 2011 (Unit: %, KRW million, hours)  2009 2010 2011 (Unit: %, persons, cases) 31,913,863 1,638,638 5,234 28,823 0.246 7,308,169 18,804 62.5 5,179 11,376 336 334 21,451 59.5 22,693 24.5 6,565,917 21,400 20,511,068 864,635 16,233 319 16.8 22,596 6,503,713 20,667 0.090 5,505 15,380 4,041 39.9 0.044 2,287 Sales Operating Return on Equity Direct Greenhouse Water Use at Onsan General Waste Percentage of Fringe Sunshine Sharing Employees’ Volunteer Percentage of OccupaSafety Management Safety Management TrainIncome Gas Emissions Refinery from Onsan Refinery Benefits in Labor Cost Donations Hours tional Injury of Employees Training ing for Partner Companies of Partner Companies for Employees (No. of Trainings) (No. of Trainees) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Number of Employees 2,511 2,589 2,661 Sales (KRW million) N/A 20,511,068 31,913,863 Society Number of Executives 38 38 39 Economy Operating Income (KRW million) N/A 864,635 1,638,638 Number of Regular Employees 2,409 2,479 2,491 Net Income (KRW million) N/A 710,066 1,192,426 Number of Non-regular Employees 64 72 131 Total Liabilities (KRW million) N/A 5,498,903 7,977,747 Total Stockholders’ Equity (KRW million) N/A 4,504,595 5,226,354 Number of Newly Hired Employees 132 181 181 Dividend Common (KRW) 1,350 2,500 4,800 Number of Retirees 63 76 109 Per Share Preferred (KRW) 1,375 2,525 4,825 Percentage of Outside Directors in BOD 54.5 54.5 54.5 Return on Equity (%) N/A 16.8 24.5 Percentage of Female Employees 7.3 7.2 7.1 Total Liabilities to Equity Ratio (%) N/A 122.0 152.6 Percentage of Disabled Employees 1.9 1.8 1.7 Total Amount of Purchases (KRW million) 324,999 373,090 554,153 Average Annual Training Hours Per Employee 56 56 52 Total Amount of Local Purchases (KRW million) 62,434 90,095 89,084 Percentage of Education and Training Cost in Labor Cost 1.1 0.8 1.4 Percentage of Fringe Benefits in Labor Cost 39.9 59.5 62.5 Volume of Crude Oil Processed (thousand barrels) 189,674 186,866 218,714 * Labor Disputes 0 0 0 Environment Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Scope I (tons CO2) 6,565,917 6,503,713 7,308,169 * Sunshine Sharing Donations (KRW million) 4,041 5,234 5,179 2) Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Scope II (tons CO2) 660,806 683,457 874,080 * Employees’ Volunteer Hours 22,693 22,596 28,823 Energy Use (GJ) 74,318 75,028 97,468 * Toxic Chemical Emissions (tons) 188 179 N/A1) SOx (tons) 4,031 3,903 4,620 * Percentage of Occupational Injury of Employees 0 0.1 0 NOx (tons) 3,543 3,091 3,753 * Dust (tons) 131 89 116 * Safety Percentage of Occupational Injury of Employees of Partner 0.246 0.090 0.044 6+7 Companies Marine Oil Spills 0 0 0 Number of Injured 0 2 0 Water Use at Onsan Refinery (thousand tons) 21,400 20,667 21,451 * Water Reused at Onsan Refinery (thousand tons) 1,822 1,663 1,635 Number of Lost Work Days 0 52 0 Waste Water Discharges from Onsan Refinery (thousand tons) 9,548 9,570 10,002 * Safety ManageNumber of Trainees 2,287 5,505 11,376 ment Training Designated Waste from Onsan Refinery (tons) 12,176 9,787 16,096 * for Employees Number of Trainings 83 91 130 General Waste from Onsan Refinery (tons) 18,804 16,233 15,380 Safety ManageNumber of Trainees 15,245 15,030 14,424 Waste Recycled at Onsan Refinery (tons) 21,127 17,420 23,069 * ment Training for Partner Number of Trainings 334 319 336 Environmental Investments (KRW million) 22,993 9,820 14,589 Companies Amount of Green Purchases (KRW million) 24,124 23,934 4,531 1) Data for 2011 will be published in 2013. S-OIL As the company has applied the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) for its financial reporting from January 1, 2011, sales, operating income, total 2) Sunshine Sharing Donations do not include the amount spent for the Table Tennis Team and the S-OIL Science Prodigy and Culture Foundation, which were KRW 1.0 billion liabilities, total equity, return on equity and total liabilities-to-equity ratio for 2009 calculated on the basis of K-GAAP are excluded. and 1.3 billion, respectively, in 2011. Sustainability Report * Increases are partly caused by the expansion of the Onsan Refinery. 2011 SPECIAL REPORT 1 Expansion of coastal land reclamation project started in 1996 as a joint project with the participation of the local community and partners. On average, 3,500 workers contributed to the projthe Onsan Refinery ect daily, and 1.32 million man-days were worked during the 22 months from June 2009 through April 2011. This huge endeavor involved more than 50 types of heavy industrial equipment, including hydraulic cranes, dump trucks, compressors, forklift trucks and pump cars, and consumed 100,000 cubic meters of concrete (the combined volume of 15,000 ready-mixed concrete trucks), 40,000 tons of steel structures, 700 kilometers of pipelines to transport feed“S-OIL’s Onsan Refinery Expansion Project is incredstock and products, and 2,500 kilometers of power and proibly meaningful because the company made an incess control cables. vestment in the plant amid the global financial crisis In addition to Samsung Engineering, the project’s main conin 2008. An excellent company is a company that intractor, 270 local companies based in Ulsan, Busan and vests during an economic slump. As S-OIL invested when the economy deteriorated, the company will South Gyeongsang Province took part in the project. The prove to have made a timely investment when an refinery expansion directly and indirectly created jobs both economic boom comes back. In this context, I think, during and after the project, while S-OIL’s KRW 900 billion S-OIL made an exceptionally wise and meaningful cash payment in construction fees made a significant contriinvestment.” bution to stimulating the growth of the local economy. From South Korean President Lee Myung-Bak’s Remarkably, the project was completed in just 22 months, congratulatory message during the Ceremony to two months ahead of schedule. That feat was achieved in Celebrate the Expansion of the Onsan Refinery on large part due to S-OIL’s 30 years’ experience in process October 20, 2011. technology and petrochemical production facility operation, as well as the involvement of its engineers in the project from the design stage. Construction costs saved by the reduction in the construction period were shared with partner companies. An Environmentally Friendly Project When embarking on the Onsan Refinery Expansion Project we placed top priority on the environment. Successful Completion of the Onsan Refinery Paraxylene/Benzene Production Capacities Introducing optimal pollution prevention facilities from the design stage, we made additional investment Expansion Project Before Expansion of Onsan Refinery After Expansion of Onsan Refinery (Unit: KTA) of KRW 28 billion in facilities and equipment that resulted in maintaining air and water pollution levels far Despite an economic slump triggered by the below those mandated by environmental regulations. We were also able to reduce pollutant emissions global financial crisis, S-OIL pressed ahead with 1,790 to a minimum. In addition, we were able to save energy by installing solar photovoltaic power genera580 its Onsan Refinery Expansion Project, investing tion facilities supplying up to 20 KW of electrical power a day for rooms and outdoor lighting facilities. KRW 1.3 trillion to double its production capacity of petrochemical products and secure maximum Successful Model of Korea-Saudi Arabia Economic Cooperation competitiveness in the petrochemical business on 740 260 In 1991, Saudi Arabia’s state-run oil company Saudi Aramco invested USD 400 million in S-OIL, which top of our existing competitiveness in the refining was then the largest foreign private investment ever made in Korea. The two companies continue to and lube businesses. After three years of planning, enjoy a strong partnership based on a long-term contract for crude oil supply by which Saudi Arabia design and construction, the project was sucParaxylene Benzene benefits from a stable buyer of its crude oil and by which Korea safeguards its energy needs through cessfully completed in April 2011. With the projreliable supply from the world’s largest oil field. ect’s completion, S-OIL cemented its position as The Onsan Refinery Expansion Project is more than just a business investment by a company — it 8+9 a globally competitive supplier with annual production capacities of 1.79 million tons of paraxylene, the is a joint initiative managed by an oil producing nation and an oil importing one. The Onsan Refinery world’s highest production capacity at a single complex, and 580,000 tons of benzene. S-OIL exports Expansion Inauguration Ceremony was held at the Onsan Refinery on October 20, 2011. Some 1,000 more than 50% of its production annually and with the expansion of its production capacity is now the domestic and foreign guests including Lee Myung-Bak, President of the Republic of Korea, Ali Al-Naimi, largest paraxylene supplier in Asia. On the strength of an increase in demand for petrochemical prodSaudi Arabian Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, and Khalid A. Al-Falih, President of Saudi ucts in Asia (including China, which accounts for 79% of global PX demand), S-OIL has been able to Aramco, attended the event. “S-OIL is a successful model of economic cooperation between an oil make a greater contribution to the development of local communities and the national economy thanks producer and an oil consumer and symbolizes economic cooperation between Korea and Saudi Arabia. to expanding its exports by USD 2 billion and increasing its operating income by 20% or more. I hope that the two nations, which have mutually complementary industrial structures, will create a more advanced cooperation model in the future” said President Lee in his congratulatory message. Win-Win Partnerships Through a Large-Scale Project In order to live up to such expectations, S-OIL is making every effort to heighten the international standS-OIL The refinery expansion project occupied 184,500 square meters of land created through a three-phase ing and competitiveness of the Korean petrochemical industry and to take the lead in promoting bilateral Sustainability Report 2011 economic cooperation and non-government interchanges. SPECIAL REPORT 2 Management Scheme to Tackle Climate Change Top Decision• Management Committee presided over by the CEO Maker Climate Change, • Establishing climate change strategies and a road map to reduce greenhouse gases: Sustainability Management Team Responsible • Participating in government policies on climate change: Environment Affairs Team Teams & Com• Reducing greenhouse gas emissions through energy efficiency management and Challenge and mittees energy saving: Energy Technology/Management Team • Internal verification of greenhouse gas inventories: Environment Management Team Acquired a “Carbon Trust Standard” • Related committees: Energy Management Committee and Working Committee Opportunities the First Certificate in Korea Operating System • Strategic Carbon Management System Efforts to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Business Sites Business Sites •All business sites located in Korea, including the head office, the refinery, sales offices, and product terminals Reduction Plan for • 110,791 tons CO2 (nine reduction projects) 2012 • Greenhouse gas reduction through energy conservation Process improvement and investments to maximize energy efficiency are included in the Long Range Business Plan (LRBP). • Greenhouse Gas Reduction Record Registry (KCER, 2005~2009, reduction of 111,962 tons CO2) S-OIL was the first domestic refiner to have its GHG reduction performance registered with the Korea Energy Management Corp’s Greenhouse Gas Reduction Record Registry and has obtained certification on its reduction performance every year. Reduction • Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management System Pilot Project (NA pilot project, 2010, reduction of 382,908 tons CO2) Programs S-OIL reported its energy saving performances in 2010 and 2011 compared to the base years (2005-2007) in compliance with the agreement on Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management System’s pilot project signed with the Ministry of Knowledge Economy in December 2009. It was verified in November 2010 that the company exceeded the annual intensity reduction target of 1% (TOE). • Energy saving at office facilities The company raises employees’ awareness of company-wide energy saving through campaigns and uses highly energy-efficient bulbs. 33.4% stake (41,042,750 shares) in Hankook Silicon, a sound producer of high purity polysilicon used in solar cells. The KRW 265 billion strategic investment enabled S-OIL to enter into joint management of the company with Osung LST, the largest shareholder, and contribute to green growth and the development of sustainable energy. Since the polysilicon business is challenging for new players to enter due to its high technological barriers, the sector is a highly profitable part of the photovoltaic value chain. A Foray into the Renewable Energy Business: Acquiring a Stake in Hankook Silicon At the end of 2010, Hankook Silicon’s annual production capacity amounted to 3,500 tons. With S-OIL’s acquisition of a stake in the company and the expansion of its second plant, in May 2012 its annual production capacity increased to 15,000 tons, making it the second largest producer of polysilicon in Korea and fifth largest globally. Response to Climate Change The photovoltaic industry is currently undergoing restructuring due to excessive investment in the midClimate change is one of the most critical challenges facing humankind. The international community stream and downstream sectors made on expectations of steady market growth. Hankook Silicon, designated climate change an international agenda item in the early 1990s and explored ways to adhowever, is positioned to become a leading global polysilicon producer by securing cost competitivedress the issue through a series of discussions and negotiations. The Korean government also joined ness matching global industry leaders and exporting the majority of its products from its enlarged facilithe global initiative under the “Low-Carbon Green Growth” policy. S-OIL fully supports the international ties to China and Japan. Through win-win partnerships with Hankook Silicon, S-OIL aims to play a valucommunity and the Korean government in their efforts and activities to deal with climate change. The able role in developing overseas markets for the new and renewable energy business while contributing Korean government announced to the international community a voluntary target to reduce greenhouse to strengthening the nation’s ability to implement strategies for low-carbon green growth. gas emissions by 30% in terms of “Business as Usual” (BAU) by 2020. To accomplish the target, it is 10 +11 taking aggressive measures that include the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management System Efforts to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions Through Lowered Fuel Consumption (from 2011) and the Emissions Trading System (from 2015). S-OIL makes efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions not only in the production stage but also in Government regulation of greenhouse gas emission would increase costs, thereby affecting the profitthe distribution stage. In the 1990s, S-OIL led the way in petroleum product quality with the launch of ability of refiners in the short term and shift energy demand from fossil fuel to renewable energy in the high-octane gasoline. Currently, the company is helping to reduce Korea’s greenhouse gas emissions mid to long term. Under these circumstances, S-OIL has striven to cut back on greenhouse gas by by supplying diesel that in tests conducted by S-OIL’s R&D Center delivers fuel efficiency more than establishing a company-wide greenhouse gas emission management system, including emission mea1% greater than that of its domestic competitors. We also made efforts to educate consumers about surement, responsible organizations, and reduction plans. Those efforts have been duly recognized by the importance of good driving habits in 2011 by organizing a fuel efficiency marathon in cooperation the Carbon Trust, an accredited international certification organization. with Peugeot, providing drivers with an opportunity to improve their fuel efficiency and at the same time S-OIL has also made inroads into the renewable business sector as one of its three strategic directions protect the environment for a better future. S-OIL for sustainable growth. After a two-year-long feasibility study, in June 2011 the company acquired a Sustainability Report 2011 SPECIAL REPORT 3 their work, minimized office partitions that promote communication, and creatively arranged meeting spaces including video conference rooms on the 20th floor. The company has Construction of also created “Energy Stations,” where employees can rest on each floor and on the rooftop, in an effort to enable them to work, relax and refresh in the same space. Amenities inthe Head Office cluding a fitness center, a canteen and banking facilities are available on the lower and basement floors. In addition, the Building location of the building offers easy access to public transport including two subway lines, the airport railroad and provincial Gyeong-eui Line, and buses. This also creates the economic benefit of lowered transportation costs and environmental value of reduced greenhouse gas emissions due to less use of private vehicles. Environmentally Friendly Head Office Building S-OIL has minimized the environmental impact of the building during its lifecycle from planning and construction to operation and maintenance. The effect of construction on the area’s natural and living environment was thoroughly evaluated ahead of groundbreaking. As a result, we were able to complete the project while complying with rigorous environmental laws and regulations and causing no environmental Restaurant & Fitness Center in the Head Office Building damage. The building features eco-friendly facilities such as energy-efficient LED lighting and water-saving taps. Tracts of greenery and rest spaces in and around the building offer company staff and local residents oases to relax, and the fourth, 20th and 23rd floors all offer refreshment areas. As a result, the S-OIL head office building was certified one of the most ecofriendly buildings by Seoul City in May 2011. Invigorating the Local Economy The construction of the new head office building also helped to invigorate a dilapidated urban environment and enhance urban functions of an area with poor infrastructure. S-OIL invested a total of KRW 190 billion and created jobs for 78,000 man-days during the two-year project period. The new building has increased the local floating and residential populations, including the employees of S-OIL and building users, thus stimulating the local economy. In addition, housing investment is expected to increase Background in the area around the new building as commercial and residential neighborhoods connected to the S-OIL was established as an affiliate company of the Ssangyong Group in 1976. The company was nearby downtown area flourish. separated from the group after the Asian financial crisis in 1998. In 2000, its head office building was located to the 63 Building in Yeoido, central Seoul. The rented office space, however, limited opportuniPromoting Local Culture ties to improve working conditions for employees and systems to increase efficiency as the company Upon moving into its new head office building, S-OIL committed to providing cultural and exhibition grew. Therefore, in 2008 S-OIL invested KRW 190 billion in construction of a new head office building in spaces in the building for young artists and the local community in an agreement to support a campaign Gongdeok-dong in Mapo-gu, Seoul. With careful consideration of the needs of both internal and exterfor non-profit culture and art signed with Siru, a cultural network. Twice a month (midday on the secnal stakeholders at every stage, the building was completed in May 2011, 35 years after the company’s ond Wednesday and 7:00 pm on the last Wednesday of the month) the company hosts performances 12+13 foundation. The 23-story building (with seven basement floors) was designed to reflect S-OIL’s status as in a 300-seat auditorium on the third floor and in a cultural space in the building lobby. With the goal an important contributor to the development of the Korean economy and as a globally competitive enof giving everyone access to cultural events, performances are free of charge. Thanks to the financial ergy company and petroleum product exporter. The building’s design symbolizes a dynamic traditional support for arts and cultural activities such as plays, musicals, dances, Korean classical operas and fuKorean mast, reflecting the historical and geographical heritage of Mapo. sion traditional Korean music, artists are able to put on top quality performances. To help the children of low-income families, on every second Wednesday of the month we hold a rice-ball sharing concert and Offering the Best Working Environment donate the proceeds to social contribution activities. This is an example of the giving back to society The new building employs an intelligent building system (IBS) that integrates management of electricity, that connects the shared values of S-OIL and Mecenat through cultural and socially responsible activiinformation and telecommunications, and disaster prevention systems. It also facilitates smart office ties. By promoting cultural events in partnership with local communities, S-OIL is taking the initiative in environments that allow employees to work more efficiently and comfortably. Design features enhancturning the Mapo region into a dynamic downtown cultural spot with its head office building as a new S-OIL ing the workplace include interior office rooms that guarantee privacy and help employees focus on local landmark. Sustainability Report 2011 1 SI Enhance CustomerPERFORMANCE SUMMARY Centric Management Sustainability Report 2010 Achievements in 2011 Future Plan · Expand the role of supporters · Increased the number of · Enhance customer satisfaction VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS from monitors to prosumers who supporters to 2,000. by reinforcing the Happy Call participate in the company’s · Contributed to enhancing the System, which evaluates “Although I had a complicated inquiry, the Customer Center responded policies and events. brand value of the company customer satisfaction with the to my email carefully and addressed my question. They even called me by nurturing supporters as company’s handling of their about it, which I really appreciated. The call center employees was very prosumers who participate complaints. kind and really worked hard to address the problem. Sometimes I get in not only in suggesting annoyed at call center employees of other companies, but today I feel marketing policies and ideas for good thanks to the staff at the S-OIL Call Center.” improvements but also in social contribution activities known as Sang-Min Kwon, “Sunshine Sharing.” a customer who sent an email to the Customer Center · Regularly analyze the company · Steadily increased brand value · Solidify brand awareness through brand through specialized through differentiated ads various channels to promote a external organizations. and promotions appealing to positive image of the company consumers. As a result, our (Good Oil = S-OIL) . advertisement had the highest · Conduct publicity activities TOM (top of mind) among ads run vigorously to increase public by refiners. understanding of the oil industry and refiners. · Expand the Quality Manager · Provided corporate customers · Analyze the market and System to cover corporate with various services for quality technology of eco-friendly customers. management by expanding the scope products and provide high-quality of the Quality Manager System. eco-friendly products that meet · Raised quality standards of customers’ expectations. “Trustworthy Service Stations” and · Strengthen quality inspections at “Customers’ opinions are a driving force behind the steady, expanded the number of service affiliate service stations to prevent positive change at S-OIL. That is why S-OIL listens to the station quality inspections with newly the distribution of adulterated voices of customers through a variety of channels and established Quality Inspection Group. petroleum products. reflects them in its management system. S-OIL uses its (Six times a year) · Increased the speed and reliability customers’ voices as energy to enhance its value and of oil product quality inspections by rewards their support with better products and services.” expanding to cover gasoline and diesel the use of a marker that helps identify adulterated petroleum. Bong-Soo Park, · Upgrade the Customer · Utilized the membership-based · Increase the efficiency of Executive Vice President_Marketing B/L Head Information System. Customer Relation Management customer complaint management · Build an additional Privacy System in providing services by integrating and systemizing the 14+15 Information Assessment System differentiated by characteristics of Voice of Customer channels and 1,545 57.2 2,150 and reinforce the Integrated Log customers. processes through information Analysis System. · Encrypted Bonus Card members’ technology. information and reinforced firewall · Improve the quality of Call Center policies in order to securely services through the stable manage the data. operation of the center. · Expand the number of Bonus NO. of Trustworthy Service Top of Mind Awareness in S-OIL Supporters Card users and enhance loyalty through stable operation of the Stations (Unit: stations) Ad Tracking Studies (Unit: persons) Bonus Card System. (Unit: %) S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL prohibits price-rigging, unfair trading, and any other acts that may adversely affect fair and other relevant matters to be considered. Understanding Customer Needs Enhance CustomerCentric Management trading. This is because such acts could rapidly undermine customers’ trust in the company. Since 2010, we have also provided annual fair – ▶ Pricing Policy S-OIL has been making steady efforts to stimulate active competition and observe fair trading. trading education for employees. In 2011, 200 S-OIL listens to the voices of its customers. The ▶ Compliance with Rules and Demands on Fair Competition employees at our regional sales headquarters company identifies and meets customers’ needs ▶ Understanding Customer Needs and sales offices received fair trading education. through a wide range of channels, such as the ▶ Customer Satisfaction Customer Relation Management System, supEnhancing Brand Value Despite these initiatives, the fact that domesporter activities, and a customer satisfaction tic petroleum product prices always reflect insuggestion program, in order to provide optiternational market prices, along with the often mized services by reflecting customers’ opinprohibitively high costs involved in entering the ions in its business policies. We also respond to industry, have made S-OIL a target for frequent and resolve customers’ complaints and difficulPricing Policy National Oil Corporation since May 2009. In adallegations of price fixing and unfair trade. S-OIL ties through our customer center, the Customer – dition, customers can check prices at each gas was fined KRW 38.5 billion and KRW 43.8 billion Complaint Management System, and the Happy The prices of the company’s products in the dostation through the “S-OIL Bonus Card App,” by the Korea Fair Trade Commission for allegedly Call System. mestic market are based on objective data, ina smart phone application (available from App conspiring to fix the price of LPG in December of cluding international petroleum product prices Stores). 2009 and for conferring on not trading with serCustomer Complaints Handled by the Customer such as Mean of Platts Singapore (MOPS), exvice stations affiliated with other refiners in SepComplaint Management System change rates, its supply and demand situation, At the same time, S-OIL lowered the price of tember 2011 respectively. Since S-OIL had comQuality Service/Transport and Others  (Unit: cases) and domestic market trends. S-OIL has been at kerosene by KRW 60 per liter from the middle of mitted no wrongdoing, the company immediately 793 the forefront of the move toward fair and reasonFebruary to the end of April 2011 while domestic launched an appeal, and legal proceedings are 712 634 able pricing. S-OIL has been leading the way in oil prices continued to jump at unprecedented currently underway. In a similar case in 2004, fair and rational pricing in the domestic petrorates as international oil prices rose steadily. The the company was fined with three other Korean leum market by running an independent price company also made efforts to help ordinary peorefiners by the Korea Fair Trade Commission for 319 adjustment system while leading in the quality ple who felt the effects at the pump by lowering allegedly conspiring to fix the price of domestic 207 217 of petroleum products by launching high-octane, the price of gasoline and diesel per liter by KRW light oils. In April 2007, we filed an appeal askhigh-output gasoline in the 1990s. 100 for three months beginning in April. ing for the decision to be declared null and void. The Supreme Court of Korea ruled in our favor in 2009 2010 2011 In order to guarantee pricing fairness, a pricing Compliance with Rules and February of 2010. committee comprising executives and employDemands on Fair Competition * These data do not include customer complaints about joint marketing services such as the Bonus Card, – credit cards affiliated with S-OIL, gift certificates and promotions. ees from relevant departments meets to deter* The company dealt with more customer complaints in 2011 than in the previous year thanks to the improvements in its Customer Complaint Management System mine exclusive standard prices for our domestic In spite of fierce competition at home and abroad, light oil products i.e. gasoline, diesel and kerothere is a widespread misapprehension that the sene each day. These prices reflect changes in oil refining industry is free from competition due cost adjustment factors such as the international oligopolistic nature of the market. As company Activities to Deal with Customer Complaints price of petroleum products and exchange rates policy S-OIL prohibits price-rigging, unfair tradHighlights among other factors. The transparency of our ing, and any other acts that may adversely affect • Helped customers ask questions or receive counseling via the ARS Customer Center (1644-5151) and responded faster and more accurately pricing practices is enhanced as the petroleum fair trading. This is because such acts could rapthrough the CRM System. S-OIL Customer Center * S-OIL was selected as a company with an outstanding call center in the call center service evaluation by the Korea Management Association product prices at over 95% of our service staidly undermine customers’ trust in the company. Consulting in 2011 (three straight years since 2009) tions across the nation are disclosed on the OpiAs a latecomer in the Korean oil refining industry, Customer Complaint Management • Handled complaints with customers after the company classified and registered customer complaints received through the home page and net (www.opinet.co.kr), operated by the Korea S-OIL has been making steady efforts to stimuSystem the ARS system, and the concerned teams and the investigation team checked and resolved them. late active competition and observe fair trading. Happy Call System • Assigned a specialized counselor to call customers to check how they were treated during the complaint treatment processes and to seek suggestions for improvements. 16+17 In February 2010, S-OIL published a “fair trade self-observation guide,” which is revised annually. The guide is distributed to all departments in Activities to Catch Customer Needs order to prevent violations and misunderstandHighlights ings stemming from a lack of understanding of • Monitored S-OIL’s products and marketing policies and suggested opinions and areas for improvement through the S-OIL Bonus Card regulations or carelessness in business activities. S-OIL Supporters website and various offline events The guide includes the company’s declaration • Completed the upgrade of the membership-based CRM in 2011 and provided differentiated services for customers by analyzing personal CRM to honor fair trading rules, explanations of laws information and trade information through the CRM. relating to the regulation of monopolies and fair Customer Satisfaction Suggestion • Allowed customers to offer their opinions and suggestions for improvements directly using the Bonus Card website. S-OIL Program S-OIL Smartphone Application trade, common types of unfair action and trade, Sustainability Report 2011 Customers really matter to S-OIL. The customers of S-OIL can be divided into individual cusService Station Satisfaction cial needs and business conditions related to Enhance CustomerCentric Management tomers, service stations and corporate customers. With the aim of meeting customer needs, Service stations are S-OIL’s key partners as well volume, price, qualities and transport in accorPricing Policy as customers. In a saturated market where comdance with the nature, size and regions of their Compliance with Rules and S-OIL is striving to steadily provide and develop optimal services for customers. Demands on Fair Competition petition is growing fiercer, S-OIL is implementing business. S-OIL applies flexible pricing policies Understanding Customer Needs a variety of support activities in an effort to adto meet the different needs of corporate custom▶ Customer Satisfaction vance stations’ operational quality and competiers to the best of its ability. At the same time, Enhancing Brand Value tiveness and to solidify our long-term partnership we are implementing a partnership program inwith them. cluding quality management consulting where Quality Managers visit corporate customers to Corporate Customer Satisfaction check products and operational conditions at A core need of corporate customers who are quality-related facilities and to offer various maCustomer Satisfaction Quality Manager System Our “Quality Mantaking great part of Korean national economy terials and information related to quality control. – ager System” ensures that service station faciliis the stable operation of their plants. S-OIL unIn particular, we are maintaining strong partnerIndividual Customer Satisfaction ties have been thoroughly inspected in order to derstands that its corporate customers’ busiships with corporate customers with our recogniS-OIL wants its customers to feel happy whenguarantee quality control. Our quality manager ness activities around the world contribute to the tion that a priority is to supply proper volume on ever they visit an S-OIL service station. We offer informs a service station manager of the results growth of the nation’s economy and is therefore time while also reviewing and conducting various differentiated services to customers to encourof holding-tank moisture inspections, gas pump committed to helping them increase their commeasures for logistics optimization. age them to return our service stations repeatmeter inspections, and recent sample analyses, petitiveness. Corporate customers have speedly so that top quality, accurately dispensed products are consistently provided to the station’s The Trustworthy Service Station Program customers. Quality managers also respond Number of Operating S-OIL Service Stations Based on customers’ trust in the S-OIL brand, promptly to customers’ complaints regarding In-House Affiliates Market Share (Unit: stations, stations, %) S-OIL operates the “Trustworthy Service Staproduct quality. Their wealth of experience and tion” program to meet customers’ desire for safe expertise allows them to provide detailed ex15.2 and reliable products. In the second half of 2011, planations about the problem-solving process, 1,840 14.8 the company reinforced the program by enterthereby winning the trust of customers. We have 14.5 1,797 ing into a Trustworthy Service Station Agreement been expanding the scope of the system to allow 1,718 only with service stations verified by a quality corporate customers to receive various quality 143 inspection and by re-examining product quality control services since 2011. 136 128 at service stations which had already signed the agreement to allow customers to patronize those Tougher Quality Control In addition to the Quality Manager System, beginning in 2012 S2009 2010 2011 Champions Club Award Ceremony service stations in complete confidence. As of the end of 2011, 1,545 of our affiliated service OIL increased the number of quality inspections stations had signed the Trustworthy Service Staof gas stations to the highest in the industry tion Agreement. with the establishment of the Quality Inspection Activities to Support Service Station Managers Group (outsourcing service). We also extended Highlights the marking system from gasoline to diesel (DieChampions Club Award Give prizes and encourage operators of outstanding service stations through annual inductions into of the S-OIL Champions Club every year. sel Mark), to make it easy to detect adulterated Presentations on Marketing Policy Introduce sales policy and support system through visits to service stations by region and provide special presentations by outside lecturers as oil products. This is expected to accelerate the and Support System well as meetings. No. of Trustworthy Service Stations speed of quality inspections and expand their reService Station Management Publish the magazine every two months in order to share information about station management and exemplary cases, and to introduce service (Unit: stations) liability through on-the-spot analyses. Magazine station support and programs. Operate a website (https://ebiz.s-oil.com) to provide information about sales policy, service station management manuals, laws and regulations 1,545 Cyber Education related to service stations, and training. 18+19 1,524 Clean & Smile Campaign The Clean & Smile Service Station Management Assign S-OIL's salespeople who are trained as consultants to visit service stations to address and support issues about service station operaCampaign aims to give customers’ a more pleasConsulting tions including start-up, sales management, promotion, facility renovation, and supplementary businesses. 1,467 ant experience at S-OIL service stations. The YES Team Visit service stations for the service improvement, providing customer service training and supporting promotional activities purpose of “The Clean & Smile Campaign” is to provide the highest levels of personal attention to customers (quick service, polite greetings, etc.) on a regular basis, so that our service stations are perceived as pleasant places that customers 2009 2010 2011 will want to visit constantly. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL provides various value-added services through its Bonus Card, credit cards affiliated A Wide Array of Marketing Activities Enhance CustomerCentric Management with S-OIL, gift certificates, and promotions that offer benefits to customers. In addition, S-OIL is instilling its dynamic and friendly image Pricing Policy in customers through a wide variety of marketCompliance with Rules and the company is instilling its dynamic and friendly image in customers through a wide variety Demands on Fair Competition ing activities including sports marketing such as Understanding Customer of marketing activities including sports marketing such as holding or sponsoring sporting holding or sponsoring sporting events. In addiNeeds Customer Satisfaction events. tion, we offered prizes to about 900,000 cus▶ Enhancing Brand Value tomers in the “2011 Customer Love Year-End Giveaway Event,” held at service stations for one month. Furthermore, we held the “Yellow Concert” in partnership with colleges and local festivals as well as events to invite customers to Enhancing Brand Value popular musicals and concerts. Such a variety of – cultural marketing activities successfully appeals S-OIL is conducting various marketing activities to people by providing customers with opportuMin-Ho Lee Senior Vice President such as advertisements, events, and promotions nities to experience culture and arts. Head of Overseas Headquarters to meet changing customer needs and offer dif*For more information, visit the Enhance Cusferentiated benefits. In addition, we comply with tomer-Centric Management section of Sustainrelevant domestic laws such as the Broadcasting ability on our website. “S-OIL places great importance on its overseas Advertisement Act and the Giveaway Announcemarketing activities, which are designed to dement Act. Various Joint Marketing Services velop and promote relationships with both existS-OIL provides various value-added services ing and potential customers. In addition, we are TV Ads Winning over Customers through its Bonus Card, credit cards affiliated concentrating on nurturing cooperative relationGood Oil, Good Drive Campaign In 2006, S-OIL launched a TV advertising camwith S-OIL, gift certificates, and promotions that ships and maximizing synergies through stratepaign designed to satisfy the public’s desire for offer benefits to customers. In 2011, the compagic tie-ups with international partners and creat“good” (high quality) oil, the essence of the reEfforts to Enhance Image of Product ny significantly expanded its customer base by ing sustainable partnerships through a variety of fining industry. The campaign has since been Qualities launching a joint membership program with the activities.” extended to encompass “good life” and “good S-OIL is also carrying out various activities to inLotte Group and expanded its services through driving.” In 2011, with the slogan “The Power of crease the resonance of its brand asset, “Good additional affiliations with online shopping malls, One Liter of Good Oil,” we delivered the message Oil = S-OIL,” with consumers. The activities insuch as G Market, and movie theaters (Lotte Cinthat with only a small amount of oil meaningful, clude quality tests by external organizations, a ema). In addition, we are making steady efforts in Channels of Communication with valuable things can be achieved. The campaign fuel efficiency marathon with Peugeot, and the cooperation with credit card companies to offer Overseas Customers received a positive response from consumers publicity of the company’s winning the best envithe best gas discount service in the industry. With exports accounting for over 65% of the and was named “Corporate Advertisement of the ronmental grade. company’s total production, S-OIL recognizes Year” by the Korea Advertising Society. In 2012, that international customers are crucial partS-OIL will continue to run advertisements that Marketing Contest for Potential Customers ners in its efforts to enter and expand in overpeople can relate to and convey a positive and From December 2011 to March 2012, S-OIL seas markets. We are therefore strengthening our dynamic image of the company. hosted the “2011 S-OIL Brand Awards,” its seclong-term cooperative relationships with those ond marketing contest aimed at strengthening partners and continuing to establish multiple and TOM Among Ads of Refiners (TOM: Top of Mind) communications with university students, who differentiated channels of communication. Since Average of Other Domestic Refiners S-OIL (Unit: %) are its future customers. Approximately 1,000 2007, S-OIL has hosted the annual reception for contestants in 461 teams competed in four secattendees at the Asia-Pacific Petroleum Confer65.3 tors: 1) enhancement of the S-OIL brand value, ence (APPEC) which takes place in Singapore, in 63.2 57.2 20 +21 2) new customer value to make S-OIL attractive, order to further develop overseas markets for re3) pleasant gas stations, and 4) brand characters fined petroleum products. In this way, we helped that consumers identify with. Because S-OIL beto facilitate worldwide exchange opportunities 11.5 lieves that the most important thing is human enbetween industry experts and 800 current and 9.4 8.8 ergy, it intends to host this competition regularly potential customers in 2010. In addition, we conin order to provide an opportunity for students to tinue to strengthen our customer relations prounleash their creativity and passion. grams by hosting events for customers of refined 2009 2010 2011 Opening Ceremony for Shanghai Branch petroleum and petrochemical products. * Ad Tracking Survey Results by Nielsen Company Korea S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 2 SI Provide Best-in-Class PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Work Environment Sustainability Report 2010 Achievements in 2011 Future Plan · Apply a human resources · Encouraged specialists to · Apply customized development management system and a develop their specialties and programs and HR management human resources development capabilities by helping them differentiated for each specialist. program to run a specialist obtain job-related master’s · Develop and operate a customized management system. degrees and licenses. educational program for VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS ·Developed and managed development of executives and “S-OIL Academy for Marketing team leaders. “In the rough and tumble of the business world, competitiveness in B/L,” a job education course · Develop and manage “S-OIL R&D, marketing, production, innovation, etc. are critical. However, I for Marketing B/L employees Academy for Refining B/L” for think the most important thing is improving employees’ morale and to reinforce internal sales Refining B/L engineers and desire to work by creating the best working environment.” capabilities. production employees. Eui-Dal, Song Editor of Weekly Biz, Chosun Ilbo (a Korean daily newspaper) · Study programs to effectively · Provided integrated health · Improve corporate culture and reduce employees’ job stress. management services through systematic support to realize Health Management Office and employees’ work-life balance. specialized medical staff. “S-OIL’s most valuable assets are its employees, who · Improve performance-related · Implemented a system to · Move forward with a steady fulfill their duties through their outstanding capabilities and compensation system while convert competent non-regular improvement in evaluation maintaining competitive employees to regular ones systems to enhance employees’ experience. We keep in mind that a company can grow compensative levels. through internal reviews. trust in and acceptance of the steadily only when its employees use their abilities to the systems. full. That is why we have provided an outstanding working environment in the form of a highly advanced new building and are taking the initiative in an era of working smart by creating a mobile office system. We also offer employees a wide range of programs to enhance their work-life balance, so that they can live rich and happy lives both mentally and physically. S-OIL is continuing to make every effort to provide the finest working environment for its employees.” Dong-Cheoul Kim, · Actively reflect employees’ · Completed the environmentally · Realize an optimized working Executive Vice President_Administration B/L Head preferences and suggestions friendly new head office building environment that increases work to create an improved working with enhanced working efficiency and convenience. 22+23 environment. environments and facilities for · Proceed with transformation 2,661 52 62.5 employee in Mapo (June 2011) of existing groupware into a · Implemented a smart devicecommunication portal (CP) for based mobile office system rapid information sharing and · Activated internal communication activate collaboration. and improved the system for · Activate the system to deal handling employees’ complaints with employees’ complaints NO. of Employees Yearly Average Training Hours Percentage of Fringe Benefits through the establishment of a to increase employees’ job department in charge of corporate satisfaction and sense of (Unit: persons) per Administrative Employee in Labor Cost (Unit: %) culture and communication. belonging. (Unit: hours) S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL is geared toward nurturing a group of global professionals. Our training and career deAll employees of S-OIL work of their own free Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment velopment programs reflect each employee's capabilities and interests, while the company Human Rights and Labor will and enjoy proper compensation, evaluation ▶ Recruitment and Job Creation – and promotion in accordance with their achieveproduces global leaders through a leadership program to nurture next-generation leaders. ▶ Human Resources S-OIL respects the human rights of all stakements and abilities. Development ▶ Job Security holders and complies with relevant laws. The ▶ Retirement Management company guarantees the human and labor rights Working Conditions ▶ Human Rights and Labor of employees, its internal stakeholders, and de– ▶ Ban on Child Labor and cides working conditions by signing a collective Best-in-Class Compensation and Forced Labor ▶ Working Conditions bargaining agreement in accordance with an Employee Benefit System Work Smart agreement between labor and management. S-OIL strives to pay the highest-level compensaHarmonious Labortion rates in the industry; our employee benefits Management relations Recruitment and Job Creation Job Security At the same time, the company guarantees hupackage is substantial and among the best in  Activities Culture to Improve Corporate – – man rights and working conditions in compliance the industry. This financial stability instills pride Trust and Communication Given the ever deepening woes of unemployed S-OIL strives to guarantee job security while purwith labor laws and regulations and International in employees and increases their dedication to (Conversation with CEO) youth, S-OIL is striving to provide talented indisuing the efficient management of its work force. Labor Organization standards. In addition, the their jobs. We pay newly-hired university graduviduals with decent jobs in the belief that job creIn 2007, we launched a program to re-employ company does not tolerate gender discriminaates 340% of the country’s minimum wage, the ation is the best social contribution a business retirees for up to two additional years under the tion. We do not discriminate between men and highest compensation offered by any company can make. In recognition of such efforts, in 2011 same working conditions they enjoyed before rewomen in work performance evaluations or in our field in Korea. S-OIL was named one of the “Top 100 Job Cretirement. This re-employment program has been promotions and allow employees paternity and Our pay and benefits packages are also genderation Companies” by the Ministry of Employment successfully implemented and 61.5% of emmaternity leave in accordance with government neutral. Managers and executives receive base and Labor. Despite its achievements, S-OIL is ployees who retired in 2011 (24 out of 39) were policies to promote childbirth. Furthermore, we pay and merit-based pay according to their not content with the status quo and continues its rehired. In 2011, the company introduced a proare promoting corporate team spirit among emunit’s performance and individual achievements. efforts to create good, stable employment opgram to promote to a regular status non-regular ployees by providing anti-sexual harassment S-OIL’s employee benefits policies have been portunities through its steady growth. The comemployees who have the skill sets required by education once a year. reasonably shaped and fashioned according to pany observes domestic laws and international the company. So far 10 employees have transitone’s life cycle, meaning that they are based on guidelines on working condition of non-regular ed to regular status. This system reinforces the Ban on Child Labor and Forced an employee’s age and length of service. In ademployees by providing the same treatment for job security and commitment of employees and Labor dition to such benefits as health insurance, emregular and non-regular employees who perform provides the company with an opportunity to ef– ployment insurance, employees’ compensation the same jobs. fectively secure a workforce with proven abilities, S-OIL does not engage in business sectors that insurance, and the national pension plan, we thereby laying the foundation for steady growth. run the risk of involving child labor or forced laprovide support for housing loans and related Human Resources Development bor, and strictly abides by the Labor Standard support such as health care expenses, tuition – Retirement Management Act, which prohibits child labor and forced labor. fees, congratulations and condolences, as well S-OIL is geared toward nurturing a group of glob– al professionals. Our training and career developIn 2011, S-OIL established a system to support ment programs reflect each employee's capabiliretirees by introducing a retirement pension plan. Employee Benefits in Accordance with Service Years ties and interests, while the company produces Prior to the plan’s implementation, the compaglobal leaders through a leadership program to ny held briefing sessions with all employees to School Expenses Elementary school and kindergarten (quarterly fixed amount) Middle School (quarterly fixed amount) High School (full tuition) College (full tuition) nurture next-generation leaders. In particular, reach consensus on the proposal. Sixteen retirethe company has developed S-OIL Academy, ment pension plan providers were then selected, Housing Loans Low-interest long-term loan for buying or renting houses (employees who worked for one year or longer) which offers specialized education courses reand all employees signed up for the defined benHousing for employees (grade 4 or above) who work in the Onsan Refinery and for Company Houses Housing for employees who work in the Onsan Refinery away from their homes lated to job capabilities. In 2011, the company efits retirement plan for the first year consideremployees (grade 3 or above) who work in the provinces away from their homes opened “S-OIL Academy for Marketing B/L” to ing the security of principal. The company allows Retirement Monthly installment for ten years Pension 24+25 strengthen its sales power. We are also planning employees to switch to the defined contribution General checkups (employees 35 to 39 years old/every to develop “S-OIL Academy for Refining B/L” in retirement plan from the second year in order to Health Checkups Basic checkups (Less than 35 years old) two years) and basic checkups in years without general checkups. General checkups (40 years old or older) 2012. S-OIL will continue to develop and run its meet their individual needs. Meanwhile, commuHealth Checkups General checkups for spouses (36 years old or older, every two years) own job education programs in the future. nication between retirees and employees was fafor Spouses *For more information, visit the Provide Best-incilitated by holding of events and distribution of Medical Expenses For employees, spouses and their children (actual expenses) Class Work Environmen section of Sustainability company magazines. * Obligatory insurance or benefits (national pension, employment insurance, health insurance and employees’ accident compensation insurance. on our website Common * Financial support for those killed due to disasters * Free or discounted use of recreation facilities across the nation * Financial support for athletic activities and club activities *Financial support for family affairs Years of Service (Age) S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL boasts of an exemplary labor-management record and has experienced no serious orate better through the new system. Moreover, any unjustifiable interference with our human Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment labor disputes since the establishment of its union in 1980. This is attributable to cooperawe are transforming existing groupware into a resources or infringements of our management Recruitment and Job Creation communication portal (CP) to improve internal activities including prohibiting unfair labor praction between labor and management whereby the company abides by labor laws and fully Human Resources communication and provide an efficient worktices. The union is a member of the Federation of Development respects the activities and opinions of the labor union. ing environment. The CP is expected to promote Korean Chemical Workers’ Union, under the ausJob Security Retirement Management vertical and horizontal communication from sepices of the Federation of Korean Trade Unions. Human Rights and Labor nior management’s business policies and comAs of the end of 2011, the number of the union Ban on Child Labor and munication among internal units. Furthermore, members stood at 1,430 including two full-time Forced Labor ▶ Working Conditions improved features of the CP will enable employunion officers. ▶ Work Smart ees to use a smarter portal by enhancing work ▶ Harmonious Laborefficiency, sharing internal knowledge, managing Activities to Improve Corporate Management relations as pension and leisure activities and intensive knowledge by managing/utilizing its information information, and offering personalized informaCulture ▶ Activities to Improve Corporate Culture holiday through our leading welfare benefits sysand activating internal communication. tion to employees. – Trust and Communication tem. In 2011, our fringe benefits were 62.5% of S-OIL has been involved in a variety of activities (Conversation with CEO) our labor cost. Mobile Office Harmonious Labor-Management designed to create a corporate culture in which S-OIL employees have used electronic approvRelations the company’s strategies are effectively carried Employee Health Management als, e-mail and schedule management through – out and employees are firmly committed to their S-OIL operates Health Management Offices at a mobile application since 2008, when the comS-OIL boasts of an exemplary labor-managejobs. In 2011, the company analyzed its corporate both the head office and the refinery. Specialpany pre-emptively implemented a mobile ofment record and has experienced no serious laculture through a competing value model with ized nursing staff is always ready to take care of fice system. In 2011, the company kicked off the bor disputes since the establishment of its union the participation of 81.2% of its employees. The employees at the offices. They provide various Smart Mobile Office System on a full scale with in 1980. This is attributable to cooperation bedifference between employees’ future expectahealth management services such as first aid, the introduction of tablet PCs and a companytween labor and management whereby the comtion level and current level was 9.3% lower than basic medicines, basic examinations and health wide wireless network. As a result, we have enpany abides by labor laws and fully respects the in 2009, indicating that the company’s corporate counseling. We offer various checkups conducthanced efficiency and taken another step toward activities and opinions of the labor union. These culture preferences are changing in favor of emed by specialized external medical institutions creating a green office through a reduction in the efforts have paid off, and In February 2012, the ployees. In the future, we will dedicate ourselves depending upon an employee’s age and occuuse of paper used for reports and meeting maKorea Employers Federation awarded S-OIL the to creating a more harmonious and cooperative pation. We enable employees who are diagnosed terials. We are planning to expand the system’s Labor-Management Harmony Grand Prize. Furcorporate culture on the basis of a positive atwith health issues to have one-on-one customapplication through the development of content thermore, the company guarantees its employtitude and trust by regularly conducting improveized health consultations. This helps employees such as e-learning and social networking. ees the right to engage in collective labor union ment activities. In addition, we established a identify severe diseases earlier, better manage activities, and all its labor terms and benefits are team dedicated to creating a positive corporate their health, and do their best in the workplace. Activating Intelligence, Collaboration clearly spelled out in S-OIL’s personnel policies culture. This team is planning to introduce variand Communication as well as in collective agreements. We observe ous programs and carry out company-wide imWork Smart S-OIL is pushing for a Business Intelligence/Enall labor-related laws and principles and prohibit provement activities to regularly review its corpo– terprise Data Warehouse (BI/EDW) in order to S-OIL has implemented a mobile office environsystematically integrate and manage a variety ment to help employees work and communicate of data and information. BI/EDW aims to offer anytime and anywhere. With an eye toward buildemployees core information for decision-making Major Labor-Management Communication Channels ing a workplace where employees can respond on time while raising reporting efficiency through Channels Highlights Frequency flexibly to changes in business environments, stronger analysis capabilities. The company exMonthly A team-building activity in which employees from each department gather for candid discussions about problems and the company has established a smart framework pects that employees will be able to share inforConferences concerns and to seek solutions to them. Monthly that systematically accumulates and shares mation faster and more transparently and collabComplaint Labor-Manage10 representatives from each party discuss issues regarding improvement of productivity, work environment, and Quarterly Handling ment Conferences employee benefits. 26+27 Meetings by Executives and managers explain company policies and collect complaints from employees. These are reflected in Biannually or Levels company policies in meetings by levels. Monthly Salary AdjustNegotiations on salary adjustments Yearly ments Collective Labor-Management Negotiations on working conditions (except salary) Every 2 years Bargaining Negotiations Industrial Safety and Health Meetings are held to discuss industrial safety issues, including dangerous work conditions and health risks Quarterly Committee Labor-ManUnderstanding agement Joint Labor and management join together to discuss and offer their opinions on management conditions and labor issues Biannually BI/EDW Mobile Office Business Environment S-OIL Workshops Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL operates a mentoring program to help new employees adjust to their new workplace HR-Related Indicators Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment by having veterans show them the ropes and introduce them to their new surroundings. In Recruitment and Job Creation addition, the company develops and operates various communication channels to facilitate Human Resources Development communications among its employees and to enhance information accessibility. Job Security Retirement Management Human Rights and Labor Ban on Child Labor and Status of Employment Employment Structure Forced Labor (Unit: persons) (Unit: persons) Working Conditions 2009 2010 2011 Administrative Production Work Smart Executives Total Employees Employees Harmonious LaborCollege Management relations 36 28 981) Graduates 39 1,217 1,405 2,661 rate culture and develop a new corporate culture Activities  to Improve Corporate Others2) 96 153 83 Culture where internal units communicate and cooperate ▶Trust and Communication Total 132 181 181 smoothly with one another. Employment by Business Site (Conversation with CEO) (Unit: persons) Head District Trust and Communication Employment Status: Regular / Non-regular Office Refinery Sales HQ Terminals Total (Conversation with CEO) (Unit: persons) Executives 26 13 0 0 39 – 2009 2010 2011 Employees 645 1,624 276 77 2,622 Executives 38 38 39 Communication with New Employees ┃ Regular S-OIL operates a mentoring program to help new Employees 2,409 2,479 2,491 Yearly Average Training Hour per employees adjust to their new workplace by havAdministrative Employee Non-regular (Unit: hours) 64 72 131 ing veterans show them the ropes and introduce Employees 2009 2010 2011 them to their new surroundings. In addition, the Total 2,511 2,589 2,661 56 56 52 CEO takes part in the Dynamic Rookies Program Byung-Ho Lee and the Young Professionals Program for emSenior Vice President Employment of Disabled People Cyber Education ployees who have been with the company for Head of Human Resources & Employee Relations Office (Unit: persons, %) (Except for foreign language and book reading) less than four years, contributing to closer com2009 2010 2011 (Unit: classes, persons) 2009 2010 2011 munication between senior management and Disabled 48 47 45 No. of Classes 69 96 110 employees. Employees No. of Employees “With a strong belief that outstanding human All Employees 2,511 2,589 2,661 612 510 370 Educated Expansion of Internal resources are a major driving force behind susPercentage of Dis1.9 1.8 1.7 tainable growth at S-OIL, we strive for the best abled Employees Communication Channel┃ possible performance in the workplace by enEducation and Training Cost to Labor Cost S-OIL develops and operates various commucouraging employees to realize fully their abili(Unit: %) nication channels to facilitate communications Number of Retirees 3) ties. We are also progressively conducting activi2009 2010 2011 among its employees and to enhance informa(Unit: persons) ties aimed at creating a harmonious corporate 2009 2010 2011 1.1 0.8 1.4 tion accessibility. Since 2011, we have published culture where constructive labor-management is periodic HR webzines to introduce HR-related Retirees by based on trust and where the health and safety 38 47 39 Age Limit programs, to cover complaint consultation, and Fringe Benefits to Labor Cost of employees is foremost.” Others 38 56 70 to serve as a communication channel for em(Unit: %) Total 76 103 109 2009 2010 2011 ployees to learn about the company’s HR poli39.9 59.5 62.5 cies and operations. We also encourage employees to communicate by actively supporting Employment by Gender 28+29 club activities such as sports, hobbies and arts, (Unit: persons, %) 2009 2010 2011 where they can participate regardless of position ExecuEmExecuEmExecuEmor age. tives ployees tives ployees tives ployees Male 37 2,290 37 2,366 38 2,433 Female 1 183 1 185 1 189 1) Two periods of recruitment of university graduates were conducted in the first (40 people) and the Total 38 2,473 38 2,551 39 2,622 second half (58 people) of 2011 2) “Others” refers to total employment including junior college graduates, experienced workers, and nonPercentage of regular workers except for university graduates 2.6 7.4 2.6 7.3 2.6 7.2 3) Excluding irregular workers who became regular workers after the end of their contracts and employFemale ees who retired because they were appointed as executives S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 3 SI Achieve Operational PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Excellence Sustainability Report 2010 Achievements in 2011 Future Plan · Establish strategies for · Created an IT-based strategic · Advance a strategic carbon VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS the implementation of the carbon management system management system. Greenhouse Gas and Energy including the financial impact “The zero-accident campaign embodies a business philosophy Target Management System. assessment and company-wide that values each and every individual and respects life and dignity. optimization of carbon regulation · Create IT infrastructure for the employees and companies, both beneficiaries of zero accidents, should efficient management of energy in connection with midto longactively practice the campaign as one.” and greenhouse gas emissions. term management strategies. · Acquired a “Carbon Trust Seung-Ho Kim, Standard” (CTS) certificate, an Professor at Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency (KOSHA) and international carbon management Ph.D. in Engineering certificate, as one of the first companies in Korea to receive it from the Carbon Trust, an international carbon management certification agency (in April 2012). · Improve and implement various · Achieved 500 million zero· Extend zero-accident man hours safety management measures. accident man hours and 600 and enhance Safety Management · Introduce safety education million zero-accident man hours System placing top priority on e-learning system to provide (as of the end of 2011). safety. safety education and raise safety · Received “P” grade, the awareness of employees at highest grade in process safety partner companies. management evaluation by the Ministry of Employment and Labor, awarded to only the top 12% domestic business sites as of the end of 2010. · Helped partner companies build “At S-OIL, ‘Safety First’ is more than just a slogan. That is because the safety safety management systems through win-win partnership of employees can never be a matter for compromise, and because production programs and provided facilities are also a valuable asset that we should protect. ‘Safety’ is safety and health capability a top priority for all employees at S-OIL. With its strict safety development education. management, S-OIL set a record of seven million zero-accident · Held monthly safety meetings man-hours for the first time in its history in April 2012. with partner companies and introduced a system to encourage This will be a meaningful milestones in realizing safe and partner companies’ excellence in accident-free workplaces. S-OIL is also striving for safety management. the protection of environment, which is threatened by global warming. In 2011, the company reduced CO2 emissions by 95,333 tons through 11 energy-saving projects. And we reduced emission intensity per Utilized Equivalent Distillation Capacity (UEDC). S-OIL is actively addressing climate change through its systematic management of energy and greenhouse gases.” Sung-Ki Ha, Yong-Hee Lee, Executive Vice President_Refining B/L Head Senior Vice President_Head of Operations · Steadily and actively push for · Prevented environmental · Actively move forward with midto long-term environmental pollution accidents by minimizing environmentally Friendly 30 +31 investment. the environmental impact of management such as introducing production activities through optimized prevention facilities to 0 146 336 expanded investment related minimize environmental impact of to the air, water, ocean and soil production activities and produce environments. eco-friendly products. · Made KRW 14.6 billion in · Aim for 16% voluntary reduction environmental investments. of air pollutant emissions in accordance with a voluntary Injury Rate of Executives Environment Investment Safety Management Education environmental agreement signed and Employees (Unit: %) (Unit: KRW 100 million) for Employees of Partner with the goal to reduce air pollutants Companies (Unit: cases) in Ulsan between 2012 and 2016. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL practices environmentally friendly management by minimizing environmental impact and classification of certain items for more acplant construction stage, and we have strived to Achieve Operational Excellence on air, water and soil and by thoroughly managing offensive odors, waste and hazardous curate management. As a result of an environminimize environmental impact from manage▶ Environmental Management mental accounting settlement, environmental ment activities by complying with the laws and System chemical substances in its production process management. costs rose due to the expansion of new proby setting up strict internal standards. Despite ▶ Environmental Organization (Environmental Council) cesses, and environmental effects and benefits these efforts, air pollutant emissions exceeded ▶ Abiding by Environmental Laws expanded thanks to an increase in by-product the limit temporarily due to process trouble in ▶ Eco-Friendly Management and Minimum Environmental sales and a decrease in energy costs. In addi2011. But, we immediately took measures to Impact tion, we practiced green management through tackle the problem and devised measures to preEnvironmental Communication active environmental investment. In the future, vent such from happening again. S-OIL will inSafety Management we plan to systematically manage environmental crease investment in operating emission facilities Safe Driving of Transportation Vehicles performances. in a legitimate manner and improve the environOil Spill Prevention Environmental Management System Environmental Performance ment based on strict eco-friendly management – Evaluation System (ISO 14031) Environmental Organization while meeting the needs of local communities. S-OIL has made endeavors to realize its enviS-OIL’s Environmental Performance Evaluation (Environmental Council) ronmental philosophies – respecting people’s life System (ISO 14031, EPE) objectively evaluates – Eco-Friendly Management and and dignity, taking the lead in developing better environmental investment and eco-friendly manS-OIL carries out all of its environmental activiMinimum Environmental Impact qualities of petroleum products, and realizing agement performance. The company reflects the ties efficiently based on a clear set of roles and – customer satisfaction through environmental results in environmental management activities. responsibilities. The company formed the EnviHazardous Chemical Substances preservation and protection. The company acIn particular, the company changed the standard ronmental Council involving teams in charge of S-OIL handles hazardous chemical substances quired an ISO 14001 certificate for fuel oil, lube year to 2010 from 2008 and adjusted criteria to environment at the head office and the Onsan carefully by regularly employing systematic onbase oil, and petrochemical products, which has match the current statement in order to manage Refinery and has the council deal with companysite inspections in strict accordance with internal been renewed five times since 1996. We practice environmental performances in a more systemwide environmental issues. The Environmental management procedures, which in turn reflect high-level environmental management through atic manner. In 2011, we made progress in inCouncil practices environmental management at relevant domestic and international laws and regular reviews in accordance with the comcreasing environmental investment and training business sites by reviewing and deliberating on agreements. In 2011, we built chemical invenpany’s unique business environment. Moreover, and decreasing polluting materials (greenhouse various environmental issues that can arise from tories in the existing SHE System to systematithe company is developing its Environmental gas emissions and water pollutants) and will all value chains such as purchase, production, Management System including creation of an practice green management through steady immarketing, sale, and distribution/logistics, and Chemical Inventory System Environmental Accounting System after passprovements and target management. setting policy directions. Retrieve general information on chemicals used by the company ing its settlement stage such as publication of its Read general information such as CAS numbers, components, environment and sustainability reports and introEnvironmental Accounting System Abiding by Environmental Laws production companies duction of ISO 14031 System for the systematic Following the guidelines of the Ministry of En– Check laws and regulations on chemical substances development of its environmental management vironment, S-OIL established an environmental S-OIL is strongly committed to preventative and Check whether they are toxic or hazardous. system. accounting system to systematically manage all preemptive green governance using the SHE Check whether or not a new regulation covers the substance *For more information, visit the Achieve Operaof its environmental costs and environmental inintegrated management policy and accordingly Check whether the substance is subject to the revised regulations tional Excellence section of Sustainability on our vestments, and to accurately designate and interesponds preemptively to all environmental rules Refer to MSDS website. grate its own classification system. In 2011, the and regulations. We have established environCheck MSDS of chemical substances system was reinforced by adjusting formulas for mentally friendly management by introducing an optimal prevention system starting from the early Environmental Investment Environmental Performances (ISO 14031) (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: points) Emissions of Chemical Substances 2009 2010 2011 2010 2011 Domestic Refiner A Domestic Refiner B Domestic Refiner C S-OIL  (Unit: tons) Air Quality/ Evaluation Results 100 116.3 Offensive Odors/ 14,801 5,452 2,556 824 32+33 VOC Water Quality 1,090 1,483 1,464 Environmental Accounting in 2011 542 Energy (Unit: KRW 100 million) 384 Savings/ 2011 Remark 325 6,342 707 10,254 362 327 Technical 294 Assistance Environmental Operating cost of post-processing 1,612 Cost facilities, etc. 266 Soil/ 245 Landscaping/ 760 2,177 315 Environmental Sales of by-products and energy 189 710 188 179 Others Benefit saving, etc. Total 22,993 9,820 14,589 Environmental 146 Environmental facility installations, etc. Investment 2008 2009 2010 S-OIL * Production Standard: Environmental Accounting Guideline by the Ministry of Environment * Source: the Ministry of Environment (2012) Sustainability Report * The 2011 data will be released in 2013. 2011 S-OIL rigorously abides by the Soil Environment Preservation Act in order to prevent soil treating wastewater from production facilities Achieve Operational Excellence Soil Contamination Management contamination. The company is committed to preventing oil contamination by modernizing through physical, chemical and biological treatEnvironmental Management ment methods. The company received the EnVA and soil clean-up activities to reduce soil contamination System facilities at service stations and restoring contaminated soil at service stations. vironment Ministerial Prize as the “Best Water Managed soil contamination since signing a VA on surveying Environmental Organization (Environmental Council) Quality TMS Business Site of 2011” for its op­ soil contamination and clean-up VA with the Ministry of Abiding by Environmental Laws Environment in December 2002. eration of a stable water quality monitoring sys­ ▶ Eco-Friendly Management Replacement of old pipelines and Minimum Environmental tem. Replaced old pipelines, which are a potential cause of soil Impact contamination, with new steel pipes Environmental Communication Soil Contamination (Restoration of Soil Placement of pipelines above ground and removal of major Safety Management Environment at Service Stations) contaminants (manholes) Safe Driving of Transportation Vehicles Installed pipelines above ground and directly connected S-OIL rigorously abides by the Soil Environment Oil Spill Prevention underground steel pipes after removing manholes to prevent cally manage all chemicals including hazardous Preservation Act in order to prevent soil contamioil contamination due to old underground pipes. chemical substances used at the Onsan Refinnation. The company is committed to preventIn-house survey on soil contamination, etc. ery. This system enables the company to maning oil contamination by modernizing facilities at Surveyed and monitored soil contamination in vulnerable areas age hazardous substances through the inteservice stations and restoring contaminated soil for own management including in years that do not fall in the grated management of regulations on chemical at service stations. Currently, the company is relegally required period. substances used at the refinery, departments placing old pipelines and tanks, major culprits which use them, their major components and behind soil contamination. In 2011, we conductMSDSs (Material Safety Data Sheet). ed soil restoration projects (KRW 36 million) on VOC・Offensive Odor eight service stations and converted single pipeIn addition to its LDAR (Leak Detection and ReWater Quality lines and tanks into dual ones at eight service pair) System for existing processes, S-OIL has S-OIL sends data to administrative agencies via stations. In addition, S-OIL examined tanks and minimized emission of VOC (Volatile Organic a tele-metering system. The company achieved pipelines at 45 service stations and investigated Compounds) by applying the LDAR System to #2 Awarded the best TMS Operation site of Water Quality from the Minister of Environment high-level efficiency in removing pollutants by soil contamination at eight service stations and Aromatics Complex immediately after commercertified 11 service stations as clean. cial operation in 2011. We have implemented a consecutive automatic offensive odor monitoring Water Use by Onsan Refinery Recycled Water Use by Waste Water from Soil Contamination Prevention Onsan Refinery Onsan Refinery through Facility Modernization system to ensure systematic management of of(Unit: thousand tons) (Unit: thousand tons) (Unit: thousand tons) (Unit: sites) fensive odors. 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total 21,451 21,400 10,002 13 11 10 5 39 1,822 9,548 9,570 20,667 1,663 1,635 Automatic Offensive Odor Monitoring System 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 An Automatic Offensive Odor Monitoring System was installed to * In 2011, water use and waste water increased partly due to the expansion of the Onsan Refinery. collect objective data and determine the root causes of offensive odors. The system was designed to enable the company to monitor offensive odors through an offensive odor measuring Discharge Density of Water Pollutants from Onsan Refinery device and a meteorological device located on the boundary (Unit: ppm) lines of the company's business sites with which measured Ground meteorological materials odor is monitored in real time via a SHE server and an electronic Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Suspended Solid (SS) (Environmental Management Team) bulletin board. 34+35 ▼ Legal Limit: 40 ▼ Legal Limit: 10 ▼ Legal Limit: 10 8.1 7.3 7.1 3.7 3.4 3 2.9 2.8 2.7 Wired transfer 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Six offensive odor and meteorological devices SHE System Server Monitoring (Environmental Management Team and Control Room) S-OIL * Data are based on the company’s own water analysis in 2009 and 2010 Sustainability Report * COD, SS TMS data have been used since 2011/ Water analysis data were used to measure BOD. 2011 S-OIL runs the Safety and Health Management System (OHSAS 18001) to efficiently distribEnvironmental Impact Assessments ┃ Safety Management Achieve Operational Excellence ute and manage internal physical and human resources by setting clear goals to enhance S-OIL follows strict environmental impact assess– Environmental Management ments and an advanced environmental review Acquisition of Top Grade in Process Safety System the safety and health of employees and by precisely defining organizations, responsibilities system in compliance with related laws and reguManagement Environmental Organization and procedures. lations. The company conformed to environmenIn 2010, S-OIL obtained “P” grade, the highest (Environmental Council) Abiding by Environmental Laws tal impact assessments when carrying out the grade for a regular inspection in accordance with ▶ Eco-Friendly Management and Minimum Environmental Onsan Refinery Expansion Project and building its the process safety management evaluation sysImpact head office and regularly reported environmental tem of the Ministry of Employment and Labor. The ▶ Environmental Communication impact on the surrounding environment such as grade was awarded to only top 12% of domestic ▶ Safety Management ecology, underground water and air quality. business sites as of the end of December 2010. Safe Driving of Transportation Vehicles This exempts S-OIL from the PSM check by the Oil Spill Prevention Waste Environmental Communication Ministry for four years from 2011. Nevertheless, – the company will conduct in-house inspections Waste from Onsan Refinery Waste Recycled at Onsan Refinery Internal and External Communication of its own during the period. In 2001, we con(Unit: tons) Amount Ratio (Unit: tons, %) While moving forward with environmental manducted PSM inspections and OHSAS 18001 2009 2010 2011 23,069 agement with rigorous internal standards, S-OIL internal reviews and shared the results with all Designated Waste 12,176 9,787 16,096 monitors and analyzes global environmental departments. Since then, we have steadily man21,127 General Waste 18,804 16,233 15,380 73.3 trends and the latest developments in related doaged the process by discovering root causes of 17,420 * Waste increased partly due to the expansion of the Onsan Refinery. 68.2 66.9 mestic laws and regulations through regular comflaws and searching for fundamental improvemunication with various external stakeholders ment measures. such as the government, mass media and aca2009 2010 2011 demia, and reflects the results in its EnvironmenSafety Management of Partner Companies Air Pollutants tal Management System. At the same time, the In 2011, S-OIL signed partnership agreements company improves environmental management with 16 partner companies and accordingly supReduction in Air Pollutant Emissions of Onsan Refinery activities by sharing environmental management ports their safety management activities through (Unit: tons) information with local residents and related orvarious programs. In order to lead partner com2009 2010 2011 ganizations and by collecting their opinions. In panies to practice safety management on their SOx 4,031 3,903 4,620 addition, we put environmental protection into Safety Management Education NOx 3,543 3,091 3,753 practice and form close relationships with our for Employees of Partner companies Dust 131 89 116 local communities by joining local events to proNo. of Trainings No. of Trainees (Unit: cases, persons) * Emissions increased partly due to the expansion of the Onsan Refinery. tect the environment. 15,245 15,030 14,424 Environmental Education To enhance employees’ awareness of the enviAir Pollutant Emissions (TMS* Heater/Boiler Average Annual Rate) ronment and carry out eco-friendly management (Unit: SOx, NOx – ppm, dust – mg/ /Sm³) 336 more efficiently, S-OIL provides all of its employ334 SOx NOx Dust 319 ees with range of environmental training pro▼ Legal Limit: 250 grams by job. For key personnel involved in our ▼ Legal Limit: 50 environmental programs, we hold regular train▼ Legal Limit: 180 ▼ Legal Limit: 30 ing programs, as required by law, and encourage 2009 2010 2011 ▼ Legal Limit: 150 them to attend external and internal technological seminars to help them better respond to inSupport for Partners 109.1 ternal and external environmental issues and to 36+37 95.1 95.2 91.0 • Safety and health education to prevent industrial disasters 79.5 improve their expertise. Additionally, we offer our 77.5 • Joint safety and health inspections and technological as5.0 employees systematic training on how to treat 3.9 sistance 3.8 hazardous chemical substances through the • Joint campaign to enhance employees’ awareness on SHE System and provide training to our partner safety companies on separation and disposal of waste, • Support for fundamental safety improvement of partner 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 companies when selecting partner companies prevention of soil and water contamination, and • Support for SHE System * Legal limit is based on boilers of existing facilities compliance with relevant laws to ensure that the • Support for industrial health company’s stringent environmental management S-OIL policies reach grass roots level. Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL keeps tank truck drivers away from water supply source protection areas and dansix occasions. S-OIL plans to provide regular, spills, S-OIL has established a vetting system for Achieve Operational Excellence gerous areas such as spots vulnerable to frequent traffic accidents in order to minimize the carefully chosen safety education programs to evaluating and managing the safety of its tankEnvironmental Management all refinery employees, thereby enhancing their ers and prescribes safe loading and unloading System potential for pollution during transportation. The company prevents vehicles from leaking oil safety awareness and establishing a safe and procedures for all its ships. To prevent oil spills Environmental Organization through regular vehicle checkups as well. accident-free work environment. caused by aging tankers, the maximum usage of (Environmental Council) Abiding by Environmental Laws all tankers is limited to 20 years. In addition, we Eco-Friendly Management Safe Driving of Transportation use only double-hulled ships, which means that and Minimum Environmental Impact Vehicles there are two complete layers of watertight hull Environmental Communication – surface that should hold most or all of the leak▶ Safety Management S-OIL keeps tank truck drivers away from water ing oil in case a ship becomes stranded. We have ▶ Safe Driving of Transportation Vehicles supply source protection areas and dangerous significantly elevated the stability of the opera▶ Oil Spill Prevention own, the company rewards and encourages outcember 31, 2011. We have continued to record areas such as spots vulnerable to frequent traftion of crude oil unloading facilities in 2011 by standing companies and conducts annual safety 601 zero-accident days since May 10, 2010 and fic accidents in order to minimize the potential installing current meters on SPM buoys in addimanagement assessments. S-OIL did Special 0% in occupation disease rate. for pollution during transportation. The company tion to the existing ARPA radars and tension mecheckups of about 5,600 employees of partner prevents vehicles from leaking oil through regular ters. As a result, in 2011 we recorded no oil spills companies in 2011. Safety Education vehicle checkups as well. “Safe Driving Regulacausing sea pollution. In addition, as only rapid, S-OIL conducts health and safety efficiency tions” and “Oil Leak Know-How” are in place to early anti-disaster activities can minimize damZero-Accident Man Hours Achievements improvement education both for employees of prevent accidents and take first aid measures age in the case of a marine pollution accident, S-OIL has been running a Zero-Accident Man the company and for partner companies. The to keep damage to minimum. Furthermore, the S-OIL established an anti-marine pollution acciHours Campaign to reward employees who have program includes self-safety and health educacompany ensures safe transportation by providdent procedure system with advice from specialattained their zero-accident target hours as a tion designated by the Occupational Safety and ing regular training and sharing accident cases. ists. According to the procedure, S-OIL provides gesture to encourage engagement in voluntary Health Act, special education for 39 dangerous Such efforts have paid off, and the company retraining on a regular basis and carries out oil spill safety activities. We reached five million zerojobs including oxygen depletion, training for new corded zero oil leaks in 2011. drills to ensure speedy and proactive responses accident man-hours on September 14, 2011 and employees and administrators, and basic safety to any and all incidents. It also maintains close 5,953,636 zero-accident man-hours as of Detraining for employees of partner companies. We Oil Spill Prevention partnerships with relevant organizations such as have also provided special safety education on– the Korea Coast Guard and the Korea Marine History of Zero-Accident Man Hours Achievements line through the SHE System to all employees at Marine pollution caused by oil spills can severely Environment Management Corporation. In Nothe refinery. In 2011, education on facility safety damage both the environment and the econovember 2011, 70 employees from the refinery, One Million Zero-Accident Man Hours: 13 times standards was provided to 9,393 employees on my of local communities. It can also take much the head office and terminals participated in a (previously : April 12, 2010) time and effort to recover from such accidents. company wide marine pollution prevention drill. Two Million Zero-Accident Man Hours: 4 times Employee Safety Management Education for Employees To fundamentally lessen the possibility of oil (previously : April 30, 2004) No. of Trainings No. of Trainees (Unit: cases, persons) Three Million Zero-Accident Man Hours: 3 times (previously : June 15, 2007) 11,376 Four Million Zero-Accident Man Hours: 2 times (previously : October 1, 2009) 130 Five Million Zero-Accident Man Hours: 1 time (Continuing after reaching the milestones on September, 91 2011) 83 5,505 2,287 Accidents (Unit: %, days, cases) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Injury Rate of 38+39 Executives and 0 0.11 0 Employees Health Education Injury Rate of Em(Unit: persons) ployees of Partner 0.25 0.09 0.04 2009 2010 2011 companies First Aid 76 -* 144 Lost Work Days 0 52 0 MSDS 926 973 3,601 Fire 0 0 2 Total 1,002 973 3,745 Accidents due to Regulation 0 0 0 * Health education was not conducted in 2010 as all employees completed health education programs Oil Spill Prevention Drill Violations S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 4 SI Contribute to PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Society Sustainability Report 2010 Achievements in 2011 Future Plan VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS · Encourage more than 80% of · 80% of executives and · Steadily develop practical social “Sincerity is the best strategy for a company’s social contribution. company employees to take part employees (total 2,157) voluntarily contribution programs and A company and its employees can double the effect of their social in wage tail-cut program. participated in the wage tail-cut promote employees’ voluntary contribution activities when they voluntarily carry out the activities with · Develop various programs to program and “1 Person 1 Social social contribution activities. motivate employees and enhance Contribution Account” Campaign. one accord. This is because true hearts move and energize one another the impact of social contribution · 84% of employees (a total of and give the world dreams and hopes.” activities. 2,312) voluntarily participated in social services. Tae-Hyung Lim, · Expanded voluntary “talentDirector, Community Relations Center, Korean National Council on sharing” services (family photos Social Welfare with the Employee Photography Club, ties between sports clubs and local children centers and a marathon for the blind with the Employee Marathon Club). · Steadily seek to improve social · H  eld Cultural Art & Sharing · Assess social impact of social contribution programs by campaign twice a month in the contribution activities by referring to assessment results by new head office building for introducing a social contribution specialized external organizations. residents in the local community index developed by a specialized based on feedback from Korean external organization and reflect National Council on Social the results in social contribution Welfare. plans. · Introduce and develop various · Donated KRW 500 million to social · Develop various CSR programs to “S-OIL pursues growth that can benefit our society. CSR programs which reflected welfare facilities recommended by 250 help local communities and lowneeds of local communities. S-OIL service stations and carried out income households. We are an important contributor to the nation’s green voluntary service activities for such · Give full financial support (KRW growth and economy and share our profits with the facilities by holding the “Happiness 10 billion for three years) to less fortunate as a good corporate citizen. S-OIL Sharing N” Campaign in partnership restore Taehwaru, a historic with employees in one accord is involved in social with the Ministry of Health and Welfare structure in the Ulsan area built and the Korean National Council on during the Three-Kingdom Period contribution activities in accordance with three Social Welfare. and burnt down during the principles — genuineness, impact, and timing. · Donated KRW 500 million and 2.4 Japanese invasion of Korea in S-OIL’s social contribution activities, called ‘Sunshine million barrels of refined oil products to 1592. Sharing,’ will continue to develop as the company help Japan’s earthquake victims. reflects the expectations of local communities in its · Founded the S-OIL Science & Prodigy Foundation and gave financial support activities.” to leading scientists in basic science. Young-Hee Lee, · Regularly conduct activities to · Held the Endangered Natural · Vigorously take part in Senior Vice President_Head of Maintenance & Technical protect natural heritage and invite Monument Protection Campaign environmental preservation customers’ families to participate and Ecological Camp where activities in connection with local 40 +41 in voluntarily activities to protect customers and children of lowcommunities. Promote biological 20,040 100 2,312 natural heritage sites. income families participated; diversity activities through steady managed the Natural Monument protection of endangered natural Protection Group consisting of monuments. college students and sponsored research activities by specialized groups. Economic Value Created Financial Support to Restore No. of Participants on Public (Unit: KRW 100 million) Taehwaru Pavilion Service Corps (Unit: persons) (Unit: KRW 100 million) S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL’s securing crude oil means that the company was able not only to secure a steady and Contribution Through Exports Contribution as a Taxpayer Contribute to Society long-term source of feedstock but was also able to supply energy to the global community – – ▶ Contribution Through Stable Energy Supply Ahead of other domestic oil refiners, S-OIL exThe refining industry dependably pays all taxes ▶ Contribution to Trade between in a stable and economical manner. Given Korea’s high dependence on oil, reducing these ported its products to developed countries such owed on profits created through its sales activiKorea and Saudi Arabia risks plays an important role in national security. as those in Europe with rigorous environmental ties. It also assists government tax collection by ▶ Contribution Through Exports ▶ Contribution as a Taxpayer standards by taking the initiative in producing collecting various taxes on petroleum products. Local Purchasing eco-friendly products form early on in its busiEight types of taxes and dues are imposed on Green Purchasing ness. We have therefore been able to establish a petroleum products, including tariffs. Total tax Social Contribution Activities marketing strategy balancing domestic demand revenues collected in 2009 were approximately Biodiversity (Endangered Natural Monuments Protection and exports. In 2011, the company continued KRW 27.6 trillion, accounting for 13.2% of total Campaign) to expand its export markets. We enlarged our tax revenues in the year. Support to Victims of the Japan Contribution Through Stable Energy important role in national energy security. In adsales network in the Pacific region, Southeast Growing yearly through profitable and sustainEarthquake Support for Local Residents Supply dition, the company’s production facilities are Asia and Europe by strengthening direct supply able management, S-OIL contributes an inPreservation of Local Culture – best suited to refining crude imported from Saudi contracts with overseas retailers and wholesale creased amount in income tax expenses each Mitigating Negative Side Effects of Urbanization Maintaining a steady and stable supply of energy Aramco, enabling S-OIL to produce high valuecompanies and by fostering partnerships with year. In 2011, the company paid KRW 393.2 bilEducation for Local Youngsters is important for any nation’s economic developadded products in an economical and efficient globally competitive companies. As a result, we lion in income tax expenses, more than double Nurturing Scientists ment in an environment of ever-changing supply way. By doing so, we can supply products to our exported approximately 65% of our products to than in the previous year, making the company a Promoting Local Community and demand. In February 2012, S-OIL renewed domestic and international customers at highly about 30 countries. We have also upgraded our significant contributor to the national economy. Sports  Reflecting Stakeholders’ a 20-year-long crude purchase agreement with competitive prices, an unrivaled core capability liaison office in Singapore — one of Asia’s most Opinions Saudi Aramco, the principal shareholder of Arof the company. important oil, logistics and trading hubs — to an amco Asia that is the major shareholder of Soffice, and we are further expanding our strategic Income Tax Expenses OIL, and the national oil company of the world’s Contribution to Trade between overseas markets as we opened offices in China (Unit: KRW million) biggest oil producing country, Saudi Arabia. The Korea and Saudi Arabia and Amsterdam in 2011. 2010 2011 long-term agreement is a rare occasion in the – 165,906 393,171 crude oil market, where one-year contracts are Saudi Aramco invested in S-OIL with the expeccommon. tation of establishing a model relationship between an oil producing country and an oil conThe signing of the deal is credited to the longsuming country, and to lay the foundation for Creation of Economic Value Distribution of Economic Value term partnership between Saudi Aramco and SS-OIL’s long-term growth. S-OIL lived up to such (Unit: KRW 100 million) (Unit: KRW 100 million) 2010 2011 Stakeholders Account 2010 2011 OIL, which has lasted for over 20 years since the expectations by serving as a strong bridge beSales Revenue 205,111 319,139 Employees Labor Cost 3,020 3,346 first contract in May 1991, and the long-standing tween Korea and Saudi Arabia in terms of trade and amicable relationship between Korea and and other areas. Today, Saudi Arabia is Korea’s Purchasing Costs (190,981) (294,911) Government Tax 1,776 4,081 Saudi Arabia. This means that the company was biggest trading partner in the Middle East, with Other Income 7,593 10,292 Local Social 60 105 Communities Contribution able not only to secure a steady and long-term mutual trade volume in the region of USD 44 bilOther Expenses (6,716) (10,722) Creditors Interest 290 584 source of feedstock but was also able to suplion in 2011. The Onsan Refinery Expansion ProjDepreciation & (2,761) (3,758) Amortization Shareholders / Dividends, ply energy to the global community in a stable ect in 2011 is a prime example of S-OIL’s role in Company Retained Earnings 7,100 11,924 Economic Value Created 12,246 20,040 and economical manner. Given Korea’s high depromoting trade ties between the two countries. Economic Value Distributed 12,246 20,040 pendence on oil, reducing these risks plays an Amount of Crude Oil Processed Domestic Sales and Exports in 2011 Production Sales (Unit: thousand barrels) (Unit: %) Fuel Products Lube Products Petrochemical Products (Unit: thousand barrels) Domestic Sales 218,714 Domestic Overseas Service Stations 51 42+4 3 188,128 127,481 Government /Corporate 170,203 108,187 35% 42 164,855 101,486 Customers 189,674 Others 7 21,252 68,010 Domestic Sales 67,844 186,866 65% 79,262 Exports 63,968 9,597 9,721 thousand barrels 14,234 7,187 Exports China 24.7 12,866 5,849 7,298 8,134 11,581 12,730 5,688 146,799 Japan 19.4 12,615 4,839 4,416 thousand barrels Indonesia 11.1 4,277 4,065 3,735 Singapore 9.5 Australia 5.3 2009 2010 2011 U.S. 4.6 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL shares its profits with society’s underprivileged through its “Sunshine Sharing ActiviSocial Contribution Programs and Investments in 2011 natural monument protection corps, and sponContribute to Society Contribution Through Stable ties.” The company sponsors endangered natural monument protection campaigns in order (Unit: KRW million) soring natural habitat protection activities by emEnergy Supply Program Donation ployees. In addition to our continuing support for to preserve Korea’s natural heritage for future generations. Contribution to Trade between • Hero Firefighter Program campaigns to protect endangered species, we Korea and Saudi Arabia For Heroes 840 • Hero Citizens Program Contribution Through Exports are putting utmost effort into preserving the maContribution as a Taxpayer • Support for research and protection rine environment and resources by participating activities by specialized groups ▶ Local Purchasing • Natural monument education for in seacoast clean up activities near the Onsan ▶ Green Purchasing children For the • Children’s ecology camp Refinery. ▶ Social Contribution Activities Environment • College Student Natural Monument 250 ▶ Biodiversity (Endangered Protection Group Natural Monuments Protection • College Student Natural Monument Support to Victims Campaign) Protection Group • Voluntary service by employees and of the Japan Earthquake ▶ Support to Victims of the Japan Local Purchasing opment of a low carbon, eco-friendly society customers – Earthquake ▶ Support for Local Residents – through the efficient use of energy and natural • Support for low-income families On March 20, S-OIL contributed KRW 500 milPreservation of Local Culture affected by house fires S-OIL contributes to win-win growth with smallresources. In addition, the company is embark• Cultural Art & Sharing campaign lion to the Community Chest of Korea to assist Mitigating Negative Side Effects of Urbanization and-mid-sized companies and to growth of the ing on diversified efforts in green purchasing. For Local • Sharing campaign by service Japan’s earthquake victims. Apart from the doCommunities stations Education for Local Youngsters 4,089 local economy by making over 4,000 purchases Under the agreement, eco-friendly products are • Support for the disabled to particination, S-OIL supplied 2.4 million barrels of peNurturing Scientists pate in overseas marathons or more than 50% of its annual total purchases divided into seven types including environmental • Donation to underprivileged troleum products including kerosene, diesel oil, Promoting Local Community from small-and-mid-sized companies. In 2011, mark-certified products, excellent recycled prodneighborhoods low-sulfur bunker-C oil and 300,000 barrels of Sports • Ulsan Social Welfare Foundation Reflecting  Stakeholders’ the company bought 4,700 bags of rice cultivated ucts, hazardous substance reduction products, gasoline to Japan’s oil refining industry. Those Opinions * Others: KRW 1 billion for S-OIL Table Tennis Team and KRW 1.3 billion for the S-OIL Prodigy and in an eco-friendly farming method from 49 farmand waste reduction products. Therefore, staff in Culture Foundation amounts were the highest among donations to ing families near Ulsan for donation to the needy charge of purchasing is encouraged to purchase Japan, indicating S-OIL’s genuine commitment in the local community. We have also helped green products according to the company’s prefto social contribution. Looking ahead, we plan to economically troubled local farmers since 2004 erential purchase standards while improving the Achievements of Sunshine Sharing Campaign expand the scope and reach of our global social by purchasing pears from farm near the Onsan existing green purchasing system. (Unit: persons, KRW million) contributions for the prosperity of all humankind. Refinery as gifts for employees of the company Wage Tail-Cut 1 Person, Year and partner companies. S-OIL will continue such Green Purchasing Program 1 Share Account Support for Local Residents purchases to promote the win-win growth of the (Unit: cases, KRW million) 2009 1,299 1,440 – 2009 2010 2011 company and the many local communities surNo. of Participants 2010 1,377 1,517 The objective of the S-OIL Ulsan Welfare FoundaItems 11 17 11 rounding its facilities. 2011 1,446 1,564 tion is to carry out a variety of social welfare projAmount 24,124 23,934 4,531 Average Monthly 2009 7 15 ects to improve the lives of the underprivileged in Green Purchasing Donations 2010 7 15 Ulsan. In 2007, we became the first business in – (KRW million) 2011 7 15 Ulsan to launch a welfare foundation. The comS-OIL employs its own internal regulations that Social Contribution Activities pany locates those in need through regular comfavor environmentally friendly purchases. In – munication with local residents and tries to find 2005, the company signed a voluntary “green” S-OIL shares its profits with society’s underpriviBiodiversity (Endangered Natural appropriate measures to help them. Since 2001, purchasing deal with the Ministry of Environleged through its “Sunshine Sharing Activities.” Monuments Protection Campaign) even before the establishment of the Foundation, ment to promote eco-friendly production and Bringing much needed human warmth to people – the company purchased rice from nearby farmconsumption. The agreement was renewed in in need, the activities are based on three prinS-OIL sponsors endangered natural monument ing families for donation to the less fortunate and 2009 to contribute to the government's develciples — genuineness (voluntary participation), protection campaigns in order to preserve Kodonated heating oil to 500 low-income families impact (becoming a respected corporate citizen rea’s natural heritage for future generations. In during winters. In addition, we support welfare Local Purchasing while having a positive effect) and timing (conMay 2008, we signed agreements with the Culfacilities for the disabled, war veterans and pa(Unit: cases, KRW million) ducting activities timely). Employing those princitural Heritage Administration to protect natural triots, and social welfare facilities with the aim of 2009 2010 2011 4 4+4 5 ples under the themes “Heroes,” “Communities” monuments and selected otters (Natural Monuproviding help, however small, to those in need. Total No. of Purchases 7,773 7,823 7,647 and “the Environment,” executives and employment No. 330), cranes (Natural Treasure No. 202) ees share their time and effort with communities and hemibarbus mylodon (Natural Monument No. of Local 4,180 4,474 4,369 Purchases through the S-OIL Public Service Corp, the comNo. 259) to receive support for protection and Total Amount of pany’s volunteer organization for employees. research activities by relevant organizations. 324,999 373,090 554,153 Purchases * For more information, visit the Contribute to SoSome of our other activities have included runAmount of Local Purchases 62,434 90,095 89,084 ciety section of Sustainability on our website. ning children’s natural monument classes and ecology camps, launching a university students’ S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL gives support to local cultural events for local resident’s better quality of life, runs Education for Local Youngsters Reflecting Stakeholders’ Opinions Contribute to Society educational and scholarship programs for teenagers’ bright future. At the same time, the – – Contribution Through Stable Energy Supply S-OIL is dedicated to creating a brighter future for S-OIL’s CSR activities were assessed by the company supports leading scientists to develop the basic science sector through the S-OIL Contribution to Trade between teenagers in the community through its support Community Relations Center of the Korean Korea and Saudi Arabia Science Foundation. for the Green Dream High School, an alternative National Council on Social Welfare in 2010. Contribution Through Exports Contribution as a Taxpayer school, and elementary schools in the Ulsan reBased on its assessment results and feedback, Local Purchasing gion. To nurture the creativity of local children, from 2011 we have held free performances for Green Purchasing the company runs the “Children’s Science Magic residents near our head office building twice a Social Contribution Activities School,” which in an innovative departure from month (lunchtime and evening) as part of our Biodiversity (Endangered Natural Monuments Protection traditional methods uses magic to teach children Cultural Art & Sharing campaign. As one of the Campaign) about scientific principles. In addition, we supsocial contribution activities connected to our Support to Victims of the Japan Preservation of Local Culture Mitigating Negative Side Effects of port athletics clubs and after-school programs business, we also engage in activities to share Earthquake Support for Local Residents – Urbanization at seven local elementary and middle schools our profits with local communities in cooperation ▶ Preservation of Local Culture S-OIL supports local cultural events in order to – and organize a wide range of social contribution with service stations across the nation. Those ▶ Mitigating Negative Side Effects of Urbanization enhance the quality of cultural life for Ulsan citiUlsan, the home of S-OIL, became a large indusactivities such as book donations, scholarship sharing activities and our commitment to serving ▶ Education for Local Youngsters zens and to preserve historic arts and culture. In trial center when companies began to operate in foundations to serve Onsan, study facilities for those in need will continue in 2012. ▶ Nurturing Scientists 1993, the company established the Oh Yeongthe region during Korea’s industrial expansion. teenagers, and the Winter Snail School for Hand▶ Promoting Local Community su Literary Prize in memory of Oh Yeong-su, a Due to its rapid growth, some have suggested icapped Children. Sports ▶Reflecting Stakeholders’ famous short story writer born in Ulsan. Today, that the city lacks adequate public rest spaces Opinions the prize is one of the nation’s most prestigious for the people. With that in mind, the company Nurturing Scientists literary awards. Since 1996, we have held the signed an agreement with the Ulsan Metropolitan – Beautiful Eye Art Festival to support the creative Government to donate KRW 10 billion towards S-OIL established the S-OIL Science Prodigy activities of amateur artists in the region. We the restoration of the city’s Taehwaru pavilion. and Culture Foundation in January 2011 in order also promote local culture by sponsoring a wide Built during the Shilla Dynasty and destroyed to nurture leading scientists who can represent range of regional, cultural and art events such during the Japanese invasion of Korea in 1592, Korea in the basic science sector. The company as the Spring Literary Contest organized by the Taehwaru is one of three important small paviland the foundation also give financial support to Gyeongsang Ilbo, a local newspaper, the Cheoyions in the region along with Yeongnamru in Midistinguished Korean scientists by establishing ong Cultural Festival, the Ulsan Whale Festival, lyang and Chokseokru in Jinju. Upon its planned the Leading Scientist of the Year Fellowship and the traditional musical performance “Byeongycompletion in 2014, the restored pavilion will not young scientists in physics and chemistry by eseng Seonang Chigi”, and the Onggi Expo Ulsan only offer a comfortable public rest space, but tablishing the Excellent Thesis Prize. Dong-Yeol Shin Korea. In 2011, we screened a video of excelwill also stand as the defining landmark of the Senior Vice President lence of the petrochemical industry at the Twocity and the pride of the people of Ulsan. Promoting Local Community Sports Head of Refinery Management & Coordination Dimension Circle Screening Room in Ulsan Mu– seum, which is the city’s first general museum. S-OIL launched its table tennis team in July 2010 in order to enhance its brand image, contribute “With a view to fulfilling our social responsibilito the nation’s sport promotion policy, and proties as a corporate citizen, S-OIL engages in a mote local community sports. The team is based wide range of social activities that can contribin Ulsan, home to the Onsan Refinery, and comute to local communities. Our initiatives include Activities of S-OIL Public Service Corps Annual Donations establishing the S-OIL Ulsan Welfare Foundaprises a head coach and seven players. With the (Unit: KRW million) No. of Participants Volunteer Hours per Person Total Volunteer Hours tion, promoting local culture by taking the lead committed support of S-OIL the team has perin the regional Mecenat movement, supporting formed outstandingly, winning silver medals in the Taehwaru pavilion restoration project, and the Korea Amateur Table Tennis Championship operating voluntary service groups staffed by 46+47 5,234 5,179 and the National Sports Festival in September refinery employees. We are continuing to make 28,823 and October 2011 respectively. In addition, team endeavors to grow with our local communities 22,693 12.5 22,596 member Jo Eon-rae was selected for the Korea 10.7 10.4 by developing social contribution programs that 4,041 National Table Tennis Team in January 2012. meet their needs.” 2,113 2,183 2,312 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 * Donations for 2009 include the Job Sharing Fund (KRW 276 million) * Donations for 2010 do not include Korean Refineries’ Joint CSR Fund (KRW 1.693 billion) S-OIL * Donations for 2011 do not include Korean Refineries’ Joint CSR Fund (KRW 3.994 billion) Sustainability Report 2011 5 SI Pursue Global Best Practices of PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Corporate Governance Sustainability Report 2010 Achievements in 2011 Future Plan  · Identify areas for improvement · Advanced the audit information · Make improvements related VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS based on analysis of global system in order to revise to management strategies by “It is no exaggeration to say that corporate governance is key to standards of ethical management risk-based audit programs analyzing international standards and sustainability management and deal with changes in the and guidelines on ethical the success of a company in the long term. Maintaining transparent such as ISO 26000. audit environment by reflecting management and sustainability corporate governance and forming an ethical organizational culture is advanced global cases. management. an unconditional proposition for a good company.” Jong-Sun Park, Director of the Korea Business Ethics Institute · Explore year-round monitoring · Improved the company’s · Steadily improve the company’s and continuous improvement accounting policies and accounting policies and in the accounting system and processed to a global standard by processes to a global standard by procedures to apply K-IFRS and reflecting K-IFRS and revisions in reflecting accounting trends and provide transparent and accurate tax laws and regulations. revised laws and regulations. financial information. “S-OIL has grown into one of the most competitive companies in the Asia-Pacific region. The company is managed with the recognition that transparent and ethical corporate management is indispensable to sustainable growth. S-OIL’s Board of Directors oversees the company to map out and execute its development plan in line with its strategies, · Renew website to enhance · Redesigned company website ·Develop an interactive information underpinned by a decision-making process where checks access to company information. around the 7 Strategic communication method Imperatives for sustainability consistent with the rapidly and balances are harmonized. In addition, the BOD has management and realized a changing IT environment that cemented the foundation for accountability-based, transparent web-based reporting system in gives stakeholders easy access management by separating the chairman and the CEO, and connection with the sustainability to sustainability management based on this, the company implemented company wide report. activities and performances. ethical management. It enhances its fair, lawful, anti-corruption practices by applying ethical standards as a top priority in decision-making through ethical management and extends this activity to its partner companies. In the future, we aim to become a global beacon of ethical management and transparent corporate governance.” Young-Il Cho, · Establish a procedure to · Revised and improved “Fair Trade · Build a legal compliance system Senior Vice President_Head of Domestic Marketing Headquarters effectively share new and revised Handbook,” an internal workingby reflecting standards and laws and regulations. level guideline on revision of laws procedures on legal compliance 48+49 and compliance with the Fair for employees. 54.5 2,544 200 Trade Act. · Held a legal seminar by inviting external specialists. Percentage of Outside Trainees of Ethical Management Fair Trade Education Directors in BOD (Unit: %) Education (Unit: persons) (Unit: hours) S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL, a joint venture between Saudi Arabia’s state-run oil company and the Hanjin Group, in the electronic disclosure systems of the FSS of audited organizations. In addition, online auPursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance has established solid and transparent corporate governance through the Board of Directors and the Korea Stock Exchange dit reports have created a paperless environment ▶ Transparent Corporate and an efficient service that assists each audited Governance (BOD) which plays an important role based on a sound system of checks and balances. The Transparent Management System department and the entire company to reach its ▶ Transparent Management company ensures efficient and transparent operation by delegating authority as necessary to – goals. System Supply Chain Monitoring and the approval line, which runs from the CEO all the way down to team leaders. Various systems S-OIL ensures efficient and transparent operaManagement to support the decision-making process also contribute to further boosting transparency. tion by delegating authority as necessary to the Ethics Committee Supporting Partners’ Sustainability Management approval line, which runs from the CEO all the S-OIL strives to prevent any small conflict of inway down to team leaders. Various systems to terest between the company and its employees support the decision-making process also confrom developing into a significant ethical issue. tribute to further boosting transparency. To this end, the company prohibits executives/ Transparent Corporate Governance cations according to all relevant rules and reguemployees and their spouses from engaging in – lations, selects those most suitable, and recomRisk-Based Audit for Work Process any kind of transaction with the company. Even S-OIL, a joint venture between Saudi Arabia’s mends them as outside directors at the General Improvement the smallest likelihood of a conflict of interest state-run oil company and the Hanjin Group, has Meeting of Stockholders. In particular, the Board Experienced auditors with a variety of certificaarising as a result of executives/employees’ linestablished solid and transparent corporate govAudit Committee, comprising three outside ditions systematically assess the effectiveness eal descendants or retired executives/employernance through the Board of Directors (BOD), rectors and one non-standing director, is actively and efficiency of business process, governance, ees’ engaging in transactions with the company which plays an important role based on a sound engaged in ethical management. It receives and internal control, and risk management of entity is thoroughly checked by the Ethics Committee. system of checks and balances. The BOD’s 11 considers ethics management activities from the being audited. Particularly, in an effort to add The Committee comprises four executives — the directors comprise one inside director, four nonEthics Committee and offers recommendations value to the company, the auditors focus on imHR Officer, the Head of the Planning and Coorstanding directors, and six independent outside to senior management on how to improve the proving business process in terms of materiality, dination Office, the General Counsel, and the directors. The outside and non-standing direcethical management of the company. commerciality, and practicality. In 2011, S-OIL Controller. Their qualifications are evaluated by tors possess a wealth of expertise and experirevised its audit program to reflect the most adthe Board of Directors’ Board Audit Committee ence in the refining industry. Since the majority Separation of BOD Chairman and CEO vanced global standards by introducing audit before they are appointed by the CEO. The Comof the BOD is comprised of outside directors and By separating the role of the CEO and the Chairdata analysis software and audit management mittee reports its activities to the CEO every six most of them are non-standing directors, they man of the BOD, the CEO is able to concentrate software to tackle changes in the audit environmonths and to the Board Audit Committee once are able to supervise the company’s manageon strengthening his expertise while the BOD is ment. Such improvements enabled the company a year. Its activities are disclosed to executives ment activities and performance objectively and able to oversee the CEO’s management activito retrieve, collect and analyze vast IT data while and employees via the company’s ethics manindependently. The Board of Directors, which ties from a more objective perspective. Thanks significantly enhancing its risk monitoring funcagement website. In 2011, the Ethics Committee convenes every three months, makes strategic to this, the BOD is currently making decisions in tion. This improved process also eased audit convened 24 times and deliberated on 87 cases. and critical decisions regarding the company a way which will increase shareholders value and organizations’ pressure to submit the materials and receives reports on business progress from maximize stakeholder interest. company executives. The BOD meeting can be convened when necessary. In 2011, BOD meetShareholders’ Suggestions and ings were held five times. Management Issues Handled at General Composition of BOD (as of March 23, 2012) Meeting of Stockholders Establishment and Operation of Two report items and five resolution items subName Position Committees ┃ mitted to the 2011 General Meeting of StockInside Director (1) Nasser Al-Mahasher • Representative Director and CEO To ensure efficient, professional, transparent opholders all obtained approval from the shareholdY. H. Cho • BOD Chairman eration of the BOD, six outside directors and one ers. The above-mentioned items are made public K. G. Al-Buainain • Non-Standing Director Non-Standing non-standing director participate in the BOD's Directors (4) B. A. Abul-Hamayel • Non-Standing Director Board Audit Committee, Compensation CommitT. S. Suk • Board Audit Committee Member(Non-Standing Director) 50 +51 tee, and/or Outside Director Candidates Recom• Report Items • Board Audit Committee Chairman S. A. Al-Ashgar mendation (ODCR) Committee. The Board Audit Audit reports by Board Audit Committee • ODCR Committee Member Committee evaluates overall business manageBusiness reports S. B. Al-Kaki • Compensation Committee Member ment and the current status of the Internal Ac• Resolution Items • Board Audit Committee Chairman Approval of the 37th balance sheet, income statement and Outside H. T. Al-saadoun • Compensation Committee Member· counting Control System and also receives reDirectors (6) statements of appropriation of retained earnings • ODCR Committee Member ports on internal audits. The Compensation Change in Articles of Incorporation • ODCR Committee Chairman M. S. Chung Committee establishes the company’s compenAppointment of director • Board Audit Committee Member sation policy and system, including employee Appointment of members of Board Audit Committee S.E. Park • Board Audit Committee Member salaries, severance pay, and incentives. The Compensation for directors • Compensation Committee Member Y.S. Ahn S-OIL ODCR Committee examines candidates’ qualifi• ODCR Committee Member Sustainability Report 2011 According to the S-OIL’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, employees should honor Whistleblower Program Supporting Partners’ Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance domestic and foreign laws and regulations and the company’s policies and regulations with S-OIL operates a Help Desk (+82-2-3772-5231) Sustainability Management Transparent Corporate and the Ethical Management website to field re– Governance a strong sense of ethical values. S-OIL launched a Supplier Visit Program in 2011 to boost ports on unethical acts. The website has FAQs S-OIL Total Lubricants Co.,Ltd (STLC) ▶ Transparent Management mutual exchanges and trust and to demonstrate its enthusiasm as a purchaser for laying the and Q&As to help employees understand what Established in May 2008, STLC is a joint venture System ▶ Supply Chain Monitoring and foundation of sustainable cooperation. constitutes unethical behavior. Moreover, the between S-OIL and TOTAL Raffinage Marketing Management ▶ Supporting Partners’ company installed a reporting channel on the S.A. (S-OIL: 50% plus one share and TOTAL: Sustainability Management home page of the website , which is connected 50% minus one share). The firm produces and to its corporate website and intranet to facilitate sells lubricants using lube base oil from the Oneasy reporting by stakeholders. The reporting san Refinery and utilizes the lubricant production Purchase Process Improvement Anti-Corruption Policies channel is described in the Ethical Management technology and marketing know-how of TOTAL. S-OIL ensures its purchase process is ethical According to the S-OIL’s Code of Business EthHandbook distributed to employees and stakeS-OIL participates directly in the management and transparent as part of its goal of robust, ethiics and Conduct, employees should honor doholders and has introduced employees to variof STLC by providing its Head of Business Opcal management. In bidding processes three or mestic and foreign laws and regulations and ous ethical issues via annual company-wide ethierations and CFO. The BOD of STLC comprises more vendors should participate, except if any the company’s policies and regulations with a cal management education. Furthermore, S-OIL three people from S-OIL, three people from TObidder is a retired employee, in which case the strong sense of ethical values. In particular, the receives reports through the Customer Center TAL and one auditor from S-OIL. participation of four or more vendors is compulcode prohibits unjust or wrongful orders, kind ofand the website. sory in order to ensure a fair process. Moreover, fices, favors and receiving economic benefit in Hankook Silicon ┃ we have introduced a monitoring system to enconnection with their duties. Employees are not Supply Chain Monitoring and Through strategic investment to acquire a 33.4% hance employees’ awareness of business ethics. allowed to receive money or goods, treats, enManagement stake (41,042,750 shares) in Hankook Silicon, The results of the monitoring are reflected in our tertainment or convenience related to their jobs – S-OIL became the company’s second largest key performance indicators (KPIs). In addition, from stakeholders. S-OIL launched a supplier visit program in 2011 shareholder and participates in its management we provided company-wide ethical management to boost mutual exchanges and trust and to in form of a joint investment with Osung LST, the education to deepen employees’ understanding demonstrate its enthusiasm as a purchaser for largest shareholder. S-OIL plays no direct role in of ethical management and encourage them to laying the foundation of sustainable cooperaHankook Silicon’s operations but endeavors to practice business ethics. tion. As part of the program, S-OIL fully explains make sustainable management an integral part the company’s transparent and objective ethical of the company. In particular, the transparent management and purchase system, listens to corporate governance of Hankook Silicon made suppliers’ questions and proposals, and makes it easier for it to adopt S-OIL’s advanced manevery efforts to provide appropriate solutions and agement know-how and systems, thereby laying Deliberation of Ethics Committee in 2011 feedback. the foundation for rapidly achieving ethical standards and sustainability matching leading global Number of Items Deliberated companies. Currently, the company’s BOD comOperation of Sales Networks 22 Number of Companies Visited prises eight directors of which S-OIL has the Purchase of Products and Services 62 (Unit: cases) right to appoint three seats. Senior executives at 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q Others 3 S-OIL were appointed as directors of Hankook No. of Companies Visited 4 6 2 7 Silicon to take part in key decisions and maintain close communications in order to take Hankook Ethics Education in 2011 Silicon’s growth to a higher level. (Unit: persons, hours) Trainees Hours Ethical Management 2,5441) 1~2 Prevention of Sexual 52+53 All employees 1 Harassment Fair Trading 2002) 1 1) Company-wide education: 2,473 employees; education of new employees: 71명 2) Employees of domestic district sales HQs/25 domestic and 3 overseas sales Ethics Management Handbook for Executives and Employees S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 6 SI Attain Highest Level of PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Capital Efficiency Sustainability Report 2010 Achievements in 2011 Future Plan · Grasp potential challenges and · Maintained a “AA+” domestic · Maintain the highest credit rating devise appropriate measures in rating since 2007. and continue to secure a stable VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS close cooperation with external · Maintained a “BBB (stable)” rating credit limit. “A company must build a strong crisis management system to deal with credit rating agencies to enhance and a “Baa2 (stable)” rating from changes in its business environment and various crises. Employees credit rating. S&P and Moody's respectively. of the company should develop their capabilities to enable them to overcome any crisis.” Min-Yeon Jo, Director, Enterprise Risk Services of Anjin Accounting Co. Credit Rate 0 · Develop budgeting procedures · Introduced a zero-base budgeting · Reinforce optimal resource and management measures for system for efficient and distribution, budgeting and zero-base budgeting. transparent resource distribution control process by developing · Enhance budget management despite business environment method to assess zero-base system and efficiency. uncertainties. budgeting. · Minimized inefficient budget use through performance analysis. BASE BUDGETING “In recognition of its stable financial structure, S-OIL received the highest credit rating among its domestic peers from both local and global credit rating agencies. Such rating allows the · Improve systems infrastructure · Implemented an early warning · Maintain a world-class risk Company to enjoy low-cost financing, upon resolution by the such as the ERM and strengthen system to monitor high-risk work management capability by Cash Management Committee, for operational activities and for preventive risk monitoring by processes in advance and quickly diffusing risk management culture investments. In 2011, S-OIL introduced a zero-base budgeting coping with changes in the business environment. manage to risk through analysis of a scenario-based management within the organization and expanding capability to deal with GLOBAL NO.1 system to ensure more efficient budget control and steadily information system. risk. improved its ability to manage risk by integrating its Risk · Risk management rated world· Reinforce potential risk Management System, Internal Accounting Management System class by Dow Jones Sustainability management by establishing and Early Warning System. Those efforts to create a deep-rooted, Index, the most prestigious an early warning system and sustainability evaluation index. updating the monitoring scenario. DJSI 2011 world-class risk management system were recognized when RISK MANAGEMENT the Company received a perfect rating for risk management in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes 2011, a globally renowned model benchmarking corporate sustainability” Yul Ryu, · Increase financial stability by · Hedged risk from foreign · Study ways to optimize capital Executive Vice President_Finance B/L Head (CFO) reinforcing F/X market monitoring exchange rate fluctuations that efficiency and financial structure and by maintaining NDL at an affect operating income net dollar to maximize corporate value. 54+55 optimum level. liabilities to optimize financial 943 16,386 28.35 structure. Investor's Meeting Operating Income Borrowings to Total Assets (Unit: times) (Unit: KRW 100 million) (Unit: %) S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL maintains an appropriate level of working capital every year that takes account of oil Reasonable Dividend Policy self-assessment system on overall risk manageAttain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency price forecasts, sales targets, and investment plans. S-OIL has maintained a consistently – ment activities. All employees check whether or ▶ Optimal Working Capital and One of S-OIL’s business goals is to enhance not proper internal control activities on their work Management of Financial high credit rating through regular communication with credit rating agencies and proactive Indicators shareholder value through a reasonable dividend processes were carried out. Then, the companymanagement of the core measurements used to determine credit ratings that enable it sepolicy that takes into account financial soundwide Task Force Team thoroughly assesses the ▶ Maintaining a High Credit Rating cure stable and competitive financing conditions. ness, profits for shareholders, and financial reresults. In particular, the CFO sits as Internal Ac▶ Effective Budget Management ▶ Reasonable Dividend Policy sources while also allowing for steady growth counting Manager who is in charge of the Internal ▶ Integrated Risk Management based on the company’s stable financial strucAccounting Management System and regularly System ture and transparent corporate governance. As reports on the status of the System’s operations Closer Communication with Shareholders and Investors part of its shareholder-oriented management, to the BOD and the Board Audit Committee. S-OIL has paid interim dividends since 2000. Optimal Working Capital and and Baa2 (moderate) respectively in March, Through our regular dividend payments we are Early Warning System┃ Management of Financial Indicators 2009, thereby making it easier for the company sharing profit with shareholders and contributing We process most of the business transactions – to expand its sources of loans for investments. to the growth of a shareholder-driven managein the form of system data and offer important S-OIL maintains an appropriate level of working The ratings are among the highest in Asia with ment culture by rewarding our long-term sharemanagement information through an informacapital every year that takes account of oil price the exception of some state-run refining compaholders who value dividends over short-term tion system. S-OIL is operating the Early Warnforecasts, sales targets, and investment plans. nies. capital gain. ing System that analyzes vast amounts of data In 2011, the company raised its credit line with generated from work activities on a scenario bahealthy financial institutions in order to deal with Domestic Credit Ratings Integrated Risk Management sis and report data of anomalous transactions to volatility in the financial market triggered by the System employees in charge. This system is operated to eurozone crisis, allowing it to secure the cash Evaluation Date Credit Rating Credit Rating Agencies – quickly respond to potential risky transactions liquidity required for operations. In addition, we 2007. 6 AA+ KIS2)/NICE Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)┃ and contributes to enhancing our job performonitor financial market trends and our cash 2009. 9 AA+ KIS/NICE S-OIL’s ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) sysmances by constantly managing work processes flow regularly and invest our retained cash in sta2010. 5 AA+ KIS/NICE tem prioritizes the proactive prevention of risk in risky areas and therefore, minimizing losses ble products of reputable financial institutions to 2011. 63) AA+ KIS/NICE by constantly monitoring changes in its manincurred by risk. generate cash from working capital. We set and 1) Changed the company name from Hankook Sinyong Jeongbo to NICE in September 2011 agement environment. Risk is classified into five manage goals for the company’s optimal finan2) KIS : Korea Investors Service types — strategy, market, finance, compliance 3) Reflected regular ratings by credit rating agencies in June 2011. 신 cial structure in terms of financial soundness and and operation — and carefully monitored against capital efficiency and manage major financial Key Risk Indicators. Analyzing these risks helps indicators such as RCF (Retained Cash Flow)/ Effective Budget Management us to prevent them and minimizes the possibilEnterprise Risk Management System Debt and Debt/EBITDA. The company’s Cash – ity of accident, loss, or disaster. Any necessary Management Committee convenes frequently to S-OIL prepares its annual budget for the efficient actions are taken swiftly and systemically acdiscuss key company-wide issues and respond distribution of resources after receiving approval cording to predefined response described in a Strategy to volatility in financial markets to ensure efficient from the BOD. It also regularly reports budget exrisk response manual. The outcomes of monitorEnterprise Risk Management System and stable operation. penditures to the BOD. S-OIL enhances its finaning and our responses to them are regularly reAdvanced Responses to and cial soundness by reducing redundant budget ported to the ERM Committee, which comprises Control of Core Risk Market Maintaining a High Credit Rating spending and eliminating inefficiencies through the CEO, the head of each business line, and the – careful inspection and regular analysis of exhead of the Planning & Coordination Office. Key Risk Category S-OIL has maintained a consistently high credit penditures. Furthermore, in 2011, the company issues are also regularly reported to the Board Finance rating through regular communication with credit introduced a “Zero-Base Budgeting” system Audit Committee and the BOD. This ensures that Internal Accounting rating agencies and proactive management of to prepare for budget management in increassenior management is always familiar with the Management System Risky Activity the core measurements used to determine credit ingly uncertain business environments in 2012. results of the risk management process and can Self-Assessment ratings that enable it secure stable and competiS-OIL will continue to distribute resources optimake decisions based on this knowledge. Compliance 56+57 Early Warning tive financing conditions. In 2003, NICE1) and KIS mally using the zero-base budgeting system and System awarded S-OIL an AA credit rating. That rating strengthening economic analyses of its costs and Internal Accounting Management System┃ Intensive Monitoring of Core Risk Factors was upgraded to AA+ in June 2007 and has recapital expenditures. The company also aims to S-OIL has expanded the Internal Accounting Operation mained unchanged. S&P and Moody’s awarded enhance its budget management efficiency by Management System for internal control to sethe company credit ratings of BBB (moderate) reinforcing long-term feedback on expenditures. cure the reliability of financial reporting, into a Scope of Risk Management S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 holders convened after the end of each fiscal Financial Achievement Attain Highest Level of 2011 DJSI Assessment of Risk Management Sector Capital Efficiency 2009 2010 2011 (Unit: points) year, executives including the CEO and senior Optimal Working Capital and management explain the business status of the Management of Financial 100 100 100 100 company and provide shareholders with the acThese financial data were reported in accordance with the newly adopted K-IFRS and Indicators 95 96 Maintaining a High Credit curate information they need for specific decibelong to 2010 and 2011. Data for 2009 is based on January 1, 2010. Rating 64 sion-making. In addition, our website provides Effective Budget Management 59 59 Reasonable Dividend Policy a wealth of investment information as well as a ▶ Integrated Risk Management Q&A section, which enables our shareholders Statements of Financial Position (Summary) Statements of Comprehensive Income (Summary) System and stakeholders to easily and fully understand (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) ▶ Closer Communication with 2010 2011 2010 2011 Shareholders and Investors our business management systems and ask Current Assets 5,992,212 8,823,100 Revenue 20,511,068 31,913,863 questions and make suggestions. S-OIL Global Industry World-Best Non-Current Assets 4,011,286 4,381,001 Cost of Sales (19,252,374) (29,695,742) Average IR Activities ┃ Total Assets 10,003,498 13,204,101 Gross Profit 1,258,694 2,218,121 S-OIL is vigorously conducting IR activities to Current Liabilities 4,573,416 7,235,988 Selling Expenses (365,832) (437,007) World’s Best Risk Management ┃ help shareholders and investors better underNon-Current Liabilities 925,487 741,759 Administrative Expenses (69,623) (83,611) The DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) constand and build trust in the company and have Total Liabilities 5,498,903 7,977,747 Other Income 517,522 702,752 siders an enterprise’s risk management capacthe present and future of the company fairly Capital Stock 291,512 291,512 Other Expenses (476,126) (761,617) ity to be an essential part of its measurement of evaluated by offering them accurate information Capital Surplus 379,190 379,190 Operating Income 864,635 1,638,638 “Corporate Economic Sustainability.” S-OIL was on the business policies and performances of Reserves 1,008,124 993,911 Financial Income 241,760 326,402 included in the DJSI world oil and gas producthe company. The company actively publicizes Financial Expenses (230,423) (379,443) Treasury Stock (1,876) (1,876) ers sector in 2010 and 2011. Its risk manageits strengths such as its financial stability, worldProfit Before Income Tax 875,972 1,585,597 Retained Earnings 2,827,645 3,563,617 ment was evaluated as world-leading and used class risk management system and balanced Income Tax Expense (165,906) (393,171) Total Equity 4,504,595 5,226,354 as an exemplary case. We intend to maintain pursuit of growth potential and high payout ratio. Net Income 710,066 1,192,426 Total Liabilities and our world-class risk management capability by In 2011, the company conducted IR activities for Total Equity 10,003,498 13,204,101 Other Comprehensive (21,289) (28,173) strengthening the operation of our risk manageinstitutional investors (including foreigners) and Income ment system and preventive risk monitoring acanalysts 943 times, an increase of about 50% Total Comprehensive 688,777 1,164,253 Income tivities by responding appropriately to changes in from the previous year. In addition, the company the business environment. engaged in IR activities for individual investors through its home page and on the phone. In the Stability Indicators Growth/Activity Indicators Closer Communication with future, we will step up our efforts to share the (Unit: %, times) (Unit: %, times) Shareholders and Investors fruits of future growth and performances with our 2010 2011 2010 2011 – shareholders. Current Ratio 131.02 121.93 Sales Growth Ratio 17.72 55.59 Transparent Disclosure of Business Total Liabilities to Equity 122.07 152.64 Operating Income 147.91 89.52 Ratio Growth Ratio Information ┃ Borrowings to Total Assets 26.18 28.35 Net Income Growth Ratio 159.86 67.93 S-OIL is committed to increasing both public Times Interest Earned 29.80 28.05 Total Assets Growth Ratio 9.96 31.99 access to company information and the value IR Events of disclosed information. Our accounting pro (Unit: times) 2009 2010 2011 cedures and systems comply with K-IFRS stanProfitability Indicators Dividend Payments Investors' Meetings 531 618 943 dards and we carry out constant monitoring and (Unit: %, times) (Unit: KRW 100 million, %, KRW) regular improvements in order to provide more Hosting of NDRs1) 7 10 11 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 transparent and accurate financial information. Participating in 11 11 15 Operating Income to Sales 4.22 5.13 Total Dividends Paid 1,573 2,911 5,589 Conferences We have also directed significant resources into Net Income to Sales 3.46 3.74 Cash Dividends 57.55 41.00 46.87 Conference Calls 4 4 4 58+59 maintaining and upgrading our ERP system for Return on Equity 16.82 24.51 Rate of Cash Common 2.41 2.77 4.54 1) Non-Deal Roadshow that purpose. At the General Meeting of StockOperating Cash Flow to 8.65 3.79 Dividends Preferred 3.01 4.37 8.22 Total Assets Amount of Cash Common 1,350 2,500 4,800 Dividends per Share Preferred 1,375 2,525 4,825 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 7 SI Develop Platform for PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Sustainable Growth Sustainability Report 2010 Achievements in 2011 Future Plan · Seek opportunities to expand our · Established 2020 Roadmap, · Study the feasibility of investment capacity to produce high-valuewhich includes future investment in upgrading facilities to VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS added products by carefully in the Onsan Refinery, the enhance our competitiveness monitoring industrial trends. backbone of creating profits for and profitability in the refining “Long-term strategic investment is not a cost but is an essential effort the company, after analyzing business. for business. To create a sustainable future, companies that try to various industrial trends and · Expand R&D in cooperation with create new value should be increased.” intensive discussions. specialized external organizations. Jae-Yun Choi, Representative of Cross Management Institute · Plan to produce 1.79 million · More than doubled petrochemical · Study ways to foray into the hightons of paraxylene and 580,000 production capacity (paraxylene: value-added downstream sector tons of BTX a year by starting 1.79 million tons a year and BTX: in the oil industry. commercial operation in April 580,000 tons) by successfully 2011. completing the Onsan Refinery Expansion Project after three years of planning, design and construction, subsequently becoming the most influential petrochemical supplier in the Asia and Pacific region, the world’s largest booming petrochemical market. “Companies need to endeavor to invest with insight into the future in order to secure competitiveness in a rapidly · Steadily seek new business · Selected polysilicon, a promising · Support Hankook Silicon in changing business environment. S-OIL has become Asia’s opportunities in the new and part of the photovoltaic industry reinforcing its competitiveness renewable energy sector value chain, the fastest growing and stead growth by transferring largest paraxylene supplier by pushing forward with the sector in the new and renewable an advanced management Onsan Refinery Expansion Project despite the global energy market as a future growth system and taking an active role financial crisis in 2008. It has also strategically advanced into engine. Participated in the in its business operations. the polysilicon business, the upstream sector in the value management of Hankook Silicon chain of the photovoltaic industry, which is expected to lead with proven technology and know-how in process operation an entirely new future energy sector. S-OIL will continue (33.4% stake, the second largest to strive to carry out its mission of ‘sustainable, profitable shareholder). growth’ through seeking new business opportunities and responding preemptively to changes in the future energy mix.” Jong-Bum Ahn, Senior Vice President_Head of Planning & Coordination Office 60 +61 179 15,000 6 Production Capacity of Production Capacity of The Highest Environmental FriendliParaxylene Hankook Silicon ness Grade from the Ministry of (Unit: 10 thousand tons) (Unit: tons) Environment (Unit: consecutive S-OIL times recognized) Sustainability Report 2011 S-OIL has attained outstanding competitiveness in the oil refining sector, its core business, Efforts to Supply New and we have undertaken various R&D activities, inDevelop Platform for Sustainable Growth thanks to its long-term outlook and continuous facility investment. We will continue to invest Renewable Energy cluding the development of clean, eco-friendly ▶ Strengthening Competitiveness – petroleum products, in-company technological of the Oil Refining Business in improving facilities and expanding our penetration of the high-value-added downstream Solar photovoltaic energy is the most realistic assistance, and customer analysis. ▶ Establishing 2020 Roadmap to sector in the petrochemical sector with a view to expanding our competitiveness in the oil alternative energy to replace fossil energy along Reinforce Long-Term Growth Engine refining sector and increasing profitability. S-OIL will make every effort to promote stable with wind power generation and has huge growth Thanks to its operation of a high-pressure pilot ▶ Efforts to Supply New and Renewable Energy growth of photovoltaic energy as part of the future energy mix by increasing efficiency of potential in the new and renewable energy secplant and a heavy oil desulfurization pilot plant ▶ Development of Eco-Friendly tor. Although the cost of photovoltaic power gento produce Korea’s first ever clean lube base oil, Products & Services and Clean solar photovoltaic products such as through high purity polysilicon. Energy eration is currently higher than that of fossil fuelS-OIL has more experience at oil refining and ▶ Efforts to Improve Fuel based power generation, due to recent industry more advanced research facilities than any other Efficiency at Consumption Stage restructuring the cost of photovoltaic products refiners operating in Korea. Harnessing these faStrengthening Competitiveness of lube base oil in Korea, S-OIL constantly monihas fallen and efficiency risen. As a result, gridcilities and experience, we have successfully inthe Oil Refining Business tors industrial trends in order to be able to react parity, when photovoltaic power generation cost stalled and operated the Bunker-C cracking cen– to a rise in demand for high-quality lube base oil is equal to fossil fuel-based power generation, is ter as well as cutting-edge kerosene and diesel S-OIL has attained outstanding competitive(Group II and Group III). We will cement our leadlikely to be realized earlier than expected. Thus, hydrodesulphurization units including production ness in the oil refining sector, its core business, ing position by seeking opportunities to expand in partnership with Hankook Silicon, S-OIL will processes and catalyst evaluation. As a result, thanks to its long-term outlook and continuous production capacity in the future. make every effort to promote stable growth of all of our products boast an extremely low-sulfur facility investment. We have surpassed domestic photovoltaic energy as part of the future energy and light content, thus contributing to the encompetitors with the development and efficient mix by increasing efficiency of solar photovoltaic hancement of the company’s profitability. operation of advanced facilities for transforming products such as through high purity polysilicon. atmospheric residue (Bunker-C oil) into 100% S-OIL produces and provides high-quality, ecohigh value-added products with world-leading Development of Eco-Friendly friendly products that exceed all regulatory reenvironmental qualities. We have also invested Products & Services and quirements and environmental regulations. This in facilities to enhance operational efficiency and Clean Energy underscores our commitment not just to abide conduct rigorous facility maintenance to ensure – by ever-strengthening environmental regulations stable operations. Those investments mean that The S-OIL R&D Center envisions creating future around the world, and not just our awareness of today we can reliably supply the highest quality competitiveness by optimizing its production the need to take action against climate change, Sustainable, products while at the same time meeting the soprocess and developing high-quality, eco-friendbut also our commitment to fulfilling customers’ cial, economic and environmental expectations Profitable Growth ly energy technologies. In pursuit of this vision, expectations about environmental protection. of our stakeholders. Establishing 2020 Roadmap to Reinforce Long-Term Growth Engine – Efforts to Develop Sustainable Products As part of effort to further solidify its world-class competitiveness, in 2011 S-OIL completed a • S-OIL R&D Center long-term roadmap for 2020 developed through The R&D Center conducts activities aimed at realizing an environmentally friendly production study and discussion of a broad range of inenvironment and developing environmentally friendly oil products with its vision of “Creating dustrial trends. The roadmap contains the comcompetitiveness by supporting optimal operation of the refinery and developing high-quality, pany’s master plan for investment in the Onsan environmentally friendly energy technology.” Refinery, the backbone of a stable oil supply 62+63 and creation of high economic value, and mea• Taking the Lead in Environmental Quality Competition sures to increase operational efficiency. We will S-OIL is reducing greenhouse gas emissions by development of a long-life diesel engine oil continue to invest in improving facilities and exthat increases fuel economy and prevents reduction in the fuel efficiency of vehicles. panding our penetration of the high-value-added Signing an agreement on participating in a Korean-type auto-oil program, the company downstream sector in the petrochemical sector Oil Refining Petrochemical Renewable Energy pushes for joint research projects among the government, automakers and fuel suppliers with a view to expanding our competitiveness in business business business with a view to slash air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles. the oil refining sector and increasing profitability. Moreover, with the largest production capacity of S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 Deloitte Anjin LLC 9F., One IFC, 23, Yoido-dong, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 150-945, Korea Tel: +82 (2) 6676 1000 Fax: +82 (2) 6674 1500 S-OIL produces and provides high-quality, eco-friendly products that exceed all regulatory www.deloitteanjin.co.kr requirements and environmental regulations. In terms of technological development, the company will not rest on its laurels. We will step up our efforts for technological development for sustainable growth such as the improvement of production facilities and product qualities in cooperation. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT We have performed to provide independent assurIn conclusion, nothing has come to our attention that Efforts to Improve Fuel Efficiency at advancing various research and development ance services over S-OIL Corporation’s Sustainability cause us to believe that the subject data referred to Consumption Stage activities for the improvement of production faReport 2011 (the “Report”). The management of Sabove are not fairly stated, in all material respects, – cilities and product qualities in cooperation with OIL Corporation is responsible for preparing the Rein accordance with the reporting principles of S-OIL In collaboration with the Hyundai-Kia Automotive noted academic institutions and research orport. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited level of Corporation. Research Center, S-OIL has developed an imganizations. The company is also carrying out assurance engagement on the information presented With the intention of reporting sustainability perproved fuel economy, long-life diesel engine oil various R&D activities such as the development in the Report and to provide our conclusion. formances and activities to internal and external that follow on from its long-life gasoline engine of technologies to produce high-value-added We conducted our assurance engagement in acstakeholders, S-OIL Corporation applied a reporting oil. The product prevents against a decrease in products using the by-products of petrochemical fuel efficiency and general quality degradation products, the development of diesel stream and cordance with ISAE 3000 (“International Standard practice in accordance with the AA1000APS(2008) due to an increase in oxidation and viscosity of LPG desulfuration technology and CO2 utilization on Assurance Engagement 3000 Assurance En[AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard 2008] engine oil caused by a longer-term use. S-OIL technology, and initial research on power storgagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historithrough its 7 Strategic Imperatives for reporting and holds a domestic patent in this sector and is age technology. Through efforts such as these cal Financial Information”), issued by the International applied the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and the IPIECA/API engaging in similar research and development we aim to boost technological developments for Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), Guidance as main indicators. in the transmission oil sector. The S-OIL R&D the sustainable growth of the company. and AA1000AS (“AA1000 Assurance Standard”). The S-OIL Corporation has applied detailed procedures Center will not rest on its laurels. The center is extent for a “limited level” of assurance is less than to identify, collect, compile, and validate the data for that of a “reasonable” assurance engagement and 2011. therefore a lower level of assurance is provided for the Data for 2011 is consistent with data accumulated Report. An engagement is limited primarily to inquiries as a result of these procedures and appropriately of company personnel and review procedures applied reflected the Report. In addition, through the results The Highest Environmental Friendliness Grade from the Ministry of Environment to the data S-OIL Corporation provided. The scope of we have obtained from material review, we conour work was restricted to 2011 performance only. cluded that the information presented in the Report S-OIL was awarded the highest grade (five stars) for its gasoline and diesel products in the environmental friendliness evaluation of oil products conducted by the Ministry of Environment in both the first half and the second half Information relating to the earlier periods has not been provides an appropriate and reasonably balanced of 2011, becoming the only refiner in Korea to receive the highest grade for its gasoline and diesel six consecutive subject to our assurance. picture of the S-OIL Corporation’s material sustaintimes. The company received an official commendation from the minister of environment in April 2012. ability aspects. Our work included the following activities: Interviews with the personnel responsible for aggreEnvironmental Friendliness of S-OIL gation and reporting of the subject data. (Unit: ppm) An evaluation of the design, existence and opera2009 2010 2011 구분 tion of the systems and methods used to collect and 1 half st 2 half nd 1 half st 2 half nd 1 half st 2nd half process the subject data.  Deloitte Anjin LLC 6 4+6 5 Sulfur Content 4 4 3 4 4 3 Reviews on the subject data through inquiries and Gasoline Grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ analytical procedures. Composite Grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ Visit to the head office and the Onsan Refinery for a Sulfur Content 5 5 4 5 4 4 limited testing of the subject data aggregation and Managing Partner Diesel Oil Grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ preparation. Jae Sool Lee Composite Grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★: Highest by international standards according to MOE evaluations ★★★★: Close to highest by international standards according to MOE evaluations Verify the subject data that they were correctly reported from appropriate and reasonably balanced  July 16, 2012 sources. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 GRI/IPIECA CONTENT INDEX GRI G3.1 Application Level Deloitte Anjin has confirmed that our Sustainability Report 2011 applies GRI G3.1 Application Level A+. GRI IPIECA/API GRI Guidelines IPIECA/API Page Note Page Note Index Content Index Index Content Index 1. Strategy and Analysis ENV-A2, ENV-A3, ENV-A4, EN 23: Not applicable EN22-EN24 Waste and Hazardous Waste, including significant spills 6, 33, 36 ENV-A5, ENV-1, ENV-A1 EN 24: No such waste transported 1.1 CEO's Statement 2, 3 EN25 Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by discharges of water and runoff 45 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 2, 3, 10-11, 57-58, 62 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 11, 63, 64 2. Organizational Profile Little or no packaging materials are used, due to the EN27 Products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 2.1 2.9 Organizational Profile Cover, 8-13, 51, 42-43 characteristics of the products sold. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 68 EN28 Environmental fines and sanctions 33 3. Report Parameters Environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used and EN29 39 transporting members of the workforce 3.1-3.3, 3.6-3.11 Reporting parameters Cover 3.9, 3.10, 3.11: There are notes throughout this report. EN30 Environmental protection expenditure and investments 32, 45 3.4 Contact point Cover ENV-6 32-33 3.5 Process for defining report content 4, 5 Labor Practices and Decent work Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Identify the page 3.12 66-67 numbers or web links where the following can be found. Disclosure on Management Approach to Labor Practices and Decent Work 22-23 3.13 External assurance policy and practice 65 LA1-LA3 Employment ECO-A2, SOC-A2 29 Not applicable 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement LA4, LA5 Labor/management relations 27 LA5: Sustainability Report 2008 4.1-4.7, 4.9-4.10 Governance 48-53 LA6-LA9 Occupational health and safety H&S1, H&S2, H&S3, H&S4 25-26, 37-39 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant 1, 14, 15, 22, 23, 30, 31,40, LA10-LA12 Training and education SOC-5 24, 29 4.8 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 41, 48, 49, 54, 55, 60,61 LA13-LA14 Diversity and equal opportunity SOC-4 24-25, 29, 50-51 4.11 Precautionary principle 33, 37-39, 57-58 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 25 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 4.12 68 to which the organization subscribes or endorses SOC-6 27 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy Human Rights 4.13 68 organizations in which the organization Disclosure on Management Approach to Human Rights 22-23 4.14-4.17 Stakeholder engagement SOC-A6 1, 4, 5, 9, 12, 13, 17-21 HR1-HR3 Investment and procurement practices SOC-1 25, 52-53 HR1: Not applicable Economic Performance HR4-HR7 Managing human rights risk in operations SOC-1, SOC-4, SOC-7 25 HR4: No discrimination case Disclosure on Management Approach to Economic Performance 54-55, 60-61 ECO-1, ECO-2, ECO-3, Outside companies are in charge of security at locations of EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6-7, 11-13, 32-33, 42-47,59 HR8 Security practices SOC-1, SOC-9 ECO-A2, ECO-A3 operation; S-OIL does not provide direct training programs. EC2 Implications of climate change 3, 10-11 HR9 Indigenous rights SOC-1, SOC-A7 Not applicable EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations 25 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human HR10 Not applicable rights reviews and/or impact assessments. EC4 Financial assistance received from government EC4: Not applicable SOC-1 Number of grievances related to human rights fi led, addressed and resolved HR11 Not applicable EC5 Standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage 25 through formal grievance mechanisms. EC6 2 Locally based suppliers 44 Society EC7 Local hiring SOC-A3 EC7: No significant overseas operating locations Disclosure on Management Approach to Society 40-41, 48-49 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services for public benefit SOC-A4, SOC-A5 44-47 SO1 Impacts of operations on communities 37 EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts 8-13, 42-44, 62-63 SO2-SO4 Managing risks related to corruption 51-52 ECO-A1 Not applicable SO5 Participation in public policy development SOC-A1 Not applicable Environmental Performance SO6 Political contributions SOC-3 Not applicable Disclosure on Management Approach to Environmental Performance 30-31 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and SO7 16-17 their outcomes EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 42 66+67 SO8 Significant fines and non-compliance with laws and regulations 16-17 EN2: No recycled materials used, due to characteristics EN2 Percentage of materials used ENV-A5 of business SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Not applicable EN3, EN4 Energy consumption ENV-5 6 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10 30-39 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities EN5-EN7 Initiatives to reduce energy consumption ENV-A8 11-13, 62-64 Product Responsibility EN8-EN10 Water withdrawal and recycled and reused ENV-A7 6, 34 Disclosure on Management Approach to Product Responsibility 14-15 EN11: Our head office and Onsan Refinery are not located EN11-EN15 Biodiversity ENV-A9 41, 45 in areas of high biodiversity. EN13, EN15: Not applicable PR1-PR2 Customer health and safety H&S-5 17-18 PR2: No violations ENV-3, ENV-4, EN17: S-OIL is reviewing the way to report Scope III data. PR3-PR5 Product and service labelling H&S-5 17-20 EN16-EN20 Significant air emissions and initiatives to reduce them 6, 10, 11, 36, 63, 64 ENV-A6 EN19: No use of ozone-depleting substances PR6-PR7 Marketing and communications 20-21 PR7: No violations EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ENV-2 6, 34 PR8 Customer privacy and losses of customer data 17 S-OIL PR9 Non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning products and services 16-17 Sustainability Report 2011 UNGC INDEX FOR MORE INFORMATION UNGC 10 Principles Contents Page S-OIL wants to hear from you about the S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011. Please contact us with your opinions and suggestions. Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internaHuman tionally proclaimed human rights; and Rights Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. SI 2. Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment Tel | +82-2-3772-5237 Fax | +82-2-3772-0964 E-Mail | sustainability@s-oil.com · Human Rights and Labor Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the · Ban on Child Labor and Forced Labor 22-29 Address | Sustainability Management Team, S-OIL, 192, Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoul 121-805, Rep. of KOREA effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; · Working Conditions Labour Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; · Harmonious Labor-Management Relations Standards Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. READERS’ OPINIONS SPECIAL REPORT 2. Climate Change, Challenge and Opportunities 10-11, 1. Which of the following applies to you? Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to SI 3. Achieve Operational Excellence 30-37, environmental challenges; · Environmental Management System □ Customer □ S-OIL employee □ Shareholder/Investor □ Local resident □ Business partner Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental · Eco-Friendly Management and Minimum Environmental Impact Environment responsibility; and SI 7. Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth 60-64 □ NGO □ Media □ Government □ Research/Academia □ Others ( ) Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally · Efforts to Supply New and Renewable Energy friendly technologies. · Development of Eco-Friendly Products & Services and Clean Energy · Efforts to Improve Fuel Efficiency at Consumption Stage 2. How did you find out about S-OIL’s sustainability report? SI 5. Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, · Transparent Corporate Governance 48-53 □ S-OIL website □ Smartphone/iPad App □ Seminar/Lecture/Exhibition Anti-Corruption including extortion and bribery · Transparent Management System □ S-OIL employee □ Other websites □ Newspaper/Magazine □ Others ( ) 3. Referring to the box below, which section of the report did you find most interesting? ( ) S-OIL RECOGNITIONS AND 4. Referring to the box below, which section, if any, of the report should be added to? ( ) MEMBERSHIPS IN ASSOCIATIONS <Section> ① CEO Message ⑥ SPECIAL REPORT 2. Climate Change, Challenge and Opportunities ⑪ Contribute to Society ② Sustainability Management Scheme ⑦ SPECIAL REPORT 3. Construction of the Head Office Building ⑫ Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance S-OIL Recognitions in 2011 Memberships in Associations ③ Stakeholders and Key Issues ⑧ Enhance Customer-Centric Management ⑬ Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency ④ Major Sustainability Performances ⑨ Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment ⑭ Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth Awarding Year of Joining Association ⑤ SPECIAL REPORT 1. Expansion of the Onsan Refinery ⑩ Achieve Operational Excellence ⑮ Others ( ) Month Details Organization 1980 Korea Petroleum Association Korea Management 2011 Korean Industry Service Quality IndexOnsan Industrial Complex Environment Management AssociaAssociation 1983 Certification for Best Call Center Service tion June Consulting 5. Does this report include all the key issues that you think should be addressed? Grand Prize in the World-Class Company CatKorea CEO 1985 Korea Oil Stations Association egory of Best Korean Company Awards Association □ Yes □ No 1986 Onsan Industrial Complex Safety Management Association Prize of Minister of Environment at National Korea Environment July 1988 Korea Industrial Safety Association Excellent TMS Case Awards Corporation 6. If not, which issue(s) should be added? 1993 Korea Fire Safe Association Dow Jones, SAM October Included in DJSI World Index (Oil & Gas Producer) and Korea Produc1997 Korea Chemical Management Association tivity Center 2001 Korea Fair Competition Federation Top 250 global Energy Company (91st) Global Petroleum and Gas Refining and Marketing Platts, USA 2002 Environment Protection Council Company (10th) 2003 Forest for Life NovemNational Emer7. This report framework is based on S-OIL’s 7 Strategic Imperatives. If you have any further comments on the report Presidential Commendation for Contribution to 2005 Korea Forum for Progress ber gency Management Prevention of Fires (for example, its framework and content or S-OIL’s sustainability initiatives), please specify them. Agency 2007 Korea-Middle East Association Presidential Commendation at 6th Sustainability Ministry of Knowl2008 Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development 68+69 Management Awards edge Economy Large Dangerous Substance Safety Management Council of 1st in Energy/Utility Sector of Green Ranking of 2008 Joong-Ang Ilbo Onsan Industrial Complex Joong-Ang Ilbo Decem2010 UN Global Compact Ministry of Knowlber edge Economy and Gold Tower Industrial Medal on Trade Day Korea International Trade Association S-OIL Sustainability Report 2011 From Sustainability Management Team, S-OIL Corporation 192, Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoul, Rep. of KOREA 1 2 1 – 8 0 5 Sustainability Report 2011 S OIL Designed by Samwoo communications Sustainability Report 2011 S OIL
