Stage Electrics Communication on Progress – Prepared by Liz Reed H&S Manager Period Covered: June 7th 2012 to June 7th 2013 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to confirm that Stage Electrics reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact it’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. David Whitehead Chair Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy & Goals Stage Electrics actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. Stage Electrics has a Dignity at Work Policy and is committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. Stage Electrics will not tolerate victimisation, bullying or harassment. Implementation As we expand our operations internationally all efforts are made to ensure that countries we are trading in comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Stage Electrics has a Grievance Procedure in place and offers mediation to staff as a first stage resolution to any problems experienced in the work place. Staff consultation is run where organisational changes are being implemented to ensure staff are informed and have an opportunity to influence outcomes. Stage Electrics has a range of Human Resources policies which reflect our pro-active stance on human rights including our Dignity at Work Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy and Flexible Working Policy. Outcomes In the past year Stage Electrics has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy & Goals Stage Electrics supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation who uses forced or child labour. All Stage Electrics employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. All staff are issued with a Company Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Where Stage Electrics employs agency workers we are fully compliant with the Agency Worker Regulations. Stage Electrics complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides a range of different safety related training to staff as appropriate to their job role. Implementation Stage Electrics consults with staff on a continuous basis – each year we hold a Company Review Day where the Chair speaks about the past business year, appraising staff of what we have achieved, where we are going and thanking individuals who have made a specific contribution. Stage Electrics has a range of Human Resources Policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including an Equal Opportunities Policy, Appraisal Procedure and Flexible Working Policy. Stage Electrics has a Health & Safety Policy and a well-developed range of safety procedures. Risk assessments are reviewed annually, we run a health surveillance programme and carry out regular safety audits of all sites and Departments. Outcomes Stage Electrics runs a system of annual appraisals each year to identify personal development needs and training requirements and these are actioned where ever financially possible. As well as statutorily required health and safety related training in the past year we have run ILM Team Leader training across the business. Stage Electrics has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Agency workers are given clear information regarding their hours and working requirements, and are free to make use of all welfare facilities provided including the staff canteen, rest areas, shower facilities etc. Agency staff are encouraged to apply for permanent positions with Stage Electrics if an opportunity arises in their work area. Stage Electrics has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy & Goals Stage Electrics has a Sustainability Policy based on the WWF One Planet Action template. We also have a separate Environmental Policy and a specific Policy on the Sustainable Management of Live Events. Stage Electrics has targets set each year to increase the amount of waste we are able to recycle and decrease the amount of waste going directly to landfill. In addition we have targets for reducing fuel for vehicles and this year we have improved the carbon footprint of our company fleet by replacing older vehicles and using more fuel efficient vehicles. In the coming year we will be expanding our current environmental procedures so we have a full Environmental Management System in operation – this should help us reduce environmental incidents, increase training to staff in environmental matters, have a proper auditing system in place and make us better able to respond to any issues should they arise. Implementation Regular campaigns have been run throughout the past year advising staff of waste recycling targets. Stage Electrics company cars are all fitted with blue motion technology to reduce carbon emissions. We are also compliant with the Low Emission Zone in London for all our deliveries. All environmental incidents are investigated and remedial actions taken – this includes an immediate response to rectify the incident, plus training for staff or amendments to procedures/processes to prevent any recurrences. Outcomes Stage Electrics uses licenced waste companies for disposal of waste. We are registered with a WEEE compliance company for disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment and battery disposal. Stage Electrics is also registered as a waste carrier so we can bring waste back to our Headquarters for segregation and safe disposal. Fuel consumption is monitored on a monthly basis and with trackers fitted in some vehicles too (to monitor speeding and harsh braking etc.) we have managed to reduce fuel consumption over the past 4 months. Stage Electrics has not had any reportable environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy & Goals Stage Electrics is compliant with the Bribery Act and does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Stage Electrics supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and does not operate in countries or with organisations who are corrupt. As we expand into new international markets in this coming year briefings will be given to staff in relation to bribery and corruption to ensure our continuing integrity as an international business. Implementation The Finance Director is ultimately responsible for anti-corruption within Stage Electrics and our Bribery Policy is in the process of being reviewed at the current time. Training for all relevant staff is planned once the new Policy is launched. In the Company Policy there is extensive guidance on the acceptance of gifts which is not permitted without reference to a senior Manager. At Christmas time when suppliers and customers send in gifts to specific staff members these are handed in to the relevant Manager and all gifts go into a raffle so they are shared randomly amongst employees. Outcomes Stage Electrics has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. Stage Electrics submits audited accounts each year to Companies House which are verified by external auditors and this is used as one of the methods of identifying any spurious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour.
