Our Contribution To Social, Environmental & Economic Sustainability “Our Time” 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Table of Contents Message from the CEO ........................................ 3 About GLOBAL CSR............................................. 4 Our Vision ......................................................... 5 Social Sustainability ............................................ 7 Environmental Sustainability ............................... 14 Economic Sustainability ...................................... 16 Challenges and Future CSR Work ........................ 17 2 M ESSAGE FROM THE CEO impact. The report describes our priorities for action and provides a snapshot of our performance in 2011. Our prime Our purpose is to promote sustainable development, objectives for the future are also described. It is vital for whilst increasing financial returns to our owners. CSR GLOBAL CSR that we continuously contribute, while is our business. We act in accordance avoiding becoming a barrier, to sustainable social, with the principles, we advise clients to apply. We environmental and economic development. We will continue believe that internationally agreed principles for to support the UN Global Compact as the framework and sustainable development add needed quality to the the UNGPs for implementation of CSR principals. Aside from field. The Principles-Based Approach to CSR enables being relevant for us and our clients, both of these us to address our impact on essential areas for initiatives provide a globally consistent, comparable and sustainable social, environmental and economic transparent framework for CSR performance and reporting. development. It enables a cost-efficient approach to best manage such impacts. 2011 was, to use the We acknowledge the importance of the UN in words of Prof. Ruggie, “the end of the beginning”. mainstreaming CSR based on internationally agreed The UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights and principles, and strongly support the ASEAN and EU policy Business (UNGPs) were unanimously passed by the commitments to enhance such development. To put the UN. With this unique and pragmatic global reference principles into practice, we rely on the enthusiasm, point, we have adopted a new heading to our creativity and inspiration of our employees and partners in strategy: “Our time”. inspiring businesses to adopt profitable sustainability strategies. Based on Prof. Ruggie‟s remarkable achievements it is my pleasure to present our second CSR report describing our CSR efforts in 2011. GLOBAL CSR was established as a consultancy more that 15 years ago. As one of the first professional advisors on CSR worldwide we continuously seek to optimise our social, environmental and economic 3 We look forward to continuing our work on CSR in 2012, the continued development of CSR. These efforts include and aim to improve our performance in areas of key both paid and pro bono work for organisations such as The importance to the future of our planet. Danish Government Centre for CSR, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), CSR Europe, the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights, the Institute for Business & Human Rights, the UN Special Representative of the Secretary General on Business & Human Rights, the newly established UN Working Group, the European Bars‟ and Lawyers Association, the Danish Industrialisation Fund for Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, CEO Developing Countries and a range of civil society organisations. A BOUT GLOBAL CSR Integrity is integral to the way we do business. We provide advice that leads to both short and long term benefits for our clients and for sustainability. We support CSR activities, GLOBAL CSR is a privately owned consultancy firm located which we consider will actually contribute to sustainable in Copenhagen, Denmark. As a leading Corporate Social development. Responsibility (CSR) consultancy firm, we specialise in creating sustainable solutions for private companies, public authorities and organisations in a range of countries and O UR W ORK industries. Since 1996, GLOBAL CSR has carried out assignments in all parts of the world. GLOBAL CSR assists and advises corporations in developing and implementing strategies in line with the triple bottom Our key asset is knowledge. In an effort to contribute to line concept based on an internationally recognised sustainable development, we share our knowledge by Principles-Based Approach to CSR. With more than 15 advising organisations and initiatives that are key players in 4 years experience in CSR and an extensive network of to create socially, environmentally, and economically domestic and international partners, we are able to provide sustainable CSR solutions. the most qualified, up-to-date and experienced advice. We are continuously developing innovative models and O UR V ISION products addressing sustainability, whilst enabling differentiation and cost-efficiency. GLOBAL CSR is We envisage a world of diverse social, environmental and experienced in the full cycle of CSR implementation from economic abundance and sustainability, in which all human assessments, risk & opportunity analysis, vision statements, beings enjoy the full realisation of their human rights. A strategies, policies, over training to action planning, project world where businesses live by the principles essential for design, implementation and evaluation. In addition, our becoming key players in the co-creation of a brighter future team has vast experience in evaluating both corporate and for our planet, humanity – and not least business itself. public programmes and in performing social impact assessments. In setting overall objectives for the work on GLOBAL CSR is a catalyst for such development. We CSR, we have experienced that our clients are best served are recognised as a preferred partner, advising by adopting the Principles-Based Approach. The corporations, governments, multilateral organisations and Stakeholder-Based Approach serves well in risknon-governmental organisations on how to make the identification processes and for identifying key enablers or international principles of CSR operational and profitable. As critics when optimising our clients‟ implementation of leaders in business and human rights for 15 years we have objectives. We see stakeholder engagement as a tool rather developed unique competences and tools in this field. than an end in itself. A deep understanding of the necessities of business as well as a tailored approach to each of our clients enables us 5 O UR M ISSION  HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and GLOBAL CSR will run a profitable business by: PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses  Promoting sustainable development through a focus on  LABOUR STANDARDS international principles covering the Triple Bottom Line. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of We apply the principles from the UNGC as our association and the effective recognition of the right to framework for strategic CSR, and the UNGPs for collective bargaining; implementing compliance. PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and  Inspiring and assisting corporations, governments and compulsory labour; organisations in developing and implementing CSR PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and activities and thereby creating value. PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  Delivering innovative and simple solutions, which create  ENVIRONMENT value for corporations. The business case for CSR” is PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary essential for the way we run our business, while approach to environmental challenges; maintaining the highest professional integrity. PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and The 10 UN Global Compact principles PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 6 our clients to contribute, while complying with the S OCIAL S USTAINABILITY internationally agreed principles for social sustainability, we ensure their CSR efforts serve both society and their own Principles 1-6 business objectives. Based on the principles for sustainable Our primary social sustainability impact is through development, we are experts in identifying both challenges the actions of the clients we advise and opportunities in CSR. GLOBAL CSR consultants are recognised as leading experts In all of our activities, GLOBAL CSR respects and is on the application of the International Bill of Human Rights committed to support human rights including the core and the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human labour rights, which form the heart of social sustainability Rights as the basis of CSR activities in relation to social and human dignity. The basic human rights principles are sustainability. CEO, Sune Skadegaard Thorsen is serving in essential for the wellbeing and development of all people. a range of international professional bodies developing the They cover all basic needs for enhancing human dignity. We field of CSR. continue to sharpen our unique skills and expertise in this area, as it is through our consulting services that our main contribution to sustainable development lies. Our impact We assist corporations that are both experienced and leading within the field of CSR as well as corporations that just begun working within the area. Our services span across borders, both when we provide services to international corporations and when we advise clients on how to address CSR in all their relations; be it supply chains, distribution chains or other relations. By assisting 7 GLOBAL CSR regularly participates in the public debate on UN Guiding Principles on business & human rights business and human rights and the Principles-Based GLOBAL CSR has since the appointment of the UN Special Approach to CSR. We publish articles and participate in Representative on business and human rights, Prof. John national and international working groups related to the Ruggie, actively supported his work. We are impressed with the UNGPs, the UNGC principles and CSR. We devote time to thoroughness and diligence of his work and, even more so, with engage debates both to promote our services, but primarily the results. because of the added value of this approach to businesses In 2008 the unanimously adopted Policy Framework resting on and to society. Continuing to promote social sustainability is the three pillars of State Duty to Protect, Corporate Responsibility to Respect and Access to Remedy created an thus an ongoing overall objective for GLOBAL CSR. And we unprecedented basis for advancing social sustainability. Most know we can make a difference. stakeholders supported the Framework. In June 2011 the UN Guiding Principles were unanimously Knowledge endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council. In 2011 GLOBAL CSR took a number of steps to help businesses understand and We recognise that knowledge is our primary resource. The implement the UN Guiding Principles. We have developed tools, success of our business depends on our knowledge, which companies can utilize in order to implement the guiding competencies and our abilities to communicate this principles in a consistent and cost efficient manner. In addition knowledge. It is important for GLOBAL CSR to continuously we have produced ground-breaking work in applying the UNGPs improve our competencies on CSR and sustainable to both Socially Responsible Investments (SRI) and Responsible Supply Chain Management (RSCM). development in theory as well as in practice because it is a key factor in the long-term success of our firm. It is also We believe that the globally endorsed UNGPs represent a key important for us to share our knowledge, supporting the milestone and provide important guidance for companies on how to contribute to the development of a socially sustainable development of the CSR field to find better, more costbusiness sector. And they work in practice. efficient and innovative ways to address global and local 8 challenges in relation to social sustainability. The Right to UNGPs, human rights, labour rights, environmental Education frames our contributions to social sustainability. responsibility and anti-corruption that can be purchased online. Customised modules were negotiated and sold in Our Contributions 2011 to two corporations operating globally; the subjects cover anti-corruption and anti-discrimination. E-learning can 2011 marked a turning point for GLOBAL CSR. Not only improve the pace of training considerably; which is a great were the UNGPs endorsed, but several initiatives that had need in CSR. We have high expectations for expanding this been under planning and preparation for several years were work to the market. launched in 2011. Our second objective fulfilled in 2011 was to create and Our flagship strategic CSR project was launched in initiative principles-based CSR training for professionals December 2011 by a strategic donation. GLOBAL CSR leading to a GLOBAL CSR diploma. The first round, of five donated access to two e-learning modules for the UN Global training sessions, was run as a test version in early autumn Compact titled: “What is the UN Global Compact?” and 2011. From November – December the first run of the final “Why use the UN Global Compact as the basis for your version was conducted with very positive feedback from organization‟s CSR efforts?” The modules can be accessed participants. The course has two elements capacity and used free of charge at http://www.learncsr.com, and development in terms of CSR including a firm´s http://www.unglobalcompact.org/AboutTheGC/tools_resour understanding of the UNGPs and their role, as well as an ces/general.html Our expertise in CSR combined with the opportunity for colleagues to develop innovative high quality front-end expertise on digital learning of our partners CSR initiatives. Area9, resulted in the creation of an innovative approach to e-learning focussed on learning objectives, flexibility and Finally, GLOBAL CSR continued to provide knowledge dynamic improvement. Our donation to the UN Global sharing in more conventional forms. Compact will enable not only potential customers but everybody to experience this ground-breaking learning technology. We are developing generic modules on the 9 In 2011 GLOBAL CSR gave presentations and lectures at Global Studies and as external professor at the range of national and international seminars, workshops Copenhagen Law Faculty teaching Corporate and conferences on CSR; introducing and teaching in the Governance. He also taught CSR at the Copenhagen application of the UNGPs. : Business School (CBS), Riga Law Faculty and the law faculty at Columbia University.  GLOBAL CSR conducted workshops for 70 per cent of  In 2011 GLOBAL CSR finalised a larger piece of research executives in Hitachi Europe at venues all over Europe. for the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Responsible  GLOBAL CSR acted as an advisor to the Global Business Supply Chain Management with CBS, and organised a full Initiative on Human Rights and presented at the biday conference in March to discuss the findings with annual working group and outreach meetings in Sao business and other stakeholders. The report is available Paolo, Brazil, and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. free of charge. ILO called for a meeting in November in  GLOBAL CSR was part of an advisory group to AIM Geneva to discuss the findings that open for a new Progress with WWF and the ILO. In October we approach to RSCM. presented the profound impact of the UNGPs on  GLOBAL CSR conducted professional seminars at the Responsible Supply Chain Management to a group of Danida Fellowship Centre and Mannaz on strategic CSR major businesses in the Fast Moving Consumer Goods and implementation. In addition several corporate clients Industry. received corporate training on CSR also in relation to  GLOBAL CSR presented in Kiev as key note speaker on RSCM. the Ukrainian Global Compact annual meeting.  GLOBAL CSR offered advice to the student-driven  GLOBAL CSR was part of the advisory group to Danish sustainability consultancy 180 Degrees Consulting. Investment Fund for Developing Countries (IFU). We Besides offering strategic advice on the development of participated in creating the criteria for a CSR award and the organisation, GLOBAL CSR conducted a training its presentation at the annual CSR award show. session for their team of consultants on strategic CSR.  CEO Sune Skadegaard Thorsen continued to function as  All in all an average of more than one presentation a an external examiner at Roskilde University Centre for week in 2011. 10 We also published educational material, academic and nonorder for them to make their own contributions to academic articles and are often interviewed by the media. sustainable development during their future careers. In 2011 our consultant Signe Andreasen and CEO Sune Skadegaard Thorsen finished their contribution to the book We encourage our people to improve their performance and “The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights – invest in their knowledge and skills, by coaching and Foundations and Implementation”. The book and our mentoring on an ongoing basis to ensure their long-term contribution: “Remodelling Responsible Supply Chain employability, growth and personal development. Management: The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights in Supply Chain Relations” is published January 2012 by Martinus Nijhoff Publishers. Employee satisfaction and productivity GLOBAL CSR‟s most valuable assets are our people‟s We acknowledge that our responsibility extends to providing knowledge and the know-how we manage to convert into our people with a stimulating workplace in full respect of all tools and thus actual practice for businesses. We seek to their human rights, including safe & healthy working provide the best opportunities for development. Unlike conditions. GLOBAL CSR strives to create a team spirit that traditional consultancies we keep the minimum for required is based on mutual appreciation and partnership, billable hours relatively low and we take pride in enabling stimulating our employees to achieve their full potential. our employees to leave the office after official working hours. In this way we enable our employees to maintain Diversity in the workforce is an essential topic in GLOBAL focus during working hours, develop skills and innovate. The CSR. We believe that diversity enables the organisation to success of our team and hence the firm‟s success improve its ability to innovate. 70 per cent of our knowledge depends on the professional development of all employees. is tacit, i.e. resting with our employees. 70 per cent of an individual‟s knowledge lies with his/her network. In sum, In 2011 we managed to engage three interns and seven the more diversity we manage to establish, the more student assistants. They were all trained thoroughly in the tools and principles that we utilise in our consultancy, in 11 knowledge we can access and the better decisions we can In general, GLOBAL CSR strives to keep working hours at make. the agreed 37 hours a week. We also allow for flexible hours and occasionally that employees can work from home when We also appreciate that all people need to reduce needed and appropriate. complexity, establish stereotypes and thus occasionally will act with prejudice. Working in Denmark represents an In addition our employees‟ health is important and we increased challenge in this respect as the Danish education ensure access to healthy food, exercise and fresh air system has very little focus on creating competences in this thereby energising and motivating our employees. GLOBAL area. GLOBAL CSR will in 2012 continue training for our CSR provides a healthy lunch and fresh fruit every day. employees to understand and counter both individual and GLOBAL CSR takes a proactive approach to ergonomics as structural discrimination. we spend many hours behind a computer. Proper ergonomic design is necessary to prevent repetitive strain injuries. In addition a business that actively supports diversity can Ergonomic chairs, tables and office equipment along with a improve employee satisfaction, productivity, and retention. yoga pillow for backaches improve the right to a safe and Furthermore a diverse workforce is better equipped to healthy working environment. understand the global marketplace which we serve. Employees can take a run or go for a walk during working Handling stress is a known challenge in consultancy firms. hours and are encouraged and advised to take internal The uncertainty of future assignments, the need for optimal meetings during a stroll in the neighbourhood when performance every day and the need to stay on top of the possible. tasks, makes the work of a consultant challenging. GLOBAL CSR is very much aware of our challenges and in 2011 we improved our focus on the causes for stress, and our general employee satisfaction level. In 2012, this issue remains on our agenda. 12 Our Internal CSR Commitment  We recognise the importance of complying with all basic human rights, and we seek to contribute to the human rights principles well beyond compliance.  We endeavour to minimise our environmental impact and where possible enhance our positive environmental impact.  We apply a zero tolerance approach to corruption, while seeking to enhance our positive economic impact. 13 We work in cooperation with our strategic partners that are E NVIRONMENTAL S USTAINABILITY leading experts on environmental sustainability. We have, Principles 7-9 advised clients to perform environmental impact assessments, carbon and water footprint assessments and We endeavour to minimise our negative establish sustainable supply chain solutions. environmental impact and where possible enhance It is our goal for 2012 to contribute positively to the our positive impact development of corporate environmentally responsible profiles and practices for businesses as an integrated and GLOBAL CSR supports and strives to demonstrate strategic way of doing business. environmental responsibility through our work and internally in our business. Our external contribution to environmental Our efforts sustainability stems from assisting businesses in minimising their negative and possibly improving their positive At GLOBAL CSR, we continuously seek to reduce our environmental impacts on the planet. environmental impacts by promoting and always seeking to use the best forms of transportation when possible, such as Our impact bicycling, using public transportation and carpooling. In 2011, GLOBAL CSR assessed and advised Danish and international clients on incorporating principles 7-9 of the UNGC into their core business operations. These three principles serve to support precautionary approaches to environmental challenges, to undertake new initiatives on environmental responsibility and to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 14 In 2010 GLOBAL CSR reduced the company‟s CO2 emission CSR. This requires that we take part in the debate on the by moving our offices to central Copenhagen, thereby development of the field which often involves speaking at significantly reducing emissions from employees commuting international conferences and meetings. The bulk of our CO2 back and forth. Our new location has also decreased travel emissions therefore mainly stems from international air time to clients‟ offices. Where clients are not located travel. nearby, employees commute by train making travel time faster as well as more environmentally friendly and Environmental Impact productive, since employees can use the travel time for 2011 preparation. CO2-emissions from air travel in tons 8.37 Electricity in KWh 1156 To minimise our use of air travel we seek to hold meetings Paper (sheets) 2500 through video and teleconferences when possible. During 2011 we held several meetings through teleconferences with clients both in Asia, South America and Scandinavia. Using online technology to meet with clients brings both In 2012, GLOBAL CSR will allocate funds to offset all 2010 economic and environmental benefits and contributes and 2011 emissions, if our income permits. Although this is positively to our employees work-life balance. an imperfect solution, it will support principle 8 of the UNGC in a pragmatic manner until the technological development However, being a consultancy that serves clients around the and our financial capacity enables us to eliminate our world, we cannot eliminate air travel. The personal presence negative impact. In the long run, it is GLOBAL CSR‟s goal to is often needed as part of our work. Ensuring high quality eventually become CO2 neutral in our operations and service in our line work often requires onsite presence. increasingly generate a positive impact on the environment Assessments, change management and capacity beyond our indirect contributions through the actions of our development are essential components of our work and clients. require presence and interpersonal skills. Furthermore, we seek to maintain our position as frontrunners in the field of 15 In 2011, GLOBAL CSR continued implementation of its Our impact environmental action plan developed in 2010, which Through our work we contribute to the elimination of promotes green purchasing options e.g. new energy corruption, as we advise clients on corporate economic efficient office supplies and an improved waste responsibilities and opportunities. In cooperation with our disposal/recycling system. As an example we use recycled strategic partners we help our clients implement the 10th paper, reusable printer cartridges and strive to print only principle of the UNGC strategically into their businesses. when strictly necessary. E CONOMIC S USTAINABILITY Our efforts P R I N C I P L E 10 In 2011 we advised several businesses on anti-corruption and economic sustainability. Examples include the Our mission is to run a profitable business through establishment of „Speak Up‟ lines in more than 14 countries promoting sustainable development and identifying opportunities for turning anti-corruption GLOBAL CSR applies a zero tolerance policy in relation to challenges into opportunities. corruption. In line with principal 10, we work against As consultants we were still confronted with the realities of corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery, the economic downturn that made most corporations very and we are committed to compliance with international hesitant to spend resources on external consultants. We recognised principles, such as the UN Global Compact, as have however, experienced that businesses, governments well as local anti-corruption and bribery laws. Whereas and organisations increasingly realise the importance of, corporate economic responsibility initiatives need to address and opportunities in, addressing CSR diligently. With the the international principles on anti-corruption, we also endorsement of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and advise our clients in relation to tax payments, financial Human Rights and their incorporation into OECD and EU gearing, and good corporate governance. frameworks, our expertise is widely requested. We expect that this interest will increase dramatically in 2012; the 16 indications from the market and all our international Planet partners point in the same direction. Thus, principles-based In 2010 and 2011, GLOBAL CSR improved its environmental CSR in the private and the public sector will most likely impact. However, we will continue this development in amplify in 2012 leading to greater results for our business 2012. as well as for sustainability. By every hour‟s advice sold, GLOBAL CSR makes a contribution to sustainable Profit development through the impressive actions of our clients. Part of the GLOBAL CSR business model rests on our integrity. Using GLOBAL CSR should be a hallmark for C HALLENGES AND F UTURE CSR genuine strategic CSR work. We have received recognition W ORK from our peers, civil society and international experts and the results of many of our clients speak for themselves. Our People role vis-à-vis business is not to act as watch dogs, but to For consultants with clients around the world, the right to assist them in improving performance. Nonetheless, rest, leisure and paid holidays remains a challenge that may maintaining a high level of integrity is paramount to well impact the right to a safe and healthy working GLOBAL CSR and we will continue to apply our integrity environment. GLOBAL CSR takes pride in ensuring that measures when evaluating clients, specific tasks and the employees are well above international standards. 37 hours advice we give them. work week, six week vacation and encouragement from management to ensure a good work/life balance are In continuation of our strategic CSR focus GLOBAL CSR in appreciated elements. 2012 will commence an affordable learningand advisory process for Small and Medium sized Enterprises (SMEs) that provides participants with a unique opportunity to fully exploit the benefits of CSR, in addition to creating a forum to promote their efforts and share experiences. The 17 initiative supports both EU and the Danish Government's We look forward to an exciting year of cooperation with our objectives to promote CSR among SMEs. clients, peers and stakeholders. In 2011 GLOBAL CSR took its first step in the launching of their eLearning tool „LearnCSR‟ available at „Our contribution‟ is published in English only and will be permanently available for download online on www.global-csr.com www.learnCSR.com . GLOBAL CSR contributes CSR content and on unglobalcompact.org. For feedback or further information, please contact us at info@global-csr.com or +45 44 99 55 06. through our vast expertise with technical assistance developed by learning technology experts, Area9. Several corporate clients are already using learnCSR™ eLearning modules on various CSR topics. More modules are in the pipeline for 2012. We expect high ROI from this product since our CSR e-learning caters to many needs: cost-timeefficiency; the ability to train many employees; recurrent training; dynamic improvements; capturing learning effects etc. It enables cost efficient training, continuous improvements, based on experience, and keeping exact measures of performance. In addition our focus on the „right to education‟ has resulted in two projects that were also developed in 2011. We have held two workshop series named “GLOBAL CSR Talent and Innovation Lab” during 2011, and will continue to offer these in 2012 along with our SMEs combined learning and planning initiative. 18 , Vimmelskaftet 41A, 3rd Floor, 1161 Copenhagen K, Denmark, + 45 44 99 55 06, www.global-csr.com
