Water Nature& People K-water 2012 Sustainability Report K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Publication Objective By providing clean water resources on a stable Awards & Accomplishments basis, K-water has contributed to developing the welfare of the people. Apr. 2008 ‌‌Award for Korea’s Digital Management Innovation With this report, K-water will convey its sustainable business values (Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Maeil Economic Daily) which include economic profitability, environmental wholesomeness Oct. 2008 Grand Prize for Social Contribution (The Korea Journalist Forum) and corporate social responsibility, as well as its efforts to implement Oct. 2008 The Best Sustainable Management Award them and resulting performance in a transparent way. (Ministry of Knowledge and Economy, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry) Oct. 2008 2008 Korea Environment-friendly Award (Ministry of Environment) Report Publication The “2012 Sustainability Report” is the 8th report Oct. 2008 Asia Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise Award (Teleos/UK) published. The Report is published every year, encompassing K-water’ Jan. 2009 The Grand Prize for Sustainable and Creative Management s sustainable management strategies, activities and performance, and [Environmental Management] (Ministry of Knowledge Economy, UN Global Compact) future plans. The Report summarizes K-water’s economic performance, Oct. 2009 Low Carbon Green Growth Excellence Company Award environmental soundness and social responsibility. The previous Report (Presidential Committee on Green Growth, Ministry of Environment) was published in August, 2011. Oct. 2009 New & Renewable Energy Prime Minister Grand Prize (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Oct. 2009 Asia Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise Award (Teleos/UK) Reporting Principles This Report was prepared based on GRI’s Oct. 2010 Asia Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise Award (Teleos/UK) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1). More details of the GRI Index Nov. 2010 National Grand Award for Green Technology can be found within GRI Report Index (pages 96~99). (Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Ministry of Education, Science and Technology) May. 2011 Prime Minister Commendation for Excellence in Disaster Management Assessment for Public Target Readers This Report was prepared for all stake holders such Corporations [Ministry of Public Administration and Security] as customers, local communities, government, cooperative firms, Jun. 2011 2011 Grand Award for Green Management in Korea executives & employees, and non-governmental organizations (NGO) (Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Ministry of Education, Science and Technology) that are directly or indirectly influenced by K-water’s management Jun. 2011 Grand Prize for the Eco-STAR Water Distribution Network(Ministry of Environment) activities. Oct. 2011 The President’s Commendation for Low Carbon and Green Management as the first public company (Ministry of Environment) Reporting Period The reporting period is from January 1 to December Oct. 2011 Asia Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise Award (Teleos/UK) 31, 2011. Qualitative performance up until August 2012 is partially Nov. 2011 2011 Award for the Best Company for Ethical Management covered in the Report, while the quantitative performance includes 4 (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) years worth of data from 2008 to 2011. K-water’s fiscal year is from Nov. 2011 Award for the Best 100 Companies to Work for in Korea (GWP Korea) January 1 to December 31. Nov. 2011 Certification of GMS as the first public company in Korea (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Scope of Report This Report covers K-water’s sustainable management Nov. 2011 The President’s Commendation for Supporting SMEs for the Development of New Technologies status and performance of its head office, 8 regional headquarters, 24 (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) domestic worksites, and overseas operations (14 projects in 9 countries). Nov. 2011 Grand Prize for a Public Institution for 2011 Korea IT Innovation (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Since K-water’s overseas operations are project-based and not Nov. 2011 Grand Prize for Cooperation of High Quality Internaional Eduction for Developing Countries worksites, only their business performances are reflected in the Report. (WaterLinks) Jan. 2012 Award for Smart Work Organization as the frist public company Changes during the Reporting Period there were no major changes (Minstry of Public Administration and Security) in terms of size, structure, standard year, or governance structure. Feb. 2012 Ranked at the First on the List of the Most Respected Companies in Korea [KMAC) However, there were changes in application standards for comparing certain data and calculation methods compared to that of the previous year. Report Assurance The Independent Assurance Statement and selected Membership Activities sentences of the Report was drafted by Samil PwC to enhance the Nov. 1971 Korea National Committee on Large Dams credibility of the Report. The assurance statement is included at the Jan. 1976 Korea Electric Association page from 100 to 101. Dec. 1985 Korea Energy Foundation Mar. 1997 Korea Electric Engineers Association Additional Information This Report can also be viewed on K-water’s May. 2001 Korea Power Exchange homepage (www.kwater.or.kr). for more information on K-water’s sustainable Sep. 2001 Korea New & Renewable Energy Association management activities, please contact Performance Management Team of Jan. 2002 Korea Water and Wastewater Works Association Performace Management Department of K-water (Tel: +82-42-629-2362, Mar. 2004 Korean Association of Environment Impact Assessment Fax: +82-42-6292399). Sep. 2004 Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development Oct. 2005 Korea Engineering and Consulting Association The Applicable Level of GRI G3.1 Guidelines This is to disclose Jul. 2006 Business Ethics and Sustainable management for Top Performance (BEST) Forum that K-water’s Sustainable Management Report fully satisfies the Feb. 2007 UN Global Compact requirements of ‘A+’ standards outlined in the GRI G3.1 Guideline. An Feb. 2007 U-City Forum independent 3rd party assurance agency, Samil PwC has verified that Mar. 2007 International Water Association (IWA) this Report is compliant with ‘A+’ standards of the GRI G3.1 Guideline. Mar. 2007 American Waterworks Association (AWWA), U-City Forum Jan. 2012 Korea Environmental Policy and Administration Society K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Overview of Company Head Office and 8 Regional Offices • Name K-water, Korea Water Resources Corporation • Establishment November 16, 1967 Gangwon Regional Office • Equity Capital KRW 10.8449 trillion Metropolitan Regional Office • Total Debt KRW 12.5809 trillion Sihwa Regional Office Chungcheong • Total Asset KRW 23.4259 trillion Regional Office • Sales KRW 6.3257 trillion Daejeon Gyeongbuk Head Office Regional Office • Main Project Management of the construction of multipurpose dams, Jeonbuk Gyeongnam management of multi-regional waterworks, operation & Regional Office Regional Office management of local waterworks and development of industrial complexes Jeonnam Regional Office • Products & Services Service for managing floods, supplying raw water and producing electricity, producing and supplying tap-water and constructing industrial complexes • Number of Operations Head Office, 8 Regional Headquarters, 24 Offices and Overseas Business(14 projects in 9 countries) • Number of Executives 4,200 people and Employees • Composition of Investors The Korean government with 90.9%, local governments with 0.1% and Korea Finance Corporation with 9.0% • Investment Companies Waterway Plus Co.,Ltd.(Ownership 100%) Korea Construction Management Co.,Ltd.(Ownership 18.9%) Chil-gok Enviro Co.,Ltd.(Ownership 49.0%) Prunjangryang Co.,Ltd.(Ownership 5.0%) KDS Hydro Pte. Ltd.(Ownership 80%), Jiangsu Shenshui Water Co., Ltd.(Ownership 32.5%) P-Waters Co.,Ltd.(Ownership 10%) • Location of Head Office 560 Sintanjin-ro, Deadeok-gu, Deajeon-si, Korea ※ As of December 31, 2011 Sang Seon Yak Su (上善若水); The Highest Good is Like that of Water Lao-Tzu Within 〈Tao Te Ching〉 & K-water 2012 Sustainability Report CONTENTS : Very Important : Important Strategy Forecast and Outlook 8 Vision and Strategy 10 Business Structure and Implementation Strategies 14 Creative Innovation Management 16 The Key to Sustainable Growth, R&D 18 Approach Corporate Governance 22 Ethical • Transparent Management 23 Customer Happy Management 24 Mutual Growth with Stakeholders 26 Communication with Stakeholders 28 Risk Management 30 Challenges GREEN Economy Low Carbon New Growth Green Business 34 ICT-based Integrated Water Management 35 Successful Operations of Local Waterworks 36 Integrated Management of Waterworks Facilities 38 Water Friendly Green City & High Tech Green Complex 39 Global K-water 40 Development of Technology for Industrial Water and Construction of Tailored Water Supply Facilities 42 K-water Technology Development 43 GREEN Environment Green Management System 46 Green Network 48 Countering Climate Change 50 Development of Eco-friendly Water Resources 52 Protection of Bio-diversity 54 Management of Tap Water Quality 56 Source Water Quality Improvement 58 GREEN Society Respecting Human Rights & Diversity 60 Fostering Global Human Resources 62 Creating a Great Work Place 64 Social Contribution Activities 66 Activities of K-water Water Love Volunteers 68 Performances Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 72 Financial Performance 85 Positive & Negative Information 95 GRI Report Index 96 Independent Assurance Report 100 ISO 26000 102 Code of Ethics Preamble, Eco-friendly Management Principles, Customer Charter Preamble, Mission Statement for Innovative Vision 104 UN Global Compact 106 Definition of Terms 107 CEO Message Dear customers! K-water is taking the lead in making the world more abundant and happier by enhancing the communication between nature and people through a new hope of waterway. 4 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People I'd wholeheartedly like to thank our customers for supporting K-water, which makes the world more abundant and happier by water, and I am also glad to publish the 8th report about sustainable management activities and achievements of K-water. K-water was established in 1967 as the only comprehensive water service corporation in Korea, and it is now operating and managing 16 multi-functional dams including Soyang Dam, and 39 water supply and sewerage systems across the nation including metropolitan areas. Over the last 50 years, it is taking the lead in improving the quality of people's lives by reliably supplying clean water and preventing damages from floods. K-water is taking the lead in the global green growth. The world's economic outlook is gloomy and the management environment at home and abroad is more difficult than ever. However, advanced countries are enhancing their green policies, as the OECD has declared green growth as their 'future core strategy' and European countries announced a road map for low carbon growth. K-water has established its foundation for new sustainable growth by successfully implementing major national green new deal projects, such as the 4 Rivers Restoration Project and the Gyeong-in Ara waterway project, and started the construction project of eco-friendly cities including Songsan and Gumi, and has been leading green growth, which is a new global paradigm, by expanding the clean energy projects including the Sihwa Tidal Power Plant. Based on its achievements, the sales of K-water increased 11.9% in 2011 compared to the previous year, and the net profit during the term increased 106.4%. K-water is supplying the best quality of water which everyone can trust and drink. K-water has redoubled its efforts to improve the environment by increasing the investment rate for the environment by 48% compared to last year, in order to supply the best quality of water in an eco-friendly and stable way. By establishing the 'evaluation and rating system of water quality of water purification plants' based on IT and monitoring the management level on all water purification plants in the country and giving feedback about the result in real time, K-water acquired the 5-Star certification from the US Water Association, which guarantees the competency for managing water quality, as the first case in the world that the certification was issued for a region outside the Northern American regions. Thanks to its efforts to supply the best quality of water, tap water produced by K-water was selected as one of the global top 10 tap waters for the two consecutive years from 2011 to 2012, competing excellent tap-waters from the U.S., and Canada in the International Water Tasting and Competition, and ranked the top on the survey of customer satisfaction for the six consecutive years since 2007. K-water is achieving sustainable growth based on the best possible results. K-water has been highly acknowledged for its economic, environmental and social achievements. K-water has been selected as an excellent organization with the A grade in the management performance evaluation for public organization of Korea for the four consecutive years, and it was selected as the best company for ethical management in 2011. Also, it received the Grand Award for green management in Korea and Asia Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise Award for four years in a row as the first company among public corporations in Korea. Last year, K-water announced its new management policy of as its new management in order to develop itself into a ‘more influential K-water.’ Moreover, K-water has enhanced its foundation as a global green company by acquiring the certification of green management system as the first public corporation in Korea. K-water is opening a 'happy world by water' through global competition. K-water has strived to advance the competency for water management and to enhance its global competitiveness through the improvement in the management efficiency with its creed that fostering global human resources and developing core technologies are the two main factors that will decide our future competitiveness. K-water is also actively pushing ahead with various overseas projects that serve as new growth engines for the future based on its advanced skills and experiences for water management. K-water is now conducting green projects with the size of about KRW 1.859 trillion in 15 countries. The ultimate goal of K-water is to make the world a better place where every citizen of the world, who suffers from water shortages and water damages, can limitlessly enjoy ‘the benefits from clean water.’ I'd like to ask you to keep supporting K-water for its passionate and creative efforts and challenges for the future. Thank you. 2012. 8 President of K-water Kim, Kuen Ho Water, Nature & People 5 Water never stops not even for a moment. It moves ceaseless up and down, creates waves and pushes forward based on its strength. K-water, just like the water that never tires, strives to push our current visions and strategies into the future. Flow Strategy Forecast and Outlook 8 Vision and Strategy 10 Business Structure and Implementation Strategies 14 Creative Innovation Management 16 The Key to Sustainable Growth, R&D 18 Strategy Forecast and Outlook K-water will faithfully carry out its role as an anchor that leads the sustainable development and the expansion abroad of the water industry. Added Difficulties of Water Resources Management Due to the influence of climate change, water resources management by the Effect of Climate Change has become more complex and uncertain. The conventional water Water is an important element which restricts the birth and prosperity of management method will no longer guarantee the safety of water use, the human civilization. Ancient civilizations were built around rivers where flood defense and ecological environment under climate change. people could secure water, and the industrialization and urbanization The international community is trying to innovate water management in were successfully realized by the introduction of a water supply system order to fulfill its mission for protecting people's lives, industrial activities including the water supply and sewerage system. The water management and ecological environment safely from floods, droughts and pollutions. and water industry have recently emerged as important issues due to Moreover, the needs for water by the people are more than just securing the climate change, which causes rapid changes in the water cycle, the drinking water and handling sewage. Now, the people now want to be continuous increase of the population, and rapid growth of megacities. In more prosperous by water, safe from disasters caused by water, and other words, massive floods and droughts caused by climate change and obtain aesthetic satisfaction from water. The water market has been the increase of the population and the rapid growth of megacities have rapidly expanded to meet the various needs for water. added difficulties to water resources management in terms of supply and demand respectively. Rapid Growth of the Global Water Market A Big Opportunity of the Water Industry During the 20th century, global water withdrawals have increased faster │The Current Size by Industry│ (Unit: USD 1 billion] than the population growth rate. While the population increased by 3.7 times, the water withdrawals have increased by 6.7 times. The total water resources that human can use on earth have reached its limit. Petroleum 1,358 According to a report entitled “Charting Our Water Future” presented by the World Bank and McKinsey Consulting, the global demand for water Automobile 1,160 will increase from 4,500㎦ in 2009 to 6,900㎦ in 2030. │Outlook for Water Shortage in 2030│ (unit: 1 billion m3, 143 territories/regions ) Electricity 600~800 6,900 CAGR 900 -40% IT 600~650 2% 2,800 1,500 4,200 4,500 100 Communications 500~600 Municipal & Domestic 600 › 700 ‹ Ground Industry › 800 water Relevant supply quantity is much lower 4,500 Water 400~500 that the absolute renewable water 3,500 ‹ Surface Agriculture › 3,100 availability in nature water Medicines Manufacture 400~450 Existing 2030 Basins with Basins with Existing accessible reliable, withdrawals withdrawals deficits surplus sustainable supply Semiconductor 280 ※ Source: 2030 Water Resources Group, 2009 The global demand for water exceeds 40% of the current water supply Shipbuilding 250 that can be reliably secured. Under the circumstance, it is expected that New&Renewable some areas will suffer from extreme water shortages. About one of the Energy 162 third of the world population will live in the areas where the water demand exceeds more than 50% of the water supply, and most of the population ※ Source: Global Water Market 2010, Global Water Intelligence will be concentrated in the developing countries. 8 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People According to a UK specialized water research institute, Global Water materials, by utilizing state-own companies. Intelligence, it is predicted that the size of water industry centered on the water supply and sewerage system will increase from USD 482.8 billion Thirdly, technology innovation in the water industry is implemented by the in 2010 to USD 865 billion in 2025. The size of the water industry is bigger Smart supply of water by using the innovative technology of the water than the semiconductor industry(USD 280 billion) and the shipbuilding treatment based on membranes and IT. The current water treatment industry(USD 250 billion). is mainly conducted by the physicochemical method of processing According to the prediction by the OECD on the size of the combined flocculation, precipitation and filtration in the water supply, and by the Strategy water management market as of 2025, the investment demand for the biochemical method of using microbes in the sewerage system. Recently, infrastructure of the water industry will be USD 1.037 trillion which exceeds various membranes, such as MF, UF, NF and RO, are developed and that of the electricity industry(USD 241 billion) and the communication widely used in supplying water, treating sewerage and waste water, industry(USD 171 billion). Booz Allen Hamilton also predicts that the and desalinating seawater, replacing the conventional water treatment annual average investment demand for the infrastructure of the water methods. Moreover, the infrastructure of the water industry has become industry will be USD 870 billion by 2030, which largely exceeds USD 360 Smart based on IT. The Smart infrastructure is to make the most of billion of that of the electricity industry. water resources, maintain high water quality, and technologically support the optimal integrated water resources management , which deals with Trend of the Global Water Industry natural disasters, such as floods and droughts, through the bilateral Integration, Specialization and Technology Innovation exchange of information between consumers and suppliers. Approach Three mega trends in the global water industry are integration, specialization and technology innovation. Role of K-water for Developing the Water Industry and its Advance into the Global Market First, integration of the water industry is to realize economies of scale, The Korean government selected green growth as a new national which are materialized as integrated operations, integrated or cooperated agenda for 2008. The aims of the green growth policy are to prepare for operators based on M&A, integrated management of the water supply counter strategies against climate change on the national level, and to and sewerage system in the area of the water supply and sewerage help developing countries better adjust to climate change and facilitate system, in which the private sector actively participates in, and integrated the sustainable development by disseminating Korea's experience of ecowatershed management in the area of water resources development friendly economic growth. In order to pursue the policy of green growth, Challenges and management. Moreover, it is a trend that an operator integrates and one of the most important resources is water. Accordingly, the issues manages both the water supply and the sewerage system in the same area related to water, which the international community is now facing, is one of based on economies of scope. If operations of the water supply and the the most urgent tasks to be addressed. sewerage system is classified by a type of contract, about 29.6% out of the entire contracts is the contract for integrated management of the water The Korean government has increased its R&D investment in new supply and sewerage system. Also, the integrated management of water technologies for the water industry, and has implemented the 4 Rivers has been developing into a new growth market due to climate change. Restoration Project, a major integrated water management project to respond to climate change. In particular, with the report of the water Secondly, specialization in the water industry has been materialized as industry growth by the Presidential Committee on Green Growth in Oct. changes in the business management entities from local governments 2010 as the turning point, the efforts of government-wide levels have been Performances to companies specialized in water, for example, the rapid growth of focused on expanding the water industry to advance to overseas. K-water multinational water companies, such as Veolia and Suez, as well as largeplans to do its best in maintaining and strengthening the national safety sized water specialized public companies, such as SABESP of Brazil and competitiveness through stable water supply, disaster prevention, and ACEA of Rome, and appearance of local water companies, such as maintenance and restoration of ecology and environment, and others China Water Industry Group. However, water can be considerably political under the ever-complicated and uncertain water management condition goods, as you can see in the failures in the privatization of the water caused by climate changes. Furthermore, with a water management industry of Manila of the Philippines and Buenos Aires of Argentina. In institution equipped with global scale technologies, it plans to duly the situation, central and local governments of each country are trying to undertake the anchor role for advancing the water industry by utilizing exercise significant control over water. The U.K., which chose the most its strength as a national public enterprise that encompasses water radical model of the privatization of the water industry, strictly reset the resources and water service fields. On the basis of accumulated criteria of water rate every five years through OFWAT, a Water Services technologies and knowhow, K-water is to contribute to the sustainable Regulation Authority, thoroughly controls over M&A between water growth and advancement of our country’s water industry through the companies in order to maintain the availability of performance comparison advancement into overseas markets along with private construction between operators. In the case of Israel and Singapore, they foster various companies, development of SMEs and venture technology companies, and industries related to water, such as manufacturing, components and expansion of low carbon green business. Water, Nature & People 9 Strategy Vision and Strategy In 2012, K-water will emerge as the world's most comprehensive water service provider through Green to Great based Growth. Revision and Supplementation of Visions and Strategies To achieve visions that conform to establishment objectives, K-water has proposed the 'Green vision 2020' image of the future and established mid to long-term management strategy plans that develops new growth strategies following the 4 Rivers Restoration Project and Gyeong-in Ara Waterway Project. In order to actively respond to changing internal and external sentiments, K-water has established 9 implementation strategies and 22 practical tasks of Green to Great K-water. Through management strategies, K-water will realize its vision with the sustainable development of water infrastructure and focused cultivation of new growth engine businesses. Vision K-water has established its vision as the ‘world best │K-water Strategic Management System│ comprehensive water services provider’ that faithfully undertakes its establishment objectives, fulfills its social Mission Water for the Happier World responsibilities and is equipped with global competitiveness. Vision World Best Comprehensive Water Service Company K-water New Management To become a respected Great corporation through Green growth, K-water strives to become the best in the world in the Core Values Management Policies (Purity, Passion, Creativity) (Future-oriented, Site-centered, In-strengthened) following five areas. Enterprise Guard: A world-class company with ZERO accidents Strategy Goals Achieve sales of KRW 11.5 trillion, overseas sales of 50%, sales income of 14.2%, Realize the five major area(GREAT) Global Best Renovation: An innovation leader based on change Environment: An eco-friendly company that creates green values Strategy Realization of the Enhancement of OnSecuring Global direction Ability: A company that cultivates global best human resources Future Growth site Management Competitiveness Technology: A technological company that leads future markets Implementation 4. Enhancing Site Organizations 7. Securing of financial soundness 1. Fostering the Five Strategic Strategy Businesses 5. Advancing the Structure of Risk 8. Enhancing Global Human Resources 2. Enhancing the Stability of Water Supply Management 9. Enhancing Transparent Management 3 Key Strategic Directions 3. Establishing the Advanced Organization Culture 6. Gaining Trust from Securing Customers, Regions and the Public The three key strategies for sustainable management Practical are realization of future growth, strengthening of onsite Tasks • Unifying the Management of Dams • Advancing the Organization for • Recovering the Investment into • Integrating Water Supply Businesses Water Management National Projects and Enhancing management and acquisition of global competitiveness. In • Recreating Waterfronts • Enhancing the Motivation of Investment Flexibility • Leading Green Energy Organizations on Site • Improving the Profitability and order to achieve such visions efficiently, K-water pursues • Achieving the Overseas Sales of 50% • Upgrading the System for Risk Enhancing the Management of Focused implementation of strategies and aligned organization • Stably Securing Water Resources • Advancing the Structure of Water Supply Management • Enhancing the Competency for Financial Risks • Securing the Future-leading activities. • Enhancing the Stability of Water Responding to Risks Company Technologies Early Facilities Wide • Fostering Tailored Talents by • Creating the New Emotional Culture • Innovating Customer Services Business • Innovating the Way of Working • Enhancing the Cooperation with • Realizing the Ethical Organization Realization of Future Growth: Acquire foundations for Stakeholders • Enhancing its Social Responsibility continued growth through active responses against future risks, including climate change, water industry, and corporate Strategy Implementation Connection BSC and the Management of Performances restructuring 10 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Strengthening of Onsite Management: An organization flexible to change based on advances in customer and onsite centered functions and strengthened risk management capabilities Strategy Acquisition of Global Competitiveness: Strengthening of global capabilities, such as cultivating customized personnel and acquisition of future technologies as a means to achieve both quantitative and qualitative growth Implementation of Sustainable Management System The sustainable management pursued by K-water increases economic profitability as well as environmental stability. It is our aim to faithfully perform our social responsibilities as a public corporations so that our citizens in all areas of our nation can be supplied with clean water. Based on the foundations of economic efficiency, it is our goal to perform green management and socially-responsible management in a balanced way in order to create new corporate values and ultimately be respected as a 'Respected Corporation'. Through systematic management, including setting of core performances and targets (KPI) and linking with BSC based performance management, K-water has achieved 103% of performances compared to 2011 targets. Based on such efforts for sustainable management, K-water was against ranked within the top class in continuation from last year within the ‘Sustainability Approach Index’ Assessment, which assesses efforts by a corporation for the economy, environment and society, conducted by Kyunghyang Newspaper. │K-water Mid-to-Long Term Core Goals for Sustainable Management│ 2011 2016 2020 • The Overseas Population for Water Services • The Overseas Population for Water • The Overseas Population for Water 0.5 million people Services 31.664 million people Services 40.157 million people • Number of integrated management system • Number of integrated management • Number of integrated management constructions 33 cases system constructions 56 cases system constructions 66 cases • Flood Management Capability 4.9 billion ㎥ • Flood Management Capability 6.11 billion ㎥ • Flood Management Capability 6.12 billion ㎥ Future • Water Supply Capability 12.2 billion ㎥/year • Water Supply Capability 13.37 billion ㎥/year • Water Supply Capability 13.45 billion ㎥/year Challenges • The Population for Local Waterworks Services • The Population for Local Waterworks • The Population for Local Waterworks Growth 1.771 million people Services 8.313 million people Services 17.71 million people • Order Performance of Industrial Water • Order Performance of Industrial Water • Order Performance of Industrial Water KRW 5.6 billion KRW 66 billion KRW 100 billion • The Rate of Achieving the Target for Waterfront • The Rate of Achieving the Target for • The Rate of Achieving the Target for Projects 100% Waterfront Projects 100% Waterfront Projects 100% • Enterprise Sigma Level 2.14σ • Enterprise Sigma Level 3.53σ • Enterprise Sigma Level 6.00σ • BIM of New Technology for Management Enforced • BIM of New Technology for Management 50% • BIM of New Technology for Management 100% from 2013 • Efforts for Supplying High Quality Water 92% • Efforts for Supplying High Quality Water 100% • Efforts for Supplying High Quality Water 50% • Replacing Old and Corroded Water Pipes 399㎞ • Replacing Old and Corroded Water Pipes 649㎞ • Replacing Old and Corroded Water Pipes 33.2㎞ • The Operation Rate of Multi-regional • The Operation Rate of Multi-regional • The Operation Rate of Multi-regional Waterworks Waterworks 72.5% Waterworks 75% Performances 70% • Organizational Structure HQ-Regional • Organizational Structure HQ Regional Onsite • Organizational Structure HQ-Regional Office Office Domestic Offices Overseas Subsidiaries • Public-Service Satisfaction Index Highest • Public-Service Satisfaction Index Highest • Public-Service Satisfaction Index Highest Management Grade(over 90 points) Grade(over 90 points) Grade(over 90 points) • Internal Customer Satisfaction for Public • Internal Customer Satisfaction for Public • Internal Customer Satisfaction for Public Corporation 87 points Corporation 92 points Corporation 96 points • The Public Sensory Level of Satisfaction the Public • The Public Sensory Level of Satisfaction the • The Public Sensory Level of Satisfaction the 104% Public 108% Public 112% • Efforts for Risk Management 85 points • Efforts for Risk Management 96 points • Efforts for Risk Management 100 points • Efforts for Reducing Accidents 0.18% • Efforts for Reducing Accidents 0.33% • Efforts for Reducing Accidents 0.10% • Sales Increase Rate 11.9% • Sales Increase Rate 18.8% • Sales Increase Rate 17.1% • Debt Rate 116.0% • Debt Rate 137.2% • Debt Rate 102.5% • Profit Rate 15.1% • Profit Rate 12.1% • Profit Rate 14.2% Global • Stockholders' Equity Turnover 0.2 times • Stockholders' Equity Turnover 0.4 times • Stockholders' Equity Turnover 0.6 times • Securing Star Brand Technologies 1 case • Securing Star Brand Technologies 15 cases • Securing Star Brand Technologies 27 cases Competiti • Index for Fostering Human Resources 37% • Index for Fostering Human Resources 42% • Index for Fostering Human Resources 50% veness • Corporation's Integrity Outstanding Institution • Corporation's Integrity Outstanding Institution • Corporation's Integrity Outstanding Institution • Social Contribution Activity Index 86 points • Social Contribution Activity Index Over 90 points • Social Contribution Activity Index Over 90 points • Environment Performance Evaluation (EPE) • Environment Performance Evaluation • Environment Performance Evaluation 141 points (EPE) Over 150 points (EPE) Over 150 points Water, Nature & People 11 Strategy Implementation of Sustainable Management │Sustainable Management Organization│ Organization K-water operates four divisions and 25 departments at CEO the head office, with 8 local headquarters and 24 nationwide management offices(construction offices). Under the Board of Directors Auditor General direction of the vice president, the Sustainable Management Implementation Organization is in charge of the overall Advisory Organization Management Services Senior Executive sustainable management, providing stake holders with related • K-water Management Advisory Vice President Department council information through the Sustainability Report every year. At the • Customer Participation Committee • Water Environment, Health Supervises Sustainable same time, K-water operates advisory committees and councils Advisory committee Management • Quality of Tap Water Council to collect diverse opinions and suggestions regarding the • Dam construction Local councils economy, environment and society. Oversea Business Sustainable Creative Management Division K-water will modify and complement its middle and long term Water Gyeong-in Ara strategic management plans to achieve new growth engines in Administrative Services Resources Water Supply Business Green Business District Business Waterway Project Business Division which the new management environment is reflected. Through Division Division Division Division Division these efforts, K-water will further strengthen its public service functions to improve the public welfare by preventing natural 4Oversea Business Rivers Restoration Division Project Division disasters that can be caused by water due to the worsening climate change and by stably securing water resources. Moreover, K-water will intensively promote new growth engine projects, such as waterfront projects, green energy projects and overseas projects through the selection and concentration strategy, while do it best for the sustainable development of the water infrastructure, such as unifying the management of dams in river basins, producing high-quality Tap Water, and maintaining water resources and waterworks. Sustainable Green Management │Green Management Implementation Strategies│ K-water has declared its vision of the environmental Implementation The best corporation of green management management internally and externally, and continuously Direction pursued the eco-friendly management since 2002, so that K-water has converted its management structure that is in harmony with the economic feasibility and the environment. Implementation Object Continuous improvement of EPE index Also, K-water established the Environmental Performance Evaluation(EPE) system to systematically manage the environmental effects caused by business activities and the Strategy Establishment of global Strengthening Expansion of environmental management performance, and it manages the green management global low carbon bases for green system competitiveness management system as an indicator for major achievements of the middle and long term management plan by setting up the EPE index to continuously improve the performance. K-water's environment Tasks • GMS structuring and certification • Management of greenhouse gas • Strengthening green management management has been continuously strengthened to prevent • Accomplishing EPE index of 145 reduction result internalization program • Expanding the support for • Tap water carbon reduction label • Strengthening internal review for environmental risks and to create new environmental values, establishment of the eco-friendly • Expansion of US 5-Star water ISO appropriateness verification management system for SMEs purification plant • Purchase of low carbon green such as Clean Development Mechanism(CDM), based on the • Publication of sustainable • Expansion of new recycled energy product management report and accomplish development • DEVELOPMENT of environmentlegal management level of the environmental performance. highest registration (A+) • Enhancement of energy efficiency in Water Front resources offices K-water publishes the Sustainable Management Report by collecting the results. Through the Report, communications with stake holders have been enhanced, while greater transparency Measurement 2006 2011 2013 2020 has been achieved in terms of access to information provided. Index EPE Index 100 141 150 150 K-water initiatively established a “Master Plan for Dealing with 12 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Climate Change” and has been actively cooperating with greenhouse gas reduction policies of the international community and the Korean government. As part of such efforts, K-water has been transformed into an effective carbon management system by setting up its internal carbon reduction targets and optimizing climate change adjustment system to prevent floods and droughts and preserve the aquatic ecosystem and biodiversity. Greater emphasis has also been placed on carrying-out its responsibilities in the environment sector by strengthening reservoir water quality and river management, creating Environmentally-friendly spaces at the areas adjacent to dams, and securing environmental soundness for the Green New Deal initiative. With the enactment of the 「Frame Act of Low Carbon Green Growth」 in 2010, the energy management, greenhouse gas management and social responsibility has been expanded and converted from the existing environment management system to the green management system, and accordingly, K-water has been undertaking the green management system certification as newly introduced in 2011. In addition, K-water is committed to strengthen its global green competitiveness through realizing the low carbon business premises with the certification for the carbon reduction label system in all business premises, designation for green enterprises and others. Sustainable Open Management Strategy Customers' demands for management transparency of public enterprises and environment-oriented green management have been increasing, so an open communication with customers has becoming an important issue. K-water's objective is to create a socially sustainable open management by establishing a win-win partnership with each stakeholder to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities. The social sustainable management strategy is selected and operated as one of the strategic tasks in connection with strengthening its social responsibility. Moreover, K-water strives to improve its competitiveness as well as enhance its partnership for venturing into the overseas water market by pursuing one of the national agendas of the coexistence and co-prosperity with small-medium sized enterprises, and the shared growth by supporting SMEs. │ K-water Socially Responsible Management Directions│ K-water is trying to establish transparent and reliable Approach Transparent management activities and processes. Its executives CustomerK-water impresses its customers exercises by and Ethical and employees try that the ethical management takes centered providing clean water and the best water supply Management its root in the company culture through their daily Management services. work activities and lives. K-water try to protect the human rights and safety Humanitarian Partnership for K-water establishes a partnership with its suppliers, & health of all employees, and protect the rights of Management and Coexistence and and pursues mutual benefits with them by supporting the socially underprivileged, such as people with Challenges Safety & Health Co-prosperity technologies. disabilities and women. K-water supports the career development for its K-water contributes to the development of local executives and employees depending on their job Management of Contribution to communities and the country by operating various capacity from the day when they join the company to Human Resources Local Community cooperative programs for regional residents and by their retirement in order to enhance their competency conducting active socal activities. and the value of their lives. Performances │Socially Responsible Management Measurement Index│ P al Cu rovid tim nt sto e t Performance Target e Op nme me he d o r S Bes ovi vir erv t Classification Note Pr k En ice o r s 2009 2010 2011 2015 W nd Cu ls a es sto Public-Service icia ye me Highest Ranking Ministry of Strategy Off mplo r Satisfaction Index 93.7 points 97.1 points 96.1 points Operate e (Over 90 points) and Finance Efficient Policy (PCSI) Government Corporation's Integrity Anti-corruption & Civil NGO (Audit & Inspection Excellent Excellent Excellent Excellent Implementation Consultative Group Dept.) Rights Commission ComLoca e Social Contribution mu l ativ 83 84 86 90 K-water nity per Index Coo Firm p Soc shi ial ner d Core Personnel Index Co art ce an 37% 41% K-water Act ntrib P ish ten ty (Personnel Division) ivit u ies tion abl xis eri Est r Coe prosp fo Co※ Social Contribution Index: Participation Level x 0.3 + Activity Rate x 0.4 + Employee Fundraising Participation x 0.3 ※ Core Personnel Index: (Top Experts x 1.5 + Experts 1.2 + Semi-Experts x1) ÷ Total Personnel Water, Nature & People 13 Strategy Business Structure and Implementation Strategies K-water will continue achieving sustainable growth through continued pursuit of foundational businesses, such as water resources and waterworks, in addition to the cultivation of new growth engines, including energy and overseas projects. Adjustment of Business Portfolio for Sustainable Growth Overseas businesses, K-water pursues the “achievement of 50% of sales K-water has restructured strategic businesses by reflecting changing overseas” and has overseen increased investments and conducted naturemanagement conditions, including the utilization of water values through linked package businesses. the 4 Rivers Restoration Project, and the Gyeong-in Ara Waterway Project, the establishment of energy business models in preparation of Water Resources Business RPS (Renewable Portfolio Standards), and overseas exports based on Damages caused by drought, flood and unusual temperatures have accumulated capacities upon completing various national projects. gradually increased alongside worsening climate change. In order to effectively respond to climate change, K-water has pursued the acquisition Business Vision & Strategies of abundant water supply through the 4 Rivers Restoration Project, the K-water has been cultivating the water resources business, water supply construction of eco-friendly green dams, and advances in the use of existing business and waterfront business, green energy business and overseas dams. The 4 Rivers Restoration Project scheduled for completion in 2012, businesses as its five strategic businesses. K-water has also reorganized has secured 1.3 billion ㎥ of water annually and increases in flood adjusting its business visions and strategies to promote growth strategies that reflect volume by 920 million ㎥. The size performance improvement business and the formation of new business areas in the aftermath of national projects, IT-based u-Dam safety construction have served to improve the stability response to the restructured global water industry, re-establishment of of water resources facilities. For stability of dams during times of extreme K-water's green growth directions and secure financial stability. flooding, the size performance improvement project is scheduled for The Water Resources business is focused on integrated management by completion for 10 dams by 2017. region and strives for “Integrated Water Resources Management System to K-water will also take the lead in disaster prevention by advancing ICT Counter Climate Change.” based maintenance and management systems. We will also environment The Waterworks business pursues the provision of a total waterworks improvement projects, including improved water landscapes within cities service to lead the water industry and has implemented integration of and rivers, increased amenities utilizing water front areas, and investigate regional water and sewage systems and provided industrial water. The new concepts in water management based on water resources surveys and Water Front business strives for the “the creation of a Water Front space information projects. converging land and water” and has implemented the creation of Water Front spaces to increase available amenities around water front areas Waterworks Business while spreading a leisure culture. The Green Energy business strives to “lead The paradigm and environment of the waterworks industry is shifting from green energy use through converting and combining water and natural increased water supply to improving customer services, water conflicts energies”. This business domain has implemented small hydropower between regions (Gyeongnam & Busan areas and Gyeongbuk & Daegu development, land and water based solar power generation, wind power areas) and participation by private corporations. Accordingly, K-water is generation, thermal difference generation and CDM businesses. For pursuing the clean water supply an integrated water and sewage business │Corporate Business Structure│ Water Resources Business Waterworks Business Total Realization of Integrated Water Resources Service Provision of Total Waterworks Service to Management to respond to Climate Change lead the Water Industry Provider Across • Water Resources Development/Management All Water-based • Metropolitan Waterworks • Utilization of Water Front Values • Regional Water and Sewage Systems • Water Resources Information Technology Industries • Customized Water Supply Water Front Business Green Energy Business Overseas Business Creation of Water Front Space that Leader of Green Energy that Achievement of 50% of sales overseas converges land and water converges Water with Natural Energy • ODA • Creation of Industrial and Water Front District • Tidal Energy • Hydropower • Technical Services • Green Logistics • Solar Energy • Wind Energy • Direct Investments 14 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People structure, and increased supply of value adding water. By achieving our Green Energy Business goals, K-water aims to provide 17.71 million people with water by 2020 and The size of the renewable energy market is expected to grow to USD 1 achieve KRW 2.8 trillion in sales by 2020. For such to occur, K-water will trillion in 2020 and become a new Blue Ocean. And with the introduction supply high quality tap-water by securing a water flux of 18.874 million ㎥/ of RPS (Renewable Portfolio Standards) from 2012, new business day, over 75% operation rate for multi-regional waterworks, enhancement opportunities according to new markets (REC transactions) is also of aged water purification plants, and the improvement of 649㎞ of worn expected. K-water possesses abundant potential (89% out of 1,818MW) out pipes by 2020. K-water will respond to the water-sewage integration and is pursuing ways to increase supply by diversifying generation source policy of the government and strengthen international competitiveness to with a focus on solar energy. K-water is pushing ahead with hypo power realize the total water service by undertaking consignment projects for 19 generation by 14 new facilities(7 facilities in 2011), such as the existing 24 regions and 96 local governments by 2020. K-water strives to be positioned facilities including Hapcheon Hydro Power Plant, and weirs of the four Strategy atop of the future water market by acquiring core technologies to increase rivers including Gangcheon Weir, as well as 254MW tidal power generation market participation. Through double-tracking of pipelines, strengthened at Siwha Tidal Power Plant. Also, K-water is pursuing various projects, such emergency linkages, and periodic replacement of aging facilities, K-water as wind power plants at Gyeongin Ara Waterway and Sihwa Bangameori, will strive to stably supply water. Additionally, K-water will work hard to land and ocean solar power plants at 11 locations including Hapcheon improve customer services by introducing advanced treatment facilities Dam, and CDM project. In addition K-water is continuously developing new and improving facilities and services. Distribution systems, we will continue & renewable energy sources, such as air-conditioning system by thermal working to resolve shortages in limited supply areas and reduce costs energy and wave-force generation. based on improved operational efficiency. Overseas Business Water Front Business The size of the global water market is expected to grow by USD 1,000 Approach While there is an increased demand for waterfront areas following the spread trillion by 2025 while the scope of the market is continuing to increase. the culture of recreation and leisure, there are not enough waterfront areas On the other hand, the domestic market is already saturated with water to meet the demand. With the enactment of the Special Act on the Utilization projects caused by a shift from new water system construction to service of Waterfront in December, 2010, it has become possible to systematically maintenance. In order to overcome such limitations, K-water is pushing utilize various values of waterfront areas. Accordingly, K-water aims to create ahead with new overseas projects based on the know hows that have waterfront areas through a new high value and competitive business model accumulated through the Chao Phraya River Development Project in that highlights the values of water. Thailand and the 4 Rivers Restoration Project. The business model has also First, K-water will focus on completing ongoing construction projects, including shifted from the one focusing on ODA projects within developing countries an industrial complex(extension of Gumi) and cutting-edge multifunctional cities to investment projects offering high profitability, as evidenced by the Patrind (Sihwa MTV and Songsan GC). By integrating the water front environments of waterpower generation plant construction in Pakistan currently underway. Challenges Sihwa Lake with tourism and leisure industries, we will increase the profitability Through such efforts, K-water will serve 40.15 million people for overseas of existing businesses. We will also push ahead with new profitable businesses services and achieve KRW 5.8 trillion in sales revenues in 2020. Additionally, using various tourist resources and leisure activities of waterfronts, including in order to reduce risks that may occur alongside increased investments, Suhyang 8 Beauty Spots, marinas and water leisure facilities of the GyeongK-water has organized a risk TF team while a risk management system is in Ara Waterway. We will also create a high-class waterway integrating green being operated from the pre-decision making stages and through the entire logistics by creating and optimizing a logistics complex of Ara Waterway and process. At the same time, K-water also strives to acquire financial stability developing a hinterland of IncheonㆍGimpo Terminal(2.05 million ㎡). Lastly, organizing project financing procurement and regional funds. pursue regional economic development and regional growth by implementing the Busan Eco Delta City Project scheduled to commence from 2012. Performances │K-water Business Objectives│ Dam Water Supply(100 million tons) Metropolitan Waterworks Sales(KRW 100 million) Population using Local Waterworks(1,000 people) 2011 2020 2011 2020 2011 2020 52 64 11,379 35,199 2,053 17,710 Water Front Sales(KRW 100 million) Green Energy Generation(GWh) Overseas Sales(KRW 100 million) 2011 2020 2011 2020 2011 2020 8,706 9,238 1,970 3,946 354 58,034 Water, Nature & People 15 Strategy Creative Innovation Management K-water is continuously applying systematic and scientific innovation techniques in order to achieve our vision of the world's best comprehensive water service provider. Implementation Direction of K-water’s Creative Innovations │K-water Creative Innovation Directions| K-water continues to actively promote creative innovations to secure global competitiveness despite the fast and ever-changing global business Global K-water environment. K-water is doing whatever's possible to embody an innovativeⅢStage ('11~) based and active mentality for each employee by systematically operating Development of global organization capability the Communities of Practice (CoP), promoting knowledge management 6-sigma confirmation and settlement Focusing on innovation of ‘working method’ to provide concrete support to the work being carried-out on-site, and Ordinary daily affairs of innovation activities Culture innovation improving practices pertaining to the organizational culture based on the 3 core values, which includes purity, passion and creativity. This has ⅡStage ('08~'10) resulted in our achieving a grade 6, the highest innovation level, within public Acceleration in management innovation organization innovation assessments. Software 6-sigma settlement Upgrade Settlement of independent innovation tool K-water’s Proprietary Creative Innovation Activity Structure (K-sigma) Hardw K-water’s innovative practice structure is organically linked to the BSC, Upgra are Process system/ Creative Implementation CoP and knowledge management through its de ⅠStage ('06~'07) innovation Structuring management middle and long-term management strategies. The mid to long-term innovation infra Process and organization management strategies offer a core performance index required to achieve re-design 6-sigma introduction, K-water’s strategic objectives, and various activities are needed, such as JOA program introduction the 6 Sigma, JOA(an internal Innovation tool), and Creative Implementation CoP of the Research CoP to achieve these strategies. These various creative innovation practices have been established as K-sigma, K-water’s proprietary K-sigma CoP implementation brand. Particularly, core performance index 'Corporate Sigma Standard' is measured through 'Innovation Mileage', a measurement of the performances of CoP, knowledge and proposal activities. Creative JOA+ innovation activities are directly linked to management strategies while 6-Sigma Customization of workout Research CoP annual targets are defined and managed systematically. technique of GE At the same time, performance results gained through CoP activities under the K-sigma brand consists of knowledge management (KM) which •Strategy implementation •Resolve inveterate issues in •Creation of Knowledge is based on knowledge proposals, and a circulation structure that is •Problem-solving Techniques departments •Voluntary Learning to Exchange shared by employees through organizational cultural activities. through Actual & Statistical •Method of managing changes Work-related Knowledge & Methodologies through logic, discussion and Current Information ※ K-sigma is an abbreviation of K-water sigma or Knowledge sigma •Top-Down Method for Coming-up experience •Voluntary Improvement Activities with Tasks •Autonomous implementation for if Required by Departments Onimproving the organization culture site What is CoP? CoP (Communities of Practice) is a gathering of employees that generates an outcome by improving the works as a result of discussing the common agenda for certain period and sharing the knowledge to │Strategy Implementation Structure for Achieving Visions/ Values│ accomplish strategy and realizing the corporate vision. Core Values K-sigma │Annual Corporate Sigma Targets│ 2020 Mission / Strategic Implemention Strategy Performance 2018 Vision Direction Strategy Implemention Evaluation 2016 2014 2012 2011 Management 3.1σ 3.53σ 3.99σ 6.00σ Policies BSC 2.14σ 2.41σ 16 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Cases of Creative Innovation Activities In addition, it is connected to the KMS system to enable the knowledge ▶ Department and Leader-oriented Voluntary Innovation Activities proposal submittal through blog and network facilitation between K-water is actively supporting department and leader-oriented voluntary individuals and organizations through company blogs, and it adds the innovation activities to incorporate creative innovation activities for reply function for users on knowledge proposals to facilitate knowledge employees. Led by regional department heads and regional executive management. directors, required tasks to create customer value are voluntarily selected and implemented. These creative innovation tasks contribute Creating Creative Innovation Performance Strategy to achievement of visions by facilitating the implementation of its middle While the number of knowledge and proposals has decreased from 5,411 and long-term strategies and solving chronic problems in departments. in 2010 to 3,958 in 2011, K-water has achieved KRW 21.4 billion in related In addition, heads of departments provide active support and conduct financial results through valuable innovation activities. Also, presentations progress inspections by activity stage to improve execution. for creative innovative achievements company wide are implemented Tasks are continuously evaluated in stages to enhance the performance annually while a magazine for creative innovation is published and of these tasks. Also, the results of the tasks are presented on an distributed to share the performance of creative innovation activities. By intermediate basis and presented to the entire corporation through the joining the academic-Industrial cooperation consortium of the Knowledge Creative Innovation Festival. Excellent case samples are selected, shared, Management Society and presenting excellent innovative cases at the Asian and dispersed company-wide. Knowledge Management Conference, K-water could externally spread its In addition, we provide various support, including classes by specialized excellent innovation activities outside the corporation. As a result, K-water Approach instructors and consulting for effective execution of Department-oriented was the first public-service in Korea to be selected as the “Most Respected creative innovation activities. Knowledge Management Corporation” by Teleos, a UK institution, resulting in K-water receiving the globally │Annual Financial Results│ (Unit: KRW 100 million) ▶ Enhancing Creative Innovation Minds respected and prestigious “Asian Special lectures related to innovation, such as “JOA+Work Management 214 MAKE (Most Admired Knowledge Method” and “Cultivating a Mind of Innovative Leaders,” enhance employees' Enterprise)” award for four creativity. Voluntary activities for improving the organizational culture are 150 consecutive years. conducted that focus on core values of Purity, Passion and Creativity, which 132 incorporate the CEO’s management philosophy. ▶ Establishing Open Knowledge Network and Volunteer Challenges Knowledge-based Activities 2009 2010 2011 K-water is distributing expert knowledge through diverse networks with external water professional firms, cooperative firms and outside customers. Through the Waterpedia portal system that was established in 2007 and updated in 2012, K-water is sharing and distributing its knowledge in water technology not only internally but also with numerous industrial, academic and institutional sectors. The policy to embrace customer proposals is operated as part of knowledge management to utilize the diverse and creative ideas provided through diverse sources, 3,958 3,958 such as general customers, cooperative firms, and management. Existing Performances scattered work manuals are arranged and provided on the basis of 112 core work cases, and these manuals structure and operate the WikiCases, 건 typed management system to complete by the participation of employees. Knowledge Proposals in 2011 ▲ Received Asian MAKE ▲ Creative Innovation Festival Water, Nature & People 17 Strategy The Key to Sustainable Growth, R&D K-water is not only developing technologies for efficient water management, but also pursuing technology innovation to present a vision for the future water management. 2020 R&D Implementation Strategies 2015 Target of Technology 2011 • Water Resources 95% • Water Supply and Target of Technology Sewerage System 97% • Green Technology 94% • Water Resources 90% Level of Technology • Water Supply and Sewerage System 93% • Green Technology 92% • Water Resources 87% • Water Supply and Sewerage System 90% • Green Technology 89% 100% over Advanced Countries Enhancing Core Human Securing Core Innovating the Structure for Resources Technologies Development of Technology K-water established its technology goal for 2020 after evaluating its │Annual Investment Plans (Accumulated)│ (Unit: Investments, KRW 100 million) technology level in 2011. It set up a plan for improving its technology competitiveness to the level of advanced countries by investing a total of 2,000 KRW 200 billion by 2020 by classifying the entire stages for each area of water supply, and waterworks & sewerage system and green technology 1,500 into the take-off stage (from 2012 to 2015), and the maturity stage (from 2016 to 2020). 1,100 Also, K-water defined types of technologies, which represent its technological strategies, and reviewed implementation methods and resources distribution methods by type, and reflected them in “CoreTech 2020 : New K-water Technological Strategies.” 2015 2017 2020 (Future Technologies) Technologies that have the high potential as a core technology related the water industry, and can be deployed on a commercial R&D Development Capabilities scale in seven years, so are needed for new growth industries. Korea Water Institute(KWI), which researches and develops core technologies (Core Technologies) Technologies that are needed for improving the for K-water has employed 228 professional researchers, who have a master's competitiveness of the existing businesses and the expansion of new degree or a doctor's degree, and implemented various researches, which business areas, if K-water intensively invests in them by assigning a can realize the commercialization of new technologies, such as low carbon budget and human resources needed for the next four to five years. environmental technologies, and new & renewable energies to counter (Base Technologies) Technologies that need to keep for maintaining climate change, centered on the area of water resources environment, the the existing businesses, and whose functions needs to be improved or area of water infrastructure, the area of waterworks, sewerage system, the advanced. area of green technologies, the area of policies and economies, and the area of water analysis. 18 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People │KWI's Mission and Vision│ │Human Resources of KWI│ (Unit: People) Administrative Staff: 64 Supplying professional knowledge services and devloping leading Mission technologies related to the water industry based on strengthened human resources and creation of technology values A global water research institute, Vision which is mutually growing with customers Human Strategy Master Resources Doctor 84 228 90 Creating demandDeveloping core Operating Implementation technologies for selection oriented technology organization Strategy values and concentration efficiently Bachelor Assistant Professional 54 Researcher: 87 Researcher: 77 │R&D Research Results│ (Unit: % /KRW 100 million) R&D Research Results 8.3 K-water invests more than 8% of R&D budget compared to the sales 7.6 1,064 annually to conduct an average of 105 research projects. An average of 7.1 931 Approach 420 papers are published annually, and the number of the application of 860 intellectual property rights including patents continue to increase. 2009 2010 2011 Investment Rate R&D Investment │Research Projects & Budget│ (Unit: KRW 100 million / Cases) │Publications of Research Papers│ (Unit: Cases) │Patent Applications & Registrations│ (Unit: Cases) 94 62 82 73 76 71 496 Challenges 462 47 128 360 43 104 313 99 102 28 11 21 30 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 R&D Task R&D Investment Research Publications Under Submission Registered Performances R&D Infrastructure K-water operates a world-class waterworks and a sewage research & training center which has a technology research & training support institution, an internationally certified control facility in the first domestic water level measurement sector, and a flow control system that has the largest diameter in Korea at 800mm. In addition, it has a specialized institution for facilities safety examination that undertakes on-site surveys ▲ Internationally-Certified Water Analysis ▲ Nationally-Certified and the Nation's Largest Research Center Flowmeter Calibration Center and safety examinations on the facilities, such as, repairing facilities, ports, bridges, tunnels and others as well as professional certification institution for quality tests. The Water Quality Analysis Research Center, developed into the world's top analysis institution, has been annually expanding the items for testing the water quality since 2002, and is monitoring 250 items of the water quality under the aim of providing clean and safe water to the public. ▲ Demonstration Plant In Water Supply & Sewerage ▲ Asia's Largest Laboratory for Centrifuge Model System Research and Education Center Tests Water, Nature & People 19 Permeate Water permeates into all places. Water brings new life by permeating in between solid land and hard rock, then permeates again deeper to bring about great fruition. K-water brings clear and bright water that leads mankind and nature while nurturing hope. Approach Corporate Governance Ethical · Transparent Management 22 23 Customer Happy Management 24 Mutual Growth with Stakeholders 26 Communication with Stakeholders 28 Risk Management 30 Approach Corporate Governance K-water is committed to improving corporate governance by increasing the participation of non-permanent directors in the management, and expanding the scope of the use of expertise. Composition of Investors Furthermore, the board of directors is supported in decision-makingand The main mission of K-water is to construct and maintain dams and participate in the management process by receiving reports and required water supply system for comprehensively using and developing water materials on agendas for the board of directors in advance through work resources, which has a significant impact on improving quality of life and bull sessions as a form of small-scale management activity of the board public welfare. In accordance to the Korea Water Resources Corporation of directors. In addition, for enhancing the management capability of nonAct, K-water's investors are limited to the Korea Development Bank (KDB), permanent directors, observation is provided for construction sites of central government and local governments. The central government various national tasks, such as dams, water purification plants, the 4 Rivers has to invest more than 50% of the total capital. As of 2011, K-water's Restoration Project so that a comprehensive understanding of on-site shareholders are comprised of the central government (90.9%), KOFC management capabilities can be gathered. By combining the management (9.0%) and local governments (0.1%). understanding of non-permanent directors active external management activities by those non-permanent directors on national policy have been Composition & Operation of the Board of Directors undertaken, resulting in significant management outcome by changing the The Board of Directors (BoD), the highest decision-making body, perception of people on national projects and others. deliberates and passes resolutions on K-water’s major issues, such as business plans, taking into consideration public, economical, social and │Board of Directors(As of August, 2012)│ environmental factors, and the BoD both checks and supports the duties of Directors Name Title the management. The BoD is comprised of 15 directors, 7 permanent and Kim, Kuen Ho President 8 non-permanent directors, and the chairman position is served by a senior Kang, Dae Ka Auditor General non-permanent director that contributes to reasonable checks and balances Permanent Kim, Wan Kyu Senior Executive Vice President to improve the governance of the public enterprise and executives. General Directors Jun, Chan Goo Vice President for Administrative Services Division meetings of the board of directors in 2011 were held a total of 15 times Kim, Jong Hae Vice President for Water Resources Business Division to deliberate and process 45 agendas. In addition, three non-permanent Han, Geung Jeon Vice President for Water Supply Business Division director meetings, 13 work bull sessions and four special committee Moon, IL Bum Vice President for Land, Energy & Engineering Division meetings were held to play an active role in providing management proposal Song, Jae Woo Chairman / Professor, Dept. of Civil/Environment Engineering at Incheon Univ. by reviewing overall management affairs in-depth for K-water. Kim, Kye Hyun Professor, Dept. of Civil/Environmental/Geoinformatic Engineering at Inha Univ. Operational Evaluations the Board of Directors Professor, Dept. of Constructional/Environmental/ Ryu, Byong Ro The activities of the K-water board of directors is under the objective Design Engineering at Hanbat Univ. Nonevaluations across diverse fields, including management proposals, Park, Tae Woo Editorialist of Frontier Times permanent system operations, attendance rates and a proportion of remarks under Directors Kim, Young Kwan CEO of EVAgreen company the management evaluations and internal evaluations each year. In Park, Myeong Hwan Senior Managing Partner of Vision International Law-Firm addition, permanent directors are paid on performance-based according Park, Chan Jung Professor, College of Business Administration and to government evaluation results. The evaluations consist of a quantified Economics at Cheong-ju Univ. outcome and a non-quantified outcome and implementation outcomes Professor, Division of International Cooperation at Yoon, Esook Kwangwoon Univ. and other efforts. Enhancement of Non-permanent Directors' Participation Internal Audit & External Supervisory Institutions in the Management and their Expertise K-water has established and operated the audit committee to supervise The board of directors of K-water solidifies the subjects for review, the appropriateness and impartiality of the work carried out, and also resolutions, and expands the scope of reports to strengthen the function operated an independent Audit & Inspection department to supervise for review and resolution on important matters of management in its public officials' disciplines, regular audits and comprehensive audits in activities. In addition, the company information network is broadly open order to improve the transparency of its management. In addition, K-water to non-permanent directors to provide support for them to acquire the is prepared to faithfully answer to any external audits conducted by the management information of permanent Directors level in real time to Board of Audit & Inspection, Parliamentary Inspection, Ministry of Land, expand their participation in management and improve the decisionTransport and Maritime Affairs and the Prime Minister’s Office. making capability of non-permanent directors. 22 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Approach Nature & People Ethical · Transparent Management K-water strives to gain trust from various stakeholders through ethical and transparent transparent management by connecting ethics and transparent management with corporate strategies. Clean Corporation, Producing Clean Water Achieving Stakeholder-oriented Corporate Ethics “Internally, we have to realize a fair organizational culture with the K-water is initiating diverse activities based on its management policies, Strategy practice of ethical management, and externally, we have to fulfill our ethical management organizations and systems to enhance trust between corporate social responsibilities to develop as a more reliable company its customers, executives and employees, suppliers and the society. To for the public. (President Kim, Kuen Ho, January 2011)” protect customers' rights and eliminate inconveniences, K-water has K-water is aggressively pursuing ethical management under its creed promoted transparency and reduced documents required for submission that ethical management is the most fundamental and strongest to improve the Electronic Procurement System. By providing ethical competitiveness. In 2009, K-water took a powerful step towards becoming training focused on actual examples and operating fair personnel a global ethical corporation by reestablishing its core values to achieve its management, and conducting systematic activities for preventing vision and setting up ethical management as a key management priority. accidents at operations to its executives and employees, K-water has In addition, it has strengthened its ethical organizations by introducing the linked ethical activities with the high quality of water service system. A winApproach Audit Committee in 2010, and further strengthened its internal regulations, win cooperative relationship is maintained with its suppliers and partners such as establishing a Code of Ethics for Researches. It has also made the by operating a consultative group for coexistence to achieve mutual effort in advancing its ethics system by operating the ‘Ethics Committee’ as growth. In addition, K-water has maintained sustainable partnerships the highest policy making organization for ethical management and a “Clean with its partners by various supporting policies, such as increasing its Reporting Center,” a place where employees can voluntarily return received support for the certification of Environmental Management System(ISO gifts. Due to its efforts made by the management and employees, it was 14001) by signing a green partnership agreement with small and medium selected as an excellent institution in terms of public organization's integrity sized enterprises. These measures have been established to ensure a by the Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission of Korea in 2011. continuous healthy and sustainable partnership. Thanks to these efforts, Particularly, the 'Help Line' policy, an internal reporting system developed K-water ranked at the top in the evaluation of ethical management by the through a specialized agency organization, was introduced in 2011. Enabling Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Challenges reporter confidentiality, this system has been contributing to promotions of and it is also doing its best to internal reporting policies and the spread of an upright culture. implement Corporate Social Responsibilities(CSR) on the global │Performance Index in 2011│ 0% standard level by conducting strategic domestic and overseas Average social contribution activities linked low e Be erag Go od % with various projects. Av Omission Rate of ▲ Highest Grade in Ethical Management Comprehensive Public Assessment Poor Ver y Disclosure of Performances Good Management Corporation Integrity: 8.94 points ▲ A video clip about CEO's message on integrity ▲ Ethics Committee ▲ Employee Ethics Pledge Water, Nature & People 23 Approach Customer Happy Management K-water is realizing a premier service company which can gains trust from customers with its creative CS management. Customer Happy Management beyond Customer Satisfaction 'excellent ratings' from the inspection on civil complaints administration In order to actively respond to increased demand for high-quality and information disclosure conducted by the Ministry of Land, Transport water service from the public and changes in the internal and external and Maritime Affairs as a sign of recognition for the CS management of environment, K-water has systematized its customer satisfaction K-water as the highest in public enterprises. strategy and branded its services. First, it has set forth the CS vision of ‘K-water, Making Customers Happy’ and the customer value of ‘Comfort, Improvement of VOC(Voice of Customer)-based Management Security, Trust, One-step Advanced Services’ based on an enterprise-wide and Enhancement of Proactive Response to the Needs participation and consensus in order to secure service differentiation and K-water facilitates diversified outcome monitoring and exchanges, competitiveness. Under the vision, K-water established three strategic such as a systematic VOC collection under the all-phase network of directions for the CS management of ‘enhancing the CS Implementation diverse stakeholders, VOC analysis by customer portals, enterprise VOC system, advancing the operation and management of the VOC system, and sharing for market resources and customer satisfaction, Service Quality improving its service and quality.' it has undertaken 9 strategic tasks and Index(SQI), a customer center of Happy Call, and others to realize the 42 practical tasks, such as customer-oriented improvement of processes. systematic and systemized VOC management as the original resources for By doing so, it has significantly improved its internal and external service customer satisfaction and management improvement. For example, for processes, and enhanced customers' loyalty to the company by preventing the VOC that requested the improvement in the water quality of reservoirs customers' dissatisfactions in advance. Also, K-water branded the of dams, K-water has implemented fundamental preventive measures and ‘Service Identity(SI),’ for the first time in SOC public-services, to effectively improved the water quality by introducing a forecasting system of water deliver its customers' characteristics and to highlight its services, which quality as the first company in Korea; rapidly collecting and treating floating is differentiated from its competitors, such as local governments. The materials during flood seasons; and conducting a campaign titled 'Land service identity, ‘Water-Pro Service,’ reflects K-water’s strong intention Cleaning Up Movement' 102 times, in which 8,265 volunteers participated to provide proactive and professional services to its customers. It is used in. For the VOC that requested the improvement of the tap-water quality in various fields in the CS management, such as front-line employee and increasing the rate of drinking tap-water, K-water has increased the uniforms, business cards, placards, various CS activities and others. number of water purification plants from 11 locations to 16 locations, Through these efforts, K-water has acquired the highest rating for the five which are on the same level with 5-Star of the US Water Association, which consecutive years in customer satisfaction for public enterprise under the is the highest level in the certification system for management competency management of the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, along with winning of water purification plants. In addition, it has established the radioactive │Survey result of CS major outcome index and Public Service Satisfaction index│ │Result of Survey on Customer Service of Public Service by Year│ (Unit: points) Major Outcome index 2009 2010 2011 93.7 92.0 92.9 Public service Customer HighestRanking HighestRanking HighestRanking 89.3 Satisfaction (93.7points) (97.1points) (96.1points) 97.1 96.1 Customer Satisfaction on Local Waterworks Service 75.8points 77.8points 79.1points 93.7 92.6 Fulfillment Rate of Service 98.4% 98.8% 99.5% Performance Standards Timely Processing Rate of VOC 99.0% 99.4% 99.9% ※ Public Service Satisfaction index (hosted by the Ministry of Planning and Finance): the grade system was implemented from 2007, the highest ranking(excellent) – 90 points or higher 2008 2009 2010 2011 ※ Customer Satisfaction on Local Waterworks Service (consigned survey from external Average score of public enterprises Score for K-water institution): its 79.1 points in 2011 is 6.1 points higher than 73.0 points of the average points in customer satisfaction on the water supply service in 2011. ※ Timely Processing Rate of VOC: The rate of processing civil complaints within the designated period(99.9%: Out of 2,641 cases of civil complaints in 2011, only three cases exceeded the period.) 24 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People material emergency system, and continuously replaced old and corroded performance by responsible employee and by management unit of water water pipes. Moreover, it has increased the number of apartments where supply and giving them the feedback. K-water has achieved almost residents can drink tap-water in the apartment, implemented a campaign 100% of the fulfillment rate of service performance standards, followed for drinking tap-water, produced 'water sommelier' and registered water by 98.8% in 2010 and 99.5% in 2011 by systematically managing the sommelier as a private certificate. As a result, the quality of tap-water has service performance standards, which are applied to 56 items, such as been improved and the public trust on the tap-water has been enhanced, dams, water supply systems and complex projects, in order to enhance and the rate of drinking tap-water has increased from 55.9% in 2010 to the corporate credibility through improvements in the service quality 57.2% in 2011. In addition, K-water has reliably supplied water without and fulfillment of its promises with customers. Meanwhile, K-water cutting off water by the non-suspension water supply method to minimize has continuously enhanced all employees' awareness of ‘Water-Pro’, Strategy customers' inconvenience and introduced an advanced non-suspension exemplary service models of K-water, and tried to internalize the models water inspection system. It has also enhanced its door-to-door services, in order to enhance the mindset of all employees towards customer such as providing a service for inspecting tap-water leakage of households satisfaction, and their competency for customer satisfaction. It has also for free, distributing packs and pads for preventing water meters from tried qualitative and quantitative expansion of its education for employees being froze and burst in the wintertime for free, and providing a service about customer satisfaction by conducting traveling education for 650 for inspecting the tap-water quality. Thanks to its efforts to actively accept employees at 40 offices every year and training for improving customer customers' opinions and handle customers' complaints in real time, the satisfaction, which are specialized by educational object through service rate of timely handling VOCs of K-water has gradually increased every year academies. In addition, K-water has strengthened the reward system from 99% in 2009, 99.4% in 2010 and 99.9% in 2011. for employee in order to motivate employees to provide good services for Approach customer satisfaction, and 'boom up' the atmosphere at work. Moreover, it Standardized Management of Service Quality and Enhancement has enhanced the competency of its employees for customer satisfaction by of Competency for Customer Satisfaction publishing a 'magazine about exemplary practices for customer satisfaction' K-water has introduced ‘Service Quality Index (SQI),’ an advanced service with collected cases about excellent examples of improvements in VOCs, evaluation system, to minimize the customer dissatisfaction by intensively monitoring how to kindly answer to phone calls from customers, and managing the quality of core services, preventing defects in the entire promoting exemplary employees whom customers praise. process of services, and improving the quality of services. K-water set ※ Service Quality Index(SQI): An index for measuring the service quality to prevent defects up six indices, such as inspection service satisfaction, dissatisfactory in the process of providing services and improve the quality. VOC occurrence rate, compliance rate of handling civil complaints, and others, and has intensively managed and improved the six indices. Challenges Also, it has established a comprehensive quality management system 99.9% through monitoring services and measuring data. In particular, K-water has been managing the customer satisfaction and the service quality by sharing the current status of SQI in real time and comparing the 99.9 %, VOC Processing Rate in 2011 │Implementation Structure of K-water Customer Happy Management│ │Process of Improving Service Quality│ Customer SQI CS Vision K-water, which makes customers happier Service Manual Satisfaction (Evaluation of Performances (Improve Competency (Evaluation of Service Process) Service Outcome) (one-step advanced services, Service Model professional services) Feedback of Related Items Goal Achieving the highest level of customer satisfaction in the public sector Three Upgrading the Advancing the operation Enhancing customer Implementation implementation structure and management of VOC services and the quality Strategies of Customer Happy Customer Comfort/Security/Trust/One-step advanced Service Values Water, Nature & People 25 Approach Mutual Growth with Stakeholders K-water is implementing sustainable management strategies that enables mutual growth with stakeholders as coexistent partners through continuous and systematic communication with them. Communication with Stakeholders operated local councils to smoothly solve any conflicts that can occur in K-water has operated various systems where outsiders can participate the process of implementing projects. in its management to enable stakeholders to directly and indirectly Advisory councils and committees are comprised of professionals participate in management or offer their opinions. By enabling from NGOs, academia, media, etc. and local councils, which are mostly stakeholders to participate in the management at the decision-making comprised of professionals, civil servants and local residents, are stages and in project implementation processes, potential conflicts can be operated as an consultative group to discuss local issue. K-water also prevented in advance in addition to providing transparency and credibility works closely with related governmental institutions, such as the Ministry to stakeholders. In addition, K-water has established advisory councils of Land, Transport & Maritime Affairs and the Ministry of Environment or committees to acquire advice on the entire businesses, and it has also when it establishes and implements policies related to water resources. │Communication channel for each stakeholder group│ Cu nt sto rnme t me en rs ve em lion Go nc ha bil C Hig The ustom hest En 74 Be er Ser e ss R W st G S v n ve x: K rad atisf ice titi Ta e (9 act mpe rate 6.1 ion: Poi Co orpo nts C Cle ) nt an me KR Rev Wat ge tion W 6 enu er a n a .32 es: Ma nnov 58 tril I lion Employees & Executives Enhanced Transparency Fostering Human /resources Enhanced Environmentalism Welfare / Safety NGO & Credibility & Health Performance Based Compensation Social Responsibility Implementation Co n t Lo trib ten n ca uti l S ng e xis atio oc iet to Co per n Co o trillio y 837 So Cont sion KRW 1.3 cia rib n : lC pa ucts tal ont utin Ex Prod nmen rib g t uti o L p ort terprise e Enviro p ons oc Su dium En nterpris upport : K al S e E & M edium ement S RW o all 55. ciet M of Sm mall & Mana g s Loc irm 19 y hase S al bill ion Purc F Co mm r ative un ity ope Co 26 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Stakeholders' Participation in Management K-water gives heed to every opinion from diverse stakeholders. Various communication channels have been established for customers, NGOs, local communities, the government, suppliers and partners, and executives and employees to collect various opinions and suggestions regarding major issues of concern, and to actively reflect them in the management. Anyone can participate in the VOC system at the K-water homepage, and K-water is always trying to make sure that everyone’s voice is heard. VOC(Voice of Customer), Customer Participation Committees, and Customer Proposals Strategy Client Based on the CEO’s strong determination, customers are considered as a priority in all management activities, and efforts are being made to enhance customer values. Local Community's Discussion on Water, Tap-water Water Quality Council, and Hyo(Filial NGO/ Piety) Sharing Center Local K-water has established cooperative local governance to collect various opinion from Community NGOs and local leaders, solve environmental conflicts, form social trust, and to enhance Approach the mutual growth with local communities with local community. Cooperation with the Ministry of Land, Transport & Maritime Affairs, Ministry of Environment, and the Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission of Korea The K-water is working closely with various governmental institutions, such as the Ministry Channel for K-water's Government of Land, Transport & Maritime Affairs and the Ministry of Environment to successfully Stakeholders implement policies of the government and achieve economic recovery. Operation of Consultative Group with Construction Companies and the Homepage for Coexistence and Cooperation Suppliers and Its suppliers and partners are K-water's companion for its sustainable management. Partners Challenges K-water is leading green growth of its entire supply network by establishing an eco-friendly supply network. Labor and Management Council, and the Internal Intranet, Oasis Executives By maintaining diverse internal communication channels, walls of authority have been and lowered between its members, and communication among employees and executives have Employees been enhanced. It is a driving force to create a dynamic and autonomic atmosphere in the company. Performances Focus Together with Customers: Commendations from the Prime Minister and Minister of Health and Welfare K-water Water Love Sharing Volunteers has been providing Hyonanum Services, including the operation of the Hyonanum Welfare Center for senior citizens, Love Sharing medical volunteering, dispatching of helper assistances, and visiting welfare facilities. Such contributions in the improvement of senior welfare was recognized, resulting in K-water being awarded with the Prime Minister Commendation and Ministry Minister commendation in September 2011. ▷ Prime Minister Commendation : Soyang Dam Management, Juan Dam Management ▷ Minister of Health and Welfare Commendation : Hoengseong Management, Andong Management Water, Nature & People 27 Approach Communication with Stakeholders Through various communication channels, K-water is continuously communicating with its stakeholders to discuss major issues, and to reflect their opinions in the management. Importance of the Communication with Stakeholders ㅣWays of Accessing Issues of Concern of Stakeholdersㅣ Projects initiated by K-water have a direct or indirect influence on various stakeholders. At the same time, the stakeholders significantly influence K-water’s corporate policies. To actively conform to the new environment, corporations need to further their communication with stakeholders. Academia/ NGO Customers/ Communication with stakeholders is the best way for corporations to 2011 Analysis of Local Communities search for means to coexist with stakeholders. Communication with Management Advisory Homepage, VOC Analysis Council and NGO and Customer Participation stakeholders is important in that it contributes to the sustainability of Survey Committee•Meeting corporations through proactively identifying risk factors and taking counter measures. Government Classification Framework of Communication with Stakeholders Analysis of Government Methods for Accessing Reports, Reports on Issues of Concern of Communication with stakeholders starts from understanding its Result of Government Stakeholders stakeholders. K-water has classified the stakeholders into five groups: Audit customers and local communities that are direct object for business activities of K-water; the government that influences the direction of Executives and Supplies and Partners major policies; executives and employees that are at the center of its Employees Interviews with Inspection innovation and growth; and supplies and partners. Communication Company Wide Survey for Institutions and Feedback on Internal Executives and Pervious Reports between these diverse interested parties and K-water is the most Employees fundamental way for all concerned parties to grow together. ㅣK-water's Materiality Evaluation Processㅣ Stakeholder Understanding Investigation of Reflection in the Sustainability Definition / Demands/ Expert Management Report Channel Materiality Institutions Strategy Publications Research Determination • VOC (Homepage) • Understanding the Needs / • Examination by Outside • Related Department • Sustainable Management • Focus Groups Classification Professionals Feed-Back Performance Analysis (Committees, Advisory Councils) • Materiality Matrix • Management Reporting • Strategic Implementation • Reporting Frame Construction • Media Research • Prioritizing / Promotion • Report Publication (Customer Satisfaction Level) • Questionnaire (Employees / Executives, NGOs) 28 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Implementing K-water’s Materiality Test 1) that have been collected through various communication channels are In the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guideline that provides the global first categorized before prioritizing them through the materiality matrix. guideline of the sustainable management report, it recommends Once the demands are prioritized, the materiality is evaluated. The matrix the placement of highest priority on reporting the information that evaluation is initiated through a two stage-process. The first stage is stakeholders want. In other words, it is required to find out, analyze and evaluating internal and external interests. The second stage evaluation respond to the interests and demands of concerned parties, and include takes into consideration the impacts on businesses and management the contents in the report. K-water has established and maintained competencies. The detailed implementation and performance results about important issues on the first level, are passed by the second stage Strategy diverse communication channels, which enable the company to find out the importance of demands from stakeholders and to reflect them in evaluation, will be included in Sustainability Report, and issues for the the sustainable management strategies. In particular, the performance second and third stage evaluations will be summarized in a report. K-water outcome of the sustainable management strategies, in which various has established and used the materiality evaluation model of K-water demands from stakeholders are reflected, opens to the public through based on the advice of professional institutions. Sustainability Report of K-water, and diverse efforts are made by K-water to communicate with stakeholders. K-water’s Sustainable Management To enable stakeholders to directly and indirectly participate in the To identify important issues for K-water’s sustainable management, the management or provide their opinions, K-water has established and following diagram outlines the major interests of stakeholders. These Approach operates diverse communication channels which include the VOC, where issues are implemented through management strategies of K-water and stakeholders can suggest their opinions, customer participation committees related departments and the performance result of implementing these & informal customer meetings, sustainable management advisory councils, issues are disclosed to the stakeholders through the sustainability report. government personnel dispatches, and surveys. Stakeholders’ demands K-water is actively trying to communicate stakeholders, such as customers, local communities, academia, NGOs, the government, executives and 1) Materiality Test Refers to a method of distinguishing issues by priority based employees and supplies and partners. K-water will make a sustainable on understanding important information for stakeholders to derive at issues of growth platform by identifying stakeholder demands in advance and High Interest and High Risk for stakeholders. The aim is to configure contents by enhancing the values of both K-water and stakeholders through of substantiality reports centered on issues designated as Material Issues. cooperation. Challenges │Key Sustainble Management Issues│ External Concerns Business Influence • Development of Eco-friendly HIGH HIGH Water Resources • Various Projects of K-water such as Overseas Projects, Projects for Improvement of Efficiency of Local Waterworks and Multi-regional Waterworks • Improvement of Management strategies and Management System • Water Quality of Dams and Water Supply System and Irrigation Performances Deciding on Major • R&D including Technology Innovation Issues through the • Customer Satisfaction MEDIUM MEDIUM 2nd Stage Matrix • Response to Climate Change and Risk Management • Corporate Governance and Ethical Management • Advance into New Projects including New & Renewable Energies • Social Contribution and Cooperation with Local Communities LOW LOW LOW MEDIUM HIGH LOW MEDIUM HIGH Internal Concerns Management Capacity ※ Evaluation of 1st phase interest level: Very High Materiality: Detailed Implementation Contents K-water has implemented a questionnaire for civil organizations, & Performance Raeporting officers and employees for confirming the key issues through High Materiality: Simply Record communication with various inside and outside interested parties. Low Materiality: Don’t Report Water, Nature & People 29 Approach Risk Management K-water Risk Management( )is an act for achieving its management objectives, and increasing the values of the company by forecasting and efficiently managing potential risks(financial,non-financial) in the management from the perspective of the company wide. Structure of Risk Management result, about 870 working manuals for risk management on four risk K-water Risk Management (KRM) can be divided into preand post-risk areas including management, conflicts, disasters and PR were published management. Risks across four areas of management, conflicts, disasters and distributed to working-level employees so that they can easily utilize and PR are managed. Risk management is a process of conducting the manuals on-site. K-water responds to risks through the four levels preventive measures not to let potential risks develop into real risks, (Moderate, Substantial, Severe, Critical), according to its severity based and refers to continuous activities of managing ‘vulnerable facilities’ and on comprehensive considerations on risks including ramifications, and monitoring ‘Key Risk indicator (KRI).’ Risk management also refers to if a risk is necessary to deal with company-wide, the Risk Management a post-management process after the risks happen. In the case of risk Committee headed by the Senior Executive Vice President as the Chief situations, recovery steps are to be taken, which includes deciding on the Risk Officer (CRO) is established to manage risks. The Business Planning level of warning and setting up an emergency action headquarters based & Coordinating Department is responsible to establish strategies for on the standard and countermeasure manual by risk type. risk management and the risk management organization system is Risks are evaluated by the influence that can affect the management operated to enable responsible departments and on-site management activities of K-water, and by the possibility of the occurrence, and K-water departments to rapidly and efficiently respond to risks depending on a focuses on preventive measures by classifying the risks into KRM type and level of risks. (important risks) and KRI (risk indexes by division). │Risk Segmentation │ │Risk Concept Outline │ 5 Affect Level Company-wide Management 4 Risk Danger As Risk is 3 Risk a concept that includes risk Department & crisis, crisis is when risks Management become a reality. 2 Risk Risk 1 2 3 4 5 Potential of Occurrence │K-water's Crisis Management System│ │Corporate-Level Risk Management│ Company-wide Important Manual for Management → Risk → Responding to Risks Financial risk Responding to Monitoring/ Risk Management Identification Evaluation Risks Reporting (Preventive Activities) (Risk Issues) (Effects/Possibility of Occurrence) Department KRI Automatic Management → → Detection Conflict Publicity Risk/Crisis Integrated Accomplishing management management management management goal System Vulnerable Inspection and Enhancement of Facilities → Management corporate value Realized Risks Disaster Risk Detecting Risk Deciding the Responding to Post-Management management Management Symptoms Level of Risks Risks (Responding Activities) • Head Office's Control Tower : Risk Occurred Director of Head Office Critical • Field Control Tower: (Incidents or Accidents) Enterprise-wide Risk Head of Regional Headquarters Management • Automatically forming Emergency Planning Process of Risk Management Severe Office • Organizing Risk Management Committee • Responsible Department's Risk K-water has established a phased risk management process to prevent Substantial Management • Field Control Tower: risks from spreading by incorporating a standard model for publicResponsible Department's Risk Management Head of Management Team • Automatically Forming Emergency Planning Team service risk management guidelines into its risk management. As a Moderate • Regional Headquarters' Personnel Support 30 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Inform SMS Informed by PC ▲ Earthquake occurrence Inquired by PDA Strategy │Informing System│ Notice of earthquake analysis result (SMS, e-mail and others) ▲ Earthquake detection (seismometer) ▲ Recovery from earthquake damage Establishment of Risk Management System for with rainfall of only 37% compared to the previous year; and construction Major National Disasters projects for 16 multi-functional weirs were conducted during the rainy It is becoming more important to make responsive manuals practical and flood season. As K-water is in charge of operating 30 multi-purpose to better respond to natural disasters that affect the entire country and dams and water dams nationwide, it has made a lot of efforts to prevent Approach minimize secondary damages beyond the scope of regional disaster damages from floods by completely improving the water management response. For such to occur, K-water has conducted various training to system, such as climate and flood analysis and providing the onesupplement inferior aspects within the process of disaster response and step faster forecasting information to local residents and construction minimize damages from disasters through actual on-site response drills sites in lower areas of dams based on the water management system. every year. In particular, K-water is trying to build a responsive system Moreover, K-water has enhanced the flood prevention system by to minimize the inconvenience of the public, which can affect their daily expanding the education of dam-weir operation to related organizations, lives, such as collapse of dams and shutdown of water purification plants, and by implementing a joint drill with related organizations under the as the awareness that Korea is no longer a safe area from earthquakes assumption of real emergency situations occurred at the weirs of the four is growing. Thanks to these efforts, K-water was selected as the most rivers. In order to make a rapid response to sudden flood situations, such outstanding institution in the “2011 Central Administrative and Public as flash flood, it has maintained a 24 hour water monitoring system all Challenges Institution Disaster Management Evaluation” by the National Emergency year long. During the flood period, it has contributed to reduce damages Management Agency in 2011. caused by floods in the lower areas of dams by implementing an advance reserve discharge flow in consideration for rainfall forecasting to ZERO Flood Damage and Maximized Water Use Efficiency minimize the water discharge volume of dams. Thanks to these thorough through Advanced Water Management System preparations and efforts, there were no flood damages in rivers where In 2011, there were many difficulties in managing water resources: for dams are located in 2011, and the water reserve volume at the end of the example, due to climate changes, record torrential rain in the early of flood period was 9.0 billion ㎥, which was 1.3 billion ㎥ larger than that the flood season occurred, recorded as the second largest rainfall during of the previous year. Also, K-water has considerably contributed to the the flood season in history; a typhoon hit the nation in June for the first security of the national electricity by producing 2.86 billion kwh of green time in the last 48 years; severe droughts occurred late in flood season energy, the largest amount in history. Performances Precipitation Forecasting System (PFS) Integrated Hydrologic Data Real Time Hydrologic Management System Data System (IHDMS) (RHDAPS) Reservoir Water Flood Analysis System Supply System (FAS) (RWSS) Growth Integration Water Disaster Operation System Management System (GIOS) (WDMS) Decision-making Toolkit for Intelligence-typed Integrated Water Resources Management Supplying Water Stably (K-HIT) Minimizing Damages from Floods ▲ Thorough advance preparation ▲ Advanced Water Management System ▲ Optimized Dam Operation Water, Nature & People 31 There is power in water. Water exhibits an honest force that moves according to nature without any trickery or luck. Raindrops that break rock, the power of great waves that moves oceans K-water strives to rise into a global corporation. Dynamic Challenges GREEN Economy Low Carbon New Growth Green Business 34 ICT-based Integrated Water Management 35 Successful Operations of Local Waterworks 36 Integrated Management of Waterworks Facilities 38 Water Friendly Green City & High Tech Green Complex 39 Global K-water 40 Development of Technology for Industrial Water and Construction of Tailored Water Supply Facilities 42 K-water Technology Development 43 Challenges Low Carbon New Growth Green Business As Korea's Green Hub, K-water is leading low carbon green growth by developing new renewable energy to counter climate change, such as hydro power, solar power and wind power and registering Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects in the UN. Operation and Development of New & Renewable Energy K-water has aggressively taken measures to overcome climate change by utilizing the government’s low carbon green growth plan as a platform to actively develop new renewable energy. As of 2011, K-water operates a 1,019MW hydropower plant that supplies 63% of the entire domestic hydropower plant capacity (1,621MW). K-water completed the construction of the Sihwa power plant, the largest tidal power plant in the world (254MW) last November, and supplies electricity from the plant. K-water has also developed and operated various green energies, such as hydro power from dams and weirs of the four rivers(51MW) and wind power from the Gyeong-In Port (3MW). We have led the development of clean domestic energy. An example includes the solar power generation over water by using water surfaces of reservoirs at dams, the first such case in the world. In 2011, a total of 52 locations utilized hydro-power, tidal power, solar power, and wind power to supply 2,856GWh of clean energy, in turn, resulting in savings of 4.77 million barrels of oil and approximately 1.88 million tons of CO₂. Solar power generation over water by K-water is a genuine eco-friendly technology that does not harm plants and animals while producing about 10% more electricity than solar power generation on land. It possesses huge potential for electricity of 3,100MW from 31 dams and will accelerate the shift in the paradigm to green growth. Moreover, K-water has actively pushed ahead with greenhouse gas emissions reduction projects by improving the efficiency of pumps at water supply facilities and increasing the equipment capacity for power generation through modernizing outdated hydro power equipment. 1,3 1,350 50 │New • Renewable Energy Operation and Development(2011. 12)│ (Unit: MW) MW Category Operational Status Development Status Total Facility Details Facility Capacity Details Facility Capacity Capacity New Renewable Large scale Energy Operation Hydro hydro power ㆍ10, including Soyang River Dam 1,000.6 1,000.6 power and Total Capacity Small scale hydro power ㆍ31, including Andong Small-Scale Hydropower plant 36.3 ㆍ16 facilities, including 9 weirs in 4 rivers 39.9 76.2 Tital Power ㆍSihwa Tidal power plant (world's largest) 254 254 Wind Power ㆍSihwa Bangameori, Gyeong-in Port Wind plant 6 6 Solar Power ㆍ10 plants, including Bonpo solar power plant 0.7 ㆍ3 facilities, including Jain Water Purification solar power plant 0.8 1.5 Cooling/Heating by ㆍ2 facilities, including No. 2 Lotte World 10.7 11.7 Thermal Difference ㆍ6 plants, including Daecheong Dam thermal plant 1.0 Total 1298.6 51.4 1,350 Clean Development Mechanism(CDM) Projects and Trade of Carbon Credits K-water is aggressively countering climate change by reducing the effects of greenhouse gases through the development of new renewable energy as a component of CDM projects. Having been the first government investment organization to start a CDM project in May 2005, K-water has registered a total of 6 projects including small-scale hydropower CDM businesses of Seongduk and Boohang, the most by one company in Korea, in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) as of December 2010. Recently, K-water has obtained the approval from the government for the CDM projects of Angye and Hoengseong small-scale hydropower plants and waterworks facilities’ energy efficiency improvement projects. We are in the process of registering new CDM projects in the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. For the first time in Korea for unilateral CDM business in September 2008, K-water has sold carbon credits (6,782 CERs) for the CDM business to ABN-AMRO Bank of the Netherlands on reduction of greenhouse gas for the smal-scale hydropower I business in 2007, and also sold carbon credits(2009: 8,608 CERs and 2010: 8,080 CERs) to Korea Carbon Financing Co., Ltd. consecutively from 2009 to 2010 as a means to gain knowledge and experience in the transaction of carbon credits in Korea. Also, K-water acquired carbon credits(4,773CERs) for the small-scale hydropower Ⅱ CDM business in 2011. 23 23,470 ,470CERs, │CDM Registration Status(2011.12)│ Annual Generation Emissions CO₂ Reduction Project Name Object Registration Date Quantity(MWh / y) (Ton CO₂/㎿h) Amount(Ton CO₂/y) Total Carbon Credit Sales Sihwa Tidal Power Sihwa Tidal Power ’06. 6 507,629 0.6214 315,440 Small-Scale Hydropower1 Andong, Jang Heung, Seongnam 1 ’06. 10 15,473 0.6262 9,689 Small-Scale Hydropower2 Daechung, Jooam, Dalbang, Seongnam 2 ’07. 2 13,944 0.6214 8,664 Sihwa Wind Power Sihwa Wind Power ’07. 11 6,293 0.6376 4,013 Small-Scale Hydropower3 Gosan, Pangyo ’09. 11 5,557 0.5375 2,987 Small-Scale Hydropower4 Seongduk, Boohang ’10. 10 4,963 0.5561 2,759 Total 553,859 343,552 ※Carbon Emission Factors: Updated once a year based on the UN Tool to Calculate the Emission Factors ▲ CDM National Certificate of Approval 34 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Challenges Nature & People ICT-based Integrated Water Management K-water makes the land safe from natural disasters caused by water, such as droughts and floods, through an advanced ICT-based scientific integrated water resources management. Scientific Management of Water Resources by River dam and Sueo Dam) based on efficient management; enhanced Intelligence-typed Integrated Water Management System the national water security by securing a sufficiency of reservoir storage Strategy Water in the 21st century is in the spotlight as “blue gold”, but it has been of 9 billion ㎥ in the late of the flood season, which is additional reservoir more difficult to manage water resources, since the uncertainty about storage of 1.3 billion ㎥ compared to the previous year; and significantly rainfall has increased and natural disasters caused by water have more contributed to the stability of the national electricity by producing a green often occurred due to the climate change. Now is the time when the national energy (hydro power) of 2.86 billion kWh, which is the largest amount in competitiveness depends on how to use the limited water resources history. efficiently and overcome natural disasters caused by water. K-water has River Information System Weather Information System been realizing a scientific water management to counter the climate change by establishing an integrated water management system, which •Basin Characteristics, Water Use NO YES • Historical data Flood converges its know-hows of water management accumulated for the last 40 years and high-tech ICT technology. It has prevented natural disasters Flow Management System Flood Management System Approach Real Time Hydrological caused by water and maximized the efficiency of water by stably managing Information System • Interpret and Predict Efflux • Interpret Volume of Floods • Water Balance Analysis • Dam Pilot Operation floods and supplying water through seven advanced systems, which were •Observe and Transfer Hydrological • Dam Pilot Operation • Channel Routing Information • Analyze Water Quality • Predict the Volume of Generation established by process of water management, by using supercomputer• Monitoring • Predict the Volume of Generation • Flood Forecasting•Warning • Operation Plan for Dams•Rivers • Flood Risk Mapping based Precision Forecasting System(PFS), Flood Analysis System(FAS), and Rural Water Supply and Sanitation(RWSS) and optimized operating Operation 32 dams, including 16 multifunctional dams across the nation even within │Decision-making Toolkit for Intelligence-typed Integrated Integrated Challenges rapidly changing management conditions due to the climate change and Water Resources Management│ GREEN Economy the 4 Rivers Restoration Project. K-water has taken the lead in advancing K-HIT Structure technologies for the national water management and has ventured into the MultiRegional overseas market of water management technologies by making its own core Center regional ICT (RHDAPS, IHDMS, WDWS) Center Weather (PFS) technologies for water management a package, and releasing “K-HIT,” its Weir Operation • Observe Hydrological Data in Real Center • Supercomputer-based Figure brand for integrated water management, a first such case in Korea. Time Forecasting • Manage Integrated Hydrological Data • Ensemble Data Assimilation • Monitor and Warn Water Disaster • Short and Long-term Weather Forecasting Establishment of Structure for Integrated Water Management Observe and Manage Hydrological Data Integrated Operation Center Quantified Weather Forecasting The paradigm of water management in the world has changed to Integrated Water Resources Management(IWRM). IWRM means integrated Use of Water (RWSS) Generation (GIOS) Management of Water (FAS) management of water resources, considering water quantity as well as • Rainfall Leakage Analysis (Long-term) • Remote Control of Generation System • Rainfall Leakage Analysis (Long-term) • Dam Reservoir Optimization/Simulated Operation • Standardized Integrated Operation • Dam Reservoir Optimization water quality and the environment of rivers in order to maximize socal and • River Water Quality Change Analysis • Real-time Equipment Monitoring • River Water Level Change Analysis economic benefits through water. K-water has established an integrated Performances Optimal Water Supply Creation of Green Energy Optimal Flood Control water management system that manages water resources by basin unit, connecting dams, weirs and rivers after the 4 Rivers Restoration Project. Spatial Geographical K-water stably conducted a pilot operation of 16 weirs during the flood • Precipitation, Efflux, Evapotranspiration Rivers, • Origin of Water, Valleys, Rivers, Estuaries, Basins, Weirs, Dams season in 2011 based on the 4 Rivers Integrated Water Management Underground Water Center, which has newly established to manage scientific water management technologies and water management by basin unit. We have also enhanced its new integrated water management by basin unit by establishing systems needed for the operation connecting dams and weirs Integrated Water Resources and standardizing an integrated water resources management system. Management River Facility Manger Major Achievements in Water Management in 2011 Local Governments Experts about Rivers K-water successfully managed floods without any damages in the Local ResidentsResidents' River Manager downstream areas of dams even though severe floods occurred in 2011, Groups • Water Volume, Water Quality, Behaviors, Security • Governance Where Each Stakeholder Participate in which recorded the second largest rainfall in history, and exceeded the designed capacity of four dams (Seomjin River Dam, Buan Dam, Nam Functional Social Water, Nature & People 35 Challenges Successful Operations of Local Waterworks Based on advanced management techniques and technological capabilities, K-water is contributing to improved customer satisfaction and enhanced competitiveness of national water supply services in preparation of an open water market. Projects for Enhancing Efficiency of Local Waterworks │Increased Number of Population for Local Water Supply Services (Accumulated)│ The operation of domestic waterworks is divided into the multi-regional (Unit: 10,000 people) waterworks (K-water) and local waterworks (162 local governments). 186 177 The leakage rate of local waterworks is 83.2%, which is lower than 99.8% 153 of multi-regional waterworks, and the rationalization rate for water bills 125 of the local waterworks is low at 78.5%. In addition, most of the local waterworks are small in size, lack the manpower and technology, and are financially weak, making it difficult to invest in facility improvements. This causes a vicious cycle of low quality and poor service. Utilizing 2008 2009 2010 2011 the experience and expertise gained from operating multi-regional waterworks, K-water is taking measures to enhance the efficiency of the domestic local waterworks business through consignment management The investment will help replace worn out pipes, establish IT-based of the local waterworks. By integrating the operations of multi-regional integrated operating systems, and enable scientific pipe network and local waterworks, water resources utilization can be maximized, while management. This will increase water revenue and reduce costs, helping redundant and excessive investments can be prevented. maximize management efficiencies. The Current Status of Project Implementation Operational Performance of Local Waterworks Since the Nonsan Water Supply Service Center was opened in April of Looking into the major outcome on the local waterworks business for 2004, K-water has taken care of all operations including water supply 17 local governments (Nonsan, Jeongeup, Sacheon, Yecheon, Seosan, and management of 18 local waterworks (Nonsan, Jeongeup, Sacheon, Goryeong, Geumsan, Dongducheon, Geoje, Yangju, Naju, Danyang, Yecheon, Seosan, Cheonan(industrial), Goryeong, Geumsan, Dongducheon, Hampyeong, Paju, Gwangju, Tongyeong and Goseong) in operation by Geoje, Yangju, Naju, Danyang, Paju, Hampyeong, Gwangju, Goseong and 2011, K-water has implemented for reasonable facilities and operation Tongyeong. In the next 20 to 30 years, K-water will invest a total of KRW improvement through scientific examination for reducing the leakage and 825.1 billion. relieving water quality issues. Also, K-water achieved a significant increase │Consignment Management of Local Waterworks│ of water loss rate from 61.9% before the consignment management to 77.0% in 2011, which means water loss of 59.7 million tons was reduced after the consignment management through systematic and strategic measures for improving the water loss rate based on its middle and longterm plan Measures included conducting approximately 49,000 cases of water leakage recovery work and replacing 801 km of worn-out water │Improvement in Leakage Rate│ │Improvement in Customer Satisfaction│ 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Unit: %) (Unit: Points) Nonsan-si Jeongeup-si Seosan-si Geumsan-gun Geoje-si Paju-si Tongyeong-si Sacheon-si Cheonan(Industrial) Dongducheon-si Yangju-si Hampyeong-gun Goseong-gun 79.1 Yecheon-gun Goryeong-gun Naju-si Gwangju-si 73 Danyang-gun 65.4 64 77.0 61.9 Before Trust 2011 Before Trust 2011 NCSI[National Customer K-water Satisfaction Index](Waterworks) 36 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People pipelines and approximately 140,000 units of water meters. In addition, in water purification plants from 0.10NTU in 2010 to 0.08NTU in 2011 based K-water has expanded and improved water supply services through on the “System of Targets for Water Quality of Water Purification Plants,” differentiated services, such as operating leakage recovery exclusive which is higher than the legal standards of water quality. teams, 24-hour call centers, free internal leakage search and tap-water quality confirmation system, and striving to improve the water quality. Future Plans Consequently, K-water was able to improve the customer satisfaction K-water strives to improve local waterworks efficiencies through level to 79.1 points, 6.1 points higher than the average water supply continuous expansion of its local waterworks projects, while improving customer satisfaction level of 73.0 in 2011. In particular, K-water has been the competitiveness of the domestic waterworks industry in preparation Strategy highly recognized by the national and local governments for its “excellent for an open water market. K-water aims to provide general water systems for improving the public perception of tap-water” by introducing management services based on integrated operations and management various campaigns and activities, such as introducing Tap-water Drinking of local waterworks as well as waterworks & sewage treatment integrated Apartment” and operating “Tap-water Quality Confirmation System” to management linked to current sewage treatment project. Based on vast relieve “a vague distrust about tap-water,” one of the major reasons why experience with technologies within the domestic waterworks & sewage people do not drink tap-water. The company has also supplied 1.3 times treatment sector, K-water will establish a platform to expand into overseas more clean water compared to the water quality of water purification markets. plants in local areas across the country by improving the average turbidity Approach Best Practice Introduction of the Water Pipeline Equipment for Challenges GREEN Economy Long Distance without Cutting off Water Supply(Sahara) K-water has introduced and operated the Water Pipeline Equipment for Long Distance Without Cutting off Water Supply(Sahara), which can directly check inside the pipelines to prevent economic loss caused by broken pipelines and to relieve the distrust about the tap water. the Water Pipeline Equipment for Long Distance Without Cutting off Water Supply(Sahara) can check inside the pipelines for a long distance(maximum 1.5km) without cutting off water supply, so it can be used to inspect the pipelines of difficult areas to inspect, such as buried pipelines installed through rivers and roads, and check the conditions inside the pipelines, changes of the diameter of pipes, and branch pipes through CCTV. Also, it can detect a tiny amount of leakage(1ℓ/hr) through a leakage detection sensor, and it also can accurately inspect routes of pipelines and defective points in the pipelines(error is less than 1m). It is expected that the Water Pipeline Equipment for Long Distance Without Cutting off Water Supply(Sahara) will lead the improvement in the management conditions of water supply business and advancement in management of pipelines by scientifically using the pipelines for water supply and maximizing the reduction of the leakage of water. Performances Water, Nature & People 37 Challenges Integrated Management of Waterworks Facilities K-water establishes an integrated water supply system to secure the stability of water supply by efficiently using water resources, alleviating the imbalance in water supply between regions, and using connected systems. The Current Status of the Integrated Operation of Waterworks Facilities Future Plans K-water has automated operations of all waterworks facility processes, K-water is currently in the process of integrating the operations of multiincluding water intake plants, pumping plants and water purification plants local waterworks for integrated operation. Once the establishment of the through the development of an integrated waterworks management integrated water supply operation system by area is complete, K-water will system. By operating the entire waterworks facility from the regional do its best to more reliably supply clean water to the public by embodying integrated operations center, and by remotely monitoring and controlling a truly integrated water supply operation system that can rapidly respond the water production and supply process 24 hours a day, facilities are not to risks around the clock through upgraded plans in which changes in the only efficiently operated and managed, but it also enables K-water to secure operation environment of water resources are continuously reflected. a leading role in water management technology. In addition, K-water was able to achieve personnel reduction and technological competitiveness improvements by integrating the operations across all areas, allowing Customer Value Enhancement through the Establishment of the Integrated the company to realize KRW 39.5 billion in tangible/intangible savings and Operations of Waterworks Services Utilizing IT Technology create the operational foundation of metropolitans-locals linkage and Integrated Operations by Sector (Multi-regional + Provincial Waterworks) strengthening waterworks facility maintenance by promoting the local operational center. In addition, K-water has developed into the world's A facility Intake Station, Pumping Station, Purification Plant Multi-regional & largest general water service provider by developing the world's largest provincial waterworks B facility Intake Station, Pumping Station, Purification Plant integrated operation center in which 23 water metropolitan waterworks Sewage Included C facility Intake Station, Pumping Station, Purification Plant facilities (capacity of 9.305 million ㎥/day) are operated within one place. Industrial Water D facility Intake Station, Pumping Station, Purification Plant Integrated Operations Center IT Based High Tech Waterworks Facility Integrated Operations System K-water divided its operations into 7 sectors centered on the regional Multi-regional Waterworks Local Waterworks headquarters across the country to optimize water resources. To enable • Expedient Realization of an Integrated • Integrated Operations between Multi-regional integrated operations of waterworks facilities in each sector, K-water is Water Supply System by Sector & provincial, Professional Personnel • Improvement of Operational Platform & • Balance between Business Expansion & establishing an IT & automation technology-based waterworks integrated Upgrade of Water Treatment Financial Stability operations system. By successfully implementing the establishment of integrated operations across all areas and sectors from 2005 to 2010, Sewage Industrial Water & Desalination Projects • Waterworks & Sewage Treatment Integrated • Expansion into the Highly Valued Water K-water is expected to be the world's first to achieve a multi-regional Business Development Supply Market • Joint Business Implementation with Private • Expansion into the Medium to Large Scale integration operational system on a national level. Corporations Desalination Project Business ●~2009 ●2010 Established in the Jeonbuk Area (2005) Established in the Chungcheong Area, Metropolitan Area (2006) Gangwon Area Established in the Jeonnam Area (2007) Metropolitan Areas Established in the Gangwon, Gyeongbuk and Gyeongnam Area (2010) Opened intergrated operation in all areas (2011) Chungcheong Area Gyeongbuk Area 77 Jeonbuk Area Gyeongnam Area Jeonnam Area Areas, Completed all areas of ▲ World’s Largest Metropolitan Integrated Operations Center K-water waterworks integrated establishment 38 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Challenges Nature & People Water Friendly Green City & High Tech Green Complex K-water creates futuristic integrated cities and high tech national industrial complexes leading the national green growth initiative. High Tech Green Technology Mecca, Sihwa MTV space from the representative industrial region of the capital area, and To utilize the tideland formed as a result of the construction of the Sihwa furthermore, it will play a significant role in contributing to the growth of Strategy embankment in an environmentally-friendly manner, the development of the Northeast Asian economy. the Sihwa MTV (Multi-Techno Valley) located in the tideland area, North of Sihwa Lake, and Songsan Green City located in the tideland area, South of Catalyst for National Economic Growth, the Sihwa Lake are being pursued. The Sihwa MTV, aimed to supply highGumi · Yeosu National Industrial Complex tech industrial areas in metropolitan areas and improve the environment of In line with the government’s policy towards developing the infrastructure the Sihwa complex, will be a high-tech integrated industrial complex(9.76㎢) industry, K-water initiated the construction of national industrial with diverse functions and facilities, including eco-friendly high-tech and complexes in the Yeosu, Changwon, Onsan and Gumi areas from 1974. venture enterprises, logistics, distribution and supporting facilities by 2016. The national industrial complexes Changwon and Onsan were completed The Sihwa MTV development project will create approximately 70,000 jobs and while the complexes in Gumi and Yeosu are currently under and result in approximately KRW 9 trillion annually from production to play a construciton. The Gumi industrial complex, started in 1977, currently has Approach significant role in regional growth and the national economy. 2 complexes, #2 and #3, which were completed in 1995. The 2 complexes cover an area of 7.4㎢. The #4 Gumi industrial complex is targeted to be Eco-friendly Future City, Songsan Green City completed by 2010 with an area of 6.8 ㎢. The complex has truly grown Songsan Green City is planned to establish the business undertaking into Korea’s largest national industrial complex with major domestic and direction through the operation of private-government council in overseas global corporations such as Samsung, LG and Exxon Mobil, and “Sihwa District Sustainable Development Council” and urban planning approximately 1,400 other companies will be located in the complex. In Challenges management professional (MP) group undertaken with the goal by using addition, K-water is pushing ahead with the construction of an 'expanded GREEN Economy the efficient use of the southern reclaimed area of Sihwa Lake. It is complex' to improve settlement conditions of the Gumi National Industrial undertaken with the project costs of KRW 9.405 trillion at the site of 55.86 Complex, which has led the economy of Korea, an high-tech industrial ㎢(16.9 million pyeong) to build the integrated city with the size of 150,000 complex, 'high-tech Valley' and Digital Industrial Complex(Free Economic people (60,000 households) harmonizing in a natural environment and Zone), which is aimed to attract foreign investments. To comply with tourism, leisure and residence with the goal of completion by 2022. We the government’s low carbon green growth policy, the complex will be are also planning to achieve an environmentally-friendly future city where developed into an environmentally-friendly complex by adopting new nature and humans co-exist by structuring the ecology of the entire city. renewable energy facilities, high efficient energy utilization facilities, and The entire business district is specialized in 5 blocks for marine tourism a bicycle network. As Korea’s largest general petrochemical complex, the and a leisure complex, city centered, automobile theme park, dinosaur construction of the Yeosu national industrial complex was completed with fossil site, and ecology residence complex with the metro transportation an area of 11.3 ㎢ between 1974 and 2000. The Yeosu complex expansion improvement measures in the size of KRW 1.4 trillion. And the foregoing project that was initiated in 1992 is expected to be completed by 2012 is connected to corporate investment and industrial facilitation to cause with an area of 7.81㎢. Currently, petrochemical companies such as GS Performances the employee effect of 173,000 employees, production of KRW 14.9 trillion, Caltex and LG Chemicals have operations at the complex. By developing income of KRW 600 billion, added value of KRW 6.7 trillion for a total of the complex in conjunction with the multi-regional Gwangyang Bay area, KRW 22.2 trillion of economic dispersion effect. K-water is contributing to balancing regional development and to securing K-water expects to revise the area into a pleasant integrated living national competitiveness. ▲ Bird-eye view of Songsan Green City ▲ Bird-eye view of Gumi National Industrial Complex Water, Nature & People 39 Challenges Global K-water Utilizing its accumulated advanced technology and experience gained from domestic water management, K-water strives to share the benefits of clean water within regions that face water problems. Trend of the Global Water Market project of Shayang Xian, Jiangsu Province in China. In addition, K-water As of 2009, the competition between water companies in the world has made in-depth analysis of water market for water market size for continues to intensify, within the private population of water service each country, market entry type, status of market share for multi-national expected to increase from 800 million to 1.16 billion people by 2015. companies and others, and through the analysis of major evaluation The size of the water market is also expected to increase to KRW 1,000 categories on 146 countries worldwide, it has targeted specific countries (10 trillion in 2025. In the early 2000s, water companies in France and the UK water market countries and 6 power market countries), and specialized dominated 70% or more of the market, but the competition for the water entry strategy has been established to fit into the characteristics of the market between countries has getting fierce nowadays, as advanced target countries in comprehensive consideration of local conditions, countries including the Netherlands, Germany and Japan, are supporting business type and others. their companies to advance into the global water market by forming an K-water is now pursuing a strategy to expand participation markets by forming independent association for the water industry, and SUEZ of France, the a portfolio for strategic projects centered on water supply and sewerage worlds' second largest water company acquired a majority of shares of Agbar of Spain, the world's third water company. In the situation, K-water │Diagram of Participation Market Expansion│ is taking the lead in creating the wealth of the nation through entering the Water market-intense countries Power market-intense countries global water market based on its technological capabilities, credibility, and 10 countries 6 countries internal/external networks accumulated for the last 40 years. 146 countries Selection Standards Selection Standards Strategy for Project Implementation • Private participation availability • Private participation availability In order to respond to the rapidly changing market situation, K-water has • Water market size • Development potential (CAGR 5.5% or more) (10,000 MW or more in potential volume) established middle and long-term “overseas water market advancement • Economic level • Power charge level strategy and road map” to undertake active advancement in technology (GDP USD 1,000 or more per person) (top 50% in chargeaveragecomparedto GDP) • Credit rating (Over level 4 of OECD) • Growth possibility service and investment business. • Water and sewer charge level (qualitative evaluation) This strategy presents its strategic structure and action plans ranged (top 75% in charge compared to GDP) • Growth possibility from expanding the market that K-water participates in under the aim (qualitative evaluation) of serving 40 million people for overseas services and achieving 50% of overseas sales revenue (KRW 5.8 trillion) to improving the management of Selection Results Selection Results investment risks in order to realize the Five Great Global Best. China, Thailand, India, Australia, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, the Philippines, Laos, UAE, Ireland, Bulgaria, Mexico and Egypt Nepal, Kyrgyzstan and Russia Vision The World's Best Comprehensive Water Service Company │Participation Market Expansion Strategy│ Establish Business Portfolio Concentrate the human resources and Strategy for quantitative expansion Strategy Target Achieve 40 million of overseas population for water Implement the previous business Discover follow-up business in the service and KRW 5.8 trillion of overseas sales Suggestion-typed M&A, Acquisition of successfully, pursue the ongoing country that K-water advanced business Shares business in earnest based on the existing business Explore new markets including Asia, Preoccupy the opportunity to join Bidding-typed ODA-Investment Expand the market Diversify Enhance the business Connected the Central and South America by ODA , Use EDCF finance to Implementation that K-water the type of management of and Africa investment business Strategy participates in businesses investment risks │Business Diversification Strategy│ Expansion of K-Water Markets K-water has advanced into the overseas market by undertaking a feasibility Export the Pursue Integrated Advance Green survey, implementation design and work supervision since the research 4 Rivers Restoration Process Business Energy Business Project Abroad project of the basin area of Fenhe River in Shanxi Province, and it has also contributed in diversifying business fields as well as enhancing business Export the business to Thailand, Package Business Connected with Business for Tidal Power, capability with its completion of 36 projects in 20 countries. Also, it has neighboring countries and the Resources, IT-based Wind Power, and Central and South America Intelligence-typed Water Solar Power over Water diversified its business structure through investments into the Patrind Management hydro power generation project in Pakistan and the local waterworks 40 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People system and hydro power generation, in which K-water has a comparative complete analysis for investment environment in advance in politics, laws, advantage based on its accumulated skills and technologies, and raising funds systematic part and others on major strategic countries. For each project, through enhancing the connection between ODA projects and investment it organizes and operates a Risk Management Committee, consisting of projects, financing projects and forming specialized local funds. professionals in respective fields, such as, law, finance, technology, and others, and undertakes the risk management system strengthening and Diversification of Business Types the systemization with the focus on comprehensive risk management in K-water is pushing ahead with an integrated water management system a management resolution organization with regular reports and others, of Thailand based on its experiences with the 4 Rivers Restoration Project, and has established a successful business plan by undertaking a business IT and water resources management capacities. Thai high-level officials selection structure and risk recognition strengthening system through an visited the water management center several times to better understand international outside professional advisory company. To secure financial Strategy how to prevent floods within the Chao Phraya River area of Thailand. In soundness following full-scale business investment, it seeks for an response to interest in our water management system, K-water and efficient procurement fund, including, domestic and an overseas project Thailand have held discussions on future pursuits, such as a project financing major financial institutions, participating of financial investors TF team and on-site investigations. After the completion of the project and others, and it subscribes to overseas investment insurance to assure for establishing the Integrated Water Management System of Thailand, the risks in default of terms, war, force majeure and others as well as K-water is planning to expand its exports of technologies of comprehensive seeking to disperse the risks through the joint advancement in overseas water management, connecting the 4 Rivers Restoration Project, such projects through the consortium organization with private companies. as expanding water projects to neighboring countries in Southeast Asia and developing additional projects for comprehensive water management World’s Best Comprehensive Water Service Corporation in Central and South America. Also, it is discovering high value complex As Korea’s representative water service corporation, K-water is following Approach businesses, such as package-typed water resources projects and IT-based the government’s policy to promote the overseas expansion of public intelligence-typed pilot project for water management, and it is diversifying enterprises. K-water is utilizing its overseas project execution capabilities business types, such as a pilot project for tidal power generation in Central and technological expertise accumulated over the past. With this, K-water and South America based on the world's largest Sihwa Tidal Power Plant will expand opportunities for private enterprises to enter into the overseas and advancing green energy projects including new renewable energies to market as a result of public enterprises expanding overseas, and will also Southeast Asia. take the lead in creating national wealth. By realizing its corporate mission Challenges of “Water for a Happier World,” K-water will do its best to advance in its GREEN Economy Enhancement of Management of Investment Risk goal of being the world’s best comprehensive water service corporation. Any overseas business involves unique national risks, such as, policies of the advanced country, exchange rate and others in addition to the In-progress Projects Completed Projects risk in the business itself. With respect to the response thereof, K-water 19 Projects in 15 Countries 36 Projects in 20 Countries (KRW 1.859 trillion)1) (KRW 38.3 Billion) publishes the information report for market trend and investment Nepal, Laos, Rwanda, Mongolia, Vietnam, Bangladesh, condition tailored for diverse entry type for each strategic country Pakistan, China, Indonesia, Nepal, Philippines, Laos, Sri Lanka, Haiti, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, Iraq, India, to respond thereof. Furthermore, it secures professional business Thailand, Egypt, India, Equatorial Guinea, Kyrgyzstan, Indonesia, Equatorial Guinea, China, Kenya, Cambodia, Cambodia, Vietnam, Mongolia, Iraq information through international investment advisory companies and Congo, Peru, Philippines domestic and overseas strategic partners and through the strengthening 1) Standard of Total Project Cost: ODA and Technical Services(total cost spent for the project), of an information collection system for overseas employees and Invested Business[Investment from K-water and joint participated companies and Project international education completed government employees through Financing) Performances Best Practice Hydro Power Generation in Patrind of Pakistan K-water is pushing ahead with the Patrind Hydro Power Generation Project to build and operate a hydro power plant with a capacity of 150MW near the branch of the Indus River of Pakistan. The Patrind project is to build a hydro power plant with the total cost of USD 4.36 million in the next four years, and K-water will hand over the operation right of the plant to the Pakistan government after K-water operates it for 30 years. K-water started the project by acquiring the shares of the local subsidiary, which was established for the Patrind Project, in 2009. K-water has acquired various licenses, and concluded financial agreements and ▲ Patrind Joint Development Agreement ▲ Patrind Project Safety Ceremonial Service concession agreements over the last three years to start the construction of the plant. Water, Nature & People 41 Challenges Development of Technology for Industrial Water and Construction of Tailored Water Supply Facilities K-water contributes to improve the national competitiveness and environmentally-friendly green growth by continuously conducting R&D and advancing the infrastructure. Production of Industrial Water and Development of Design and Construction of Daesan Tailored Industrial Technology for the Operation and Management for Water Integrated Supply Facility Industrial Water K-water has completed the design for the integrated facilities for supplying K-water is producing and supplying industrial water(tailored industrial tailored industrial water for 5 companies in Daesan Coastal Industrial water) for the high-tech industry, such as semiconductor and LCD, Region (Hyundai Oil Bank, Samsung Total, Honam Petroleum, LG and also pursuing the research and development of the technology for Chemical and KCC) in May 2011 and it is in the process of the construction the production and operation of industrial water in order to meet the of the facilities. This construction project is scheduled to supply pure increasing demand for pure, ultra pure and high quality industrial water. industrial supply to five companies in the Daesan Coastal Industrial In particular, it has established its road map for developing the technology Complex from August, 2012 after finishing a comprehensive pilot operation competency for the management and operation at the global level in 2011 by May to August, 2012. The facilities has the sufficient application case by reflecting the tasks for “Securing the Technology for the Production and to satisfy the needs of a customer with its excellent salt removal rate and Operation of Industrial Water” in the Core-Tech 2020, which is the middle MF pre-processing with outstanding processing capabilities and applies and long-term plan for its technology development. K-water is planning them with a high efficiency energy saving type reverse osmosis (RO) to pursue R&D for the development of the management technology, with high production. K-water is planning to accelerate its advance into which will reduce its operation cost by 10% and the development of the overseas by establishing the global standards on the industrial water, such production technology of ultra water, which will reduce its production cost as translating the completion performance into English and making a by 20% more than the current production cost by investing KRW 4 billion by standard manual for construction supervision of industrial water projects. 2016. │K-water Industrial Water Project│ ▲ The Project of Management and ▲ The Project for Integrated Supply Operation of Water Supply and Sewerage of Tailored Industrial Water for System for Hyundai Steel(192,000 ㎥/day) Daesan(119,000 ㎥/day) ▲ Bird-eye view on Facilities ※ SBR: Sequencing Batch Reactor │Research Plan for the Development of Production and Operation of Industrial Water(Core Tech 2020)│ 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Production Tank • Secure the technology of the management Optimize the operation of preprocessing and reverse osmosis process Advanced Water(right) Develop the technology to treat condensed water from industrial water facilities Standardize the operation and management of reverse osmosis process Advanced • Secure the technology of the production(design) Water(left) Condensed Water Develop new process including the optimized Treatment Facility integration of processes integration Develop the technology of ultra pure water for energy-saving ▲ Design of the Integrated Facilities ※ RO: Reverse Osmosis MF: Micro Filtration 42 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Challenges Nature & People K-water Technology Development K-water continuously pursues the discovery of core technologies that reflect changing internal and external environment and management conditions as well as star brand technologies for use to develop our core technologies into brands. In order to respond to internal and external environmental change, such as the ‘low carbon green growth’ national development strategy, K-water has Strategy strived to acquire core technologies in advance through ‘selection and concentration’. In the case of the water resources sector, the 4 Rivers Restoration Project, Integrated water management, and other projects have been pursued as a means to develop core technologies that serve to response to global climate change. In the waterworks industry, K-water recognizes the water industry as a new growth motor and has developed brands for by-stage technologies while conducting strategic R&D activities to cultivate the advanced water processing industry as a new national growth engine. Accordingly, K-water is continuously pursuing the discovery of core technology tasks that reflects internal/external environmental changes and management issues in addition to the developing star brands within ‘Core Tech 2020’, a corporate-level comprehensive technology innovation plan. Water Resources Sector Integrated Water Resources Management Operation Technology Integrated Water Resources In order to efficiently use and comprehensively manage limited water resources, K-water has led the Korean Approach Management Operation System 「Integrated Water Resources Management」 sector and technologies since 2001 by developing the “IWRMS (Integrated Water Resources Management System)” with consideration of dams, river basins, rivers and water quantity and quality levels. This technology provides assistance to dam managers for optimal water distribution and decision making through comprehensive consideration of the water quantity and quality within rivers and reservoirs. The technology provides benefits that enable stable water supply and optimal river discharge adjustments even during droughts and floods. Additionally, this technology was not only applied Challenges within the 4 Rivers Restoration Project, but also within the ‘Indonesia Citarum River Integrated Water Resources GREEN Economy Management Decision Making Support System’ led by the Asia Development Bank (ADB) and will continue to be utilized in entering overseas markets. Advanced Dam Safety Management and Decision-Making Support System Advanced Dam Safety Management For a conversion in the paradigm for dam safety management, K-water has developed an advanced dam safety and Decision-Making Support System management system. The advanced dam safety management system is comprised of a decision-making assistance system, dam monitoring system, dam DB system and dam alarm system. The dam safety management decision making support system is a risk level-based dam safety management assessment tool (D-SMART) and is comprised modules according to risk factors, risk level analysis modules, and damages calculation module. The risk level-based dam safety management assessment tool (D-SMART) is a technique that provides scientific, engineering and quantitative assessment standards. Additionally, this tool supports management of risks through analysis of entire systems affected by dams through increased safety Performances concepts limited to structures. Development of Commercialization Technologies for Over-Water Solar Power Over-Water Solar Power Generation System Generation Systems Over-Water Solar Power is new concept in solar power generation technology that combines existing OverGround solar power with Over-Water Technologies. By utilizing unused water surfaces within reservoirs, this truly is a green energy technology which minimizes environmental damage upon power generation while generating clean energy. Over-Water solar power generation is most suited to our domestic conditions in terms of efficient utilization of available lands and is a value-adding technology that converts unused water surfaces into potential resources and enables eco-friendly energy generation, suppresses occurrence of green algae while preserving ecological systems. There is huge potential for the development of a futuristic reservoir model converged with IT and BT technologies. K-water installed an over-water solar power generation test plant (2.4kW) on Juam Dam for the first-ever time in Korea during August 2009. Based on gathered from at Juam Dam, the world's first commercial 100kW over-water solar power generator was developed at the Hapcheon Multipurpose Dam in August 2011. By 2022, we plan to achieve KRW 1 trillion in sales by installing facilities of a total capacity of 1,800MW. Water, Nature & People 43 Challenges Waterworks Sector Development of Water Purification Water Purification Sector: Development of Water Purification Plant Diagnostics Program (Dr.Wastewater) Plant Diagnostics Program For over 20 years, K-water has accomplished the development and high level maneuvering of water processing examination technology on the basis of its performance in over 2,000 on-site examination supports and its examination technology, and as a result, it has developed an integrated technology examination program for water purification plants, the integrated body of high added value core technology (Dr. Water). Dr. Water is a knowledge based type integrated technology examination system for a water purification plant that can examine 14 processes and 67 categories through the standard processing (base capability evaluation, discharge water processing facilities evaluation, sterilization and other corrosion index evaluation and high level processing ozone and active carbon absorption processing evaluation) examination technique, and it is expected to undertake a major role in leading the domestic water facility technology examination and the strengthening of competitiveness in water businesses for K-water. Development of Pipe Network Pipeline Sector: Development of Pipe Network Program (Dr.Pipe) Program Dr. Pipe is Korea's first computer program for evaluation and examine the performance of distribution network for water supply, and it is comprised of the hydraulic field, water quality field and facility field to make an accurate decision based on the evaluation of each field. On the basis of CAD and GIS, anyone can easily draw the distribution network to interpret the network, and predict the flow of the distribution network of underground water through the water volume and water quality forecasting simulation model. In addition, it also supports the decision-making process for scientific improvement of facilities through the evaluation and estimation of remaining life of old corroded pipes. Development of Sewage Treatment Sewage Sector: Development of Sewage Treatment Diagnostics Program (Dr.Wastewater) Diagnostics Program Since 2004, the K-water Research Institute has developed ‘Self-examination type sewage treatment facilities operation and management system: Dr. Wastewater’ comprised with the ‘deductive examination technique’ and ‘core element technology’ that it has independently developed. Dr. Wastewater facilitates the TMS measurement figure as the data for processing the examination and problem solution for the first time in Korea and it enables the real time inflow water for characteristics analysis and discharged water quality forecasting. In other words, this is the first self-examination type processing operation and management system of Korea that undertakes the real time status monitoring for each processing at the complicated water treatment plant, analysis and forecasting of discharged water quality, real time problem solution and independent examination of water treatment plant. Considering the emergence of importance in water treatment for the 4 Rivers Restoration Project and linkage with the stringent water quality management system of the government in TMS, Dr. Wastewater is expected to undertake a great role. Development of Fast Screening of Development of Fast Screening of Water Quality / Harmful Substance Water Quality/Harmful Substance Thanks to increased economic scale and improved quality of lives, we are on the receiving end of the benefits that come with abundance of chemical and medical materials. Yet, at the same time, numerous types of materials are being introduced to our rivers and water sources, making quick and efficient water quality management techniques vital. In order to quickly and accurate diagnose many types of minute organic compounds, K-water has developed a fast screening technique that combines online sample injection, real-time ionization (DART), and highresolving scanning technologies and have been in use since 2010. Particularly, we have been quickly delivering analysis results of all samples to sites within 24 hours based on utilization at various water accident sites that require expediency, including clarification of landfills of defoliant by US Armed Forces, emergency diagnosis of phycotoxins according to accurrence of winter algae in Bukhan River investigations on causes of fish deaths, and pesticide-induced water contamination. 44 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Challenges GREEN Environment Green Management System 46 Green Network 48 Countering Climate Change 50 Development of Eco-friendly Water Resources 52 Protection of Bio-diversity 54 Management of Tap Water Quality 56 Source Water Quality Improvement 58 Wet Water drops gather to wet the hot land and becomes a stream to quench the thirst of animals passing the grasslands, and allows trees with roots deep in the ground to grow. K-water strives to protect the important values of green through valuable water. Challenges Green Management System K-water is improving green management performance, reducing potential environmental risks and creating new environmental values by operating diverse green management programs. Green Management System Since K-water first received the Environmental Management System (ISO14001) certification in October 2002, K-water's Environmental Management System has continuously been evaluated for its effectiveness through annual post management audits and renewal audits every 3 years. ISO9001 & ISO14001 standards are reflected in K-water’ s corporate regulations. According to the environmental management work process outlined in the corporation's regulations, each department is carrying-out duties related to Environmental Impact Evaluations, Establishing Environmental Targets Establishment, Environmental Audits and Environmental Performance Evaluations (EPE). In 141 2009, K-water was the first company in Korea to receive the ISO/CD26000 (Corporate Social Responsibility International Standard) level diagnostic evaluation. As a result of the evaluation, out of the 200 items in 7 categories, K-water was points, in compliance with 187 items achieving a compliance rate of 94%. This elevated K-water’s status as a corporate EPE Improvement Index leader in social responsibility. Also, K-water has reported seven key topics of social responsibilities by applying the ISO26000 checklist to the Sustainability Report since 2011. Pursuant to the ‘Frame Act of Low Carbon Green Growth’, 98 enacted in 2010, K-water has undertaken a green management system certification by connecting the revision of 98 internal regulations in existing quality and environment management regulations for revision and existing environment KRW billion, management system in undertaking green performance evaluation and others for the initiative introduction of a green management system as it was introduced in 2011. Through this effort, K-water uses the synergy effect with the existing 2011 Investment in Environment environment management system with the conversion into the company-wide low carbon management in doing its best for strengthening the capability as a global company through securing the global low carbon competitiveness. │Green Management System and Program│ Plan Check • Green Management guideline • Internal Audit/Post certificate audit / Implementation Act • Environmental Performance • Establishment of green Plan Check Evaluations (EPE) management targets • Government management evaluation/ imCons • Green management internal evaluation implementation plan pro ist • Carbon Reduction Label • Environment friendly design vement ent Action Do • Management Examination • Green Management Target and • Global Reporting Initiative Implementation Plans • Correction/improvement of Action Do • Environment friendly water resources inappropriateness development/control • Communication among the • Clean energy production stakeholders • Green purchasing, environment accounting │ISO Certification Training for Employees│ ISO Internal Review In accordance to ISO14001, KS I 7001 and corporate regulations, K-water Cultivating ISO Certification Auditors(’07~’12) → 97 people Need to Cultivate Professional Personnel to Internalize Green Management holds an environmental audit every year for each business site to evaluate Cultivation Program & Diversified Utilization Plan and improve the environmental management system. Consignment Training by a After an internal audit on the entire management process for all Select Candidates Certified Institution, Participation by through Internal Job External Company departments through the ISO dynamic cycle (P-D-C-A), an external Offerings Test Application, in Audits Obtain Qualification certified institution carries out an overall audit on K-water’s environmental management system. To internalize environmental management and strengthen internal management quality assurance competencies through Management Diverse Environmental Audit a strategic audit of the overall environmental management system, between Quality Innovation Utilization for ISO Internal Audit On-site Departmental Internalization for all Sites 2007 and 2012, 97 internationally certified ISO certification auditors were Internal Training Evaluation, trained. Through this, K-water was able to strengthen its internal assurance Innovation Activities capabilities regarding ISO standards. In 2011, inappropriate practices and Cooperative Firm Support The Establishment of Consulting Support recommendations from the internal audit, the renewal audit, and the first for the Green Management System 46 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People audit for the green management system were reflected to the management and │EPE Index│ (Unit: points) the internal report for the management according to their priorities, and proper measures and corrections were immediately taken to prevent the unsuitable 141 EPE Index practices from reoccurring. 137 41% 132 Environmental Performance Evaluations(EPE) In 2003, K-water implemented the Environmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) 100 program based on ISO14031, to carry-out regular measurements and a diagnosis on its environmental performance as part of its environmental management activities, and for systematic management through continuous improvements. 2006 2009 2010 2011 Strategy EPE electronic system is established and EPE is implemented its system from 2006. In January 2007, K-water was the first company domestically to acquire a patent for its EPE Electronic System. EPE Index was adopted to understand │Total Cost / Environmental Cost Ratio│ relative improved level compared to that of the base year of environmental [Unit: KRW 100 million/%] performance(2006), is managed as the core index of corporation for medium 1,380 1,464 1,351 and long-term strategic plan. The EPE Index score in 2011 was 141 points, an 1,207 improvement of 41% more than its base year in environmental performance. 12 11 11 10 Calculation of Environmental Expense K-water adopted environmental accounting as a strategic tool to enhance Approach environmental investment efficiencies and environmental performance by measuring the performance of the environmental management. By establishing 2008 2009 2010 2011 eco-cost concepts & standards that are appropriate to K-water in 2000, Total Cost Environmental Cost Ratio environmental costs and investments are calculated annually. An electronic management accounting system is used to more systematically utilize Challenges GREEN Environment environmental accounting results, enabling new environmental investment and capital budgets to be used in decision-making. The environmental cost of 2011 │Total Investment / Environmental Investment Ratio│ [Unit: KRW 100 million/%] was KRW 146.4 billion, an increase of 8% compared to the previous year, but due to the increase of the entire cost, it has accomplished 11% of business costs, and 980 GREEN Environment the environment investment was KRW 98 billion, an increase of 48% compared 664 428 to the previous year, but due to the increase of total investment expenses, it was 415 around 5% level of total investment that the intense investment has been made for 10 environment pollution prevention and disposition costs. 6 5 5 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total Investment Environmental Investment Ratio Performances Best Practice Korea's First Public Service That Certified the Green Management System K-water introduced the green management system as the first public corporation to take the lead in the governmental policies for green growth, since it is implementing major national projects, such as the Geongin Ara Waterway Project and the 4 River Restoration Project. By doing so, K-water could enhance its status as a public service to emerge as a global green company and declared its launch of the green management as the first public enterprise in Korea. Water, Nature & People 47 Challenges Green Network K-water has enhanced the infrastructure of the entire supply network of K-water and realized the eco-friendly supply network to accomplish mutual growth with the stakeholder. By managing its environmentally-friendly supply network for the entire Coexistent Council”, the problems between contractor and subcontractor are supply network process from purchasing to wastes, which includes adjusted and the troubled matters and work process are to be improved. In expanding green purchasing, supporting small & medium businesses’ 2011, the consultative group was expanded to 68 construction businesses, green management, carrying-out coexistent cooperation with construction which include dams and waterworks construction. K-water is creating a sound companies, and supporting environment-friendly farming, K-water is sub-contracting culture to achieve mutual growth with small & medium seeking to achieve mutual growth with cooperative firms and local citizens. institutions in the construction sector. │Management of Eco-friendly Supply Network by Stakeholder│ │K-water Green Purchases│ (Unit: % / KRW 100 million) • Green Product Purchasing Purchasing / • Supporting Small & Medium 76 / Manufacturing Businesses’ Environmental ing Management rchas turing Co ns 64 66 64 177 Pu ufac tru cti • Construction Company Coexistent Council n Construction Ma on • Supplier Registration Policies 116 (SEMS) 93 64 • Waterworks Technology Supply Support (TSS) te Was Sup • Environmentally-friendly ply Farming • Floricultural Scenery Consumption 2008 2009 2010 2011 Complex Creation • Market Expansion Support Purchasing Rate Purchase Amount Consumption • Recycling Wastes Water Purification Plant / Waste Sewage Treatment Plant Sludge Construction Wastes, Flood Support of Eco-friendly Farming in Areas near Dams Waste, Etc. The purpose of the project for support of eco-friendly farming in the areas near dams is to encourage farmers who cultivate the land for controling Green Purchasing floods near dams to use eco-friendly farming methods, such as organic To strengthen its environmental management practices from production to farming and non-agricultural chemical farming to create a dynamic consumption, K-water adopted green purchasing policies in 2002. Purchasing economy and to preserve the water quality of reservoirs. As a result, 1.127 was strengthened by efficiently managing green purchasing. Green million ㎥ of land was converted to eco-friendly farmland in 2011. K-water purchasing operating policies & the system are being improved through a provided environmentally-friendly farming equipment, natural composts joint system operations with the Korea Environmental Industry & Technology and agricultural training to support farmers. Also, residual agricultural Institute. Going a step further, by applying and managing environmentallychemical testing on soil and cultivated products, and heavy metal inspection friendly products as part of the EPE System, K-water's 2011 green purchasing are supported to order to secure the objective credibility on agricultural performance increased to KRW 17.7 billion, an increase in growth of 53% products grown in the land. K-water also assisted in farmers acquiring when compared to that of the previous year. Environmentally-friendly products environmentally-friendly farm product certifications for no or little use of include those with the Environment Mark or Energy Recycling Mark, and agricultural chemicals. K-water also played a role in helping local farmers Environmental Labeling & Energy Efficiency Management Products. This is achieve KRW 8.786 billion in sales between 2005 and 2011 by arranging sales 76% of the compulsory purchase target for environmentally-friendly products to large outlets such as women’s association in apartments and large food 17.7 which the Ministry of Environment established. processing plants, and through participation in various farm product sales events. By converting to environmentally-friendly farming, the water quality KRW 17.7 billion, Purchases of Green Products in 2011 of dams, which is the supply source for water, has been preserved, while the local farming income has increased. This contributed to the national and local citizens' appreciation of the dams. Coexistence and Cooperation with Construction Companies Support for the Establishment of Voluntary Environmental To establish and expand coexistent cooperative partnerships with the Management System of Suppliers and Parter Companies construction sector, a Coexistent Consultative Group consisting of construction Now corporate social responsibility is not just limited to the company alone. organizations, principal business recipients and subcontractors Through the Responsibility has been extended to the entire life-cycle of production. communication channel in a “consultative group with construction companies Cooperative firms voluntarily participate in environmental management 48 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People │Current Status and Plan of Eco-friendly Farming│ Classification Conversion Area 2008 1,170 2009 1,468 2010 1,396 2011 2,215 2012 1,127 (Unit: 1,000㎡) Total 7,376 2,215million ㎡, 2.215 Total Area of Eco-friendly Farming around Dams in 2011 1,401 │Sales Profit of Eco-friendly Farm Produce1)│ (Unit: KRW million ) Classification Sales Profit Total 8,272 2007 709 2008 1,805 2009 2,371 2010 1,986 2011 1,401 1) The sales profit can be different from the actual profit, because it is an estimated calculation based on KRW 1.401 billion, Consumer Price Index by National Statistical Office, and an estimate of farm income by area(㎡) Sales from Eco-friendly Farm Produce in 2011 and the establishment of the clean production system establishment helps the Environment Management System and six companies are applying for Strategy strengthen small & medium businesses environmental management the certification for the post-management. K-water plans to complete its capabilities. At the end, it can also strengthen K-water’s competitiveness. social contribution with cooperative companies through structuring the K-water also provides diverse environmental management programs to environmentally-friendly supply network with cooperative companies as cooperative firms (small & medium enterprises) that lack the personnel, well as structuring its overall environment capability in industry. K-water information and infrastructure to help them develop into environmentally plans to expand the environment management program on structuring -friendly corporations. The programs include environmental management the environment management system for ISO14001, Carbon Reduction training to help establish ISO14001, environment management Label Certificate System, introduction of green purchasing, and publication Approach technology support service, certification auditing, certification expense of sustainable management report. And it further plans to strengthen & post-management expense support. Through this, K-water was even more for corporate environment soundness by undertaking the able to establish a coexistent green partnership, enabling provision of corporate social contribution together with cooperative companies through environmentally-friendly products and services. Each of the cooperative securing the green growth foundation on an entire supply network and the companies structures the tailored environment management system for completion of environmentally-friendly network. each company through the environment management support business Challenges GREEN Environment along with the diverse business performances in a structuring law complying process, securing the crisis management responding capability, structuring environment management infrastructure, environmentallyfriendly products and service enhancement, structuring VOC management, GREEN Environment structuring of clean production, consumption system. It isexpected to lead diverse environment management benefits in improving the corporate productivity, sales increase through customer satisfaction enhancement, cost savings through environment cost reduction and others. Nine companies have acquired the certification of the Environment Management System by 2011, and three companies are applying for the certification of │K-water Eco-friendly Supply Network Master Plan│ │SMB Green Management Implementation System│ Performances • Waterworks Material Supply Registration Companies: 16 Companies • EMS Consulting Consigned to Professional ~2013 Maturity f Institution Host Green Neotw • Increased internal review expert training Organization ork ※ Completion of eco-friendly supply network ISO Audit/Training/ MOU Certification Expenses • Small & medium businesses Targets / Eco-friendly Support Expansion: 12 Companies Auditors' Products / • Strengthen Internal EMS Consulting Capabilities Training Services ~2012 n Strengthaertnership • Trial operation of Green Purchasing / Carbon Reduction Label • Foster & Train Professionals for internal examination of small Green P & medium businesses Korea Foundation for ISO Certification Cooperative • Cooperative Firms Targets / 인증기관 Quality Firm Support Expansion: 9 Companies Certification • Carrying-out Internal EMS Consulting Institution Certification Cost ~2011 Establish • ISO 14001 Development and Training Green Netw • Cultivating and training of ISO certified ork employees Cooperation & Support Structure Water, Nature & People 49 Challenges Countering Climate Change K-water is leading the low carbon green growth by the government by actively participating in the efforts made by the international community for reducing global green house gas to counter climate change. Enhancement of Technologies for Managing Water to │The GHGs Internal Emission Trading System│ Counter Climate Change Following the prospect of acceleration of global warming by the interSales of carbon credits government bodies on climate change, IPCC(Intergovernmental Panel on Excess carbon Credits Climate Change), and other international organizations, response to climate Surplus Carbon change has emerged as the priority agenda of the international community. Credits For joining the effort to respond to world-wide climate changes and realize Allowance Allowance green growth, the government has completed a comprehensive plan for (Cap) Actual carbon (Cap) Actual carbon responding to climate change in September 2008 and K-water has established emissions emissions the strategy master plan in December 2009 to respond to the climate change crisis and convert it as an opportunity to generate a new growth engine. A Business Site B Business Site Payment In addition, K-water declared the New Management in August, 2011, and established action plans for the new management. According to the new management strategy, K-water is planning the integrated with the performance of reducing 9,511 ton CO₂ of its greenhouse gas water management system by basin in order to respond to the increasing emissions caused by the small-scaled hydro power generation project at uncertainty about the water management due to climate change. To the end, Yongdam Dam and Daegok Dam earlier than the schedule. By furthering K-water developed the water management system operated by connecting these efforts, K-water will reduce the greenhouse gas emissions and dams and multi-functional weirs in 2011. Moreover, thanks to the 'Green actively cooperate with the government for the low carbon green growth. Technology Examination' brand, the amount of orders for services increased from KRW 680 million in 2010 to KRW 1.01 billion in 2011. Also, K-water Moreover, K-water concluded an agreement for pilot trading as part of the will take the lead in the national policies for low carbon green growth by GHGs Internal Emission Trading System with Korea Energy Management developing technologies of new renewable energy, as it is the first company Corporation in February 2011 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the area of new renewable energy. voluntarily, and it has implemented the GHGs Internal Emission Trading System since 2011. The year of 2011 was the period of the introduction of the Systematic Efforts for Reducing Greenhouse Gases system, so It conducted two cases of trading with 12 offices, whose emissions Since K-water was designated as a company managed by the Green are more than 10,000 ton CO₂, in July and in October 2011 respectively. It is House Gas Energy Target Management System in 2010, it has conducted planning to expand the applicable object of the system to the entire offices, various activities to meet its target. K-water has made the statement about and use the system as a tool for meeting its target by connecting the system its greenhouse gas emissions from 2007 to 2010 in June 2011 based on the with the Green House Gas · Energy Target Management System after 2012. greenhouse gas inventory system, which is certified by a world-renowned It is expected that all employees will develop a consensus on the need to accreditation agency, Det Norske Veritas(DNY), Norway. In addition, reduce greenhouse gas emissions thanks to the GHGs Internal Emission K-water has implemented various activities to reduce its greenhouse gas Trading System, and each office will voluntarily reduce the emissions. Also, emissions after making the implementation plan in December 2011 in K-water will be able to prepare for the domestic GHGs Emission Trading order to meet the 2012 target(the greenhouse gas emission allowances: System, which is scheduled to be implemented after 2015, thanks to the 669,576 ton CO₂) decided by the negotiation with the government. GHGs Internal Emission Trading System. Moreover, it enhanced its responding capability on the regulations for greenhouse gas reduction of the government by being acknowledged Moreover, K-water has increased the number of offices that acquired the certification of Tap Water Carbon Reduction Label from 7 offices to │Reduction Target for 2012 │ (Unit: ton CO₂ / TJ) 25 offices in order to establish the foundation for monitoring carbon at Emissions of Base Year Expected Emissions of 2012 Emission Allowances of 2012 its water supply offices. It also developed an Excel VBA-based automatic Classification (Consumption) (Consumption) (Consumption) carbon calculation program, which is expected to perform various Green House Gas functions, such as automatic calculation and prediction of carbon 497,230 687,120 669,576 (tonCO₂ ) emissions, analyzing the level of contribution and embodying graphs, Energy ( TJ) 9,580 13,256 12,923 automatic producing carbon reduction labels. 50 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People │Response to the Green House Gas · Energy Target Management System│ 2011 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC Early May Inspection Opening of National Greenhouse Gas Strategy Management System End of June Discuss reduction targets Report on Greenhouse gas emissions from 2007 ~ 2010 End of September Set Reduction Target End of December Submit Reduction Plan K-water has introduced the Carbon Reduction Label system for the first 551,000 ton CO₂, and it is attributable to an increase of power used volume time for the domestic water business and public enterprise to realize the following the increase of water supply volume compared to the previous low carbon green business premises, and in addition, it has implemented year. Approach all events of K-water with carbon neutral ways that all major events with ※ Carbon Efficiency was recalculated as the sales of 2011 changed according to the standard of K-IFRS certain size or larger are required to undertake in green events through carbon neutral certification. In addition, within the scope of improving The total amount of greenhouse gas emissions in 2011 was 551,395 ton energy efficiency and carbon efficiency together with the reduction of CO₂. Direct greenhouse gas discharge volume from the use of gasoline, direct greenhouse gas discharge volume, K-water manages the carbon gas and others is 3,961 ton CO₂, and the indirect greenhouse gas discharge Challenges cleanliness (total greenhouse gas discharge volume/energy use volume) volume from the use of electricity and others is 547,434 ton CO₂. The main GREEN Environment and carbon efficiency (total greenhouse gas discharge volume/sales discharge volume of greenhouse gas from K-water would be the indirect revenue) through the carbon intensity index management. energy source for the operation of water facilities. K-water has full-time measurement of greenhouse gas discharge volume in double following The carbon cleanliness of 2011 based on the inventory system has the energy use by facilitating the EPE system and recently structured GREEN Environment shown to be 2.15, the same as the previous year, and it has maintained inventory system, and operates the energy savings program for each field a lower level than the domestic average. This means that, when 1 TOE to contribute to the corporate competitiveness improvement in reducing is consumed, it generates 2.15 ton CO₂ of greenhouse gas. The carbon greenhouse gas, improving atmospheric environment, reduction of tapcleanliness is an index to tell how much carbon is discharged when energy water production costs and others. For the conversion into a high efficiency is consumed. As the cleanliness is lower, it means less discharge of energy consumption system, the energy efficiency is evaluated from carbon and a reduction of global warming the survey and design phases of various facilities and the power source management on existing facilities has been strengthened. In particular, it The carbon efficiency in 2011 was 8.72, which is higher than the previous has thoroughly managed the power unit for reducing greenhouse gas in year(8.26) and it means to use 8.72 ton CO₂ of greenhouse gas for the water business field, the main carbon discharge volume of K-water. Performances accomplishing sales of KRW 100 million. The total discharge volume of greenhouse gas in 2011 was an increase of 4% from the previous year for │National and International Carbon Cleanliness│ (Unit: ton CO₂ / TOE) │K-water's Carbon Cleanliness│ (Unit: ton CO₂ / TOE) 2.47 2.22 2.19 2.15 2.15 1.98 Belgium Korea 2009 2010 2011 Water, Nature & People 51 Challenges Development of Eco-friendly Water Resources K-water is trying to develop and manage eco-friendly, sound and sustainable water resources by complying with the guideline for eco-friendly designs and implementing the Environment Impact Assessment. The basic direction of K-water is to minimize the environmental damages by implementing the Environment Impact Assessment in the entire process from planning to design to construction for building an eco-friendly dam. │Development of Water Resources Harmonizing with the Environment│ ※ ESSD: Environmentally Sound and Sustainable Development Procedures for Environmental Assessment for Water Resources Development Projects Strategic Environmental Assessment Advanced Environmental Review W De ate l ve r R ta lo es pm o en t en urc m en on m t P es vir ess Long-term Dam Feasibility Notification of lan En Ass Environmentally Construction Plan Survey Basic Plans Sound and Sustainable Development Se (ESSD) l ta men on s E De covir es ve frie Implementation of Notification of En dn lo n re un pm dl Project Actual Plans cu So en y t Post Environmental Survey Environmental Impact Assessment Implementation of the Environment Impact Assessment as a New Project | River Improvement Project -Gunnam, Milyang, Pyeongrim Dam | K-water is implementing the Environment Impact Assessment by phase, such as 5,000 the administration planning, development planning, and implementation planning, 3,000 600 400 400 600 비탈면보호공(거적떼) 2% in order to prevent the environmental impact in advance that can be caused by the 2 1 여유고 비탈면보호공(거적떼) 3 돌붙임(신설) 1 1.20m H.W.L 계획흥수위 implementation of new projects of water resources, and it conducted the assessment 콘크리트포장(T=20cm) on the Andong-Imha dam connection project, the Yeongju dam relocating road 보조기층제(T=20cm) 돌붙임(기존) 층따기 construction project and the river management project in 2011. U자형측구 Implementation of Measures for Reducing the Environment Impact at Construction Sites of Dams K-water strives to minimize the environment impact, such as the air pollution, the water pollution and noise and vibrations that occur at the construction sites of dams. K-water has made the installation of facilities for washing wheels and cars, and a temporary dust proofing net compulsory in order to fundamentally prevent dust scattering, and it is always operating grit chambers and using contamination proofing layers to prevent water pollution. Category Reservoir Water Quality Improvement Prevention of River Contamination Ecological Restoration Relief of Ecological Isolation Measures Installation of Water Aeration Tanks Waste mine leachat processing Restoration of endangered species Installation of nature based fishways (Korean Berchmia and others) Application Gunwi Dam Yeongju Dam Seongduk Dam Gunnam Dam 52 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Also, it installs and operates temporary noise proofing panels to reduce noise that can affect the neighboring areas. In addition, K-water has contributed to improve water quality, prevent river pollution, and protect the ecology by applying proper environment protection facilities, which are suitable to the characteristics of dams. Post Environmental Impact Assessment The Post Environmental Impact Assessment is a system for monitoring the environment to prevent environmental damages as possible as it can by monitoring the environment impact that can occur in the process of the implementation of projects, and conducting further measures if unexpected environment impact occurs. K-water has implemented the post environmental impact assessment for the ongoing seven projects of development of water resources, and it is surveyed that all of the offices of K-water meet the environmental requirements. Strategy │Water quality management│ (Unit: mg / L) │Atmosphere management│ (Unit: PM10 µg/m3 / NO₂ ppm) │Noise · vibration management│ (Unit: noise dB(A) / vibration dB(V)) PM10 standard Noise · vibration standard I-b grade NO₂ standard I-a grade Approach Gunwi Gunnam Buhang Seongduk Hantan River Yeongju Bohyeonsan Gunwi Gunnam Buhang Seongduk Hantan River Yeongju Bohyeonsan Gunwi Gunnam Buhang Seongduk Hantan River Yeongju Bohyeonsan dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam BOD I-a grade I-b grade PM10 NO₂ PM10 standard NO₂ standard Noise Vibration Noise · vibration standard Creating of Water-friendly Ecological Space K-water has recreated dam facilities and areas near dams as a regional tourist destination and a place to facilitate local economies by designing the facilities Challenges and areas as a special place that is reflected by the regional ecology, culture and history with interesting stories. By doing so, K-water has contributed to GREEN Environment improve the quality of the people's lives and local economies by giving local residents an opportunity to enjoy their spare time in the facilities and areas. Category Design Concept Facility GREEN Environment Goonnam Dam Love and Peace of Red-crowned Cranes (Durumi) Durumi Theme Park Bohyunsan Dam Stars that shine in Bohyeonsan Astronomy Learning Space Youngju Dam Golden Sand and Scholar Culture Culture Experience Space Buhang Dam Reflect regional fables Nature Ecology Pathways Sungduk Dam Green pine trees and rest area Pine Tree Forests and Woodlands ▲ Gunnam Dam ▲ Bohyeonsan Dam Love and Peace of Red-Crowed Cranes Stars that shine in Bohyeonsan Best Practice Performances Development of Analysis System of Climate Characteristics in the Areas near Dams as the First Company in the World K-water developed the Climate Analysis and Mapping System(CAMAP) that can objectively analyze the increase of the number of days when fog occurs by the construction of a dam. It is a system that can measure and analyze changes in the climate characteristics before and after the construction of a dam, and it is expected to actively deal with civil complaints related to environmental damages. K-water is planning to announce the performance result in the International Association for Impact Assessment(IAIA) in 2012, and is in the process of the application of a patent of invention. ▲ Analyzing the occurrence of fog before *CAMAP: Climate Analysis and Mapping System and after the construction of a dam ▲ Main Screen of CAMAP Water, Nature & People 53 Challenges Protection of Bio-diversity K-water is doing its best to minimize changes in the ecological environment and maintain a healthy ecosystem where nature and man coexist through environmentally-friendly green development. K-water is implementing various projects for restoring the ecology to protect the habitat environment for animals and plants, such as minimizing the environment impact that can be caused by the implementation of projects, and restoring the damaged ecological environment. • Create Safe Breeding Grounds for Animals & Plants to • For the protection of Major Habitats of Animals & Plants, Restore Ecological Balance Protection of Improve Water the Prevention of Water Pollution & the Establishment of • Build Biotopes, Eco-bridge, Artificial wetlands, Ecological Bio-diversity Environment Improvement Measures are essential Parks, Etc. • Install Artificial Wetland to Purify Water, and Sewage Treatment Facilities • Improve the Landscape of Waterfront Improve Strategies for Restoring Develop • Enhance the Public Awareness of Restoration Areas near Dams and Reservoirs Waterfront Ecological of the Ecology through the Ecological and • Create Forest Belts And Construction for the Ecology and & Environmental Environmental Education Sceneries Preventing Surface Soil from Being Eroded Managing Bio-diversity Programs • Waterside Promenades, Wild Animals & Plant Visit Courses Vitalize Restoration of • Connect Environment Restoration Business to Local • Preserve Precious Natural Treasures such as Animals & Healthy Local Ecologies of Citizens’ Profit Generation Business Opportunities Plants that are endangered Economies Endangered • Complexes, Local Product Exhibition Sites • Foster Substitute Habitats & Artificial wetland, Supply Species Feeds & Continue Monitoring Inspection of the Ecological Environment K-water is regularly monitoring the current status of the habitats for animals and plants, such as birds, mammals, amphibians and reptiles, insects, benthic invertebrates and plankton, to inspect changes in the ecological environment. According to its research about ecological conditions in areas near dams, various living creatures are living in the areas: 11 to 19 kinds of mammals, 14 to 39 kinds of fish, 28 to 73 kinds of birds, and 8 to 26 kinds of amphibians and reptiles. Also, K-water has been implementing research on the ecological environment in the areas near major dams, which are managed by K-water, regularly every 10 years to collect data about the current status of species including protected species. It uses the data as basic information for establishing a plan of restoring the ecology. │Mammals in 2011│ (Units: Types) │Fish in 2011│ (Units: Types) Mammals Legally-protected species Fish Legally-protected species Gunwi Gunnam Buhang Seongduk Hantan River Yeongju Bohyeonsan Gunwi Gunnam Buhang Seongduk Hantan River Yeongju Bohyeonsan Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam │Amphibians and reptiles in 2011│ (Units: Types) │Birds in 2011│ (Units: Types) Amphibians-Reptiles Legally-protected species Birds Legally-protected species Gunwi Gunnam Buhang Seongduk Hantan River Yeongju Bohyeonsan Gunwi Gunnam Buhang Seongduk Hantan River Yeongju Bohyeonsan Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam 54 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People The Current Status of Projects for Restoring the Ecology I Results of the Research on Species in Danger of Extinction Around Major Dams I K-water has installed alternative habitats and artificial wetland to protect Investing Category Rare and endangered species year major species, such as mammals, insects, amphibians and reptiles and Siniperca Scherzeri (golden freshwater mandarin fish) & 3 other Fish Species, Paeonia Obovata birds, as well as fish ladders and spawning grounds to protect fisheries Soyang Dam Maxim (Obovata) & 2 other Plant Species, Short-tailed Viper Snake & 3 other amphibia & 2002 resources. Also, it has installed ecological paths, which are harmoniously mammals, leopard cat & 7 mammal Anax Nigrofasciatus Nigrofasciatus & 2 other Insect Species, Pseudobagrus Brevicorpus & 1 connected with the nature, to prevent the ecological environment from Namgang Dam other Fish Species, Otter, Common Kestrel & 1 other Bird Species 2002 being cut off because of the construction of a dam. In particular, it installed Chungju Dam Crassirhizoma & 4 other Plant Species, Shorttailed Viper Snake & 1 other amphibian & reptilia, 2004 Siberian Flying Squirrel & 2 other mammals Strategy Korea's first natural waterway-typed fish ladder(Pool type, Terraced-typed Juam Dam Reeve’s Turtle & 5 other amphibian & reptilia, Yellow-throated Marten & 3 other mammals 2004 fish ladder, L=423m) at the body of Gunnam Dam in 2011, so that it helped Korean Rat Snake, Siberian Flying Squirrel & 4 other mammals, Common Kestrel & 2 other Bird Andong Dam 2003 fish better migrate through the ladder. Species Imha Dam Reeve’s Turtle, Leopard Cat & 3 other mammals, Mandarin Duck & 4 other Bird Species 2003 │New Dam Ecology Preservation Development Plan(until 2014)│ (Unit: Places) Boryeong Dam Otter & 1 other mammal, Chinese Sparrow Hawk & 4 other Bird Species 2006 Otter, Cobitis Koreensis Pumilus, Korean Rat Snake, Narrow-mouth Frog & 1 other amphibia, 124 Buan Dam Common Buzzard & 4 other Bird Species 2006 Daecheong Mandarin Duck & 10 other Bird Species, Otter & 1 other mammal Dam 2005 Hapcheon Dam Sparrow Hawk(Accipiter Nisus), Mandarin Duck, Leopard Cat & 2 other mammals 2005 45 Approach Otter, Mandarin Duck & 5 other Bird Species, Pseudopungtungia Nigra & 4 other Fish Species, 16 Yongdam Dam Goodyera Schlechtndaliana & 3 other Plant Species, Korean Rat Snake & 1 other amphibian & 2011 6 reptilian Seomjingang Acheilognathus Somjinensis, Fareastern Brook Lamprey, Microphysogobio Koreensis (3 Fish Dam Species); Otter, Leopard Cat (2 Mammals); Lilium Distichum (Kochang Lily) (Total 10 Plant 2010 Species Alternative Fish spawning Ecological Fish habitats paths ladders Otter, Leopard Cat, Mandarin Duck, Northern Goshawk, Golden Eagle, Pied harrier, Cinnib grounds Unmun Dam Jestrek 2010 Hoengseong Otter, Leopard Cat, Eurasian Buzzard, Striated Bittern, Long-Billed Ring Plover, Osprey, Hen Challenges 2011 Dam Harrier GREEN Environment Milyang Dam Milk vetch root & 4 other plants, Otter & 3 other mammal, Cinereous vulture & 5 other birds 2009 Completion of Facilities for Preserving the Ecology GREEN Environment ▲ A‌ fish spawning ground at Gunwi Dam ▲ A‌ fish spawning ground at Gunwi Dam ▲ An ecological path at Gunwi Dam ▲ A‌ terraced fish ladder installed on the body of Gunnam Dam Performances Best Practice Korea's First Natural Waterway-typed Fish Ladder at Gunnam Dam K-water installed an elevator-typed fish ladder at Jangheung Dam to prevent the ecology of fish from being cut off by the construction of the dam, but it was not efficient because fish was captured first, transferred by car and released to the ladder. In 2011, as the first case in Korea, K-water installed a natural waterway-typed fish ladder, which is similar to the natural environment of Gunnam Dam. As a result of monitoring the ladder, almost all kinds of fish in Imjin River use the ladder ○ Type : Pool Type, Terraced Fish Ladder ○ Size : L=422.5m(Rapids-type 1/100, Terraced-type 1/30) ▲ The Current Status of Operation of Fish Ladders Water, Nature & People 55 Challenges Management of Tap Water Quality K-water has gained trust from the public by providing the high quality of tap-water through advanced water quality management, such as the expanding advanced water treatment processes and lowering the carbon level at all offices. Production and Supply of the World's Best Quality of Tap Water │Achievement Target of 5-Stars│ (Unit : %, Places) K-water has improved the water quality by adopting upgraded water processes, such as ozone and granular activated carbon process, that 71.4 can treat and eliminate substances with tastes and smells, and byproducts produced by the process of disinfection, and harmful substances, 54.3 25 which cannot be hard to be treat or eliminated by the conventional water 45.7 19 treatment process. K-water completed the introduction of advanced water 16 treatment processes in 5 water purification plants by 2011, including Bansong, Goryeong, Banwol, Goyang, and Gongju and is planning to expand to a total 14 plants by 2015 . Moreover, it is evaluating the 2011 2012 2013 management level of the quality of tap water in real time by establishing 5-Star achievement rates 5-Star Plants the second generation rating and evaluation system of water purification plants(K-water QPI), which utilizes IT and Web technologies. K-water QPI” has greatly contributed to upgrade the quality of tap water by applying K-water’s own standards, which are stricter than legal standards, and during 2011. Tap water produced by the Milyang water purification plant evaluating the quality in terms of 14 items, including turbidity. was selected as one of the top 10 tap water of the world at the 2011 Thanks to these efforts, K-water was highly recognized around the world International Water Testing Competition, competing 35 countries including for the excellent quality of tap water produced by K-water, as it acquired '5the U.S. and Canada. In 2012, K-water is planning to prove the world's Star' certification of the IWTA program organized by American Waterworks best quality of its tap water by applying the global water quality standards, Association (AWWA) while overseeing 16 plants receive '5-Star' grades which is the most strict standards on water quality applied to drinkable water by WHO, the U.S., Japan, the E.U. and Australia, to all of the water │Results of Improving Water Quality│ purification plants, which under the management of K-water. Turbidity Water Under 0.5NTU • Operating Water Quality Standard Quality Standards 5 Improvement of the Public Trust about Tap Water by Times Stronger Providing Customer Interactive Services and Improving the Quality K-water’s Own • Achieve Standards 10 Standards 0.1NTU Times Stronger K-water is trying to improve the public trust about tap water by finding out the reason of distrust about tap water and improvement measures. 2011 Operating 0.050NTU In order to ease “vague distrust about tap water,” which is the most major Achievements reason why the people do not drink tap water, K-water has undertaken diverse improvement activities, such as “introducing the tap water drinking Residual Chlorine Under 4.0mg/L Water Quality Standard • Operating Water apartment” and “operating the tap water quality confirmation system.” Quality Standards 4 Particularly in 2011, the drinking rate of tap water at the tap water Times Stronger K-water’s Own • Achieve 99.7%Target drinking apartments, which include 1,600 households in four apartment Under 1.0mg/L Standard buildings, increased by 14%. Moreover, K-water has continuously managed the quality of tap water by expanding the inspection items to 2011 Operating Under 1.0mg/L Accomplishment of 99.7% 250 items, which is much more than 84 items of the national water quality Achievements inspection, and it has also opened to the public about the comprehensive Trihalomethane information on the water quality of the entire process from the production (THMs) Under 0.1mg/L • Operating Water to supply of tap water on the Internet in real time. Quality Standards Quality Standards 1.3 Times Stronger In addition, K-water set up the water quality target based on the Langelier K-water’s Own Under 0.08mg/L • Achieve Standards 3.6 Index as the first company in Korea to produce tap water without any rust Standard Times Stronger water, and it has reached the target of its Langelier Index at 19 water purification plants in 2011. K-water will do its best to supply the high 2011 Operating Achievements 0.028mg/L quality of tap water to its customers by minimizing the occurrence of rusty water in the process of supply in the future. 56 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People │Comparison of Drinking Rate of Tap Water│ (Unit: %) The reason why the people do not drink tap water 57.2 • Vague distrust(30.2%) • Odor(18.1%) • Old and corroded pipelines and water tanks(17.7%) • Pollution of the source water(14.3%) 54.8 • Harmful substances including rust(11.6%) • Just habit(4.0%) • Others(4.2%) National Average K-water Strategy Measures to enhance the public trust about tap water │Comparison of Water Quality Inspection Items by Country│ (Unit: items) 250 • Implement the tap water quality confirmation system, and 218 tap water drinking apartment • Provide the information about the water quality 169 • Improve the Langelier Index to prevent rusty water 101 Approach 84 Langelier Index It is one of the most representative indexes to indicate the degree of the Korea U.S WHO Japan K-water corrosion of water pipes, and the degree of LI -1.5, it indirectly indicates Challenges that rust water barely occurs. GREEN Environment Acquisition of the Certification for Tap Water and Low Carbon Product as the World's First Company GREEN Environment The Carbon Reduction Label System is a system that discloses the information about the volume of greenhouse gas emissions of a product or service by putting a label on them, and supports low carbon green production and consumption through the certification for low carbon products to counter climate change. Since K-water applied its tap water, which had been produced since 2009, for the certification of the carbon reduction label system, as the first phase, K-water's 25 water purification plants out of 39 acquired the certification in 2011, and the remaining 14 plants will acquire the certification in 2012. Performances Also, as the second phase, K-water completed the process of acquiring the certification for the tap water produced by Cheongju Water Purification Plant, which successfully carbon dioxide by 5.3% of carbon, and it will expand the number of products with the certification through the efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. ※ The Carbon Reduction Label System 상 품 178 (Based on Article 18 of the Act of the Development of and Support for Environmental Technology) 저탄소 (First Phase) Acquire the certification (Second Phase) Acquire the certification for the amount of greenhouse gas for low carbon products emissions -Achieve the guideline of the reduction -Disclose the information about the target amount of greenhouse gas emissions 응 대 기후변 화 Water, Nature & People 57 Challenges Source Water Quality Improvement Supply of clean tap water starts from completely managing the quality of source water. K-water is supplying the high quality of source water by the scientific management of dams and basins. │Implementation System for Water Quality Management of Dams and Basins│ in Daecheong Lake So-ok Stream. It has also founded the ground for integrated management of water quality against sources of pollution Business Supply of High Quality Source Water by Enhancing Water in basins of dams, such as domestic sewage and livestock waste Target Quality Management of Upstream Areas of Dams water, through the construction of six basic environmental facilities in upstream areas of dams, and the operation and management of 103 basic environmental facilities.  Strategic Measures  Strategic Measures Enhancement of the Management of Sources Scientific Management of the of Pollution in Upstream Areas of Dams Water Quality of Dam Reservoirs Scientific Management of the Water Quality of Dam Reservoirs • Enhance the Pre-Management of • Manage the Water Quality by Using For management of dam reservoir water quality, scientific forecasts of Pollution Source in Basins Forecast Technology • Expand the Participation in the Water • Advance the Technology for the future water quality are required. However, since dam reservoirs are Quality Improvement Projects for Management of Water Quality of Dam Upstream Areas of Dams Reservoirs huge, stay for a long time of period, and involve diverse factors, including seasons and weather, it is difficult to understand the cause and effect Enhancement of the Management of Sources of relation within water quality changes. An alternative method to overcome Pollution in Upstream Areas of Dams the limitation is a water quality forecasting method through modeling, The recent climate change due to abnormal climate activities have caused so K-water has adopted the three dimensional forecasting technology, huge amounts of soil and floating materials to flow into dams for prolonged which is more advanced technology than the two dimensional technology periods of time. To overcome the limitation of the management of water to make more reasonable decisions and apply better technologies. In the quality, current remaining as a post-response to water quality problems, situation, K-water completed to apply the technology to 8 dams in 2011, K-water is implementing pre-inspection and preventive measures on following the first pilot application in 2009, and it will expand to apply the sources of turbid water and floating materials in cooperation with related three dimensional model to the entire dams by stage. organizations, and is also pushing ahead with the establishment of comprehensive measures for preventing turbid water by basin along the Adoption and Application of Efficient Technology for five major rivers as a fundamental policy. Also, it has founded the efficient Controling Green Algae system for inspecting and managing sources of pollution through the In general, green algae occur in eutrophic reservoirs and rivers in summer, establishment of the Management System of Information on Sources of and it causes water pollution and hinders the process of water purification. Pollution, which is based on IT and GIS. K-water is operating various water quality improvement facilities, such as layers of preventing the inflow of algae, water circulation systems Expansion of the Participation in the Water Quality (aeration facilities) and selective intake equipment to efficiently control Improvement Projects for Upstream Areas of Dams algae. It has implemented various researches for the analysis of effects K-water has made a great effort to reduce non point source pollution in and the establishment of operation guidelines. In particular, it successfully upstream areas of dams, such as participating in the national project for developed a sophisticated technology that can monitor the current status of managing water quality in basins, such as creating ecological wetland pollution sources in upstream areas and water quality in reservoirs by using satellites in 2011. Focus Development of New Technology for Monitoring Basins and Reservoirs by Using Satellite Videos There are many difficulties to find out the conditions of dam basins and reservoirs on the land, since the range of basins and reservoirs is very broad. K-water implemented the applicability evaluation for a new technology that can monitor changes in the use of land in dam basins and water quality in reservoirs by analyzing videos shot by satellites in 2011, so it confirmed the performance of the technology with the accurate monitoring rate of 88.7% for Daecheong Dam and 84.0% for Juam Dam respectively. K-water is planning to apply the technology to basins of Nakdong River in 2012, and improve the accuracy. It is expected for K-water to be able to manage water quality more efficiently through the development of professional systems that can be used with videos from the Science and Technology Satellite 3, which will be launched. 58 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Challenges GREEN Society Respecting Human Rights & Diversity 60 Fostering Global Human Resources 62 Creating a Great Work Place 64 Social Contribution Activities 66 Activities of K-water Water Love Volunteers 68 Hold Water can hold all and everything. From the children running around excitedly within valleys, rivers hold the boats that ride it. Oceans amply take it all that comes from the land. From the generosity of water, K-water learns how to live in our world as well as the happiness gained from sharing. Challenges Respecting Human Rights & Diversity K-water is taking the lead in protecting human rights & interests by protecting social minorities and respecting diversity. Efforts to Protect Human Rights │Sexual Harassment Prevention Training│ (Unit: %, People) K-water is protecting the rights of minorities while implementing policies 96.0 to resolve difficulties faced by employees & executives. Diverse policies, 88.0 3,903 including programs to expand employment opportunities, maintain gender 83.4 equality and protect workers during pregnancies are being initiated to 80.9 3,671 3,503 protect the rights of minorities, including individuals with disabilities, 3,272 female employees and contract workers. A Gender Equality Department has been established by the labor union, which has strived to provide the same benefits to contract workers as offered for regular employees. Human rights training are being offered the rights of minorities. The training courses mainly consist of company-wide sexual harassment 2008 2009 2010 2011 prevention training and personal information protection training courses. Training Rate Training Personnel In the future, human rights training courses will be expanded to over a wider-range of subject topics. In addition, guaranteed rights to form In accordance with article 17 of the Framework Act on Women’s collective agreements and initiate collective bargaining prevents all Development and Enforcement Ordinance Article 27-2 of the same act, possibility of rights being infringed upon at any of K-water’s work-sites. sexual harassment prevention training program is held once a year with results being reported to the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family. To Achieving Gender Equality prevent decreased labor productivity within worksites, a member from Since the announcement of Gender Equality regulations in 2004, each department is required to complete a cyber training course once a discriminatory factors in employment and promotion of female employees year to disseminate the contents of the training program within subject have been eliminated. Counseling for female employees facing problems departments. has been actively promoted while gender equality programs have been implemented by actively managing and supporting the female workforce Resolving Employee Problems and Difficulties through strengthened maternity protection. Basic salaries are the same A permanent counseling window is being operated within HR-BANK for male and female employees in similar positions and for those that (Integrated HR Management System) to assist in resolving problems and entered the company in the same year. Promotions and compensations difficulties faced by employees. In 2011, a total of 52 problem cases were are also being equally provided to both male and female employees. resolved through online and face-to-face consultations. Unresolved cases As of December 2011, there were 449 female employees, comprising are continuously monitored for resolution at a later date. 10.7% of the total work force. The number of female managers continues │Employee Problem Resolution│ to grow in numbers, having reached 34 currently in 2011. The ratio of female employment in 2011 comprised 18.4% of all employment. Category 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total Number of Problem │Employment Conditions│ (Unit: People) 39 98 78 73 Cases 36 Cases Resolved 28 67 56 52 163 32 % of Cases Resolved 71.8 68.4 71.8 71.2 141 Strengthening Personal Privacy Security 17 18 86 K-water established infrastructures and regularly holds information 84 security enhancement training courses to protect personal privacy and information. Collection of personal information for information services offered by K-water is minimal. Particularly, the company website utilizes 2008 2009 2011 I-PIN (Internet Personal Identification Number) rather than the personal 2010 registration number, helping further protect personal privacy while Female Male 60 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People personal information is systematically managed by establishing personal to provide assistance for female employees. In order to help relieve the Strategy information protection standards. To emphasize the importance of pressures of child care and create a balance between work and family life, personal privacy and the severity of potential damages, we have shared K-water is operating child care facilities needed by employees. In addition, cases of information leakages and infringements of personal privacy. we are operating a variety of maternity protection programs, such as the Additionally, we are regularly offering prevention training for newly child care temporary leave and selective child care work time reduction entering employees, information security personnel, and employees of policy. We have also been operating maternity protection programs, such cooperating companies. as providing breast pumps for breast feeding employees. At the same time, we have been operating the K-water Cyber Security Center 24 hours a day in connection with the National Cyber Safety Center as a means to protect government infrastructures and personal • In-Company Child Care Center: Water Love Children’s House Approach information from potential cyber attacks. By encrypting personal • Family Day Designated Every Week Wednesday information of customers, K-water is doing its utmost for the protection of • Joint Spouse Leave of Absence Policy personal privacy. Conditions for Leave: When spouse if working overseas, training, or on leave for over 1 year Increasing Employment Opportunities for Leave of Absence: Once, Three Years the Socially-Disadvantaged • Improved Childcare Leave of Absence Policy K-water has introduced and operates a policy that provides additional Challenges For employees with children under 8 years of age (For children in points for people with disabilities upon hiring employees. In regards to school, those under 2nd grade in elementary school) GREEN Society testing, depending on the level of the disability, an additional 3~5% points • Childbirth Encouragement Assistance are added to applicants with disabilities. A supplement in the form of 70% Payment of Childbirth Encouragement Assistance, of basic salaries is offered even for employees that become disabled after Work Circulation Exceptions for Pregnant Employees entering the company. For registered disabled individuals, 3 days of paid Breast Feeding Facilities, Parking spots designated for pregnant leave and gifts of encouragement are provided around Day of People with women Disabilities. Various convenience facilities have been installed, including Increase Miscarriage / Stillbirth Leave Days: Provide sufficient designated parking zones, elevators, restrooms, stairways and roadways. time to recover physically/mentally The disabled employment rate was 3.1% (151 employees) in 2011, over the legally set employment rate of 3.0%. Maternity Protection Program Performances Breast feeding and female employee rest areas have been installed within the head office while a corporate child care center has been established │Annual Disabled Employment│ (Unit: %) 3.1 2.9 2.3 2.2 2008 2009 2010 2011 Water, Nature & People 61 Challenges Fostering Global Human Resources K-water is cultivating global human resources by concentrating our corporate-level competencies in order to become the world's best water service provider. Global Human Resources Fostering Roadmap As K-water’s key partner in achieving set visions and strategies, all HR functions are aligned based on competencies and performance. For such to occur, STEP 3 we have secured global competitiveness of personnel and HR resources. STEP 1 STEP 2 Advancement of performance-oriented Acquisition of global competitiveness • Pursuit of global standards and strengthened work-oriented operations • Continued advancement of organizational and personnel operation systems to strengthen global organization and HR personnel capabilities and new growth engine businesses Operation of a performance-oriented • Strengthened consistency between Mid-term • Installation of a performance-based human and long-term management strategies and resources cultivation system organization and HR personnel organization and human resources strategy • Become a respected GWP company • Re-establish mid-term and long-term • Definition of organizational and HR operational organizational management policies and human policies for post management of national policy resources operation plans businesses • Strengthen support for national policy businesses • Operation of a fair organization and human through flexible organization restructuring and resources personnel based on work and personnel operation performance • Capability and performance-oriented HR personnel • Selection of outstanding human resources and operation establishment of advancement system • Structuring of K-water-type capability models • Advancement and facilitation of specialized • Installation of human resources cultivation system human resources (CRP) (~'09) ('10~'11) ('12~) Competency-based HR Management & Information System K-water has established a competency (Common, Leader, Position) model to manage HR personnel based on competence. By identifying capacities required to achieve the desired performance, we are operating a competency-oriented educational training system that can improve individuals above their current performance level. Such HR personnel management is managed through the HR-Bank (Integrated Human Resources Management System), in turn, fundamentally preventing errors by systemizing and operating 100% of all functions through the system. Management Structure (Policy) Information System Competency-based HRM • Establish a Competency (Common, Leader, Duty) Model HR-Bank • Competency, Position-based HR Management 71 • Establishing Competency-based Management Structure across Various Integrated System • Integrated HR Data Management, 100% 71 HR Functions related to Employment, Completion of HR Function Systemization, Appointments, Evaluations, Compensation, Information Termination of Errors at the Source and Promotions System Hours, 2011 Education hour per person 15,261 HRD HRM 15,261 Competency-based HRD (Human CRP System Resources Development) • One-Stop HR Cultivation System that ranging • Training Structure based on Competency, from Competency Diagnosis to Training People, Position, Level Performance Evaluations • Career Development Plan (CDP) Route Setting and Education and training personnel Operation by connecting 440 courses within 4 stages of Individual Competency Diagnosis → Selection of Required Courses → Study → Performance Evaluation → Feedback Beginner/Intermediate/Advanced/Expert Capability & Performance-based Compensation & HR Personnel Management The monthly salary of new employees is set at 205% of the minimum wage in accordance with the public corporation advancement policies of the Government. All employees and executives are subject to regular performance evaluations. In the case of executives, compensation is based on 62 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People performance in accordance with the management contract signed with training, including risk management special classes (3,315 people), G2G New the President. As the executives are paid annual salaries, level 1 and Management Strategy Training (1,929 people) in addition to recognizing career 2 employees receive compensations based on the results of division educational training, including OJT, as study hours, the number of students evaluations, department evaluations, and individual MBO (Management and training time have significantly increased over the previous year. by Objectives) results. For general employees who are level 3 or below, compensations are based on the results of division evaluations, Cultivating Key K-water Specialized HR Personnel department evaluations and team evaluations. Such compensations based K-water opened the ‘K-water Expertise Course,’ in 2008 to acquire on performance motivates employees to strengthen capabilities while global competitiveness by cultivating specialized personnel and has been fostering a performance and competence based organizational culture. cultivating specialists across all sectors. Based on specialized subject Strategy In addition, we have implemented a policy that allows administrative and matter related to the Key 5 Strategic Businesses, including 『3G Integrated technical employees to exchange functions to provide opportunities to Water Management Technology』. K-water is cultivating 75 personnel in develop one's capacities through experiencing various work functions. At 2012 equipped with specialized knowledge of at least a masters’ degree the same time, various awards for outstanding results, model employees, based on an over 360-hour high-quality training program. outstanding proposals, etc. have served to maximize operational focus. Cultivating Strategic Leaders Employee Career Development K-water introduced and has operated a one-of-a-kind systematic leader Since 2003, K-water has developed and operated a CRP (Competency cultivation program called 『Creative Innovation Leader Forum』 from 2010. Reinforcement Plan) system to help employees & executives in their career In 2012, 30 outstanding HR personnel were selected from leader groups of development. The CRP system assists in providing a balanced career 2 Grade of above to conduct strategic leadership strengthening programs. Approach development plan by appropriately reflecting organizational and individual With the objective of enhancing implementation capabilities through needs. From 2010, occupational limits on educational/ training curriculums communications and consensus building capabilities, this course provides were eliminated in order to widen the selection of educational/training diverse learning activities (workshops, seminars, knowledge training) opportunities for employees. At the same time, ‘『Modular Curriculum such as leader competency assessment and coaching. In addition, the Operation』, 『Open Operation of All Curriculums’ were implemented to 『Leadership Academy』 introduced in 2011 is a custom-tailored leader increase opportunities for employees to participate in education/training. cultivation program designed to develop insufficiencies through diagnosis Challenges Particularly in 2011, K-water introduced the Training Summation System of individual leader shortcomings. This program is also contributing in the that recognizes OJT and Educational Club activities as study hours in order systematic cultivation of strategic leaders. GREEN Society to activate work-centered education and training. By conducting special Discovery of needs/capability examination Education plan/implementation Performance management Human resources advancement tool Organizational needs Management strategy Confirmation of Capability development capability GAP Outcome monitoring Required Capability and feedback CRP system and K-water capability model Personal needs Management goal capability  Diagnosis Work application Performances Retirement Outplacement Program (Ever Green • New Job Support) Experience integration Development of outstanding K-water human resources Leader (Grade 1~2) Common Competence Work Experience & Education Training  Duty specialist Leader capabilities Pure K-water MBA Specialist In-depth experience (Integrity) Specific duty (6 years of work experience ~ Grade 3) Core Degree course Management Leadership capability Passion capability Professional course A/L Course Academy(DC) Work(CS) Advanced Self-led learning Study Organization(CoP) oriented Creative Innovation Experience search Duty Medium problem Leader Forum Cyber Training resolution Generalist (within 5 years of experience) Creation capability Beginning Mobile Education Promotion Diverse work (6 Sigma) Reading Basic Communication examination course experience New employees Sense of mission and pride as a K-water employees [Mentoring, OJT] Water, Nature & People 63 Challenges Creating a Great Work Place K-water operates various welfare programs to pursue improved quality of life and balance work and personal life while strengthening collaborative labor management relationship. Promoting Employee Welfare 1~3 days a week for periods within 3 months (possible to extend once). Due to the characteristics of the water business that includes dams and waterworks, K-water’s regional headquarters and management offices Development of a Self-Led Learning System are scattered all across the country. To resolve housing problems for K-water is helping employees continuously upgrade their capabilities employees that have been transferred to different areas for work purposes, by providing diverse training programs. A representative program is the employees are provided with support for living and rental homes. A portion Competency Reinforcement Plan (CRP), which helps individual employees of home purchase loans are provided for to assist in purchasing private enhance expertise in their specialized work functions on their own. homes to ensure stable housing and living conditions. K-water received the The CRP is a ‘T-shaped’ personnel development concept. A ‘T-shaped’ Family Friendly Corporation Certification (November 17, 2009) by operating employee refers to someone that is not only specialized in one’s traditional family friendly welfare policies and programs, including recreational sector, but is also well-versed in adjoining areas around the employee. It facilities accessible to all family members, cultural & arts experiencing is a program that enables employees to acquire in depth knowledge in one opportunities, writing classrooms & English camps for employees’ children. area through expert training for a certain period of time when first entering It has undertaken active activities as a member of family friendly forum as the corporation. Once the employee reaches a managerial position, the supervised by the Ministry of Gender Equality & Family. employee is allowed to participate in training to expand his/her knowledge in a field that is relevant to the overall corporation. An Enjoyable Workplace opened through Smart Work K-water has been fostering a smart management environment that allows Welfare Safety employees to work creatively and intelligently without being hindered K-water is creating a Great Work Place (GWP) for healthy people. Results by time and place in response to paradigm changes in the way people of health examinations in 2011 showed that 63.9% of employees were work. To create a smart work environment, K-water has been operating Healthy (Grade A, B), while 36.1% were classified has possessing health 11 smart work centers within regional divisions and overseas operations diagnosis (Grade C2, D2). Compared to the previous year, the diagnosis (Thailand, Philippines). Mobile service systems have been developed, group increased by 2.1%. Among all of those receiving examinations, the including customer service centers. We plan to continue expanding our prevalence rate, or the ratio of those diagnosed with a disease increased, mobile services offered for the general public, including bidding, leases, from 6.4% in 2010 to 9.2% in 2011. Within regards to this, smoke and 4-River use. cessation programs, obesity clinics, and onsite employee weight control K-water also contributes to horizontal communication across employees programs (Fat Loss Programs) are being offered to positive reviews in by utilizing corporate SNS 'Yammer' and in the establishment of a order to prevent adult diseases from occurring in healthy patients and to Paperless Reporting culture. Additionally, we are test operating a policy manage the health of employees shown to have health risks. In 2012, an that allows employees capable of smart work to work from their homes integrated health management system was established for continuous │Integrated Operation of Health Improvement Programs│ Category Contents Effects Health Management System • 100% Database of individual health management issues • Provide real-time health information and consultations Comprehensive Health Inspection Policy • Support for health inspection • Early detection of cancer in 2011 was 12 cases Harmful Workplace Health Management • Measurement of work places, such as experimental labs • Work Environment Assessment Policy (11 places, including Tap Water • Conduct specialized health diagnosis for 92 employees • Conduct Specialized Health Diagnosis Analysis Centers) working in harmful workplaces • Operating Period : '11. 3 ~ 9 • Success cases : 6 cases (37.5%) ⇨ 3 month post Smoke-Cessation Programs • Participants : 21 people management(119 success cases in 5 years) • Operating Period : '11. 4 ~ 9 • Success cases : 7 cases Obesity Clinics • Participants : 41 people (Average 7.4% reduction in body fat) • Operate visiting obesity clinics for offices with weak welfare Fat Down Clinic • 120 participants in 6 business sites environments • Support for advanced pregnancy screening • Minimize operational loss due to pregnancy Maternity Protection Programs • Provide female employee rest areas and breastfeeding areas • Encourage breastfeeding (provide breast pumps) 64 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People and systematic health management. We are also operating the smokingexecution of pending cases. cessation and weight control program in addition to heart related health Particularly in 2011, the organization finalized a sisterhood relationship programs (exercise inspections, CPR classes). with the Daegu Dongu Multicultural Family Support Center to promote support for multicultural families and gathered various positive results Development of an Advanced Labor Management Culture that served to establish new paradigms for labor union activities, including Established in 1987, the labor union can be subscribed to by employees ‘Campaign to Find Missing Children’, ‘Agreement to Purchase Gift of Grade 3 or lower. All employees become members upon entering Certificates for Traditional Markets’, etc. the company. As of July 2012, 82.1% of our entire employees or 3,494 At the same time, as 2012 will mark the first year of the and the employees were members. formation of the 9th Labor Union, labor and management have jointly The organization has been contributing to increased corporate-level declared a win-win relationship. K-water complies with Labor Standards Strategy consensus based on strengthened mutual trust through improved policies, Act Article 7, (Prohibition of forced labor) and strives to guarantee and management explanatory sessions, and increased information sharing improve the legal working conditions of laborers. between labor and management through corporate-level cooperation systems. The unique labor and management cooperation system has organized and operated the practical team for system improvement, 82.1% (2012. 7), Labor Subscription 0 Cases, such as, personnel organization, organizational culture, welfare system, integrated water facilities operation and others to resolve management issues since 2006, resulting in improvement plans and step-based Cases of Labor Disputes in 2011 Approach Online Channel Strengthened Communication Offline Channel Mobile office Permanent sharing system Session for labor and management Social network issues Labor and management homepage Labor union workshop In-company intranet and others Labor and management practical Me t council dia ec Dir n Various labor and management Challenges Div ed tio en ica erse gth un committees and others en m Str Com GREEN Society Formation of labor and management consensus/ e understanding tiativ Ini ma Syst Official Channel ation na em ge ati Unofficial Channel oper me c nt Labor and management council Hof Day Labor and management bull session Direct communication of Labor and management joint TF representatives of labor and teams Regular visits to sites management Collective bargaining K-water sports events Formation of trust Leisure activities Performances Focus National Project Mission Accomplished Through Win-Win Labor and Management K-water has realized an advanced management labor culture through the creation of new labor management paradigms undertaken social contribution activities based on joint participation from labor and management, including ‘Finding Missing Children by Utilizing Water Bills’ and ‘Agreement to Purchase Gift Certificates for Traditional Markets’. Labor and management become one to successfully complete key national projects, including the 4 Rivers Restoration Project through activities including 'National Project Success Hope Celebration' and 'Labor Management Unity Declaration for National Projects'. In all, labor and management plans to do its best in pursuing joint growth directions and a win-win labor management relationship based on mutual trust and cooperation by declaring a win-win strategy for continued future growth of K-water. Water, Nature & People 65 Challenges Social Contribution Activities K-water will lead the way in the establishment of an ecosystemic foundation and spread a culture based on sharing and social contributions. Promoting Strategic Social Contribution Activities were planted in flood control area in 3 dams of 269,759㎡ in 2011 and it K-water has set a vision, three major values, five major core areas and provided environmentally-friendly areas for the people. strategic directions uniquely to K-water’s social contribution activities ●Water culture sponsor: The high grade culture performances were to fulfill its mission of creating a “Happier World with Water.” K-water provided for residents near dams and the clean water music concert and is also implementing its social contribution activities strategically based sponsoring local culture events have been performed for the activation on choice and concentration strategies to achieve sustainable corporate of the local economy. In 2011, we have been cultivating and supporting development and fulfill its social responsibilities. water related sports sectors by employing disabled rowing athletes and swimming (synchronized) athletes. In addition, we have strived to increase awareness and interest in the importance of water within the general Mission Create a Happier World with Water public through events as the Water-Tour experience and Water Love Exhibit Competition. A Happy Society achieved Vision Through Sharing and Consensus Regional Communities Sharing K-water has operated the Filial Duty Welfare Centers (Hyonanum Welfare Center) and the Share Love Medical Center to improve welfare conditions for the elderly residing in areas nearby damns. We have also offered income support for youth and adolescents, Water Love scholarship 3 Major Participation Communication Change programs for future generations and sponsorships for multicultural Values families to provide differentiated assistance suited to regional characteristics. At the same time, we have been delivering recycled PCs to social classes lacking access to information. 5 Major Environment Regional Work Volunteer Global Areas ㆍCulture Communities Services Characteristic Sharing ●Filial Duty Service (Hyonanum): K-water established the Filial Duty Sharing Sharing Sharing Welfare Center (Hyonanum Welfare Center) to improve the welfare of Efforts to Actual Water Love Sharing Activities Global Strategic Preserve an Contributions Sharing Club that utilize core Volunteering in seniors residing in areas nearby dams by providing lifestyle based welfare Environment that to Achieving Activities Utilizing competences Areas of Need Directions is Clean and Good Change in Local Skillsets of and reflect through Water services related to culture, medical needs and housework. The centers to Live in Communities Employees business regional & Support by characteristics Volunteering provide services, such as physical therapy and free meals with resident Globally social works and physical therapists as well as senior protection and housework services for seniors with difficulty moving. As of 2011, a total Environment · Culture Sharing of 8 centers are in operation. In addition, the 'K-water Love Water Medical K-water has conducted projects to protect the river ecology and improve Volunteer' program was established in conjunction with Korea Open the environment to create clean rivers. Our projects to create beautiful dams, such as eco-friendly dam repair, operation of water culture centers, etc. serve to maximize the utility of dams while helping the general public learn more about dam functions. In addition, we have implemented water tours and held water culture events to inform people about the value of water and garner participation in cleaning the environment. ●Making a clean river: The maintenance project has been made for the lower streams of the rivers with 22 dams. The diverse efforts have been unfolded to make a clean river such as the unleashing 1.58 million native fries, and supplying of 71.091 million ㎥ of water for the environment. ●Making a beautiful dam: The rest relaxation areas are provided to the residents by establishing environmentally-friendly spaces at 16 dams and operating the water culture halls in 13 multi-purpose dams. The dam arranging project has been expanded to 19 dam water areas by entering into an agreement with the Korea Forest Service until 2011. Rape flower seeds 66 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Doctors Society from 2009, helping residents nearby dams to receive free residents through support for drinking water for secondary school medical care. The program is being offered for 5,200 regional residents in students, free water quality inspections for lower classes, and seawater 18 areas. Such efforts to improve the welfare for seniors were recognized desalination activities. At the same time, we have been working to spread to receive a Prime Minister Commendation (2 commendations) on Senior our water related technologies and experiences by conducting classes Citizen Day and a Ministry of Health and Welfare Minister Commendation (2 with water sector technologies and skills. commendations) in 2011. ●Clean Water Sharing: K-water has strived to create a world without ●Income Assistance: K-water provides support for jobs and income water shortages based on circular inspection and regular water quality through a job placement/sharing program designed for youths and tests for water supply facilities for 65 elementary schools and secondary adolescents within dam areas. In 2011, a total of 715 people were first schools that use underground water. We have also conducted 1,095 free employed within subject regions for placement in various jobs, such as of charge water quality inspections. In addition, K-water operates and Strategy assistances and helpers for seniors and maintenance/repair personnel supports 40 desalination facilities in 9 cities and counties suffering from to improve neighborhood environments. In addition, an eco-friendly chronic water shortages while supplying clean and safe water service in agricultural complex was created in dam regions subject to limits on remote areas and island areas. agricultural production to protect water supply sources, which was used to ●Water Education Sharing: K-water provides opportunities for children improve the quality of water but also promote regional economic activities. of lower classes to properly understand water through science experience In 2011, an eco-friendly agricultural complex of a size of 2.215 million ㎡ camps. We have also spread our construction technologies and knowwas developed, in which various activities are being conducted, such as hows with water corporations and officials in overseas developing sales of eco-friendly agricultural produce, installation of sales networks countries by conducting water related technology and management for regional crops/produce. training and education. ●Water Love Scholarships: To minimize the education gap between dam Approach areas and urban areas, K-water has provided native speaker language The Global Sharing training for elementary school students, science classes for middle As a global water specialist, K-water has strived to create a “World school students, and online education classes for high school students. Happier through Water” by developing town waterworks facilities and In addition, K-water strives to improve learning conditions for students supporting residential activities for people all across the world suffering residing nearby dams by providing scholarships and meal service support, from a lack of water. Starting with a drinking water project within in school supplies and textbooks to schools in remote areas. Tajikistan in 2006, K-water has conducted global social contribution Challenges ●Support for Multicultural Families: With consideration for regional activities by dispatching 180 volunteers to seven countries, including GREEN Society migrations and living conditions, K-water is providing living assistance, Cambodia, Vietnam, Philippines and Laos, until 2011. In 2011, we installed hometown visitation assistance, and Korean language training so that 50 ton water tanks and 6.4km waterways in addition to conducting multicultural families residing nearby dams can stably adapt to society and medical volunteering and maintenance of public facilities in two villages achieve economic autonomy. In 2011, K-water provided assistance to 1,051 within in Paksan District of Bolikhamsai Province, Laos. Such efforts was people in 12 dam areas. designated as an outstanding example of social contribution by the Council ●PC Sharing with Love: Starting from 2006, K-water has conducted of Fair Social Practices within Public Corporations in 2011. repairs of aging PCs to provide assistance in accessing information and reduce differences in information access levels. PCs are being donated to Details on social contribution activities of K-water can be viewed within the K-water website (http://www.kwater.or.kr). low income families. In 2011, 477 PCs were donated to the Korea Culture 551.9 Association for the Disabled. K-water Water Love Volunteers 55.19 Performances KRW billion, Established in July 2004, K-water Water Love Volunteers Group has Investment in Social Contribution Activities in 2011 4,185 volunteers, or 99% of all employees of 2011. The volunteers have registered in 102 volunteer clubs and spent a total of 55,000 hours (13 hours per person) to conduct volunteer activities. A fund comprised of a │Social Contribution Investment│ │Volunteer Hours per Person│ set amount taken from employee salaries and matched by the company (Unit: KRW 100 Million) (Unit: hr) is being used as funding. We are operating various policies to support employee volunteer activities, such as a social volunteer management 13.2 596.9 13.0 system to systematic manage volunteer activities and online classes to 570.4 551.9 12.6 improve volunteer expertise. Work Characteristic Sharing K-water has strived to create a “Happier World with Water” by concentrating on social contribution activities that are suited with the characteristics of water sector specialists that stably supply clean water. 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 We work to supply clean water that can be conveniently used by regional Water, Nature & People 67 Challenges Activities of K-water Water Love Volunteers A happy society achieved with sharing and understanding together with K-water. K-water Water Love Volunteers have undertaken service activities to contribute to improving local communities and the lives of citizens throughout Korea. It delivers love and happiness to local communities with its diverse activities, including helping needy neighborhoods, environment protection activities, disaster relief activities, contributions to local communities and much more. 68 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People 1. Bathing Volunteers giving the Gift of a Clean Body and Mind 9. Technological Volunteers Helping Fix Areas Hard to Reach 8 2. Filial Duty Welfare Center (Hyonanum Welfare Center) full of 10. Grand Cleaning Activities to Foster a Clean Environment 2 7 laughter and affection 11. Assistance for Disaster Areas to Share the Difficulties of Regional 1 9 3. K-water home nursing assistant acts as hands and feet for the Residents 3 elderly 12. Emergency Water Support for Disaster Areas 10 11 12 4. Lively English class with native speakers 13. (Global Sharing) Laotian Children Pouring Cool Water in front of 4 13 5. Love Sharing Medical Volunteers giving a Helping Hand the School Water Area 6 14 6. Meal Service Volunteers Serving People a Tasty Lunch 14. (Global Sharing) Medical Volunteers Working for the Health of 5 7. Delivery of Coal with Care and Love Children 15 8. Setting free young fish to protect native fish species 15. (Global Sharing) Helping Hand in Installing Water Pipelines Strategy Approach Challenges GREEN Society Performances Water, Nature & People 69 Water proceeds to one place. A drop of water comes together to become a stream, then a river, then proceeds to the endless ocean. Just like water that never yields in pursuing its objective, K-water will never yield in its pursuit of its goals to create a happier world with water. Proceed Performances Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 72 Financial Performance 85 Positive & Negative Information 95 GRI Report Index 96 Independent Assurance Report 100 ISO 26000 102 Code of Ethics Preamble, Eco-friendly Management Principles, Customer Charter Preamble, Mission Statement for Innovative Vision 104 UN Global Compact 106 Definition of Terms 107 Performances Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Economy Direct Economic Effects new management strategy, we are planning to introduce an integrated ◦ Economic Value Creation & Distribution water management system to better respond to the water management The comprehensive water resources industry, including dams, 4 Rivers uncertainties within our time of drastic climate change. For such, K-water Restoration Project, Gyeong-in Ara Waterway Project, and other water developed a multifunctional water management system in 2011. In resource and waterworks businesses are businesses directly related to addition, service contract size was increased from KRW 680 million in the national economy that efficiently facilitate limited resources in the 2010 to KRW 1.01 billion in 2011 as part of the 'Green Technology Group' creation of economic values. brand responding to low-carbon green growth. Additionally, K-water The economic value generated in 2011 increased over the previous year is at the forefront of our national low-carbon green-growth polices by regardless of whether private investments are included as a means to developing new and renewable energy related technologies as Korea's no. apply the K-IRFS(International Financial Reporting Standards selected 1 new and renewable energy corporation. ※Refer to pages 50~51 for more information. for use in Korea). The distributed economic value increased as well. More than 96% of sales revenue generated in 2011 were invested in business expenses, capital expenses and others for production activities. Retirement Pensions In preparation for the possible retirement of employees, retirement | Economic Value Creation & Distribution | (Unit: KRW million) provisions have been allocated in accordance with the Labor Standard Category 2008 2009 2010 2011 Act. Taking the average wage of employees during their employment period and 3 months before retirement as considerations, K-water Created economic value(1) 2,066,036 2,032,624 2,167,345 6,354,088 guarantees that employees will receive retirement grants on the date a) Net sales 2,044,533 2,005,384 2,144,750 6,325,786 of retirement. K-water is considering converting the current retirement b) ‌Interest income, rent, and 21,503 27,240 22,595 28,302 grant system into a retirement pension policy, which will be introduced profits from sale of assets after an agreement is reached with the labor union. Distributed economic value(2) 1,619,246 1,511,841 1,678,756 6,139,990 a) Operating ‌ expenses: production 1,127,327 1,160,601 1,077,896 5,260,373 costs, and asset purchasing expenses Government Subsidy Benefits b) Wage ‌ and welfare: wage, 303,943 285,818 341,990 357,221 benefits As K-water conducts national projects, a portion of project costs is c) ‌Capital cost: interest paid, 67,155 63,971 160,662 399,552 supported by the government in the form of government subsidy benefits. dividends d) Taxes: ‌ corporate tax, local tax 65,033 26,176 37,708 68,159 For the past four years, K-water has received a total of KRW 256.1 paid billion in government subsidy benefits, KRW 12.8 billion for innovation e) Investment ‌ in local community: 55,788 61,051 60,500 54,685 contributions, various allotted charges city construction projects, KRW 80 billion for pure industrial water construction projects, and KRW 234.2 billion for financial costs for the 4 Surplus economic value(1-2) 446,790 520,783 488,589 214,098 Rivers Restoration Project. ※ Standard applying the international accounting standard used in Korea from 2011 is applied | Recipients of Government Subsidies | (Unit: KRW 1 million] Countering Climate Change Category 2008 2009 2010 2011 ◦ Financial Effects and Risks and Opportunities of Climate Change Total 6,995 3,150 4,309 241,678 According to forecasts of an acceleration of global warming by interSupport for the Construction 6,995 3,150 1,000 1,619 government bodies on climate change, IPCC (Inter-government Panel of the Innovation City on Climate Change), and other international organizations, response to Danyang Local Waterworks 486 313 climate change has emerged as the priority agenda for the international Sacheon Local Waterworks 470 494 community. In joining the efforts to respond to worldwide climate Tongyeong Local Waterworks 1,384 1,247 changes and realizing green growth, our government has completed 969 2,911 Goseong Local Waterworks a comprehensive plan for responding to climate change (Sep. 2008). K-water has established a strategy master plan (Dec. 2009) to respond to Jeongeup Local Waterworks the climate change crisis and utilize it as an opportunity to generate a new Pure Industrial Water 80,000 growth engine. 4 Rivers Restoration 234,294 In addition, K-water made the New Management Declaration in Financial Costs August 2011 and has established action plans accordingly. Within the 72 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Market Status and fishery industry building up business. In particular, it enhances ◦ Legal Minimum Wage Vs. New Employee Wage Ratio resident satisfaction through the tailored support business for each The monthly wage for entry level employees with a university degree (level household by providing native English speaker education for elementary 5) is 205% of the legal minimum wage. school students, job-sharing businesses for youths and adults, operation of Filial Duty Welfare Center (Hyonanum Welfare Center) to promote the ◦ Local Purchasing Policy welfare of seniors and to reduce the gap between urban and rural areas. Purchasing by K-water is conducted through the electronic purchasing system and procurement purchases. However, to promote local purchasing | Contents of Assistance Projects for Residents nearby Dams | by field offices, regional purchases is possible for construction contracts or Categories Contents merchandise purchases in amounts less than a maximum value amount set Strategy by the Korean government (Ministry of Strategy and Finance). Income Enhancing • Agricultural and Livestock Industry, such as Farm Project Roads, Composts, Farming Facilities Local ◦ Local Hiring for Domestic & Overseas Project Sites Support Projects to Create • Living Environment Improvement Projects such Foundations for as Medical Equipment, Town Centers, and Town In general, K-water ensures equal employment opportunities for all new Livelihood Access Roads employees, eliminating limitations on academic background, regionalism, Local citizen • Medical Expense / Expert Health Support, and age. However, K-water hires local personnel for local waterworks Livelihood Electricity Expenses / Living Expense Support & meter reading personnel and water project operators. Since initiating Resident Support Projects Job Sharing Projects local waterworks consignments in 2004, K-water hired 461 personnel Support Child Raising • Child Raising Support such as Education through locally as of the end of 2011. In addition, K-water has helped relieve youth Support Native English speakers, Scholarships, & School unemployment problems and contribute to the development of the local Projects Meal Expense Support Approach communities by hiring a total of 725 young interns from 2009 to 2011. Dam Reservoir • Providing a 50% Subsidy for Local Governments Usage Fee Subsidy using Dam Reservoirs Other Indirect Economic Effects Support PR & Auxiliary • Projects Reflecting the Dam's Characteristics such as Constructing Filial Duty Welfare Centers & ◦ Investment in SOC Facilities Projects Supporting Environment-friendly Farming In 2011, K-water has contributed to the national economic advancement by investing a total of KRW 5.5 trillion in SOC projects, including KRW 3.7702 trillion on facilities for water resource development in major ◦ Supporting eco-friendly Agriculture in Areas Nearby Dams policy businesses, such as key national projects including the 4 Rivers Fertilizers, pesticides, and soil improvement works utilized for farming Restoration Project and Gyeong-in Ara Waterway Project as well as activities in areas adjacent to dams are non-point source pollutants resulting Challenges new dam construction, including Hantan-gang Dam and Youngju Dam in water pollution including eutrophication, and turbid water in reservoirs. and construction to increase the capacities of existing dams, KRW The 7.376 million ㎡ of land that has been designated as farm land from 188.7 billion in new and renewable energy facilities, including Sihwa 2008 in the flood control land areas nearby dams are being encouraged tidal power and Sihwa Bangameori wind power, KRW 345.2 billion in to be converted into eco-friendly farm land. Through this conversion, waterworks construction, including waterworks facility construction and pollution sources are minimized, helping preserve dam water quality. In water distribution system adjustments and KRW 745.9 billion in new city return, K-water is helping farmers acquire eco-friendly certifications for construction and industrial complex development. their agricultural products, while helping enhance their income by securing sales channels. Farmers in areas nearby dams that are carrying out eco◦ Dam Environment Improvements and the Opening of the Water Cultural Center friendly farming are cultivating potatoes, corn and other crops using organic Performances The construction of a new dam takes environmental factors into methods. K-water is helping these farmers by providing eco-friendly farm consideration from the beginning. However, since existing dam facilities tend equipment and natural compost depositories. In addition, to enable the to be worn-out and obsolete, they are not able to provide much support to agricultural products produced in these areas to acquire environmental the local economy. Considering this, K-water is establishing comprehensive certifications, K-water is providing eco-friendly agricultural technology measures aimed to improve the environment of existing dams while through technology support agreements with Agricultural Technology substantially renovating the surrounding facilities. Some of these efforts Centers of local governments. To secure objectiveness in the credibility of include setting up observation decks, elevators and promenades. Water agricultural products produced in these areas, K-water is providing support Cultural Centers are also either being newly constructed or renovated to in inspecting agricultural products for residual agricultural chemicals and create a resting area and cultural space for visitors. heavy metals and in acquiring eco-friendly agricultural product (no or low agricultural chemicals) certifications. ◦ Assistance for Residents in Areas Nearby Dams K-water has implemented its ‘Support Businesses’ since 1990 to increase | Eco-friendly Agriculture Conditions & Plans | (Unit: 1,000m2) the income and improve the welfare of residents in areas nearby dams. In Category 2008 2009 2010 2011 ~2013 Total 2011, it has structured a total of KRW 55.19 billion for the resident support Conversion business for local support business, resident welfare, and learning Area 1,170 1,468 1,396 2,215 1,127 7,376 capabilities to improve the local environment and agriculture, livestock Water, Nature & People 73 Performances Environment Use of Raw Materials | Energy Savings Implementation Plan & Performance | In 2011, 3.507 billion tons of tap water was produced. For detailed information Energy ‌ Expense Reduction through Equipment Improvements on the quantity of source water used to produce water and materials, such as (Lighting Equipment) purification chemicals used for water purification, refer to page 57, Carbon Operational ‌ Efficiency through Lighting & Air Equipment General Improvements Reduction Label. For details on purification and sewage sludge produced Management Energy ‌ Reduction through Rational Utilization of Electrical Sector during the production process and the recycling of construction wastes, refer Appliances to page 76. Energy ‌ Consumption Total Amount Policy Management & Energy Reduction Target Management Develop ‌ & Operate an Electricity Charge Calculation Program Energy Saving Water Supply Revise ‌ Optimal Electricity Rate Contracts for each Project Site Sector Apply ‌ & Improve High Efficient Equipment such as Improving ◦ Energy Consumption Amounts Capacity of Transformers The total energy consumed in 2011 totaled 10,605TJ, an increase of 4.6% over Equipment ‌ Improvement to Maintain a Load Power Factor over 95% the previous year. Most of the energy was used during waterworks processes, Target ‌ Establishment & Management of Dam Power Consumption Dam Sector Rate & Savings Rate such as the intake and supply of water and the operation of pumps in pumping Expanding ‌ the Applications of New & renewable energies plants. Direct energy consumed through diesel and gas was 76TJ, while indirect energy consumption through electricity stood at 10,529TJ. | Direct Energy Consumption| (Unit: TJ) | Indirect Energy Consumption | (Unit: TJ) | Energy Savings Implementation Performance | 72 76 10,529 Waterworks business energy reductions 70 10,072 Total Energy Savings in 2011 66 9,499 9,652 ⇒ 12,056MWh → 18,364MWh Power generation sector energy reduction ⇒ 6,308MWh | Total Energy Reductions by Division | (Unit: MWh) 32,494 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 21,654 18,994 18,364 ◦ Energy Reductions Energy savings contribute to reducing green house gases and water production costs. To convert into a highly-efficient energy consumption structure, equipment should be inspected and energy efficiency assessments should be carried-out during the design stage, while power 2008 2009 2010 2011 unit costs should be managed carefully for existing facilities as power unit costs comprise the largest portion of waterworks expenses. Water Usage ◦ Water Sources Affected by Water Intake ◦ Energy Efficiency Enhancement in Dams & Waterworks Facilities K-water initiated the Gyungnam/Busan Area Multi-regional Waterworks To reduce green house gas emissions and counter the energy crisis Project to supply clean water to the Gyungnam/Busan Nakdong River due to recent oil price hikes, improvements are being made to enhance main stream area, an area with vulnerable water conditions. energy efficiencies by deciding on optimal pump specifications and Initially K-water had plans to supply water by developing the Namkang optimizing internal coating & pump operation scheduling. By enhancing Dam water intake level and river bank filtration water. Due to concerns the performance of multipurpose dam hydropower plants, K-water is over increasing the intake level, however, plans to secure a water source contributing to the increased supply of clean energy domestically and through utilizing surplus Namgang Dam water and river bank filtration effectively countering climate change. Accordingly in 2011, K-water has water was revised and a feasibility test was conducted. The Daap intake commenced the feasibility study on effects of greenhouse gas emissions facility located in Gwangyang City, Jeonnam, supplies natural and by CDM Project with improved hydropower facility energy efficiency, which industrial water to the Gwangyang Port area by intaking water from the is scheduled to complete registration after passing registration review by Seomjin River. To minimize environmental effects and damage from sea the UN in 2012. winds, sufficient water from the rivers was secured and an environmental 74 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People impact survey was conducted. Recently, changes have been occurring in from the use of electricity increased to 547,434 ton CO₂ over the previous the ecology as the river mouth of the Seomjin River converts into a sea, year. In addition, indirect green house gas emissions from transportation such as ocean organisms inhabiting the river mouth. Investigations on the of employees & executives to and from work, and business trips were 2,037 causes of the phenomena were conducted, resulting in multiple factors, in ton CO₂ in 2011. addition to the Seomjin River water intake were the cause. Causes include a drop in the river bed due to rock extraction, an increase in the tide level | Direct Carbon Dioxide Emissions | | Indirect Carbon Dioxide Emissions | (Unit: Ton CO₂eq) (Unit: Ton CO₂eq) due to the landfill of Gwangyang Bay, and Dam construction upstream. Through the urging of local citizens, K-water will initiate impact surveys 547,434 Strategy 6,001 522,000 5,641 5,639 491,924 499,819 on the damages caused to the fishing industry due to the intake from Seomjin River and construction of Juam Dam. Continuous monitoring of 3,961 the changes in environment will also be carried-out. ◦ Reusing & Recycling Water K-water has been collecting and recycling backwash water, with the recycling quantity being 18.806 million ㎥ in 2011. For customers using recycled waste 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 water, a rate reduction (30% off of water rates) policy is applied to increase the use of recycled waste water and to establish a circulation-type society. In 2011, ◦ Green House Gas Reduction Project & Performance Approach customers using recycled waste water increased by 3.9% compared to the Refer to page 34 for details regarding K-water’s CDM projects & previous year, resulting in a rate decrease of KRW 3.7 billion. performance. | Customer Recycled Waste Water Production Quantity | | Recycled Waste Water Rate Reduction Amount | (Unit: 1,000㎥) (Unit: KRW million) ◦ Quantity ‌ of Ozone Layer Destroying Substance & Air Pollution 138,819 7,620 Substance Emissions 133,604 There are no processes in the production of water that emits ozone layer 5,990 5,744 104,548 destroying substances, such as Freon gas. There could be potential 81,784 3,701 leakages from cooling facilities that contain Freon gas. To prevent Challenges this from occurring regular safety inspections are carried-out on all cooling facilities. At the same time, there are no production processes that directly emit air pollution substances at any of the K-water project sites. However, there could be air pollutants emitted while using oil to operate the project sites and facilities. To minimize this, the departments implement diverse activities to reduce the consumption of kerosene by 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 reflecting this into each department's environmental target. Preservation of Bio-diversity | 2011 Air Pollution Discharge Status | (Unit: kg) Performances Diverse activities are being implemented to preserve bio-diversity, including Particulate SOx CO HC NOx Matter designing, constructing & operating eco-friendly water resources facilities, creating bio-diversity preservation facilities & space, and preserving the 26 133 2,965 829 7,001 habitat environment of organizations & natural cultural treasures. Detailed information related to bio-diversity identification, continuous environmental monitoring of management plans & project areas, and identification of Total Waste Water Discharge Quantity & Water Quality species in danger of extinction, can be found on pages 54~55. As the amount of water discharged from water purification plants and its quality directly affect the water quality of rivers and the ecological environment, K-water applies management standards stricter than Green House Gas Emissions legal standards. To minimize effects on the ecological environment ◦ Total Green House Gas Emissions within water discharge areas and preserve water quality in rivers, the Total green house gas emissions in 2011 reached 551,395 ton CO₂, a quality of discharged water is continuously monitored by a water quality 4.5% increase over the previous year. This was mainly due to the increase remote inspection system. By selecting discharged water quality as the in power consumption stemming from an increase in water supply. waterworks project environmental target, and as a core index of the Direct green house gas emissions from the usage of diesel fuel and gas environmental performance evaluation, K-water started reflecting the increased to 3,961 ton CO₂, while indirect green house gas emissions target and index in departmental evaluations from 2004. Water, Nature & People 75 Performances | BOD | (Unit: mg/L) being recycled and used as cement material (76.7%), planting soil (13.5%), potting soil (7.1%), and cover materials (2.5%). Sludge produced at sewage treatment plants operated by K-water was 44,288 tons. From the total amount of sludge produced, the percentage of sludge recycled increased 4% to 40% of total sludge, or 17,671 tons, based on active efforts in the utilize of sludge as a resource and in strict Water Purification Plants Sewage Treatment Simple Sewage Treatment compliance with the prohibition of ocean disposal. The sludge was Standard 2008 2009 2010 2011 mostly used for planting soil, fertilizer, earthworm breeding. K-water will │COD│ (Unit: mg/L) gradually increase the recycling rate of sludge by converting sludge into a resource and to prevent ocean disposals. │Water Purification Plant Sludge Recycling Rat│ │Sewage Sludge Recycling Rate│ (Unit: %) (Unit: %) 100 100 100 100 40 36 Water Purification Plants Sewage Treatment 31 Standard 2008 2009 2010 2011 │SS│ (Unit: mg/L) 14 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 Water Purification Plants Sewage Treatment Simple Sewage Treatment ◦ Recycling of Construction Waste Materials Standard 2008 2009 2010 2011 By promoting the eco-friendly treatment and recycling of construction waste generated as a result of K-water’s water resources business, ◦ Water Purification Plant K-water is contributing to the green preservation of the country, resource In 2011, the average quality of discharged water from water purification reductions and public welfare enhancement. The total construction waste plants was BOD 2.0㎎/L, COD 4.0㎎/L, SS 3.1㎎/L, which was only 10%, generated in 2011 was 583,591 tons and from this 93.8% or 547,556 tons 10%, and 16%, respectively of the discharge tax levy standard of BOD 20㎎ was used as road pavement material, material for creating green tracts of /L, COD 40㎎/L, and SS 20㎎/L. land through mounding and soil covering, recycled rock, and wood chips. Going forward, K-water will minimize construction waste generation and create a resource recycling green society by “initiating designs for an ◦ Sewage Treatment Plants environment that can coexist with nature” from the construction business In 2011, the average water quality of discharged water from the 20 sewage planning stage, and “realizing a productive construction site through the treatment plants over 500 tons were BOD 2.6mg/L, COD 7.7mg/L, SS 2.8mg/ recycling of construction waste” during the construction stage. L, which was similar to the public sewage treatment facility discharge water quality standards of BOD 10㎎/L, COD 40㎎/L, SS 10㎎/L 26%, 19%, 28%. │Results of Recycled Construction Waste Materials│ Dr.WW, an internally developed sewage treatment program, has stood at the Waste Combine Classification Total Waste Waste Ascon Waste tree synthetic waste forefront of improving the quality of discharged water. Concrete and plant resin materials and others Created ◦ Simple Sewage Treatment Facilities quantity 583,519 312,996 187,295 20,315 10,166 52,747 (tons) The average water quality of discharged water is BOD 6.5mg/L, SS 6.5mg/ Recycled quantity 547,556 312,996 187,295 19,992 79 27,194 L, which is within 32% and 32%, respectively of the legal standards of BOD (tons) 20㎎/L and SS 20㎎/L. Recycling 93.8 100 100 98.4 0.8 51.6 ratio (%) Discharging & Recycling Waste Products ◦ Sludge from Waterworks & Sewage Treatment Systems Effects from Hazardous Material Spillage, In 2011, the amount of sludge produced from purifying 1㎥ of water was Waste Material Treatment, Sewage Water approximately 73.1g. The total amount of sludge produced at water ◦ Hazardous Material Discharge Management purification plants for one year was 131,615 tons, with 100% of the sludge Hazardous materials such as waste oil and chemical substances 76 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People discharged from the project sites can have a serious effect on the | Green Management Procedure | surrounding environment, bio-diversity and health of local citizens. All • Establish hazardous substances from K-water’s project sites are strictly treated • Identify Environmental • Implement • Review • Improvements and environmental Targets and Environmental Performance Countermeasures according to related regulations. As of now, there have been no cases perspectives Detailed Targets and Results (Internal • Management • Environmental Implementation Detailed Plans Evaluation) Review of accidents due to any leakages of hazardous substances. However, Impact Assessment Plans K-water is enhancing its ability to take measures to counter potential accidents by establishing an accident manual and holding regular training activities to prepare for hazardous substance leakage accidents. Strategy Feedback and Set Directions for Following Year ◦ Waste Material Discharge Management | 2001 Green Management Performance Results | As a result of the London Dumping Convention (1996) banning the 3 Cases of Design for Environment (DfE) dumping of waste materials into the ocean, there was an amendment 22 Cases of Environmental Impact Assessments by Projects of enforcement regulations in the Maritime Pollution Prevention Law Eco-friendly 7 Cases of eco-friendly Development Development (Ministry of Maritime Affairs & Fisheries Regulations No. 330 on February & 8 Cases of eco-friendly Management of Facilities 21, 2006). As a result, disposing sludge from purification plants into Management 77.0% Achieved in Management of Revenue Water at Local Waterworks oceans has been banned as of 2007. Since 2006, all sludge generated 17 cases of Carbon Reduction Label Certificate System from purification plants has been recycled, and no sludge is exported. KRW 98 billion Environmental Investment Approach Improvement in the Quality of Dam Water (Average COD 2.8㎎/L) | Response System for Harmful Substance Emission Accidents | Improvement in the Dam watershed Area Sewage Treatment Rate Supplying (57%⇒68%) Clean Water Tap Water Quality Improvement Level 50% Occurrence or Report of Accident Settled Water Below 1NTU 98% Alleviate Distrust towards Tap Water (Supplied 10,770 bottled waters) Emergency Measures Production & Production of Hydropower Energy (2,799GWh) Consumption 57 GWh for solar energy, wind power and others of eco-friendly CDM emission rights 4,773 CERs Inform HQ and related Organizations Products Green Purchasing (KRW 17.7 billion) Challenges Reduction in the Cost of Chemicals for Purification of Water (KRW 7.49/㎥ Chemical Unit Cost) General Accident Management Develop Countermeasures Electricity Consumption at Project Sites (reduction of 18,364 MWh) and Onsite support Resource Conservation 6% Reduction in Oil Consumption against Target & Reduction in Usage of Backwash Water at Water Purification Plant Report Water Cuts and Conduct Recycling (1.25% of Clean Water Production) Cooperation and Joint Restoration Activities Reduction in food waste (discharge of food leftovers generated from Response (Ministry of head office 293㎏/day) Environment, Local Cause Analysis and Conduct Governments) Restoration Activities Control of Discharged Water Quality From Waste Water Treatment Reduction of Facility (BOD 6.5mg/L (under 10 mg/L), SS 6.5 mg/L(under 10mg/L ) Pollutant Performances Discharge Reduction in Discharge of Sludge From Water Purification Plants Restore Water Quality (Discharge of Sludge: 0.07㎏/㎥) Environment, Training for Water Quality Accidents (104 cases) Report to Related Organizations Safety, Industrial Disaster Ratio : 0.12% Health Management Fines Paid for Violating Environmental Regulations 0 Cases Resume Water Supply and Environmental Volunteer Activities 189 Times Restore Normal Operations Strengthening Cooperation Council (Sihwa, Daechungho) Activities, & Participation & Support of with Various Events 19 Cases Civil Society Support Water Resources Facility Tours (Water Tour 24,802 Visitors) Products & Services Promoting Taking Care of Forests (area 198,000ha) ◦ Environmental Impact Reduction Activities & Performance Transparent Disclosure of Environmental Management Performance, Other Publishing the Sustainability Report & GRI Reporting Registration (A+) K-water is continuously achieving high-level environmental performance Environmental Management Development of Water Resources in Underdeveloped Countries (11 through a dynamic circulation process of P (Plan), D (Do), C (Check), Activities Overseas Projects/ KRW 563.4 billion) and A (Action) that reflects the prerequisites of ISO14001. In 2011, 30 95 published thesis and 100 cases of research technology development/ environmental targets in 8 categories were set while 98.9% of the targets intellectual property rights were achieved. Water, Nature & People 77 Performances Legal Compliance, Transportation, | Employees & Executives Status(Personnel) | (Unit: people) Environmental Accounting 4,200 ◦ Legal Compliance 4,149 4,031 No fines or cases of non-monetary sanctions were levied due to 4,025 environmental regulation violations in 2011. ◦ Environmental Effects from Transporting Employees & Executives The results of analyzing the environment effects caused by transportation, such as employee business trips, showed emissions of 4,072kg of air 2008 2009 2010 2011 contaminants, such as SOx. The use of commute buses and public transportation is being recommended to minimize environmental effects. | Number of Employees & Executives by Age Group | | Air Pollution Materials Discharged during the Transporting of Employees & Executives | (Unit: kg) Particulate SOx CO HC NOx Dust 192 1,362 481 54 1,923 20s 7.7% 30s 31.6% ※ Ministry of Environment Announcement 2009-30, The Discharge Index of the partly revised Ratio(%) 40s 36.5% policy toward the method of calculating the total automobile pollution substance discharge Over 50 24.2% amount was applied. ◦ Expenditures for Environmental Protection and Total Investment For more information on environmental accounting, including environmental investments and environmental costs, refer to page 47. | Type of Employment(Regular, Non-regular Composition Ratio) | Labor Ratio(%) Regular 89.5% Non-regular 10.5% Employment Conditions The total number of employees working for K-water is 4,200 (based on full time positions as of December 31, 2011), including seven executives. Departments with similar functions were integrated to strengthen global competitiveness while human resources operation was increased in | Personnel Status by Region | (Unit: people / %) efficiency by simplifying organization ranks. A total of 173 personnel 1,283 / 30.5 (141 males, 32 females) was publicly recruited in 2011 to improve organizational activities through involvement in large scale national 1,100 / 26.2 projects. | 2011 Employees & Executives (Personnel) Ratio | 891 / 21.2 420 / 10.0 Executives 7 / 0.2% Total 4,200/100% Professional Positions 144 / 3.4% Personnel (people) 278 / 6.6 Specialized Positions 453 / 10.8% 203 / 4.8 /Ratio (%) General Positions 3,596 / 85.6% 24 / 0.6 1 / 0.0 Seoul Gyeonggi Gangwon Chungcheong Gyeongsang Jeolla Jeju Others 78 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People ◦ Employee Turnover Rate | Employee Welfare Policies | Efforts to improve the Efficiency of Public Enterprise Management is Category Contents being conducted from 2009 to 2012. The turnover rate of employees • Home ‌ Purchase Loans Contents for 2011 was 2.95% (124 employees), an increase of approximately 30 • Company-owned ‌ Housing such as Dormitories employees over 2010 caused by an increase in the number of age-limit • Tuition ‌ Support for Middle and High School Students Strategy retiring employees. Education • Financial ‌ Aid for College Tuition • Head ‌ Office Child Day Care Center | Employee Turnover Rate | (Unit: % / people) • Health ‌ Examination & Health Management Programs (Non-smoking & obesity clinics) 3.80 Health 2.95 • Head ‌ Office Medical Infirmary & On-site Safety / Health 153 2.20 Management 2.19 Personnel Designation Policy • In-house ‌ Dentist and Oriental Medicine Clinic 124 93 Maternity • Providing ‌ Feeding Rooms and Female Employee Resting Area Protection • Interim ‌ Workforce for Maternal & Child Care Leave Employees 88 • Disaster ‌ Compensation Policy for Work-related Disasters Approach Disaster • ‌Support for Difficult-to-cure Diseases such as Cancer & Compensation Group Insurance Policy • ‌Physical Training Center Others • ‌Club Activity Support • ‌Funeral Articles Support 2008 2009 2010 2011 Employee Turnover Rate (%) Retired Personnel (People) ※ Includes non-voluntary Labor-Management Relations turnover (age-limit retirement) In accordance to Article 35 of the Labor Union & Labor Related Conciliation Law, the rights to collective bargaining and to negotiate collective agreement | Status of departure in 2011 | Challenges (Unit: people) are guaranteed for all employees. The current labor union membership rate Category Total General position Special position Expert position is 82.1% as of July 2012. Based on Article 21 of the Collective Agreement (Responsibility to Notify), any changes made to labor conditions or the Total 124 70 7 47 Articles of Incorporation should be notified to both parties without delay. Male 117 65 7 45 Female 7 5 2 Workplace Safety & Health The Labor-Management Joint Project Safety & Health Committee was replaced by a Joint Labor-Management Council, which is comprised of 8 ◦ Employee Welfare Policies members each from labor and management. The council opens meetings Performances In addition to the legally guaranteed four major social insurance coverage quarterly to discuss management issues. Through the Council, sufficient for full-time employees, a variety of welfare policies are being provided explanations on management issues are provided, and labor management to increase productivity by helping stabilize living conditions, enhancing disputes are reduced while achieving mutual benefits for both labor quality of life and providing incentives. In addition, maternity leave is being and management by enhancing productivity and welfare standards for offered to all 100% of male and female employees. employees through mutual discussion and understanding. To ensure workplace health & safety for project sites with over 100 employees, a | Maternity Leave Status | (Unit: people) joint labor-management Industrial Safety & Health Committee has been Category Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 created to discuss industrial safety & health issues within the workplace. Maternity Leave 43 8 3 8 24 ◦ Safety and Health Issues From the Labor-Management Meeting Agendas Male 7 1 1 2 3 Diverse industrial tosafety •‌Improvements and health education the maternal •‌Improvements to the management and site safety child Female 36 7 2 6 21 instinct protection system nurturing support system •‌Specialized employee inspections •‌Improvements in the operation of within harmful environments medical facility in headquarter Water, Nature & People 79 Performances have been imple mented and strengthened to prevent safety accidents while Education & Training policies on performing accident prevention activities during operations and | Annual Average Training per Employee | (Unit: hr) the stable return to work for injured employees are being operated. Great results were achieved by conducting strict health inspections for 71.0 63.8 early discovery of diseases, smoke cessation programs and obesity clinic 61.0 60.5 for systematic management by care takers. ◦ Injuries, ‌ Occupational Disease, Lost Work Days, Work-related accident rate and Prevalence Rate | Injuries, Occupational Disease, Lost Work Days | Occupational Days Lost Year Injuries Injury Rate Days Lost 2008 2009 2010 2011 Disease Rate 2011 6 people 0.14% 0 people 334 days 1.56 | Annual Average Training per Person by Grade | (Unit: hr) ※ All 2011 injuries involved male employees 123 | Industrial Disaster Rate | (Unit: %) | Prevalence Rate | (Unit: %) 92 92 79 9.2 6.5 63 0.30 6.4 0.25 5.9 59 58 38 0.17 0.12 Grade 1 Grade 2 Grade 3 Grade 4 Grade 5 Grade 6 Grade 7 Grade 8 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 ◦ Evergreen Program for Retirees An ‘Evergreen Program’ is being operated to effectively prepare employees planning for retirement. K-water has been providing assistance for that retiring Disease Prevention & Risk Management Program for employees can prepare for a second life through training courses related to Employees & Local Citizens change management & personal finances, real estate, and start-ups. K-water operates an employee counseling support program for employees and their families, and a ‘Filial Piety Sharing Welfare Center (Hyonanum ◦ Subjects of Performance Evaluation Welfare Center)’ to enhance the welfare of regional senior citizens. All employees receive regular performance evaluations. In the case of executives (Vice President), management contracts are entered with ◦ Ombudsman window the President to determine the personnel and performance level in Through the Ombudsman window in HR-BANK (Human Resource Capital accordance with the internal management performance evaluation, such Management Integration System), K-water has strived to aggressively as, Division evaluation, department evaluation, and team evaluation for resolve the problems of employees. detailed matters are referred to on departmental heads and lower ranks. The evaluation categories consist of page 60 (Human Rights and Respect for Diversity). a department core index and company-wide common index in accordance with the four key viewpoints (customer, finance, process and learning ◦ Filial Duty Welfare Center (Hyonanum Welfare Center) growth) of BSC (Balanced Score Card). In order to relieve senior welfare issues in dam areas with a relatively higher ratio of elder citizens, K-water established the Hapcheon Dam Filial Duty Diversity & Equal Opportunities (Hyonanum) Welfare Center in 2006, with a total of 8 centers currently in ◦ Employee & Executive Composition operation. By implementing various programs, such as dispatching home As of 2011, the ratio of male and female employees stood at 89.3% (3,751 volunteer service member, weekly care, and leisure welfare businesses, we employees) and 10.7% (449 employees), respectively. Although the ratio have strived to resolve regional senior welfare issues while working to improve of female employees is relatively low, K-water established a female the satisfaction for local residents each year through the consignment of employee hiring quota system from 2004, with the number of female superior senior welfare institutions within surrounding areas. employees standing at 449 as of December 2011. Among them, there are 80 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People five employees in directors and team manager (Grade 2) positions and 29 communication project and others: under KRW 80 million), products employees in manager (Grade 3) positions. from women corporations and social corporations are purchased with priority and leads the protection of equipment and material suppliers | Employee Composition | and construction workers through substantive performance of payment confirmation system for subcontract payment. In addition, for protecting the human rights of temporary workers in construction, K-water reflects Strategy the social insurance premiums (health insurance and national pension) on the cost of work and settles them at the time of project completion Female 10.7% Ratio(%) Male 89.3% as a means to increase the payment rate of worker’s compensation insurance premium for contract parties. Starting from the first half of 2012, the scope of such post-compensation of insurance payments is being extended to serve and merchandise purchases. ◦ Base Salary Comparison ◦ Human Rights Training In cases when the position and date of company entrance is the same, Currently, human rights training courses focus on protecting the rights similar base salaries are being paid to male and female employees. of minority employees, such as company-wide sexual harassment Approach prevention training and personal information protection training. In the future, K-water plans to continue expanding the contents of human rights training. For more details, please refer to page 60 of this report. Human Rights Anti-Discrimination Investment & Procurement Practices In K-water’s Ethical Principles, it is clearly stated that individual In the preamble of K-water’s Ethical Principles, in addition to clearly personalities are to be respected, and that there should not be any stating the principles of respect for human rights, a clause is included that discriminatory treatment. Through this, K-water complies with ILO policies states that individual diversity and dignity are respected. It is stipulated so (No. 111, “Convention on Discriminatory Treatment of Employment & Challenges that all management activities are carried-out based on the principles of Work”). To protect the rights of minority employees including the disabled, human respect. female, and & non-regular employees, various measures are being implemented, including the expansion of employment opportunities for ◦ Human Rights Review on Investment Agreements minorities, reduction of work hours for child care purposes, and securing interim workers in case of child caring or maternity leave. A Gender Since the overseas projects that K-water is involved with are small Equality Department was created in the labor union to protect the rights of investment projects that are mostly Official Development Assistance (ODA) female workers. For further details, please refer to page 60 of this report. projects and engineering (Survey & Design, Construction Inspection) technology export projects, the projects do not include a clause related Freedom to Form Organizations & Collective Bargaining Performances to human rights protection. However, K-water is scheduled to review the inclusion of human rights protection clauses in future direct investment Based on the 3rd Labor Standard principles from the 10 principles of the projects and its decision-making process. Global Compact, the right to form organizations in collective agreements and collective bargaining is guaranteed. There are no grounds for ◦ Human Rights Review for Contract Companies infringing on these rights at any of the project sites. When conducting transactions with companies, such as construction, service and merchandise suppliers, the contract review standard is set to Eradication of Child Labor exclude unfit companies and by comprehensively reviewing the financial K-water prohibits the use of child labor at all project sites and there have soundness, corporate credit rating, quality and supply performance to been no cases of child labor in any of K-water’s project sites. Through substitute for human rights review. In particular, the accident rate is regulations on the prohibition of child labor, anyone under the age of 15, included in the pre-qualification for bidding participation (PQ) for major or students in middle-school under the age of 18 are prohibited from projects to strengthen the human rights and labor part review, preferring employment. All new employees are required to provide documents that companies with lower accident rates. In addition, when entering into the demonstrate their age. Through these efforts, K-water is faithfully abiding private contract for protecting the socially vulnerable classes (general by the 5th Labor Standard principles from the 10 principles of the Global project: KRW 200 million, specialized project: KRW 100 million, electric Compact. Water, Nature & People 81 Performances Eradication of Forced Labor of a plan must be secured so that it contributes to an environmentally K-water complies with Korean Labor Laws and ILO policies (No. 105, rational dam candidate location and selection process achieved through “Convention on Eliminating Forced Labor”) to prohibit forced labor. strategic environment assessments conducted since 2007. K-water is faithfully abiding by the 4th Labor Standard principle from the 10 principles of the Global Compact. ◦ Pre-Environmental Review System As a policy to prevent any environmental effects through the establishment Security Practices of environmentally desirable administrative plans and development K-water has been development infrastructures for the protection of plans by reviewing the environmental effects and appropriateness of personal privacy and regularly conducting information security education the selected development site based on administrative plans, which is and training. K-water has been systematically managing personal the higher ranking stage of development projects, and development information protection by establishing personal privacy protection plans, the prior environmental review helps in selecting an eco-friendly standards in addition to operating personal information exposure site when establishing basic plans for the construction of dams. A preinspection solutions and privacy protection systems. For more details, environmental review was conducted during the decision-making process please refer to page 60 of this report. for national projects, such as the Andong-Imha Connection Project, Yeongju Dam Road Relocation Project, and River Improvement Projects (Gunnam Dam, Milyang Dam, Pyeongrim Dam) of 2011. Such reviews Rights of Local Residents facilitated the decision-making process by taking into consideration the As an SOC investment related public corporation that oversees economical, technological and environmental factors. the construction of dams, waterworks, and complexes, there are inadvertent disputes with local residents in the process of implementing | K-Water Environment Assessment Process | projects. As most are related to property compensations, a total of 56 lawsuits occurred in 2011 (44 cases related to property compensation). Nonetheless, K-water strives protect local citizens that must leave their Prior to Project Commencement residences while working to resolve the cases expediently. As part of a • Structuring partnership with interested parties support package provided to local citizens forced to emigrate from their Customer requirements and communication for local council and others residences for construction, K-water is providing a variety of benefits to Exchange expansion and communication with civic and local citizens through various support projects for local residents. environmental organizations • Evaluation of the appropriateness of location through strategic environmental examination and advance environmental feasibility • Establishment of a plan to minimize the environment impacts of businesses through environmental impact assessments Society While Conducting Project Impact on Local Communities Feed-Back ◦ ‌Environmental Assessments by Project Stage & Local Environment Management • Participating in entire processes of business with the customer participating systemization Taking the environmental & social effects by project stage into Dam construction regional council, capability participating consideration, K-water has been conducting sustainable water committee and others • Ecological environmental impact monitoring in the business resources development. From the administrative planning stage of a implementation process through post environmental impact survey water resources project, suggestions & opinions from local citizens are collected. At the same time, a local council is established based on participation of local citizens and project related parties to alleviate various problems that might affect the local community. In addition, when After Conducting Project participating in overseas water resources development projects, such • Implement the survey for post-environmental impact survey and as Pakistan and Cambodia, K-water is contributing to the sustainable ecological environmental impact survey • Operation of improvement program in relationship with local development within the subject country by conducting environmental residents assessments to implement sustainable development from the planning • Support of dam area and provision of cultural space • Operation of cultural heritage conservation and damaged stage. environmental restoration program ◦ Strategic Environment Assessment As a strategic decision-making support measure taking into consideration ◦ Environmental Impacts Assessment administration planning, the first stage in each development project, to As a policy to minimize environmental impacts by forecasting · evaluating environmental, economic and social effects, the environmental feasibility environmental effects from the actual design stage of a development project 82 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People and by identifying ways to reduce impact on the environment, K-water strives ◦ Strengthening of Integrity Monitoring for Corruption Prevention to protect the local environment by pursuing for appropriate reduction By utilizing CAATs (Computer Assisted Audit Techniques), k-water has methods through environmental impact assessments when establishing advanced its internally-developed intelligent monitoring system WARN plans for the construction of industrial complexes, cities, dams and roads. (Wide Audit & Risk Network) so that 75 risks of 43 management systems In 2011, environmental impact assessments were conducted for large scale are monitored in daily units to strengthen our corruption prevention national projects, such as construction of Dongseo (East West) Access function (in 2011, real-time resolution of 204 abnormal conditions). At Roads and National Highway No. 77 of the Songsan Green City Project, the same time, K-water operates ‘integrity call’ and ‘integrity envelop’ while environmental impact reduction measures were established through Strategy for aggressive gathering of customer opinion on fair, transparent and the development of eco-corridors and alternative habitats for endangered corruption experience cases related to major civil works of the public wildlife. corporation to strengthen communication with customers by preparing customer complaints and its related improvement plans. ◦ Post Environmental Audit Through environmental impact assessments, an environmental audit ◦ Establishment ‌ and Expansion of an Honest Organizational Culture is conducted from the start of construction until the fifth (5th) year of through Communication-centered Integrity/Ethics Training construction within sites to monitor strict compliance of agreements as K-water has strived to establish honest and integrity based leadership by well as to prevent potential environmental impacts from construction and creating an Integrity/Ethics video featuring the CEO and Auditor General operations. Measures were established to minimize the environmental to distribute and share online while making management-level Integrity Approach impacts by initiating post environmental audits on 16 projects including training (10 hours completion) mandatory. In addition, a situationthe Gunwi Multipurpose Dam, 4 Rivers Restoration Project, Sihwa based, easy to understand 'behavioral practice manual' was produced Hydropower Plant, etc in 2011. and distributed based on strategies to prevent potential behavioral violations. Special training and ethics classes were held for a total of ◦ Environment Restoration & Cultural Treasure Preservation 21,345 personnel in 2011 as part of efforts to establish and spread antiEfforts are being taken to restore local environments by creating ecocorruption and an honest organizational culture. friendly facilities such as eco-corridors, fish ways and substitute habitats to prevent changes in the environment from water resources development ◦ Selection ‌ as an outstanding institution for integrity in the public projects, and to secure ecological soundness. As can be seen through the sector based on comprehensive integrity measurements Challenges Jangheung Dam Prehistory Cultural Park and the Daegok Dam Cultural Based on various corporate-level efforts, such as strengthening employee Exhibition Hall construction, K-water is placing its efforts on preserving ethical levels by introducing improved ethics guidelines and regulations, local cultural assets that can be potentially submerged or damaged. self-purification activities by introducing an internal public service notification 3rd Party Support System (confidentiality assured), selfCorruption Prevention diagnostic corruption-risk warning system, increased assessment and ◦ Efforts to Discover Corruption Factors and Removal Methods subjects for assessment for upper levels, continuous improvements to We have improved operational transparency and strengthened antiinferior areas through corruption risk investigations, and strengthened corruption internal controls by discoveringㆍimproving areas with potential full-time monitoring, K-water was designated as an outstanding corruption vulnerabilities and self-regulating improvement tasks. In institution (II Grade) for Overall Integrity for the second consecutive year Performances 2011, from its 87 self-regulated system improvement tasks, K-water has within the Government Integrity Survey conducted by Anti-Corruption and implemented 25 tasks, such as the introduction of a total business expense Civil Rights Commission in 2011. review system for preventing budget waste, enhancement of transparency in bidding by structuring the illegal bidding prevention system, and others. ◦ Selected as an outstanding institution for 6 consecutive years in K-water was recognized for its outstanding results for system improvement corruption prevention policy evaluation by the Anti-Corruption and Human Rights Commission in February 2012 . With aggressive participation by all officers and employees in anticorruption and integrity activities and its drive for powerful transparent ◦ Operation ‌ of Corruption Impact Assessment System for various management by the CEO, K-water has received an ‘outstanding’ grade Internal Regulations for anti-corruption action implementation from the Anti-Corruption We are operating a 2-phase corruption assessment system that and Human Rights Commission in 2011 based on an assessment of 208 strengthens the appropriateness and transparency of internal regulations nationwide public enterprises. Of the 208 institutions, there are only five through reasonable analysis and evaluations of potential corruption institutions, including K-water, which has received special recognition as factors within internal regulations. Through effective execution of the an outstanding institution for 6 consecutive years. autonomous corruption assessment system, we have revised 19 potential corruption factors in 2011 as a means of advanced prevention. Water, Nature & People 83 Performances Participation in Public Policy service labeling related regulations that have been violated. For detailed K-water works very closely with related government organizations information such as customer satisfaction level assessments, please such as the Ministry of Land, Transport & Maritime Affairs and Ministry refer to Customer Satisfaction Management on page 24. of Environment when establishing water resources related policies and enacting / revising related laws. In addition, employees are being Marketing Communications dispatched to various organizations, such as The Office of Government Efforts are taken to provide accurate information to customers so as not Policy Coordination, Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs, and to effect their judgement. Related regulations and company-wide work the Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission. principles are observed, including marketing communications such as Since it is prohibited for legal entities to provide political donations or advertisements, promotions and sponsorships. For all advertisements, such making donations of any kind under its name is prohibited by K-water. as property sales advertisements, an internal selection standard is applied in selecting the advertisement medium to ensure impartiality. K-water observes the review regulations and laws of the Korea Advertising Review Anti-competitive Behavior & Legal Compliance Board. There have been no cases of any violations related to marketing. In accordance with monopoly regulations and fair trade law, K-water observes fair trade. K-water receives regular audits from the Fair Trade Commission to search for any unlawful competitive behaviors or antitrust Customer Privacy Protection & activities. There have been no items that have been pointed out over the Compliance with Supply-related Regulations past 4 years, and K-water has in no way been levied fines or non-monetary Customers’ personal information is protected by establishing customer sanctions due to violations of laws or regulations. & data base security policies such as Access Restrictions, Authorization Controls and Post Audits. In relation to protecting customer personal information, there have been no cases of complaints by any customers. To expediently process civil complaints, K-water applied stricter internal Product Liability standards, resulting in K-water achieving a timely processing rate of 99.9%. Customer complaints are being minimized by observing service Through the Customer Charter, based on a management philosophy that implementation targets that have been detailed by work sectors through the believes the customer’s value is K-water’s value, K-water is practicing revision and implementation of the Customer Charter. K-water is striving to a customer-oriented management system to get a step closer to provide answers to concerned customers in a timely manner by operating customers. a dissatisfaction receipt window that is open and accessible at all times on K-water’s homepage (Customer’s Voice, Bulletin Board). The dissatisfaction Compliance with Customer Health & Safety items received are utilized as a precious resource to identify management improvement projects. There have been no fines paid as a result of violations Within the IWTA, International Water Treatment Alliance program of laws and regulations related to products and services. sponsored by AWWA, K-water acquired a “5-Star” grade in 2009, signifying the highest quality. In 2011, 16 purification plants achieved 5-star quality levels. K-water strives to continue strengthening our global safety and | Number of Civil Complaints | (Unit: cases) environmental grades for tap water by increasing such quality levels 1,896 across all of our plant facilities. 1,363 Since 2003, targeted towards all multi-regional purification plants, 1,551 1,248 1,270 1,414 K-water has been operating a water quality rating system internally on 14 1,477 1,227 items, including turbidity, residual chlorine, taste, smell and disinfection by-products. The evaluation standard that K-water applies is stricter than legal standards. In accordance to the internal ‘Service Implementation Standards,’ the frequency of cases of nonconformity in regards to water quality standards is managed by K-water. There have been no cases of violations in 2011. Product & Service Labeling To satisfy the diverse needs of customers, customers have been segmented into groups, and customized services are provided to 2008 2009 2010 2011 customers. A monitoring and feedback system has been established to analyze customer satisfaction. There have been no product and E-mail In Writing 84 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Performances Nature & People Financial Performance Through increased sales for new businesses, including increased water, dam water supply and an increase in power generation, and local waterworks, the total sales reached KRW 2.4002 trillion, an increase of 11.9% over the previous year. When including private investment projects in accordance with K-IFRS, sales reached KRW 6.3258 trillion. Even with the freeze in charges for the seven consecutive years, sales revenue continued to increase to result in a net income of KRW 293.3 billion, a 106.4% increase over the previous year. In 2012, continued growth and profitability is expected based on increased investment in green technology sectors, strengthened competitiveness against climate Strategy change, customer-oriented management, and vitalization of new growth motors, such as new and renewable energies. | Sales Revenue | (Unit: KRW 100 million) | Cost of Sales | (Unit: KRW 100 million) | Net Profits | (Unit: KRW 100 million) 63,258 2,933 58,440 21,447 Approach 1,421 20,054 18,191 17,825 816 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 | Assets | (Unit: KRW 100 million) | Debt Ratio | (Unit: %) | Capital | (Unit: KRW 100 million) 116 Challenges 66,950 234,259 66,728 184,844 75.5 64,936 132,770 29.1 Performances 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 | Ratio of Owner's Equity | (Unit: %) | Current Ratio | (Unit: %) International Credit Rating 322.1 77.4 Moody’s: A1 55.9 46.3 129.9 105.8 S & P: A 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 ※ Based on the new international accounting standard of Korea (K-IFRS) from 2011 Water, Nature & People 85 Performances Consolidated statements of 38th Term (Current) As of December 31, 2011, 37th Term (Previous) As of December 31, 2010 financial position Company: Korea Water Resources Corporation and Subsidiary Corporations (Unit : KRW) 38th Term (Current) 37th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount Assets I. Current assets 4,352,289,094,762 3,431,064,901,736 1. Cash and cash equivalents 215,555,164,692 177,023,465,063 1) Cash 215,555,164,692 177,023,465,063 (1) Cash on hand 4,890,831 166,100 (2) Other demand deposits 215,550,273,861 177,023,298,963 2. Current financial assets 15,740,004,879 65,573,576,397 1) Current derivative assets 15,740,004,879 65,573,576,397 3. Trade and other current receivables 468,959,225,346 360,140,377,442 1) Short term trade receivable 421,435,825,177 317,676,224,445 (Allowance for doubtful acccount) (23,973,870) (471,251,242) 2) Short term other receivables 58,011,403,758 52,679,517,298 (Allowance for doubtful acccount) (22,311,923,020) (16,006,687,831) 3) Short term accrued income 11,700,941,760 6,128,019,536 4) Short term deposits provided 146,951,541 134,555,236 4. Inventories 3,503,777,564,609 2,793,820,283,198 1) Raw materials 2,554,469,748 2,428,098,686 2) Finished goods 3,495,657,138,869 2,786,506,686,583 3) Supplies 5,309,057,274 4,885,497,929 4) Other inventories 256,898,718 5. Other current non financial assets 148,257,135,236 34,507,199,636 1) Short term advance payments 143,386,549,817 31,477,037,075 2) Short term prepaid expenses 4,870,585,419 3,030,162,561 Ⅱ. Non current assets 19,073,626,535,439 15,211,944,981,443 1. Other non current financial assets 147,534,027,446 135,299,267,431 1) Non current available for sale financial assets 5,023,065,000 4,000,000,000 2) Long term loans and receivables 23,250,328,330 19,208,078,023 3) Non current derivative assets 119,260,634,116 112,091,189,408 2. Long term trade and other non current receivables 451,878,666,076 527,192,604,129 1) Long term trade receivables 337,883,045,598 427,478,079,365 (Present value discounts) (9,089,895,610) (14,728,491,324) 2) Long term deposits provided 123,085,516,088 114,443,016,088 86 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People (Unit : KRW) 38th Term (Current) 37th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount 3. Property plant and equipment 1,416,635,028,312 1,225,194,085,414 1) Land 202,067,989,318 202,288,245,866 Strategy 2) Buildings 353,629,204,917 332,804,614,879 (Government grants) (921,740,333) (959,242,333) (Accumulated depreciation) (110,306,463,065) (98,124,625,403) 3) Structure 343,442,077,411 130,344,260,889 (Accumulated depreciation) (49,779,728,848) (42,391,563,309) 4) Machinery 704,870,823,239 487,491,254,442 (Accumulated depreciation) (294,949,623,372) (270,734,698,479) 5) Ships 10,931,409,937 9,826,211,746 Approach (Accumulated depreciation) (6,042,043,538) (5,336,002,933) 6) Vehicles 11,436,497,691 11,595,346,387 (Accumulated depreciation) (9,103,485,599) (8,945,796,970) 7) Office equipment 43,608,201,956 41,918,319,147 (Accumulated depreciation) (31,171,349,452) (28,723,330,430) 8) Tools and instruments 54,803,057,174 52,082,304,505 (Accumulated depreciation) (42,064,199,778) (37,637,284,374) 9) Construction in progress 236,184,400,654 449,696,071,784 Challenges 4. Intangible assets other than goodwill 17,043,716,053,645 13,305,314,593,169 1) Computer software 17,155,136,724 18,911,424,835 2) Copyrights patents and other industrial property rights 207,344,687 195,488,317 3) Intangible assets under development 9,506,763,785,750 5,520,337,198,344 (Government grants) (14,805,392,734) (13,756,815,784) 4) Service operating right 7,559,111,942,183 7,800,538,352,837 (Customers contribution) (7,804,683,125) (8,290,525,625) (Government grants) (22,287,180,154) (17,361,340,192) Performances 5) Other intangible assets 5,375,100,314 4,740,810,437 5. Investments in associates 8,036,402,773 6,089,357,208 6. Deferred tax assets 1,210,775,363 10,265,934,119 7. Non current non financial assets 4,615,581,824 2,589,139,973 1) Other non current non financial assets 4,615,581,824 2,589,139,973 Assets 23,425,915,630,201 18,643,009,883,179 Liabilities Ⅰ. Current liabilities 1,351,279,630,469 1,085,572,642,071 1. Trade and other current payables 304,567,955,376 311,569,882,162 1) Short term trade payables 9,911,130,321 8,208,412,824 2) Short term other payables 98,948,010,945 146,713,904,647 3) Short term accrued expenses 188,864,417,728 132,639,190,471 4) Dividends payable 108,637, 660 91,313,980 Water, Nature & People 87 Performances (Unit : KRW) 38th Term (Current) 37th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount 5) Other current payables 6,735,758,722 23,917,060,240 2. Current financial liabilities 433,209,180,134 407,321,317,840 1) Current portion of long term borrowings 46,595,540,000 46,778,317,840 2) Current portion of bonds payable 362,941,001,000 360,543,000,000 3) Current derivative liabilites 23,672,639,134 3. Current tax liabilities 42,079,368,378 22,191,171,740 4. Other current non financial liabilities 571,423,126,581 344,490,270,329 1) Short term advances customers 533,750,184,253 320,415,975,260 2) Short term unearned income 196,510,894 44,129,561 3) Short term withholdings 27,128,849,073 15,336,858,296 4) Other current non financial liabilites current 10,347,582,361 8,693,307,212 Ⅱ. Non current liabilities 11,229,656,590,139 6,999,797,119,372 1. Other non current financial liabilities 10,953,144,840,800 6,749,481,087,045 1) Long term borrowings gross 300,172,561,252 336,684,225,000 2) Bonds payables 10,588,920,021,000 6,316,144,290,000 (Discount on bonds) (2,846,669,707) (4,772,243,453) 3) Non current derivative liabilites 66,898,928,255 101,424,815,498 2. Postemployment benefit obligations 275,063,172,914 248,714,957,886 1) Present value of defined benefit obligation 275,063,172,914 248,714,957,886 3. Deferred tax liabilities 4. Non current provisions 1,448,576,425 1,601,074,441 1) Long term legal proceedings provision 1,448,576,425 1,601,074,441 Total Liabilities 12,580,936,220,608 8,085,369,761,443 Equity I. Contributed equity 6,694,440,906,386 6,672,249,776,764 1. Issued capital 6,694,987,385,367 6,672,837,445,091 2. Discount on stock issuance contributed equity (546,478,981) (587,668,327) Ⅱ. Retained earnings 2,727,507,488,528 2,453,776,630,052 1. Legal reserves 676,475,039,313 644,681,545,877 2. Other legal appropriated retained earning 1,723,289,198,973 1,616,983,296,457 3. Voluntary reserves 8,669,215,669 25,532,838,240 4. Retained earnings before appropriations 319,074,034,573 166,578,949,478 Ⅲ. Elements of other stockholders equity 1,413,143,637,132 1,422,774,935,816 1. Other capital surplus 2,360,168,627 2,360,168,627 2. Other comprehensive income (loss) accumulated amount (36,607,550,170) (28,604,230,392) 3. Other equity interest 1,447,391,018,675 1,449,018,997,581 Ⅳ. Equity attributable to owners of parent company 10,835,092,032,046 10,548,801,342,632 Ⅴ. Non controlling interests 9,887,377,547 8,838,779,104 Total Equity 10,844,979,409,593 10,557,640,121,736 Total equity and liabilities 23,425,915,630,201 18,643,009,883,179 88 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Consolidated statements of 38th Term (Current) From January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 37th Term (Previous) From January 1, 2010 to comprehensive income December 31, 2010 Company: Korea Water Resources Corporation and Subsidiary Corporations (Unit : KRW) 38th Term (Current) 37th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount Ⅰ. Revenue 6,325,785,989,121 6,399,217,489,980 1. Revenue from sale of goods 1,708,331,580,693 1,495,126,497,922 2. Revenue from rendering of services 94,292,688,268 71,667,497,869 Strategy 3. Revenue from construction contracts 4,437,056,829,122 4,750,189,684,105 4. Other revenue 86,104,891,038 82,233,810,084 Ⅱ. Cost of sales 5,843,977,245,238 6,059,690,240,089 1. Cost of sales from sale of goods 1,218,341,336,395 1,147,604,183,138 2. Cost of sales from rendering of services 92,887,965,336 80,163,820,387 Approach 3. Cost of sales from construction contracts 4,436,530,362,067 4,749,536,562,601 4. Other cost of sales 96,217,581,440 82,385,673,963 Ⅲ. Gross profit 481,808,743,883 339,527,249,891 Ⅳ. Other income 242,315,515,417 26,685,575,774 1. Other reversals of provisions 152,498,016 14,095,105,630 2. Gains from government grants 234,294,704,765 3. Reversal allowance doubtful accounts 447,074,802 84,923,276 Challenges 4. Rental incomes 903,650,867 1,077,378,728 5. Other incomes others 6,517,586,967 11,428,168,140 Ⅴ. Total selling general administrative expenses 115,403,078,475 94,637,972,220 1. Salaries wages 32,160,554,842 27,724,818,731 2. Provision for severance indemnities 4,001,211,851 3,777,052,308 3. Employee benefits 13,701,312,778 9,291,793,316 Performances 4. Insurance premiums 1,084,318,685 839,755,308 5. Depreciation expense 5,125,512,263 3,634,671,495 6. Amortisation expense 2,916,872,078 877,664,844 7. Bad debt expenses 284,370,681 8. Commissions 5,106,505,999 5,001,728,682 9. Advertising expenses 8,226,357,337 6,897,415,521 10. Training expenses 4,386,383,001 4,145,171,839 11. Vehicle maintenance expenses 566,475,150 504,334,907 12. Publication expenses 492,190,511 550,233,092 13. Operating promotion expenses 113,743,350 151,431,713 14. Rental expenses 1,025,885,129 694,751,824 Water, Nature & People 89 Performances (Unit : KRW) 38th Term (Current) 37th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount 15. Communication expenses 2,635,977,390 1,797,500,168 16. Freight expenses 20,000 17. Taxes dues 1,225,518,843 1,429,200,477 18. Supply expenses 569,059,475 478,695,775 19. Utility expenses 1,220,833,086 1,208,772,465 20. Repair expenses 5,723,444,432 5,595,244,118 21. Ordinary development expense 19,232,139,785 15,778,138,453 22. Travel expenses 1,821,916,914 1,630,422,257 23. Clothing expenses 139,753,902 49,019,605 24. Research and analysis expenses 104,093,636 88,904,561 25. Sales promotion expenses 559,873,678 541,071,629 26. Sales commisions 1,869,702,556 20,000,000 27. Other selling and administration expenses 1,393,421,804 1,645,808,451 Ⅵ. Other expense 8,881,378,184 6,221,146,626 1. Transferred amount of provision of other allowance 1,599,026,041 2. Other bad debt expenses 6,372,665,389 3. Donations 1,015,781,256 999,571,430 4. Other expenses 1,492,931,539 3,622,549,155 Ⅶ. Other gains (losses) (2,557,316,319) (947,292,763) 1. Gains on disposals of property plant and equipment 1,382,160,804 1,333,404,242 2. Gain on foreign exchange translations 8,528,015 3. Gains foreign currency transactions 1,214 16,178,939 4. Losses on disposals of property plant and equipment (354,970,074) (608,723,300) 5. Losses on disposal of intangible assets (313,284,016) (3,275,521) 6. Writedowns of property plant and equipment (2,994,244,527) (1,567,966,894) 7. Miscellaneous losses (285,507,735) (116,910,229) Ⅷ. Operating income (losses) 597,282,486,322 264,406,414,056 Ⅸ.Finance income 87,393,183,610 136,673,481,004 1. Interest income 21,574,354,610 13,023,891,004 2. Dividend income 89,100,000 106,920,000 3. Gains on evaluation of derivatives 52,647,731,000 64,699,240,000 4. Gains on foreign currency translations 1,949,999,000 58,843,430,000 5. Gains on foreign currency transactions 11,131,999,000 Ⅹ. Finance costs 317,627,966,331 213,929,365,398 1. Interest expense 251,810,412,052 90,386,695,398 2. Losses on evaluation of derivatives 1,949,999,000 58,843,430,000 90 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People (Unit : KRW) 38th Term (Current) 37th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount 3. Losses on trading of derivatives 11,131,999,000 4. Losses on foreign currency translations 52,647,731,000 64,699,240,000 5. Losses on foreign currency transactions 87,825,279 Strategy ⅩⅠ. Gains and losses from equity method affiliates 219,309,413 (2,451,253,334) 1. Gains on evaluation of interests in affiliates 486,497,228 1,214,185,051 2. Valuation loss on investments in associates (265,681,003) (3,601,603,908) 3. Losses on disposal of interests in affiliates (1,506,812) (63,834,477) Approach ⅩⅡ. Profit (loss) before tax 367,267,013,014 184,699,276,328 ⅩⅢ. Income tax expense continuing operations 73,999,842,319 36,551,396,113 ⅩⅣ. Profit (loss) from continuing operations 293,267,170,695 148,147,880,215 ⅩⅤ. Profit (loss) from discontinued operations ⅩⅥ. Profit (loss) 293,267,170,695 148,147,880,215 ⅩⅦ. Other comprehensive income (loss) (7,250,941,234) (103,967,743,577) Challenges 1. Other comprehensive income net of tax cash flow hedges (7,885,417,536) (65,554,363,354) Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges net of tax (7,885,417,536) (65,554,363,354) 2. Net of tax, actuarial gains (losses) on defined benefit plans 1,265,437,656 (38,413,380,223) 3. Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 74,449,202 accounted for using equity method Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 74,449,202 accounted for using equity method Performances 4. Gains and losses from foreign currency translations (705,410,556) After tax gain (loss) on gain on overseas business translation (705,410,556) ⅩⅧ. Comprehensive income 286,016,229,461 44,180,136,638 Ⅹ. Profit (loss) attributable ⅩⅠ 293,267,170,695 148,147,880,215 1. Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent company 293,333,492,046 148,147,880,215 2. Profit (loss) attributable to non controlling interests (66,321,351) ⅩⅩ. Comprehensive income attributable 286,016,229,461 44,180,136,638 1. Comprehensive income attributable to owners of parent company 286,595,609,924 44,180,136,638 2. Non controlling interests (579,380,463) Water, Nature & People 91 Performances Statements of appropriations 38th Term (Current) From January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011, 37th Term (Previous) From January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010 of retained earnings Company: Korea Water Resources Corporation (Unit : KRW) 38th Term (Current) 37th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount Ⅰ. Retained earnings before appropriations: 322,189,476,188 169,226,153,117 Unappropriated retained earnings carried forward from the prior yea 27,122,308,510 56,859,950,055 Profit for the year 293,801,730,022 150,779,583,285 Actuarial gains and losses 1,265,437,656 (38,413,380,223) Ⅱ. Voluntary reserve 8,669,215,669 16,863,622,571 Reserve for investment in social overhead 8,669,215,669 16,863,622,571 Ⅲ. Total 330,858,691,857 186,089,775,688 Ⅳ. Appropriations: 330,858,691,857 158,967,467,178 Legal reserve 58,760,346,004 31,793,493,436 Amortization of discount on stock issuance 311,637,147 262,349,196 Business expansion reserve 220,077,304,156 106,305,902,516 Dividends 51,709,404,550 20,605,722,030 Ⅴ. Unappropriated retained earnings carried forward to the next year 27,122,308,510 92 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Consolidated statements 38th Term (Current) From January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011, 37th Term (Previous) From January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010 of cash flows Company: Korea Water Resources Corporation and Subsidiary Corporations (Unit : KRW) 38th Term (Current) 37th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount I. Operating activities 385,251,987,203 (327,247,310,778) 1. Profit for the year 293,267,170,695 148,147,880,215 Strategy 2. Adjustments to reconcile profit (loss) 628,217,932,856 636,317,783,607 1) Income tax expense 73,999,842,319 36,551,396,113 2) Finance costs (6,217,136,417) 67,066,459,925 3) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 552,448,607,967 529,773,271,101 and amortization of intangible assets 4) Impairment of property, plant and equipment 8,919,835,114 1,767,414,299 5) Loss on foreign currency transactions 50,697,732,000 5,855,810,000 6) Gain from valuation at fair value (50,697,732,000) (5,855,810,000) Approach 7) Loss (gain) on valuation of investment (220,816,225) 1,801,201,456 in associates 8) Gain on disposal of non-current assets (712,399,902) (642,435,529) 9) Other adjustments 476,242 3. Adjustments for decrease (increase) in operating receivables (497,820,007,327) (1,058,526,785,821) 1) Increase in inventories (709,957,281,411) (1,065,210,928,181) 2) Increase in trade receivables (13,904,764,560) (71,946,494,158) Challenges 3) Increase in other receivables (16,248,347,712) (40,479,275,972) 4) Increase in trade payables 2,746,645,877 1,336,843,715 5) Increase in provisions 26,434,023,718 6,112,829,591 6) Increase in other payables 213,109,716,761 111,660,239,184 4. Net cash flows from (used in) operating activities 423,665,096,224 (274,061,121,999) 5. Interest paid (14,046,002,534) (48,755,898,391) 6. Interest received 16,044,564,567 10,963,751,392 Performances 7. Income tax paid (40,411,671,054) (15,394,041,780) Ⅱ. Net cash flows used in investing activities (4,532,732,874,988) (4,381,641,579,344) 1. Proceeds from disposal of shares or bonds 702,074,880 2. Acquition of shares or bonds (1,666,509,000) (13,081,329,692) 3. ‌Proceeds from disposal of property, plant, and equipment 1,786,361,845 9,519,855,246 4. Purchase of property, plant, and equipment (258,548,325,469) (181,366,510,047) 5. Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 15,096,484 14,275,086 6. Purchase of intangible assets (4,230,090,658,319) (4,207,087,967,248) 7. Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 661,990,792 8. ‌Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (1,648,065,000) Water, Nature & People 93 Performances (Unit : KRW) 38th Term (Current) 37th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount 9. Proceeds from disposal of other long-term assets 1,736,263,858 10. Purchase of other long-term assets (148,000,000) (3,625,008,688) 11. Proceeds from government subsidy 7,384,000,000 12. Increase in advance payments and loans (110,596,101,747) 13. Collection of advance payments and loans 207,961,426 14. Proceeds from derivatives 59,909,374,000 15. Other cash inflows 11,546,767,261 lll. Net cash flows from financing activities 4,186,597,346,730 4,767,713,142,108 1. Increase of paid-in capital 9,815,840,150 88,308,794,200 2. Proceeds from borrowings 10,083,876,252 700,000,000 3. Repayment of borrowings (33,453,517,770) 4. Proceeds form issuance of bond 4,583,475,347,518 4,724,800,875,708 5. Repayments of bonds (396,189,318,840) 6. Dividends paid to the equity holders (20,588,398,350) (12,643,010,030) IV. Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 39,116,458,945 58,824,251,986 (before reflecting foreign exchange difference) V. ENet foreign exchange difference (584,759,316) 586,217,401 Ⅵ. Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 38,531,699,629 59,410,469,387 Ⅶ. Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 177,023,465,063 117,612,995,676 Ⅷ. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2011 215,555,164,692 177,023,465,063 94 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Performances Nature & People Positive & Negative Information K-water is maintaining a balance in disclosures by providing both positive and negative news to allow readers to objectively assess the overall sustainable management performance of K-water. Strategy 2011 Good News JAN FEB Certification for GMS (Green Management System) (First ever for a Public Corporation) Approach Selected as one of Korea's 100 GWP Corporation Designated as an Outstanding Corporation for MAR Ethical Management Presidential Commendation for Contributions to SMB Assistance in New Technology Development Water Cut accident in Awarded Outstanding Public Corporation in Gumi Metropolitan Waterworks 2011 Korea IT Innovation Awards APR Improvements to Inferior facilities, Awarded the Prime Minister Award for Awarded Prime Minister Commendation as such as water ways, Precision Measurement within Outstanding Public Corporation for increased emergency supply facilities, the Korea Industrial Technology Awards Disaster Management and updates of aging facilities/equipments MAY Awarded Top Award for Global Green Management Excellence Challenges Awarded Environment Technology Award in Eco-STAR JUN JUL Declaration of New Management AUG Performances 4th Consecutive Year Awarded as the Top Intelligence-Based Management Corporation in Asia SEP Presidential Commendation for Low-Carbon Green Growth (First ever for a Public Corporation) International Certification of the Highest Grade for Water Quality Analysis Capabilities by ERA (U.S.) OCT Not So NOV DEC Good News Water, Nature & People 95 Performances GRI Report Index Global Report Index Contents of Index K-water Adaptation Index Page Compact Rate Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Vision and Strategy Message, Strategy and Vision 4~5, 10~11 ● 1.2 Continuance possibility factors, Ethics, 8~9, 30~31 Major effects, Threatening factors and Opportunity factors ● Crisis management Structure Profile 2.1 Structure Name Company Name 2 ● 2.2 Major brands, products and services Major brands, products and services 2, ● 12~15 2.3 Organizational structure of reporting organization, including key divisions, Structure of major business 2, 12 ● operating companies and joint companies departments, financing companies, etc 2.4 Location of head office Location of head office 2 ● Number of countries reported structure is operating in, Names of countries that 2.5 Number of businesses, number of 2 have detailed relations with the problem of continuance possibility handled in the ● overseas business companies report 2.6 Characteristics and legal form of owned structure Financial provider structure, shares structure 22 ● 2.7 Subject market Subject market and customer categories 26~27 ● 2.8 Number of executives, sales, total assets, 2 Subject market and customer categories ● total debts 2.9 Important changes in size, structure or owned structure during reported period No major changes 1 ● 2.10 Breakdown of overseas awards and 1 Awards during reported period ● certificates Parameters 3.1 Report period 2010, Part of 2011 1 ● 3.2 Date of most recent report August, 2010 1 ● 3.3 Report cycle Annual 1 ● 3.4 Inquiries on report and related areas Report inquiries 1 ● 3.5 Report contents definition process Subject readers and stakeholders 1 ● 3.6 Korean businesses and overseas 2 Report border ● business accomplishments 3.7 Detailed restrictions of report range or report border Accomplishments of overseas business 2 ● Same as period of seven investing Reporting standard of things that may have a large effect on comparing 3.8 companies 103 possibilities according to period or structure, such as collaborating companies, ● Accounting Equity Method or Cost subsidiary companies, rented facilities or outside duties Method applied Data measurement methods including presumptions and methods that support Financial, environmental, social data 3.9 accomplishment index and other predictions adapted in information collection measurement technique and calculation 103 ● process, and calculation standard standard 3.10 Effects of re-stating information presented in last report and explanation of 2 No change ● reason for re-statements 3.11 Big change in report range, border and measurement method compared to last Change in Korean place of business and 2 ● report overseas projects 3.12 Index that shows the position of standard notices in the report GRI Report Index 96~99 ● 3.13 Policies and current activities to find an outside verifier Third Party's Assurance Report 100~101 ● Dominating structure, responsibility, participation 4.1 Authority, structure and responsibility of 22 Dominating structure of organization ● Board of Directors 4.2 Appointed non-executive director serves 22 Chairman Board of Directors and executive ● as chairman of board of directors 4.3 In case the Board of Directors is unified, the Board of Directors states the 22 Permanent and temporary directors ● number of independent people who are not executives 4.4 A mechanism where stockholders and employees give advice to or present a Operation of Youth Board of Directors 22 ● direction for the Board of Directors consisting of Employees 96 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Global Report Index Contents of Index K-water Adaptation Index Compact Page Rate 4.5 Relationship between compensation of directors, high administrators and Evaluation and relation of Board of 22 ● executives, and accomplishments of the organization Directors Operation Results 4.6 Process to prevent conflict of understanding within the Board of Directors Strengthening of Fast and Sufficient Pre-Deliberation 22 ● 4.7 Process to decide qualifications of Board of Director members and standard Permanent director and Outside director 22 ● of expertise to support financial/environmental/social strategies Appointment Procedure 4.8 Mission/core values statement, action outline and rules made internally in Ethical Outline, Environmental Management 104~105 ● relation to financial/environmental/social accomplishments and activities Course, Innovation vision Mission Strategy 4.9 Process of the Board of Directors understanding financial/environmental/ 22 Board of Directors Operation Procedure ● social activities and directing management. 4.10 Board of Directors financial/environmental/social accomplishments Government analysis of operation results, 22 ● evaluation process Accomplishment yearly salary graded 4.11 Explanation of prevention rules and selection of approach method and selection Prevention Rules and Approach Methods 22~31 ● 4.12 Membership or support of outside initiatives such as financial/environmental/ Declaration to Comply with UN Global 106 ● social fields and rules Compact 4.13 Members domestic and foreign committee 1 Status of Korean and overseas committees and policy facilities membership ● and policy facilities activities 4.14 List of participating stakeholder groups Stakeholders group 26~29 ● 4.15 Participating stakeholders identification and selection standard Stakeholders identification and selection 26~29 ● Approach 4.16 Status of Stakeholders Participation method Method of Stakeholders Participation 26~29 ● 4.17 Stakeholders’ Points of Interest and 26~29 Points of Interest presented by stakeholders and counteraction methods ● Counteractive Methods Financial accomplishments index Public announcement for management approach method 14~15 ● EC1 Direct creation and division of economic value Creation and division of economic value 72 ● EC2 Threat to business activities due to financial effect of change in climate, andCounteraction to change in climate and 72 ● threats and opportunities CDM project EC3 Retirement fund management, retirement 72 Pension support range ● program EC4 Government support fund accomplishments National Treasury support fund 72 Challenges ● EC5 Salary of new employees compared to legal minimum wage at major Salary of new employees compared to 73 ● business places legal minimum wage EC6 Location purchase policy, actions and ratio at major business places Local purchase policy 73 ● EC7 Employment of local personnel priority at domestic major business field Employment of local personnel at domestic 73 ● offices and local high executives ratio field offices EC8 Service support and infrastructure investments that prioritize public benefit, Investment in social indirect fund facilities, 73 ● and its effects Improvement of existing dam environments EC9 Economic activation support for dam 73 Awareness and explanation of indirect financial wave effects ● surrounding areas Environmental accomplishments index Performances Public announcement for management approach method 12 ● EN1 Material balance by tap water Ccarbon 74 Weight or volume standard materials used ● reduction label EN2 Ratio of reusable materials used Rate of reusing sludge and construction waste 7 76 ● EN3 Direct energy use according to 1st stage energy sources Diesel, kerosene, LPG, NG usage amount 74 ● EN4 Amount of electricity used from outside 74 Indirect energy use according to 1st stage energy sources ● purchase EN5 Amount of reduction from using energy 8 74 Amount of energy reduced due to saving and efficiency ● saving program EN6 Efforts to supply energy efficient or reusable energy based products and Purchase of energy saving products, 9 74 ● services, and amount of energy reduced by this business energy reduction performance Efforts to reduce energy use, turning off EN7 Indirect energy reduction business and accomplishments the PC during lunch hour, 5-day car cycle, 8 74 ● other energy saving efforts EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Total water withdrawal by water plants 74 ● EN9 Sources worried to change the ecology 8 74 Water sources that were largely affected by water taken ● from water taken EN10 Total amount and ratio of reusable and reused water Amount of water material used 8 75 ● EN11 Location and size of land owned, rented and managed around protection Environment-friendly water resources facilities, 8 75 ● areas and areas where the biological value is high Diverse biological conservation facility and space Water, Nature & People 97 Performances Global Report Index Contents of Index K-water Adaptation Index Page Compact Rate Effects of activities, products and services in protection areas and areas where Monitoring environmental change in EN12 8 75 ● the biological value is high on biological variety value business areas Organism habitat environment and EN13 Protected or restored habitat 8 75 ● conservation for environment cultural heritage Biological variety management strategy of protected or revived land, current EN14 Biological variety management strategy 8 75 ● actions and future plans Number of national endangered species on IUCN Red List living in business Awareness of endangered species EN15 8 75 ● affected areas, and endangered rate according to major dams Amount of greenhouse gases discharged EN16 Total discharge of direct and indirect greenhouse gases according to direct or indirect energy 75 ● consumption Amount of greenhouse gases discharged 9 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gases discharge amount 75 ● due to office EN18 Greenhouse gases reduction business and accomplishments CDM projects 75 ● EN19 Amount of ozone destructing substances discharge No discharge of ozone destructing substances 75 ● Amount of discharge to the atmosphere of NOx, Sox and other major Amount of discharge to the atmosphere EN20 75 ● contaminating substances through energy consumption Waste water discharge amount and water quality according to final place of Quantity and quality of water discharged EN21 76 ● discharge from purification plants and water Amount of waterworks sludge and EN22 Sewage treatment sites 76 ● construction wastes EN23 Waste discharge amount according to form and treatment method No leakage accidents 77 ● Ration between waste transported/Brought/Processed and Waste sent EN24 No waste sent overseas 77 ● Overseas as defined within Annex I, II, III, VIII of Basel Accord Water areas affected by waste water discharge of organization and name of Conservation of ecological environment EN25 8 77 ● land, size, protection situation and biological diversity and water quality of discharged water Water contamination prevention activities Reduction of products and services on environment activities and 8 EN26 and environmental management 77 ● accomplishments accomplishments EN27 Products sold and ratio of reusable packaging No relation because of product characteristics 7 N/A Number of fines and non-financial restraints from environmental law Abiding by environmental laws and EN28 8 78 ● violations preventing accidents Important environmental effect of moving products and basic materials and Environmental effects depending on EN29 78 ● executives travels movement of executives Environmental protection expenditure and 47 EN30 Environmental protection expenditure and investment total ● investment total Labor accomplishments index Public announcement for management approach method 13 ● LA1 Form of employment, employment contracts and personnel status according Form of employment, employment contracts 78 ● to location and personnel status according to location LA2 Number and ratio of people that left the Number and ratio of people that left the company 79 ● company LA3 Privileges of full-time employees that are not given to part-timers Privileges of full-time employees 79 ● LA4 Ratio of employees that are subjects of Ratio of employees that are subjects of group negotiations 3 79 ● group negotiations LA5 Reporting period according to group Minimum period for reporting important change in business 79 ● agreement LA6 Replace with Joint labor-management Employee ratio represented by labor union joint Health and Safety Committee 3 79 ● conference LA7 Number of injuries, work diseases, days lost, and work related disasters Rate of industrial disasters and diseases 80 ● Operating the problem consulting center LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention and threat management programs 80 for officers and employees and the filial ● to support seriously diseased employees, their families and local residents duty welfare center for inhabitants LA9 Welfare and Safety conditions, formal subject of negotiations with joint labor Joint labor-management conference 79 3 ● management conference agenda LA10 Average training hours per year according 80 Average education hours per day according to form of employee ● to employee grade LA11 Duties education and lifelong education programs for continuous employment 80 Evergreen program for retirees ● and retiring employees support LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Employees receiving performance and 6 80 ● development reviews reviews 98 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Global Report Index Contents of Index K-water Adaptation Index Compact Page Rate LA13 Structure of Board of Directors and employees Status of executives structure 6 81 ● LA14 Ratio of basic salary of newly recruited men and women personnel accordingRatio of basic salary of newly recruited 6 81 ● to employee range men and women personnel LA15 Re-instatement Rates following Child 6 79 Re-instatement and Maintenance Rates by Sex following Child Care Leave ● Care Leave Human rights accomplishments index Strategy HR1 Number and ratio of major investing agreements that include human rights Contracts and agreements including 2 81 ● protection clauses or that passed human rights evaluation human rights evaluation HR2 Human rights evaluation ratio of major supply companies and contract Method of evaluating human rights of 2 81 ● companies supplying companies, etc. HR3 Human rights related education (Sexual 2 81 Employee training on duties related human rights policies and processes ● harassment prevention education) HR4 Management and counseling through 1 81 Total discrimination cases and related handling ● executives’difficulties handling system HR5 Duty fields evaluated to have a chance of serious violation of association or Rights and benefits protection for women 1 81 ● group negotiations freedom, and management to guarantee such rights and the disabled, etc HR6 Business fields with a high chance of child labor and management to stop Restraint against employing youths 5 81 ● child labor (Employment rule) HR7 Business fields with a high chance of forced labor and management to stop Forced labor prohibition rule (Korean 4 81 ● such labor labor standard law) Approach HR8 Ratio of security personnel that have certified the human rights policy and Education accomplishments of human 1 82 ● process education rights related security personnel HR9 Number of local residents rights violation and related management Civil treatment of local residents 2 82 ● Gathering of local resident opinions HR10 Number and proportion of businesses subject to human rights review and 1 82~83 by conducting environmental impact ● impact assessment assessment HR11 Number of human rights issues that were registered/processed/resolved 1 60 Operation of consultation window ● through official resolution mechanism Social accomplishments index SO1 Characteristics, range and effect of program that evaluates local social effects Environmental evaluation according to 82 ● from beginning, during and finishing stages of duties stages, aftereffects evaluation Inspection of high positions or departments Challenges SO2 Number and ratio of business units analyzed to have corruption risk with high chance of corruption through 10 83 ● department purity evaluation SO3 Ratio of employees who received anti-corruption policy and process related Rate of ethical management training 10 83 ● education certification SO4 Management of corruption cases Handling of corruption cases 10 83 ● SO5 Position on public policies, establishment of public policies and participation in Participation in public policies, such as 83 ● lobbying carrying out government policies SO6 Total amount donated to parties, politicians or related facilities according to Donations using the K-water name is 83 N/A nation prohibited by law SO7 Number of unfair competition activities and monopoly actions that were dealt Regular Free Trade Commission 10 83 ● with legally, and the results inspections Number of cases of fine and non-financial restraint due to violation of law or Performances SO8 Number of violation cases and fines 83 ● regulations Product liability accomplishments index Introducing 5-Star water purification Stage of deliberation of life cycle that evaluates health and safety effects of PR1 plant & CO labelling, and advanced water 56~57 product and service, ratio of major products and services that actually carry ● purification plant, the evaluating system of out the evaluation water purification level PR2 Number of violation of customer health and safety effects related restraints Efforts to abide by laws related to health 84 ● and voluntary rule violation cases in product and service life cycle and safety of customers PR3 Necessary product and service information type for process, ratio of products Efforts to provide information on tap water 84 ● and services with such information quality, etc PR4 Number of product or service information labeling related restraint voluntary Efforts to provide information on tap water 84 ● violation quality, etc PR5 Customer satisfaction related activities including customer satisfaction 84 Customer satisfaction research results ● evaluation survey results, etc PR6 Marketing communications such as advertisement, promotion, sponsorship 84 Abiding by marketing related restraints ● restraints, standard and voluntary rule abiding program PR7 Number of marketing communications such as advertisement, promotion, 84 Efforts to abide by promotion related laws ● sponsorship restraints, standard and voluntary rule violation cases PR8 Number of complaints on violation of customer personal information Number of Internet civil cases and 84 ● protection and customer data loss breakdown PR9 Total fine from violation of laws and regulations on product and service supply Efforts to abide by service supply laws 84 ● Water, Nature & People 99 Performances Independent Assurance Report To the management of K-water We have been engaged by K-water to perform an independent assurance engagement in regard to the following aspects of K-water’s 2012 Sustainability Report (the “Report”). Scope and subject matter The information for the year ended December 31, 2011 (hereinafter, collectively referred to as the “Sustainability Information”) on which we provide limited assurance consists of: • K-water’s conclusion on meeting the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness in the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard 2008 (“AA1000APS”) • The “Performances” information on pages 71 through 84 in the Report (the “Sustainability Data”) which is based on the reporting standard set out on “Performance Data Reporting Standard” (the “Reporting Standard”). With regard to the financial data included in the key figures on pages 85 through 94, our procedures were limited to verifying that they were correctly derived from K-water’s audited consolidated financial statements. We read the other information included in the Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Sustainability Information. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Sustainability Information. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. Assurance work performed We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000(1) and AA1000AS(2). The term ‘moderate assurance’ used in AA1000AS is designed to be consistent with ‘limited assurance’ as articulated in ISAE 3000. Our assurance is a Type II assurance engagement as defined in the Guidance for AA1000AS. 1. International Standard on Assurance Engagement 3000 (Revised) – ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ issued by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board 2. AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008), issued by AccountAbility Our work involved the following activities: 1. Interviews with the personnel responsible for internal reporting and data collection to discuss their approach to stakeholder inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. 2. Visits to K-water’s head office and Yeosu management office to review the systems and processes in place for managing and reporting the Sustainability Data. 3. Review of a sample of internal documents relevant to output from the risk assessment process, sustainability-related policies and standards, the sustainability Materiality Assessment Matrix and other documents from stakeholder engagement activities. 4. Evaluating the design and implementation of the key processes and controls for managing and reporting the Sustainability Data. 5. Limited testing, through inquiry and analytical review procedures, of the preparation and collation of the Sustainability Data. Respective responsibilities of the management of K-water and Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers The management of K-water is responsible for establishing assessment criteria that meets the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness in the AA1000APS, measuring performance based on the “Assessment Criteria”, and reporting this performance in the Report. Our responsibility is to provide a conclusion based on our assurance procedures in accordance with ISAE 3000 and AA1000AS. This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared for the management of K-water as a body, to assist the management in reporting on K-water’s sustainability performance and activities. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the management of K-water as a body and K-water for our work or this report save where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing. 100 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Inherent limitations Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of the subject Strategy matter and the methods used for determining such information. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement under ISAE 3000. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient, appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. In particular: • We did not attend any stakeholder engagement activities. Therefore our conclusions are based on our discussions with management and staff of K-water and our review of selected documents provided to us by K-water. • The scope of our work was restricted to 2011 performance only, as set out in the scope and subject matter section above. Information relating to the year ended December 31, 2010 and earlier periods have not been subject to assurance by us. Conclusion Approach Based on the results of the assurance work performed and the Assessment Criteria, our conclusion is as follows: • On the AA1000APS principles; ◦ Inclusivity K-water has collected concerns and opinions through stakeholder communication channels that include customers, business partners, stockholders/investors, the government, NGOs, employees and local communities. Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that material stakeholder groups were excluded in these channels. ◦ Materiality Challenges K-water has identified most relevant and significant sustainability issues through process for identifying material issues. Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that material issues were omitted in this process. ◦ Responsiveness K-water has included in the Report its response to the material sustainability issues which are defined through process for identifying material issues. Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that there is material deficiency in issue management system. • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Sustainability Data for the year ended December 31, 2011 are not fairly stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Standard. Performances Recommendations From our work, we have provided the following recommendations to the management. • We recommend K-water to establish more elaborate materiality assessment procedures to manage significant issues in respect of stakeholders and K-water’s business environment. • We recommend K-water to improve sustainability data management system such as data collection and review process for using sustainability information in management’s business decision making. • K-water needs to consider more balanced reporting to enhance reliability of the Report for various stakeholders. August 31, 2012 Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers CEO Water, Nature & People 101 Performances ISO 26000 ISO 26000 is an international standard guideline that integrates social responsibility across an entire organization based on 7 core subjects founded upon the basic principles of social responsibility. The contents of K-water according to the 7 core subjects can be found at the pages described below. Core Subject Issues Page Organizational governance Organizational governance 4~5, 10~13, 22 Due diligence 81 Human rights risk situations 81 Avoidance of comp 81 Resolving grievances 60, 81 Human rights Discrimination and vulnerable group 60, 61, 81, 104 Civil and political rights 81 Economic, social and cultural rights 81 Fundamental principles and rights at work 60, 61, 81, 104 Employment and employment relationships 78, 79, 104 Conditions of work and social protection 65, 79 Labour practices Social dialogue 65, 79 Health and safety at work 64, 79, 80 Human development and training in the workplace 64, 80 Prevention of pollution 52, 53, 74~77, 104 Sustainable resources use 34, 74, 76 The environment Climate change mitigation and adaptation 34, 50, 51, 75 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats 54, 55, 75 Anti-corruption 23, 82, 83, 104 Responsible political involvement 83 Fair operating practices Fair competition 83, 104 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 60, 61, 80, 81, 104 Respect for property rights 82~83 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 84 Protecting consumers' health and safety 56, 57, 84, 105 Sustainable consumption 52, 53, 57 Consumer issues Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 84 Consumer data protection and privacy 84 Access to essential services 66, 84 Education and awareness 65, 84 Community involvement 66~69, 73, 104 Education and culture 66~69 Employment creation and skills development 67, 73 Community involvement and Technology development and access 73 development Wealth and income creation 72, 73 Health 67 Social investment 66, 67, 73 102 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Performances Nature & People Publishing the Sustainability Report Efforts were taken to reflect the voices of our internal and external Performance Evaluation (EPE) electronic system developed as a stakeholders when publishing this Report, and to ensure credibility, computer-based system in 2006 and the Inventory system developed in assurance on the contents of this report was provided by a third party. 2010. Financial data was derived from audited financial statements and statements of accounts. Information related to society and other sectors The main objective of this Sustainability Report is to provide stakeholders were directly received from related departments. K-water has tried to Strategy with credible transparent corporate information and to gain the respect provide greater clarity by providing 3~4 year performance indicator data, of the stakeholders. Matters of concern of the internal employees were and ratios and absolute data at the same time. accumulated through a survey, while those of the stakeholders were gained through advisors. The issues of concern were evaluated for their ■ Efforts to Enhance Sustainability materiality and through the analysis of the evaluations, major issues of It has been 8 years since K-water first published its Sustainability Report. concern were established. K-water has tried to provide full disclosure of Over the course of 8 years, K-water has painstakingly tried to identify the performance indicators outlined by the G3.1 guideline, which is the the expectations and concerns of stakeholders, but there’s still room for international standard. greater improvements. In the next Sustainability Report, K-water will listen more carefully to the suggestions from our stakeholders to create a Approach ■ Scope of the Performance Indicator Report more advanced Sustainability Report. The scope of this Report covers 24 domestic business sites, including the main office and 9 overseas business sites, providing sustainable ■ G3.1 Guideline Application Standard management conditions and performances. Since the accounting periods K-water has tried to satisfy the requirements of the ‘A’ standards for K-water and its seven investors are the same, it does not affect the outlined in the GRI G3.1 Guideline for the “2012 Sustainability Report.” An comparison in terms of the period or structure. The equity method or cost independent 3rd party assurance agency, Samil Pricewaterhouse Cooper, method is applied depending on share ownership. has verified that this report is compliant with ‘A+,’ GRI G3.1 Guidelines. ■ Performance Data Reporting Standard Challenges K-water has made every effort to follow the reporting principles stated in the G3.1 guidelines in the preparation this Report. Each of the economic, environmental and social performance data was derived based on the indicator covenants attached to the G3.1 guidelines. Environmental related data was mainly quoted from data derived from the Environmental Performances Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for OUTPUT 1.1 Level C Plus: OUTPUT Profile Disclosures 2.1-2.10 1.2 Same as requirement for Level B 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13 ,4.16-4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures OUTPUT Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures on Not Required Disclosures for each Indicator disclosures for each Indicator Management Approach Category Category Respond on each core and Sector Report fully on a minimum of any 10 Report fully on a minimum of any Supplement* indicator with due Performance Indicators OUTPUT 20 Performance Indicators, at least Performance Indicators, including regard to the materiality Principle & Sector Supplement at least one from each of: social, one from each of: economic, and by either: a) reporting on the Performance Indicators environment, human right, labor, indicator or b) explaining the economic, and environment.** society, product responsibility.*** reason for its omission. Water, Nature & People 103 Performances Code of Ethics Preamble, Eco-friendly Management Principles, Customer Charter Preamble, Mission Statement for Innovative Vision Code of Ethics Preamble Environmentally-friendly Management Principles Korea Water Resources Corporation is an organization for Korean K-water is keenly aware of the need for the utmost effort for people to develop, maintain and preserve Korea’s water resources to sustainable development in harmony with nature for more pleasant make sure they are sustainable environmentally, economically and and better-to-live-in environment. In this vein, therefore, K-water, as socially, and to provide them with the best products and services in a corporation specializing in water, the origin of life, announces the order to contribute to improved quality of life and national development. following eco-friendly management principles in order to be reborn With this pride and confidence, we commit ourselves to the following as an eco-friendly corporation loved and trusted by people. code of ethics to be reborn as a world-renowned corporation specializing in water in this era of water in the 21st century. To accomplish our mission with a creative and open-to-challenge To take the lead in preserving clean water and air and healthy mind and do our given work with honest and fair attitudes and to natural environment. make efforts for transparent management. To predict the effects of water resources development and To commit ourselves to eco-friendly management with a keen management on the environment and consistently pursue the awareness that the environment is an invaluable asset to hand down preservation of the eco-system, prevention of pollution and to the next generation and a foundation for a healthy and pleasant environmental improvements in order to make sure that our life. activities are in harmony with environmental preservation. To provide customers with the best products and services to ensure To establish sound consumption culture of cutting down on customer satisfaction and value-oriented management to live up to supplies and energy and recycling them and always be alert against customer-first principles. environmental destruction out of carelessness. To respect local traditions and cultures, contribute to community To accommodate people’s opinions as much as possible in making development and enrich the lives of community members with due environmental related plans and promote trust and transparency of obligation as a community member. our business by opening related information and materials. To observe moral and legal values, respect market orders of free To bear the primary obligation of preventing environmental pollution competition, and pursue fair competition. in advance, make efforts to settle problems in case pollutions take place, and bear in mind that words put into practice are the To respect individual persons without any discrimination and respect fundamentals of corporate ethics. differences and creativity. To constantly offer employees environmental training and focus To develop a partner relationship between union and management on research and development for environmental preservation and based upon trust and harmony with a strong sense of unity to pursue improvement to ensure that out activities for the environment suit mutual prosperity. codes of ethics. ※ For detailed information on ethical principles and the employee code of conduct, please refer to our website (www.kwater.or.kr), Ethical Management. All the employees of K-water hereby declare that we do our utmost to guarantee that future generations will live in a pleasant environment by putting the principles into practice. 104 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Nature & People Customer Charter Preamble Mission Statement for Innovative Vision Strategy Based on a management philosophy that ‘Values for Customers To provide people with clean and safe water, protect their lives and are Values for Use’, we are committed to the following to practice property from disasters caused by water, to be reborn as the best customer-oriented management and business practices. water service organization through change and innovation, K-water declares the following: Approach To establish credibility from our customers, we will stably provide To make customer satisfaction top priority in management and rectify high quality water and land. existing practices, systems and values to be customer-driven. To guarantee our customers' safety and property rights, we will To do our work with honest and fair attitudes without deviating from provide necessary information and services even before our conscience, common sense and law to be a trustworthy public customers' request it. corporation, and to actively participate in socially beneficial activities Challenges to engage in the community. To continuously improve customer service, we will regularly collect opinions from our customers by carefully listening to our customers' To secure a world-level competitive edge to achieve our vision with advice and suggestions. confidence and passion defying changes and establish a sustainable and stable foundation for growth. To maximize customer benefits, we will strive to achieve management efficiencies and carry-out duties without discrimination To raise awareness of the importance of the environment for a healthy towards all customers. life and sustainable growth of the future generations and to make efforts to preserve the environment. Performances To be able to achieve these objectives, we will establish the highest performance standards. We also promise to abide by these K-water will concentrate on devoting itself to growing into a business standards. that works well, has a competitive edge and is loved by people by putting the above mentioned statements into practice. Water, Nature & People 105 Performances UN Global Compact The principles of Global Compact are based on the following international agreements. Universal Declaration of Human Rights International Labor Organization’s (ILO) “Declaration of the basic principles and rights of Labor” Rio Declaration on the Environment and Development United Nations Convention against Corruption The Global Compact urges corporations to uphold, select and legalize the 4 major provisions, which include human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Principle 1 : We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Human Principle 2 : We confirm that we are not complicit to human rights abuses. Rights Principle 3 : We ‌ uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 : We uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Labor Principle 5 : We uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 : We uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 : We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 : We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Environment Principle 9 : We encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Principle 10 : We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. AntiCorruption K-water is upholding and practicing the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact President of K-water Kim, Kuen Ho 106 K-water 2012 Sustainability Report Water Performances Nature & People Definition of Terms •Planting Soil Soil used to spray over dirt to make a foundation for grass to grow. •CRM(Customer Relation Management) A strategy to obtain new customers, keep relations with existing customers, and to maximize customer’s lifetime •Membrane filtering processing This is the technology that is widely used for value by supplying products and services in customers’ needs. industrial ultra-pure manufacturing or water purifier for homes and this advanced water purification technique produces clean water by filtering into polymer •GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) Organization founded with the support of the membrane for water containing pollutant substances. UNEP in 1997 to develop the guidelines for “Sustainable Management Reports.” •Non-point Pollution Source A pollution source having an irregular discharge •CS(Customer Satisfaction) Customer satisfaction to the product and service route, unlike point pollutants sources, such as human populations or livestock Strategy having regular points of discharge. This pollution source is calculated by the •CSR(Corporate Social Responsibility) Social responsibility of the Cororation. pollution load arising from land use in watersheds (including paddies, fields and forest), and usually discharged to water system by rain. •EPE(Environmental Performance Evaluation) Customer expectations and requirements to the products and services provided by the company. •Disinfection by-product Cancer-causing substance such as THM or HAA that is produced when disinfection products used in the purification process reacts to •ISO14001 International environmental management system standards as organic compounds in the water. prescribed by the ISO (International Organization for Standardization). •New and Renewable Energy Three kinds of new energy including hydrogen, fuel •ISO 26000(International standard for the social responsibility) Issued by cells, and liquefied coal gas and eight kinds of renewable energy including solar the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in November 2010. An heat, solar light, bio energy, wind power, hydro-electric power, terrestrial heat, international master guideline of standardized social responsibility which covers marine energy and energy from waste. the many conventional guidelines for the 7 core subjects and management integration such as the participation and development of every organization Approach •Sludge Sediments produced from sewage treatment or water purification process. into the governance, human rights, labor practice, environment, fair operation practice, consumer issue and communication. •Ozone A bluish, trioxygen gas, Ozone has strong oxidizing power and is used as one method of advanced tap water treatment to remove smells •JOA+(Join, Open, Advance) K-water's own innovative technique for problem solving. Work-out method of GE was modified and advanced to be suited to the •Reverse Osmosis (RO) Water processing method that can eliminate the smallest environment of K-water. ionic compounds with sizes less than 1mm. This is frequently used in ultrapure water production or ocean water desalination. •K-sigma(K-water/Knowledge Sigma) 6 sigma emphasizing the cost reduction and process improvement and unique innovative method of K-water •Prevalence Rate Ratio that shows the frequency of subject cases within a certain in combination of removing the unnecessary affairs and encouraging the R&D region at a certain time against the total regional population activities. Challenges •Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Technique for evaluating environmental impact •MTV(Multi-Techno Valley) 21st century type cutting edge complex such as the of a product or service by quantitatively measuring the substances and energy electronics/electricity, R/D which are established on the northern reclaimed land consumed and discharged in an entire process of the product or service. of Sihwa. •Environmental Impact Assessment Estimations analyses and assessments •NTU(Nephelometric Turbidity Unit) Unit for measuring the turbidity. The turbity of the impact of Social Overhead Capital (SOC) facilities, such as roads, ports, of the water measured using the intensity of the light scattered by projecting on railroads, airports and industrial complexes, as well as reclamation projects, on the specimen. the environment. •QPI(Quality Performance Index) K-water unique automatic evaluation method •Seawater Desalination As a technique used to eliminate chemical substances, on the tap water quality control performance index, tap water quality and level of such as salts within salt water, Reverse Osmosis, a membrane filtering technique effort to control the water quality utilizing the IT and web technology. advantageous from a maintenance/management perspective, is mostly used Performances •SS(Suspended Solid, Floating material) The particles of diameter over 0.1㎛ •Carbon Reduction Label A Labeling System which converts CO₂ emissions that which float in the water. It makes the turbidity of the water. occur in the entire manufacturing process a product or service to label on the product •SQI(Service Quality Index) Objective measuring index for the core quality of service to prevent the combination of service process and to improve the quality. •Integrated Water Resources Management Management that comprehensively manages water quantity, quality, ecosystems, and integrates surface water, •TOE(Ton of Oil Equivalent) The amount of energy use such as use of electrical underground water, and alternative water resources for integrated management energy, gas and oils, converted to crude oil (tons). •CDM(Clean Development Mechanism) A Policy in which developed countries •UNFCCC(United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) A obligated to reduce greenhouse gases can invest capital in developing countries convention organized to regulate artificial emissions of greenhouse gases for to have occurring greenhouse emission allowances as part of the reduction prevention of global warming. Its full name is the United Nations Framework results of their own country (Unilateral CDM businesses conducted independently Convention on Climate Change. by developing countries allowed from 2005) •VOC(Voice of Customers) An expected or requested matter of customers on •COD(Chemical Oxygen Demand) Amount of oxygen consumed by oxidizing products and services provided by the company. pollutants contained in water by an oxidizing agent. Higher levels of COD indicate higher water pollution amounts. Water, Nature & People 107 We express our deepest appreciation to all those involved in the publication of this report. Performance Management, Pricing and Director Hyong Joon Koun, Team Manager Sun Young Kim Legal Affairs Dept. Jin Seok Kim, Hye Min Kim, Jae Sik Jang, Eun Seok Yang, Sang Yong Lee Business Planning & Coordinating Dept. Sang Ryel Kim, Shin Min Kim, Chang Ju Kim, Jae Min Cho Audit & Inspection Dept. Yong Jin Park, Yong Jae Lee Public Relations Dept. Jong Kwang Kim, Mi Suk Park, Sang Hoon Park, Bin Na Lee, Seung Woo Lee Seong Sik Kim, Sung Hun Kim, Yun Sik Kim, Sang Hoon Nam, Eun Jeong Park, Administrative Services Dept. Junn Young Park, Cha Rang Yang, Gi Su Lee, Dong Kyu Lee Accounting & Finance Dept. Sung Yun Lee, Chang Min Lee, Yong Su Cheong, Hee Seok cheong Construction Technical Kyu Ik Kim, Ssang Goo Lee Knowledge Management Dept. Information Resources Seong Cheol Kim, Sea Hoon Kim Services Dept. Water Supply Technology Dept. Jong Ho Kim, Kwan Soo Seok Water Supply Operations Min Jae Ko, Jae Joong Kim, Kap Soon Park, Young Il Song, Jae Sung Lee, & Maintenance Dept. Eui Jeong Lim, Seong Yong jeong, Hyuk Jin Cho, Young Hwan Choi Water Supply Technology Dept. Ju Hyun Kim, Woo Jin Choi Water Resources Business Dept. Beong Su Kim, Jin Yong Kim, Jin O Lee, Sung Tae Hwang Dam & Watershed Dept. Chang Young Byun, Byeong Yong Sohn, Dukey Han Water Resources Operations Center Dong Hun Lee Land Development Dept. Sun Hwa Kim, Jung Ho Choi Green Energy & Resources Dept. In Soo Kim, Nam Tak Oh, Dong Hwan Lee Overseas Business Dept. Jae Uk Lee, Hak Jae Jung K-water Institute (KWI) Dong Hwan Kim, Seong Mi Ryu K-water Academy Hong Seok Oh, Jin Hee Jang Readers’ Voice We are grateful to all our stakeholders that have an interest in K-water’s sustainable management and have read the ‘2012 Sustainability Report’ Each opinion and suggestion provided by you will be preciously utilized in further developing K-water’s sustainable management. We value and accept your suggestions and we will try to reflect the suggestions in the next report. Performance Management Team of Performace Management Department of K-water / Fax : 042) 629 2399 E-mail : sustainability@kwater.or.kr Paste here! From Name Telephone E-mail Address Paste here! Paste here! To 560 Sintanjin-ro, Daedeok-gu, Daejeon, Korea Performace Management Department of K-water Water Nature& People This report can be downloaded in PDF file format from the K-water homepage (www.kwater.or.kr). Anyone who would like more detailed information on sustainable management activities and outcomes introduced in this report, please contact the following person in charge of this report. We deeply appreciate you for your profound interest on the sustainable management activities of K-water. Imformation Performance Management Team of Performace Management Dept. of K-water, 560 Sintanjin-Ro, Daedeok-Gu, Daejeon, 306-711 Republic of Korea TEL : 82-42-629-2362 FAX : 82-42-629-2399 E-mail : sustainability@kwater.or.kr Web-site : www.kwater.or.kr Produced by K-water Performance Management Dept. Designed by HYUNDAI ARTCOM Co.,Ltd. This report is printed with soy ink on ceo-friendly paper that received FSC(Forest Stewardship Council) certification.
