2011 Sustainability Report Totalcom Group 2011 Sustainability Report Totalcom Group 1. Message from the President – GRI 1.1, 1.2......................................... Page 01 2. About the Report – GRI 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.11, 4.12................. Page 02 3. Totalcom Group – GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8........................... Page 03 3.1 Corporate Governance – GRI 4.1, 4.4......................................Page 05 3.2 Mission, Vision and Values – GRI 4.8......................................Page 07 3.3 Code of Ethics – GRI 4.6, 4.8, SO3.............................................Page 09 3.4 Ethical Positioning as a Communication and Advertisement Company – GRI 4.12, 4.13, PR6................................................ Page 10 3.5 Awards – GRI 2.10.................................................................. Page 11 4. Economic and Financial Performance – GRI 2.9................................ Page 12 5. Relationship with Stakeholders – GRI 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17................... Page 13 5.1 Employees – GRI EC7, LA1, LA2, LA4, LA9, LA13, LA14.................Page 13 5.2 Customers – GRI 4.16, 4.17, PR5..............................................Page 21 5.3 Suppliers – GRI EC6, HR2, HR6, HR7..........................................Page 21 5.4 Society – GRI SO1...................................................................Page 22 5.5 Government – GRI SO6, EC4....................................................Page 25 5.6 Media....................................................................................Page 25 6. Environmental Performance..............................................................Page 26 6.1 Energy – GRI 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, EN3, EN4, EN5, EN7, EN26.................Page 26 6.2 Consumption of Supplies – GRI 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, EN1, EN2, EN26..Page 27 6.3 Waste Management – GRI 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, EN22, EN26................Page 28 7. Cross references of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Pact – GRI 3.12..................................Page 29 8. Credits...............................................................................................Page 36 1. Message from the President (GRI 1.1, 1.2) Totalcom Group has been fully committed to implementing primary sustainable practices into management in a structured and comprehensive manner since 2009. This is because we understand that caring about environmental, social and economic aspects should not be dissociated from our business strategy. Based on this view, the Group created an Ethics and Sustainability Committee, a Code of Ethics, and joined the United Nations (UN) Global Pact. Since then, we have changed our way of thinking; we have introduced new processes and started encouraging our employees, commercial partners, and customers to have sustainable attitudes. We also understand we must engage a larger number of people in favor of sustainability, not only those who work with us. And we believe we can do this in a broad and comprehensive manner because we are a communication, marketing and entertainment company. The creation of Starts With You (SWU) project, in June 2010, was one of the results of such process. The year of 2011 was marked by the consolidation and expansion of sustainability efforts made in the past. We have pulled our content and entertainment business unit together, Total.Con, which allowed SWU festival and movement to be expanded as well. Through the SWU platform, we promoted – with the help of a major TV broadcast in Brazil – a university game that attracted students from more than one hundred colleges in 16 different Brazilian states and that focused on the adequate disposal of residues. Still in 2011, we promoted the second edition of the SWU Global Sustainability Forum, an event held simultaneously with the festival, officially supported by UN Global Pact, and that gathered great personalities for a 3-day debate. In the advertisement area, Fischer, the major company of the Group in this segment, had its name changed to Fischer&Friends after a new executive shareholder joined the company. This new executive shareholder became responsible for the Creation Department. The strengthening of the Creation Department, along with the expertise of the agency in Integrated Communication and Commercial Planning, leveraged the acquisition of eight new accounts from major companies in the last nine months of the year. TOD, representing the no-media business unit, broadened the range of services rendered to major customers and was appointed by the Brazilian Olympic Committee (COB) and by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) as one of the two companies in charge of the organization of the events related to Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games in 2016. Finally, I had the honor to be invited to and participate in the launching of Rio+20 communication strategy, at UN headquarters, in New York, in November 2011, as the only representative of Brazilian entrepreneurs. This invitation was due both to the distinguished position of our company concerning sustainability and to our participation in UN Global Pact. Eduardo Fischer Chairman of the Group and President of the Strategic Committee 01 | 2011 Sustainability Report 2. About the Report (GRI 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.11, 4.12) The publication of the second Totalcom Group Sustainability Report – the first in the advertisement sector in Brazil about sustainability – consolidates a project initiated in 2009, reaffirming the commitment of the company with sustainability principles. By publishing this report, the Group, which launched its 2010 report in April 2011, strengthens its distinguished role in sustainability. This report was prepared to provide our stakeholders with information about company challenges and advances related to company management and sustainability objectives in 2011. The year of 2011 was a year marked by changes in Totalcom Group structure and relations. Consequently, the company created new forms of interacting with its internal personnel and external audiences, providing more space for dialogue and consultation, always seeking work improvements and collective development. Additionally, with the experience gained during the preparation of the previous report, the Group management started giving focus to a stricter internal control of information, and some new people and data management processes have been incorporated. The report was based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodology, being classified as B in guidelines application. The report addresses annually only holding companies that operate in Brazil. Totalcom Group also uses the principles of the UN Global Pact – signed by the company – as reference to sustainable management and guidance on the compilation of this report. Once the Global Pact considers the GRI-G3 guidelines consistent and compatible with its Communication of Progress (COP), this report also observes the responsibility commitment assumed by the Group with the Global Pact, and reports company advances related to its ten principles. Grupo Totalcom | 02 3. Totalcom Group (GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8) Totalcom holding (Totalcom Comunicação e Participações S.A.) was created in 1997 by adman and entrepreneur Eduardo Fischer. The history of the holding starts with the opening of an advertisement agency 30 years ago, a pioneer agency in the area of communication, advertisement and marketing services. The holding is headquartered in São Paulo and was created to gather companies specialized in different areas of the sector, and to offer complementary services in a synergetic and profitable manner. The Group that ended 2011 with 393 employees operates as a provider of strategic and integrated communication solutions, with expertise in different areas: advertisement, digital communication, commercial planning, branding, brand audit, content and entertainment, marketing activation, trade marketing, promotion and events, incentive and loyalty marketing, in addition to corporate reward systems. These services are grouped in four business units. Totalcom operates as a providing holding and has an active and strategic role: offering all the necessary support to its subsidiaries, so that they are able to keep focused on their customers’ needs. Business Units Business Unit Main Operational Focus Companies Part of the Business Unit Offers advertisement and commercial intelligence Fischer&Friends Brasil Total Ad services (brand and sales). Fischer Argentina Practices the concept of integrated marketing, satisfying Total on Demand all customers’ needs, totally or TOD on demand, from activation to recognition. Offers content, entertainment, Total.Con licensing, brand experience, D+Brasil among other services. Offers strategic consulting Total Tendências and brand audit services. TEN 03 | 2011 Sustainability Report Through the integrated operation of its companies, Totalcom Group is able to apply the Comunicação Total® (Total Communication) concept, created by the company, that addresses communication in a different manner. Throughout the years, the company developed and improved the application of such concept, which, nowadays, is intrinsically connected with the culture of the Group, having become a trademark. The concept is about performing a careful investigation of the customer’s production chain to create pertinent communication solutions that motivate purchasing in all aspects the brand relates to its different audiences. The Group believes this work model provides the customer with better synergy, productivity and results. This philosophy allowed the company to have customers from different origins, both national and international ones, and from many different sectors: food, beverages, finance, hygiene and cleaning, pharmaceutical, health, retail, garments, household appliances, services, vehicles, telephone, toys (the complete list of customers is available at www.totalcom.com.br). Grupo Totalcom | 04 3.1 Corporate Governance (GRI 4.1, 4.4) Totalcom Group adopts good governance practices – such as ethics, transparency, accountability and corporate responsibility – in all strategies and fields of operation. In order to assure such governance practices and make sure company behaviors are aligned with the interests of its different audiences, the company has two main committees: Strategic Committee, and Ethics and Sustainability Committee. The company is a private corporation. Access of employees to high governance bodies or their representatives is assured by the relative informality of the workplace and by the company horizontal organizational chart. At Fischer&Friends, for example, shareholders’ and vice-presidents’ desks are arranged in a “U” format, and the absence of walls or partitions favors approximation and exchange of information, opinions, knowledge and experiences among people. This model allows better contribution from employees. Employees can also have access to company directors, in case they do not want to address them directly, by means of the Human Resources Department that, since 2009, is physically present in operational environments, keeping the communication channel open to critics and suggestions. Additionally, Fischer&Friends conducts an employee survey every two years to collect important information for decision-making processes regarding people management. 3.1.1 Strategic Committee (GRI 4.2, 4.3, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11) The Strategic Committee is the main executive committee of Totalcom Group, being composed of main directors and the chairman, all members are Group executives. This Committee is responsible for suggesting, approving and guiding the necessary actions for the fulfillment of company strategies. Its members meet every fortnight to follow and assess the progress of the targets established, including those related to financial, environmental and social performance defined by the Ethics and Sustainability Committee. In addition to defining and following targets, the Committee also conducts periodical assessments to anticipate potential risks the Group may face at short, medium and long term, and defines preventive measures. Strategic Committee Members: • Eduardo Fischer: Chairman of the Group and President of the Strategic Committee; • Nelson Turini: Financial Director and Operational Director; • Antonio Fadiga: Shareholder, and Strategy and Business Director. 05 | 2011 Sustainability Report 3.1.2 Ethics and Sustainability Committee (GRI 4.7, 4.9) The Ethics and Sustainability Committee (www.totalcom.com.br/comite.aspx) was created in 2010 to reflect the concern of Totalcom Group in assuring the three sustainability pillars are always present in its business operations. This Committee meets frequently and its main purpose is assisting the Strategic Committee in inserting social-economic indicators into the strategic objectives of the Group. The Committee is also responsible for assessing the performance of the Group concerning sustainability issues; defining and applying policies related to this topic; as well as applying the Code of Ethics of the company (www.totalcom.com.br/codigo.aspx). The Ethics and Sustainability Committee is composed of executives from different areas, such as Finance, Legal, Procurement, Corporate Communication and by the General Management of the companies of the Group. Such composition was planned to enhance the capability of the Group of operating in a serious and integrated manner. The Chairman is the Financial Director that is also a member of the Strategic Committee, who reports directly to the President of the Group. Members are selected according to their position in the most relevant areas related to economic, environmental and social aspects. However, the Group still does not have a methodology to assess the specific knowledge of each member of both Committees on such aspects. In 2011, the Ethics and Sustainability Committee was responsible for the application of the Code of Ethics, the Human Resources Policies, and the Procurement Policy (www.totalcom.com.br/politicas.aspx), which were created in 2010, in a partnership with a specialized consulting company. Grupo Totalcom | 06 3.2 Mission, Vision and Values (GRI 4.8) The Mission, Vision and Values of Totalcom Group were updated by the Ethics and Sustainability Committee in 2010, and consolidated in 2011. Misson Create and implement strategic and integrated communication solutions that offer added valued to our customers in their entire production chain, through the efforts of the best specialists of each marketing area, always based on ethics, synergy, creativity, market intelligence and profitability for both parties. Vision Be globally recognized as one of the best Groups in integrated communication, being able to offer unique solutions and, most importantly, necessary solutions for customer businesses. Values We like people who are intellectually active and curious, who are creative and innovative, that love what they do, that have a sense of responsibility, that acknowledge the value of constant learning and that, above all, have a multidisciplinary view and a positive attitude. We encourage individual talents, but we give priority to teamwork. We believe a happy and discrimination-free environment that promotes the material and emotional well-being of employees allows better results. In our personnel selection policy, we assess commitment with the ethical behavior of the Group in addition to assessing professional competence and technical skills. Our personal and commercial relationship with individuals and organizations is based on transparency and ethics. We always operate responsibility and in accordance with sustainability principles. We are aware our activities can create conflicts of opinion, but we constantly respect the limits imposed by applicable legislations, regulations and ethical norms established by authorities of the sector. 07 | 2011 Sustainability Report Grupo Totalcom | 08 3.3 Code of Ethics (GRI 4.6, 4.8, HR3, SO3) One of the highlights of 2011 was the consolidation of Totalcom Group Code of Ethics (http://www.totalcom.com.br/codigo.aspx). The code was created in 2010 by the Ethics and Sustainability Committee to reinforce the commitment of the Group to ethics, respect and transparency in internal relationships and relationships with external audiences. All employees, including Strategic Committee representatives, follow the norms mentioned in the code. The code gathers principles of corporate sustainability in addition to defining behaviors to be followed to avoid conflict of interests. The code addresses some values that are already practiced internally in the Group, such as integrity, teamwork, respect towards diversity and human rights, social and environmental responsibility, and fighting against corruption. With the implementation of code, such values become rules that determine how employees, regardless of their hierarchical level, shall interact with different Group stakeholders. The Code of Ethics is handed out to all employees and employees are advised of the rules mentioned therein. Upon hiring, new employees receive a copy of the code and sign a document in which they agree to follow the rules defined therein. 09 | 2011 Sustainability Report 3.4 Ethical Positioning as a Communication and Advertisement Company (GRI 4.12, 4.13, PR6) Totalcom Group cherishes its values in all its activities, and maintains a responsible positioning to assure legitimacy of the ideas conveyed and to preserve the trust gained from consumers, customers and the general population. Thus, the Group avoids communicating abusive and offensive information that disrespects consumers and competitors, and does not participate in projects that do not care about the environment or that violate human rights. In campaigns involving delicate products, such as alcoholic beverages and images of children, the Group follows the applicable legislation. Totalcom Group companies are associated to the main representative entities of the sector where they operate, and have signed codes of conduct and ethics. Additionally, all communication companies follow the legislation and the norms of the Brazilian Advertisement Self-Regulation Code, of the National Board of Self-Regulation in Advertisement (Conar) and of the Executive Board of Standard Norms (Cenp). In all the cases where Fischer campaigns have been questioned by such Boards, the agency always fulfilled the requirements established by them. Main Entities and Associations Group Company the Group has Joined Brazilian Advertisement Association (ABP); Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB); Brazilian Association of Advertisement Agencies (Abap); Latin American Association of Advertisement Agencies (Alap); Association of Advertisement Professionals (APP); National Board of Self-Regulation in Fischer&Friends Advertisement (Conar); Executive Board of Standard Norms (Cenp); Trade Union of Advertisement Agencies of the State of São Paulo; Trade Union of Advertisement Agencies of the State of Rio de Janeiro, and Trade Union of Advertisement Agencies of the Federal District. Member of the Promotional Marketing Association (Ampro) with a chair in the Incentive Committee, that works in favor of the regulation of promotional prize TOD distribution in incentive programs. Contributes to this committee by offering extra resources in addition to the basic membership fee. Grupo Totalcom | 10 3.5 Awards (GRI 2.10) In 2011, Totalcom Group was once again recognized by major awards of the sector. The awards were granted to the President of the Group, Eduardo Fischer, to Fischer&Friends, and to the SWU Festival. Eduardo Fischer • Elected one of the One Hundred Most Influent Brazilians by Época magazine; • Nominated the best Entrepreneur of the Communication Industry in Caboré 2011 – the most important award of the Brazilian communication sector. Fischer&Friends • Award granted by the Brazilian Association of Advertisement (ABP) due to integrated communication campaigns and projects conveyed in different media; • Renato Castelo Branco Award for Social-Environmental Responsibility in Advertisement; • El Ojo de Iberoamerica, in different categories of the advertisement area; • Colunistas Award in Advertisement, Promotional Action and Design; • Wave Festival in Rio, advertisement festival; • Festival Iberoamericano de la Publicidad (Fiap); • Pedro Porto (Convergence VP) nominated one of the three Distinguished Professionals in Digital Communication by ABP. SWU • Best 2011 festival, according to specialized critics of Guia da Folha; • SWU Zero Impact Game – nominated for the Greenbest Award in Campaigns and Advertisement. • SWU Movement voted Top 3 in the Greenvana Sustainability Award by the Greenbest Academy jury in the category Campaigns and Advertising. 11 | 2011 Sustainability Report 4. Economic and Financial Performance (GRI 2.9) The year of 2011 was marked by great achievements in Totalcom Group. First, Total. Con content and entertainment platform was consolidated. The platform successfully promoted, for the second consecutive year, the SWU sustainability awareness movement. Throughout the year, different engaging and awareness actions were conducted in the platform, including the Zero Impact Game, with the participation of Brazilian university students from different locations, supported by a major TV broadcast in Brazil; and SWU Music and Arts Festival. In its second edition, in 2011, the festival grew and became more structured, gathering 179 thousand people for three days of music and sustainability awareness. The event featured more than 70 national and international attractions, its line-up and curatorship were recognized as one of the best ever by specialized critics. Additionally, the festival promoted the Second Global Forum of Sustainability, which presented great lecturers, such as Neil Young and Bob Geldof, both musicians and activists; Daryl Hannah, actress; and Rigoberta Menchú, an indigenous leader and Peace Nobel Prize winner; among others. Another highlight was Fischer restructuration: the major company of the Group in the segment had its name changed to Fischer&Friends after a new executive shareholder joined the company. This new executive shareholder became responsible for the Creation Department. The strengthening of the Creation Department, along with the agency expertise in Integrated Communication and Commercial Planning, leveraged the acquisition of eight new accounts from major companies in the last nine months of the year: JBS Carnes, Flora, Vigor, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Henkel, Unimed Brasil, Marabraz and Algar. These new accounts contributed to Fischer being nominated one of the Best Four Agencies in New Business in the year, according to a survey conducted by Meio & Mensagem newspaper, the main communication medium in the sector (edition 1492, dated January 16th, 2012). TOD broadened the range of services rendered to major customers and was appointed by the Brazilian Olympic Committee (COB) and by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) as one of the two companies in charge of the organization of the events related to Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games in 2016. In August 2011, the association of Totalcom Group with Smash, a promotional marketing company in Argentina, was interrupted after a strategic decision taken by the holding to concentrate efforts in more relevant operations that have greater growth potential. Grupo Totalcom | 12 5. Relationship with Stakeholders (GRI 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17) Totalcom Group has different communication channels and promotes activities to foster the relationship with strategic audiences. The Group seeks to promote constant dialogues with its stakeholders and to encourage their participation in Group activities, with sustainable value creation throughout its entire management. The Group identifies as stakeholders audiences it relates the most, directly or indirectly connected to its operations, such as employees, suppliers, customers, the society, the government and media. By having an open relationship with these audiences, the company seeks to better understand their needs, interests and perceptions regarding the operations and joint activities of the Group. The main forms of engagement and the main topics addressed with each audience are detailed below. 5.1 Employees (GRI EC7, LA1, LA2, LA4, LA9, LA13, LA14) Totalcom Group believes its performance in different areas and activities is directly related to the performance of its 393 employees. Thus, the company continually invests in the qualification of its employees and seeks to create a healthy and motivating workplace, in which individuals, different ideas, and diversity are respected. The Group believes in the potential and talent of the professionals living in communities where the companies operate. For this reason, although the company does not have a specific policy about hiring community employees, it always does so when necessary. In Totalcom Group, transparency and stability are extremely valued and, for this reason, internal relationships are fully based on the principles of the organization, mentioned on the Code of Ethics, on its Mission, Vision and Values, and on the Human Resources Policy. All companies of the Group fully respect the Brazilian labor legislation and agreements made with trade unions and other organizations in the sector. The company is open to and respects trade union activities and 100% of its employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, including with clauses related to their health and safety. Additionally, the company satisfies all requirements, norms and conventions related to human rights, health, and safety. In 2011, one of the major highlights of the Group was the increased employee retention rate and decreased turnover rate, in comparison to 2010. The rate was also within the average of the sector, which is known to have very high. 13 | 2011 Sustainability Report Human Resources Policy Totalcom Group Human Resources Policy was created in 2010 by the Ethics and Sustainability Committee. It addresses relationship with employees and aspects related to human rights, Brazilian labor legislation and other practices defined in internationally renowned documents, such as the Global Pact and GRI indicators. www.totalcom.com.br/politicas.aspx 5.1.1. Profile of Employees Employee distribution, by company 61,96% 57,00% 29,48% 28,50% Fischer&Friends Totalcom 8,54% 8,40% TOD 6,11% 0% D+ 2010 2011 Employee distribution, by type of employment agreement Company Employed 31,18% 29,77% Contract Employed 68,82% 70,23% 2010 2011 Grupo Totalcom | 14 Employee distribution, by gender Male 45,88% 48,09% Female 54,12% 51,91% 2011 Employee distribution, by age group 5,59% 5,09% > 50 anos 40,86% 42,75% > 30 a 50 anos < 30 anos 53,55% 52,16% 2010 2011 Employee distribution, by employee category 8,14% VPs 61,83% Directors Managers Coordinators 17,56% /supervisors Operational Employed 9,67% 2011 15 | 2011 Sustainability Report Number of company employees, by employee category and gender 2010 2011 Employee category Women Men Women Men VPs/CEO/COO 0 9 0 11 Directors 11 14 18 14 Area Managers 20 26 35 34 Coordinators and supervisors 43 27 23 15 Operational 82 108 113 130 Total 156 184 189 204 Average base salary, by employee category and gender – Reference: December 2011 2010 2011 Employee category Women Men Women Men VPs/CEO/COO R$ 51,356.00 R$ 51,368.00 Directors R$ 18,043.00 R$ 26,516.00 R$ 16,221.00 R$ 19,604.00 Area Managers R$ 11,451.00 R$ 13,760.00 R$ 10,334.00 R$ 11,162.00 Coordinators and Supervisors R$ 6,099.00 R$ 7,824.00 R$ 5,593.00 R$ 6,870.00 Operational R$ 3,028.00 R$ 3,308.00 R$ 3,371.00 R$ 4,039.00 Ratio between the salary base paid to women and men, by employee category Employee category 2010 2011 VPs/CEO/COO Directors 68,05% 82,74% Area Managers 83,22% 92,58% Coordinators and Supervisors 77,95% 81,41% Operational 91,54% 83,46% Grupo Totalcom | 16 Employee turnover rate, by company 51,4% 33,3% 30,9% 32,1% 29,6% 27,3% 20,0% Fischer&Friends Totalcom TOD 0% D+ 2010 2011 Employee turnover rate, by gender 31,22% 29,90% Male Female 2011 Employee turnover rate, by age group 60,00% 33,33% > 50 anos 25,37% 30 a 50 anos < 30 anos 2011 17 | 2011 Sustainability Report 5.1.2 Payment and Benefits (GRI 4.5, EC3, EC5, LA3) Totalcom Group has a salary policy compatible with the market average and, in 2011, the lowest salary paid by the company was 1.44 times greater than the minimum salary in effect in Brazil, which demonstrates its level of competitiveness. Additionally, the company offers different benefits to its direct employees, in addition to the benefits required by the Brazilian labor legislation, to assure their satisfaction and well-being. The same benefits are offered to full-time employees and part-time employees: health plan; odontological plan; life insurance; meal; and transportation voucher or parking lot. An important initiative of the Group is the Help Me Fund, a personal loan offered to employees in emergency situations, with non-profit purposes. Training and professional development opportunities offered by the Group are also equally important. Due to the high employee turnover rate, which is a characteristic of the sector, the company does not offer a pension plan as benefit. The variable payment of the main executives of Totalcom Group is directly linked to the financial results of the companies they work for. The fulfillment of social and environmental targets is still not taken into consideration for payment purposes but, as the company broadens its sustainable practices, performance assessment in this area tends to evolve. Internship Program Totalcom Group internship program was created for the Group to accomplish its mission: create integrated strategic solutions. The program helps identify talents and revitalize the company, while providing the intern with the possibility of knowing the operations of a major communication company, in addition to getting to know and develop the integrated communication concept. Interns have the following benefits: monthly stipends, health plan, life insurance, meal voucher, transportation voucher or 50% of the amount paid for parking. In addition to those benefits, interns also have a 30-day vacation period after the first year of internship. Grupo Totalcom | 18 5.1.3 Quality of Life, Health and Safety (GRI LA6, LA7) Totalcom Group is concerned with the physical and emotional well-being of its employees, and is committed to creating a healthy and safe workplace, preventing accidents and occupational diseases. Thanks to this work philosophy, in 2011, the company did not record any case of disease, injury or death related to professional activities among Totalcom group employees. It is important to mention that, due the number of employees and contract employees per unit, the company does not have formal health and safety committee, being duly exempted by the current legislation. To encourage integration of employees in leisure moments, the company offers, inside its facilities, an area for employees to use after the work shift or during socializing events or parties. In 2011, the Human Resources Department, in a partnership with Omint, a health insurance company, created the Live Well Program, which provided a complete, detailed, and efficient view on quality of life and health to employees. Through this Program, the Group offers activities related to health, well-being, and quality of life, by promoting vaccination campaigns, consultations and advices from nutritionists, assessments and some kinds of health exams (blood pressure, cholesterol, Body Mass Index, and others). The great highlight of the Program was the vaccination campaign. This campaign included annual periods of vaccination against flu, tetanus and hepatitis carried out by a specialized team of VACINAR clinic, inside Totalcom Group companies, on some days of May 2011. The Group sponsored 50% of the vaccination costs so that employees could take their families to participate in the campaign. Throughout the year, the campaign vaccinated 223 employees. 19 | 2011 Sustainability Report 5.1.4 Personal and Professional Development (GRI 4.16, 4.17, LA8, LA10, LA12) Totalcom Group has always believed in the talent and development capacity of its employees. The Group also believes in its role and capacity to contribute to such development. Thus, the company seeks to offer courses, lectures, workshops and other events to employees. In 2011, such activities totalized 175 hours, distributed among different categories of employees. Additionally, the Group created internal programs to complement the professional qualification of its employees. These programs include: • Language Learning Grant Program (Papai) This program sponsors Spanish and English language courses taken by Group employees. Directors, managers or any employee with an immediate or short-term need of using the language in their job may be entitled to this grant. The subsidy must be recommended by the director of the area and approved by the executive director of the company. • Qualification Course (CDF) Totalcom Group encourages employees who wish to take courses in subjects related to their field of operation inside the company by granting them a financial aid. Employees under the Brazilian Consolidation of Labor Laws (CLT) regime, working for more than one year in the company, that need a qualification regardless of their professional activities, with salary up to a certain limit established in specific document are entitled to receiving the financial aid. The use of this benefit is also conditioned to approval of the area director and company president. Another important highlight from 2011 was the follow-up of the coaching sessions conducted at Totalcom Group by the Human Resources Department for the development and improvement of Group executives. The Group still does not have any practice related to regular performance analysis and career development. In 2011, at TOD, the perceptions and demands of all professionals were mapped out so that the company was able to understand how the implementation of a new structure of operational processes was being received by employees. The results were presented to management that implemented different redirecting and integration actions. Grupo Totalcom | 20 5.2 Customers (GRI 4.16, 4.17, PR5) In the relationship with its customers, Totalcom Group seeks to honor its commitments and to offer adequate solutions in a timely manner, without any prejudice to the ethical principles, and the development and profitability objectives of the Group. The Group must have an unbiased and objective relationship with its customers, with no interference of personal interests. Totalcom Group, with the help of a specialized company, frequently conducts a satisfaction and assessment survey with its customers to analyze their perception regarding communication agencies. In 2010, Fischer&Friends agency had great scores in different criteria (results can be viewed on Totalcom Group 2010 Sustainability Report). In the beginning of 2012, a new survey was conducted to assess the satisfaction of customers in relation to the services rendered in 2011. Results are still being measured. Totalcom Group serves its customers based on honesty, transparency, efficiency and respect for consumers’ rights. Customer privacy is fully respected and confidential information involving business interests are never disclosed. 5.3 Suppliers (GRI EC6, HR2, HR6, HR7) The relationship of Totalcom Group with its suppliers is based on the Procurement and Supplying Policy (www.totalcom.com.br/politicas.aspx), which defines criteria for the selection of suppliers. Having fulfillment of the Brazilian labor legislation and observance of collective bargaining agreements as operation parameters, the Group requires ethical and responsible conduct from suppliers. Having concerns about employees’ health and safety is one of the criteria for selection, and 100% of the selected suppliers have their paperwork checked as to human rights aspects, and labor and tax laws. In 2011, Totalcom Group did not find any operation with significant risk of child labor, forced labor or compulsory labor among its suppliers. In all its activities, in Brazil and abroad, Totalcom Group gives preference for local suppliers, as long as quality and prices offered are in accordance with the company policies. Currently, the participation of local suppliers in Group companies reaches 80%. According to the principles of the Global Pact, Totalcom Group does not tolerate child labor in its business operations. When images of children are used in advertisement pieces, the selected supplier strictly observes all applicable legal measures. 21 | 2011 Sustainability Report 5.4 Society (GRI SO1) Totalcom Group is aware it needs to repay to society part of its business added value. Thus, the company promotes volunteer actions in some communities and, in 2010, created a sustainability awareness movement that resulted in the SWU Festival. The Group offers volunteer services to many institutions, including strategic planning for communication, creation, production, media negotiation and broadcasting/publication, among others. In 2011, Associação de Assistência à Criança Deficiente (Association for the Assistance of Handicapped Children, AACD – www.aacd.org.br) and Acredite (www.acredite.org.br) were benefitted by these volunteer services. The reduction in the number of assisted institutions is due to a reduced demand from other companies, in addition to a strategic change in Totalcom Group. Grupo Totalcom | 22 5.4.1 Starts With You (SWU) SWU is an awareness movement created with the objective of engaging people, especially young people, in sustainability practices. Designed by Totalcom Group in a partnership with The Groove Concept, the movement is a large platform of content and entertainment that, through conventional and participatory media, proposes the incorporation of sustainable practices into daily life of people. SWU believes small attitudes, adopted by a large number of people, make all the difference. The movement includes different awareness and engaging actions, having as main attraction the SWU Music and Arts Festival and the Global Sustainability Forum. Officially launched in June 2010, SWU showed incredible acceptance in social communities in Brazil and in other hundreds of countries, in a very short period of time. The movement counts on the support of major communication channels in Brazil, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), partner companies, and sponsors. At the end of 2010, six months after its creation, SWU was the first brand and the third most mentioned term in Facebook in Brazil. 2011 SWU Music and Arts Festival was held on November 12-14th, in the town of Paulínia, in an open area of 2,033,183 yd2, that gathered an audience of around 180 thousand people. It was the first festival in Brazil to offer camping accommodation to participants. In 2011, SWU received 1,500 tents. During three days, the festival featured more than 70 national and international attractions, distributed in four stages. 23 | 2011 Sustainability Report After the successful edition in 2010, SWU Global Sustainability Forum had its second edition in 2011, during SWU Music and Arts Festival. The event had the official support of the UN, that for the first time formally supported an initiative of this type. The forum had three days of debates and discussions about sustainability ideas, experiences and proposals. In the festival area, the forum was held at the Paulínia Town Theater. The forum had more than 1.5 million participants through the internet, in addition to 3,000 people present in the theater. With the objective of fostering sustainability debates, with examples of people, companies and/or organizations that have already contributed to a more socially, environmentally and economically sustainable way of life, the forum had lecturers such as the Canadian singer Neil Young; musician and activist Bob Geldof (creator of Live Aid humanitarian concerts); indigenous leader and 1992 Peace Nobel Prize winner Rigoberta Menchú from Guatemala; actress Daryl Hannah who fights for environmental causes; Marina Silva, former Brazilian Minister; and professor José Eli da Veiga, one of the greatest researchers of sustainable development in Brazil, among others. One of the main initiatives of SWU in 2011 was the Zero Impact Game. This Game was created to engage university students in sustainability issues in a practical and community-oriented way. The Game was launched in May by Fantástico TV show, Globo TV broadcast. The Game was open to universities throughout the Brazilian territory, and in ten days only, it received more than one hundred projects from 87 public and private universities throughout Brazil. From these projects, 20 were selected by a technical jury and classified to the next phase, which involved tests of collecting and sorting recyclable waste in 19 Brazilian cities. The result of this incredible movement undertaken by youngsters and their communities was the collection of 139 tons of waste in only one day (the waste was donated to recycling cooperatives and associations of local waste collectors). University teams which had the best performance in the first test were classified to the final phase of the game, a reality show broadcasted by Multishow TV channel. During the show, ten pairs (each pair represented a college) had to go through sustainability tests in many different Brazilian cities. A pair of students from Universidade Federal de Alfenas (Alfenas Federal University), State of Minas Gerais, was the winner: the university was awarded BRL 500,000 for the implementation of a sustainability project, while the students were granted an entrepreneurship program scholarship at Babson College, State of Massachusetts. In 2011, SWU action platform also counted on a series of other initiatives for the engagement of youngsters and children in sustainability practices. Among such initiatives, one can mention: discussion forums, pocket shows in colleges, free sustainability workshops for children in public parks, and partnerships with NGOs, such as Um Teto para Meu País (A Home for My Country), SOS Mata Atlântica (SOS Atlantic Rainforest), Greenpeace, Projeto Guri (Guri Project), Waves4Water, among others. Grupo Totalcom | 24 5.5 Government (GRI SO6, EC4) The relationship of Totalcom Group with governmental agencies is based on integrity, as all other relationships of the Group. The Group does not tolerate any kind of payment in exchange of benefits and does not support (financially or through public manifestations) any political party. None of the Group companies develop publicity campaigns for political parties. The Group respects employees’ opinions, but their political view shall not be considered the view of the company. When governmental agencies are customers of the Group, they are treated impartially, and transparency held with any other customer is maintained. The applicable legislation is always observed when governmental agencies hire private companies. 5.6 Media In its relationship with the media, the Group has an independent attitude, based on respect, integrity and transparency. The relation of the Group with the press and institutional manifestations of the company to the public are always mediated by the Corporate Communication Department that has journalists and general opinion leaders freely available for the permanent exchange of information and clarifications, whenever necessary. 25 | 2011 Sustainability Report 6. Environmental Performance Totalcom Group has a preventive approach to environmental challenges. It constantly monitors its activities to assess and reduce environmental impacts and to develop initiatives that promote environmental responsibility. Based on this approach, in 2011, the Group consolidated and broadened the sustainable practices implemented in previous years, with much more satisfactory results. One of its main concerns in this area is reducing consumption of supplies and natural resources, and reducing generation of waste. 6.1 Energy (GRI 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, EN3, EN4, EN5, EN7, EN26) The energy consumed by Totalcom Group is indirect energy from public utility. An important fact in 2011 was the reduction in monthly power consumption, from 46,806 kWh/month in 2010 to 35,069 kWh/month, a reduction of 11,737 kWh/month. Measures implemented for the achievement of such reduction included replacing old refrigerators for newer ones that consume less power, and changing of computer configurations, the main work tool of the company, so that they would consume less power when not in use. The Group also launched employee awareness campaigns for employees to take more profit of natural lightning, reducing artificial lightning and electric power consumption. Another measure included the use of Light Emitting Diode (LED) bulbs in meeting rooms, a measure started in 2010 and maintained in 2011. Grupo Totalcom | 26 6.2 Consumption of Supplies (GRI 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, EN1, EN2, EN26) Responsible consumption of supplies has always been part of the objectives of all Totalcom Group teams, being even more evident in the Procurement area. The leaders of the Procurement Department, who are also members of the Ethics and Sustainability Committee, advise the entire team to search for products that cause less environmental impact and to choose them whenever possible. The department is also responsible for acquiring supplies to customers and, when possible, presenting options that are aligned with the sustainable principles of the Group, such as the use of certified paper. Totalcom Group does not use recycled materials, but all paper used in the Group is Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified, and pencils are made of reforestation wood. To reduce paper consumption, the company installed two scanners to replace printing, in addition to implementing a new process of digital filing of documents. The initiative allowed reduced consumption of printing white paper and 1,440 packages were saved in 2011. Another initiative for the reduction of supplies consumption was the installation of drinking water filters to replace bottled water. Disposable cups were also replaced by mugs and reusable cups. Consumption of Supplies* Supply Type of Supply Amount Light Bulbs Renewable 310 units Writing Paper Renewable 2,175 packages Pencils Non-Renewable 4,400 units Towel Paper Type 1 Non-Renewable 128,400 leaves Towel Paper Type 2 Non-Renewable 482 packages Toilet Paper Type 1 Non-Renewable 4,040 packages Toilet Paper Type 2 Non-Renewable 12,800 units Garbage Bags Non-Renewable 61,900 units * Consumption of office supplies only from Fischer&Friends in São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Brasília and holding. Therefore, the consumption of customer supplies and supplies from other units of the Group have not been considered. GRI 3.9 27 | 2011 Sustainability Report 6.3 Waste Management (GRI 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, EN22, EN26) By being engaged in waste management best practices, Totalcom Group conducts waste sorting in all its facilities and disposes all waste generated in its activities in a correct manner. Waste is sorted out and sent to recycling, composting or adequate disposal, according to the correct type. Batteries are sent to specialized companies. The Group encourages employees to bring their batteries to the company so that they are correctly disposed. Amount of waste generated and disposed, by type and method of disposal 2010 2011 Type of Waste Method of Disposal Amount Amount Light Bulbs Decontamination 264 units 209 units Reactors Decontamination 10 units 22 units Paper Recycling 28,800 liters* 88,000 liters** Plastic Recycling 7,000 liters* 6,000 liters* Metal Recycling 7,000 liters* 14,000 liters* Glass Recycling 5,000 liters* 10,200 liters* Batteries Decontamination 900 liters* 480 liters* Garbage Public Collection 84,000 liters* 54,000 liters* *Estimate made by monitoring of the number of bags (with storage capacity measured in liters) in which waste was stored for subsequent destination. GRI 3.9 ** The considerable increase in paper consumption is due to the inclusion of TOD company in the calculation basis, which did not happen in the previous report. GRI 3.10, 3.11 Grupo Totalcom | 28 7. Cross references of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Pact – GRI 3.12 29 | 2011 Sustainability Report 7.1 GRI Reference Index and Global Compact (GRI 3.12) Indicator Description Global Pact Principle Response/Page in Report 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the CEO. Page 01 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. Page 01 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization. Page 03 Primary brands, products and/or services. The reporting company shall 2.2 indicate its role in the offer of these products and services and to which Page 03 extent it uses contractors. Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, 2.3 operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. Page 03 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Page 03 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 2.5 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the Page 03 sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Page 03 Markets served (including geographical description, sectors served and 2.7 types of customers/beneficiaries). Page 03 Scale of the organization, including: • Number of employees; • Net sales; • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); • Quantity of products or services provided. In addition to the above, reporting organizations are encouraged to provide additional information, as appropriate, such as: 2.8 • Total assets; Page 03 • Beneficial ownership (including identity and percentage of ownership of largest shareholders); • Breakdowns by country/region of the following: • Sales/revenues by countries/regions that make up 5 percent or more of total revenues; • Costs by countries/regions that make up 5 percent or more of total revenues. 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure, or ownership. Page 12 2.10 Awards received. Page 11 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Period covered by the report. Page 02 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Page 02 3.3 Reporting cycle. Page 02 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Page 35 3.5 Process for defining report content. Page 02 3.6 Boundary of the report. Page 02 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Page 02 Basis for reporting on other entities that can significantly affect 3.8 comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Page 02 Grupo Totalcom | 30 Indicator Description Global Pact Principle Response/Page in Report Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the 3.9 compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report.Explain Pages 22, 26 e 28 any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided 3.10 in earlier reports. Pages 22, 26 e 28 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Pages 02, 22, 26, 28 3.12 Table identifying the location of information in the report. Page 30 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external The Group does perform external 3.13 assurance for the report. assurance. 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. Principles 1 to 10 Page 05 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 4.2 executive officer. Principles 1 to 10 Page 05 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number 4.3 of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or Principles 1 to 10 Page 05 non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Principles 1 to 10 Page 05 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure 4.5 arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social Principles 1 to 10 Page 18 and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of 4.6 interest are avoided. Principles 1 to 10 Page 09 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for the definition of the 4.7 organization strategy regarding economic, environmental and social Principles 1 to 10 Page 06 aspects. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct 4.8 and principles. Principles 1 to 10 Pages 07 e 09 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the 4.9 organization’s identification and management of economic, Principles 1 to 10 Pages 05 e 06 environmental, and social performance. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own 4.10 performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, Principles 1 to 10 Page 05 and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary principle is addressed 4.11 by the organization. Principles 1 to 10 Page 05 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 4.12 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or Principle 10 Pages 02 e 10 endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization 4.13 participates.This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the Principles 1 to 10 Page 10 organizational level. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Page 13 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 4.15 engage. Page 13 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 4.16 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Pages 13, 20 e 21 31 | 2011 Sustainability Report Indicator Description Global Pact Principle Response/Page in Report Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 4.17 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key Pages 17, 20 e 21 topics. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE The Group does not calculate financial Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the EC2 organization’s activities due to climate change. Principle 7 implications and other risks due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Page 18 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Page 25 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum EC5 wage at significant locations of operation. Principle 1 Page 18 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers EC6 at significant locations of operation. Page 21 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired EC7 from the local community at locations of significant operation. Principle 6 Page 13 DESEMPENHO AMBIENTAL (Environmental Performance) EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8 Page 27 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Principles 8 and 9 Page 27 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Principle 8 Page 26 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Principle 8 Page 26 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Principles 8 and 9 Page 26 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 reductions achieved. Principles 8 and 9 Page 26 All Group companies are installed in buildings and do not have access EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Principle 8 to specific water consumption per business unit. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Principle 8 Not applicable. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Principles 8 and 9 Not applicable. The Group does not have any land Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, that is owned, leased, managed EN11 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Principle 8 in, or adjacent to, protected areas value outside protected areas. and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Principle 8 Not applicable. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species EN15 with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Principle 8 Not applicable. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Principle 8 Page 28 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Principle 8 Not applicable. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed EN24 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention 13, Annex I, II, III, Principle 8 The Group does not transport waste. and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies EN25 and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s Principle 8 Not applicable. discharges of water and runoff. Grupo Totalcom | 32 Indicator Description Global Pact Principle Response/Page in Report Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, EN26 and extent of impact mitigation. Principle 7, 8 and 9 Pages 22, 26 e 28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary EN28 sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Principle 8 There were no fines or sanctions. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Page 13 LA2 Total number and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Principle 6 Page 13 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to LA3 temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. Page 18 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Principles 1 and 3 Page 13 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including The company does not have LA5 whether it is specified in collective agreements. Principle 3 this practice. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint LA6 management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor Principle 1 Page 19 and advice on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, LA7 and number of work-related fatalities by region. Principle 1 Page 19 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in LA8 place to assist workforce members and their families. Principle 1 Page 20 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Principle 1 Page 13 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Page 20 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12 development reviews. Page 20 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees LA13 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority Principles 1 to 6 Page 13 group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category. Principles 1 to 6 Page 13 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE HUMAN RIGHTS Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2 human rights screening, and actions taken. Principles 1 to 6 Page 21 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, Principles 1 to 6 Page 09 including the percentage of employees trained. In 2011, no case of discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Principles 1, 2 and 6 was recorded. In 2011, no operation was identified Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association where the right to exercise freedom HR5 and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to Principles 1 to 3 of association and collective support these rights. bargaining was at risk. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, HR6 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Principles 1, 2 and 5 Page 21 33 | 2011 Sustainability Report Indicator Description Global Pact Principle Response/Page in Report Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all HR7 forms of forced or compulsory labor. Principles 1, 2 and 4 Page 21 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous HR9 people and actions taken. Principles 1 and 2 Not applicable. Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and There were no complaints related to HR11 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. human rights in 2011. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE SOCIETY Nature, scope and efficacy of any programs and practices conducted to SO1 assess and manage the impact of operations in communities, including Page 22 entrance, operation and exit. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption SO3 policies and procedures. Page 09 No corruption case was recorded SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. in 2011. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, SO6 politicians, and related institutions by country. Page 25 In 2011, there were no legal actions Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and SO7 monopoly practices and their outcomes. for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly. In 2011, there were no fines and Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SO8 sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY In 2011, there was no case of Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and non-compliance related to safety PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and and health impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. services rendered. In 2011, there was no case of Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and non-compliance related to PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, information and labeling by type of outcomes. of services rendered. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys PR5 measuring customer satisfaction. Page 21 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related PR6 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, Page 10 and sponsorship. In 2011, there was no case of Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and non-compliance related to PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including regulations and voluntary codes advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. concerning marketing communications. In 2011, there were no substantiated Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches PR8 of customer privacy and losses of customer data. complaints related to privacy violation or loss of customer data. In 2011, there were no fines for Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and non-compliance with laws and PR9 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. regulations related to provision and use of products and services. Grupo Totalcom | 34 7.2 The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 1 internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 2 human rights abuses Labor Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Principle 3 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced Principle 4 and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of Principle 5 child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect Principle 6 of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 8 environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion Principle 9 of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption Principle 10 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 35 | 2011 Sustainability Report 8. Credits General Coordination Committee of Ethics and Sustainability Technical supervision of GRI methodology and writing Visão Sustentável Edition and review Carolina de Paula Graphic Project Totalcom Group Pictures Totalcom Group collection Questions or suggestions regarding this report, please contact (3.4): Jamila Srikhi ou Luciana Peluso Telephone: 11 3704-1511 e-mail: jamila@fischerfriends.com.br ou lpeluso@totalcom.com.br Mail address: Rua Leopoldo Couto Magalhães Jr., 758 – 17º e 18° floors Itaim Bibi, CEP 04542-000, São Paulo, Brasil Site: www.totalcom.com.br Grupo Totalcom | 36
