Geld(t) vertrouwen? ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 1 Financial results and social and environmental performance The Annual Report is published in Dutch and English. In case of differences, the Dutch version prevails. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 Contents Preface by the Management Board 3 1 Key figures and summary of results 5 1.1 Summary of economic performance 6 1.2 Summary of financial results 8 1.3 Summary of social and environmental performance 8 2 Supervision of ASN Bank 11 Report of the Supervisory Board 12 Report of the Advisory Council 14 3 Mission, strategy and policy 17 3.1 Sustainability mission 18 3.2 Strategy 18 3.3 Sustainability policy 18 3.4 Dialogue with stakeholders 20 3.5 Collaboration with social organisations 21 4 Transparency and dialogue 25 4.1 Dialogue through new and ‘old’ media 26 4.2 Sustainability incentives 28 4.3 Recognition of our efforts 30 4.4 Continuing our sustainability efforts in 2012 31 5 Products and services 33 5.1 Savings 34 5.2 Payments 34 5.3 Investments 34 5.4 Asset management 36 6 Investment and finance 37 6.1 Sustainable lending 38 6.2 Government bonds 43 6.3 Other fixed-income investments 44 6.4 Mortgages 44 7 Sustainable investment in practice 45 7.1 Sustainability criteria 46 7.2 Selection 46 7.3 Voting 48 7.4 Engagement 49 7.5 Sustainable dilemmas 50 8 Operations 51 8.1 The environment 52 8.2 Business accommodation 53 8.3 Human resources 53 9 Financial results 57 9.1 Balance sheet 58 9.2 Income statement 59 9.3 Cash flow statement 60 9.4 Notes to the annual figures 61 9.5 Notes to the balance sheet 62 9.6 Notes to the income statement 67 10 Risk policy 71 10.1 Risk management organisation 72 10.2 Risk management at ASN Bank 73 10.3 Hedging and hedge accounting 77 11 Corporate governance 79 11.1 Capital structure 80 11.2 Corporate governance 80 11.3 Remuneration report 81 2 Independent Assurance Report 85 Appendix 1 Investments by ASN Bank 88 Appendix 2 Organisation and history 93 Appendix 3 Supervisory Board, Advisory Council and 95 Management Board Regarding the pictures in this annual report The United Nations declared 2012 the International Year of Cooperatives. ASN Bank takes part in numerous cooperatives. Together with customers, we create a better world. Together with other banks, we finance renewable energy projects. Together with social organisations, we support projects related to our sustainability issues: promoting fair trade and renewable energy and fighting child labour and the arms industry. Our collaboration with microfinance institutions allows us to extend loans to small businesses in developing countries. The photographs in this annual report show examples of all these types of cooperation. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Working together towards a sustainable world 2011 witnessed some major social and economic changes. Certainties we used to rely on, such as the safety of government bonds and stable countries, partly evaporated. On top of the food, climate and energy crises, the financial crisis intensified on the back of euro problems. The combination of these factors has led to major global imbalance. A weapon is available to every single individual of the seven billion people on this earth, while at the same time we are unable to feed everyone sufficiently and 215 million children are forced to work. Enormous efforts as well as political willingness are indispensable if we are to achieve justice and a permanently more humane distribution of wealth. These are discouraging figures and a good cause for cynicism. On the bright side, though, many people and businesses are changing course. A growing number of people are committed to saving oceans and forests, reducing CO2 emissions and defending their own rights as well as those of their fellow human beings. From the Tahrir Square activists to the Occupy movement, people everywhere are opposing the establishment of undemocratic governments, major banks, oil companies and media giants, combining the power of their ideas and the opportunities that new media offer. This instils hope, hope that is indispensable if we are to create the just, sustainable world of tomorrow. Linking hope with willpower allows us to resolve sustainability issues in the long term. Having identified the problems, we can work towards solutions using new technologies and our own efforts as well as those of future generations. We say ‘future generations’, as it is beyond doubt that our generation alone will not be able to solve those problems, no matter how hard we try. It is crucial for the future of mankind to convince our children that their commitment is vital. This is a question of upbringing as well as setting an example. Photograph: Lennaert Ruinen ASN Bank aims to contribute to this. Using our online community Voor de Wereld van Morgen (‘For the World of Tomorrow’), we encourage young entrepreneurs who have sustainable initiatives. What strikes us most is that the new generation is focused on sharing knowledge, networking and getting things done. It is a hopeful sign that this generation is not so much aiming for personal gain, but rather subordinates individualism to a new sense of community. ASN Bank wants to be a source of inspiration for those who join hands to create a just world. It is not without reason that the slogan of our very first TV commercial was ‘It is what we do with money that makes it good or bad’. For us, this means together with our customers, social organisations and anyone who shares our ideals. Together, we are able to make a change and create this just, sustainable world. This knowledge gives us hope for the future. Ewoud Goudswaard Jeroen Jansen Joyce van der Est 4 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 1. Key figures and summary of results Although a reasonably positive sentiment prevailed at the start of 2011, the euro crisis still held Europe firmly in its grasp for a large part of the year. The financial sector’s image, which had already suffered from the banking crisis, deteriorated even further. ASN Bank chose to emphasise in 2011 that all of us together are responsible for what happens with our money. That message hit home, given the positive increase of our customer base and assets under management. This chapter summarises our performance 5 in 2011. Please refer to the relevant chapters for more detailed information. Photograph: Van Beek Images 1.1 Summary of economic performance 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Customer base 575.344 516.902 471.118* 419.792 363.334 Assets under management (in millions of euros) ASN Bank 8.969 7.992 6.346 4.966 3.632 ASN Investment Funds 1.296 1.375 1.193 983 1.255 Total assets under management 10.265 9.367 7.539 5.949 4.887 Sustainable savings and investments market share** TBD 53% 48% 44% 36% Savings market share*** 2,7% 2,5% 2,2% 1,9% 1,5% Interest donations from customers to social organisations (in euros) 425.079 373.868 573.825 417.366 209.669 6 ASN Bank’s contribution to social organisations (in euros) 2.020.354 729.013 621.246 387.973 257.087 Total contribution to social organisations 2.445.443 1.102.881 1.195.071 805.339 466.756 * At the end of 2009, the definition of ‘customer’ was tightened. As a result, the figure for 2009 has been adjusted. ** Source: VBDO *** Source: CBS increase its market share in 2011. At year-end 2011, Development of customer base funds entrusted (balances on savings accounts and In 2011, the customer base showed a marked current accounts) amounted to nearly € 9 billion. increase of more than 11%. ASN Bank’s savings campaigns and growing brand recognition resulted Development of the investment funds in a fine growth of the number of savings customers. 2011 was dominated by the euro crisis. Also, econoThe number of customers with a current account mic growth slowed and US public debt was a cause increased as well. The successful campaign ‘Money for great concern. Many investors lost confidence Moves’ explained how ASN Bank accommodates in the financial markets. On balance, the US stock customers in switching to a sustainable bank. Our exchanges were the best performers, while the excustomers are furthermore very happy to recomchanges in Europe and the emerging economies saw mend ASN Bank to friends and family – in 2011 we their stock prices plummet. The three equity funds achieved a Net Promotor Score (NPS) of no less managed by ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer than +34%, compared to an average of -22% for the B.V. – ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds, ASN Milieu three major Dutch banks. This figure is obtained by & Waterfonds and ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapdeducting the percentage of customers in a survey fonds – posted negative returns of -6.94%, -10.39% who would not recommend a company from the and -30.13%, respectively. The number of participercentage of customers who would. pating interests in the latter fund showed a limited increase in 2011. Development of funds entrusted Driven by the customer base growth, the savings The bond markets faced great uncertainty about the and current account balances also grew markedly in reliability of the public debts of the eurozone peri2011. Funds entrusted rose by € 977 million (12%). pherals – Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Ireland. The turmoil in the financial markets greatly fuelled Investors flocked to the government bonds of safe competition in the Dutch savings market in the third havens such as Germany and the Netherlands, loand fourth quarters. Still, ASN Bank was able to wering the yields to maturity on these instruments. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Duurzaam Obligatiefonds generated a 2.81% return. Its stake in equities yielded a -1.72% return for ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds. The results of the tax-based funds ASN Groenprojectenfonds and the ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund varied. The ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund generated a fine return of 4.92%. Despite the government phasing out the tax credit on investments for tax purposes, this fund still raised new money. This demonstrates investors’ continued interest in a fund whose small loans offer people in developing countries the opportunity to create a better future. Conversely, many investors turned their backs on ASN Groenprojectenfonds, which closed the year 2011 ASN Jeugdsparen ambassador Ella Verver with a 0.60% return. (age 16) visited a Cordaid Memisa project in Tanzania. Photograph: Marieke van der Heijden. Driven by an outflow of cash from nearly all the funds and due to capital losses, total assets at the 7 ASN Investment Funds were down by € 74 million in Since July 2010, we have donated to our theme 2011 (-5.4%). partners the fees we receive from Interchange for payments made with the ASN Credit Card (see secSavings market share tion 3.3). € 81,087 of the fees we received for 2011 Despite challenging market conditions in the second (€ 94,646.06) were transferred to the theme parthalf of the year, the market share was up 0.2% to ners. The discrepancy between these two amounts 2.7%. The figures on the Dutch sustainable savings is due to the fact that the eighth theme partner had market were not yet known at the time this annual not yet been selected. Since January 2011, we have report was written. In 2010, our share in this market also donated a percentage on ASN Ideaalsparen to rose from 48% (2009) to 53%. the theme partners on behalf of our customers. The payments made to the seven theme partners we had Contributions to social organisations in 2011 totalled € 1,224,290. The theme partners The economic slump did not affect the generosity therefore received a total sum of € 2.4 million. of ASN customers. The number of customers who In addition, we distributed € 50,000 to the five donated all or part of the interest on their savings winners of the ASN Bank World Award and made accounts to the charities we cooperate with was € 50,000 available to the award organisers. The up more than 5% from 2010. This resulted in total winners use their prizes to work on five sustainable donations amounting to € 425,079. Cordaid Microprojects, four of which in the framework of our suskrediet received the highest amount, which originatainability issues. ted from the interest of customers holding an ASN In total, we donated € 70,000 to social projects of Vrouwenspaardeposito. The interest on this woour marketing partners: men’s savings deposit is almost 0.25% higher than Fair Trade Original (€ 29,000), FNV Mondiaal the interest on a similar five-year deposit. (€ 6,000), Duurzame Waardekaart (€ 20,000) and 10:10 (€ 15,000). ASN Jeugdsparen was a success in 2011 as well. As total deposits increased, the contributions to the Just as in 2010, the ASN Foundation received a conchildren projects of Cordaid Kinderstem and Cordaid tribution of € 300,000 from ASN Bank in 2011, which Memisa grew, too. In 2011, Cordaid received it used to support sustainable projects. € 314,977 in total (2010: € 312,000). 1.2 Summary of financial results In millions of euros 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Investments 9.723 8.382 6.614 5.251 3.725 Funds entrusted* 8.969 7.992 6.346 4.966 3.632 Equity 242 103 105 139 19 Balance sheet total 9.888 8.542 6.662 5.302 3.773 Net interest margin 88,3 83,0 44,5 40,8 32,4 Other income 13,4 1,5 4,0 6,2 8,1 Total expenditure 33,7 26,7 35,2 24,3 17,5 Operating profit 68,0 57,8 13,3 22,7 23,0 Operating profit before non-recurring expenses 67,4 57,8 24,3 22,7 23,0 Profit after tax 51,1 43,1 9,9 16,9 17,1 8 Profit after tax, before non-recurring expenses 51,1 43,1 18,1 16,9 17,1 * The funds entrusted to ASN Bank comprise savings and other amounts due to customers in the form of savings held for legal entities (associations, foundations and trusts). The profit after tax amounted to € 51 million in 1.3 Summary of social and 2011, up 19% from 2010, mainly as a result of the growth in funds entrusted. Our shareholders’ equity environmental performance is further strengthened by this net profit growth, Indirect social and environmental performance which is necessary to continue our investments in, The sustainability performance objectives of for example, wind and solar energy projects and to ASN Bank are derived from its mission, which is: meet the higher capital requirements of the Basel III ‘ASN Bank is a company committed to promoting Accord. the sustainability of society and is guided by that Income rose by € 17 million to € 102 million as a commitment in its commercial conduct.’ We mearesult of various factors. Funds entrusted grew, but sure these objectives on three levels: quantitatithe relative net interest margin showed a limited vely, qualitatively and long-term, because we wish decrease. Commission income rose as the number to contribute to a sustainable society on all these of current accounts increased and we received levels. more management fees from the ASN Investment Accordingly, we have formulated objectives on each Funds. The latter increase was mainly boosted by of these three levels. We express our quantitative the growth of the ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund. We goals in figures and our qualitative goals in ‘achieved paid fewer management fees, mainly because the or not achieved’. As part of our long-term goals, we arrangements regarding the fees of our mortgage aim to initiate processes that promote sustainability portfolio changed. The proceeds from securities in the longer term. We can translate these goals into were positive in 2011 thanks to the capital gains on quantitative and qualitative terms. our investment portfolio and the gains on futures and forward contracts. Quantitative goals This income growth was partly negated by a 21% In 2011 we achieved all of our quantitative objecincrease of expenses on the back of rising staff costs tives for indirect social and environmental perforas more staff joined our organisation. Our growth mance. also raised the funds transfer costs, costs of postage We exercised our voting rights at more than 207 and printing costs. Lastly, marketing costs rose, in shareholders’ meetings where the ASN Investment part because of our successful television campaign Funds were permitted to vote. That is 98% of all the launched in 2011. shareholders’ meetings of companies in ASN DuurASN Bank Annual Report 2011 zaam Aandelenfonds, ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds, 98% of the bank’s debtors were rescreened (see ASN Milieu & Waterfonds and ASN Duurzaam Small Appendix 3). That is above our 90% target. & Midcapfonds. This is well above our target of We conclude that the implementation of our voting 90%. There were only four instances where we were policy and the rescreening of debtors are now natuunable to vote as proxies could not be issued in ral components of our activities. That is why we will time. no longer attach any targets to them in future; we consolidate the current level. Targets for 2011 Achieved in 2011 Targets for 2012 Customer satisfaction 8 8.3 8 or more Exercise of voting rights for ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds, ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds, ASN Milieu & Waterfonds and Maintaining ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds 90% 98% current level Three-yearly sustainability rescreening Maintaining of the bank’s debtors at sector level 90% 98% current level 9 Qualitative goals The qualitative goals are aimed at developing our sustainability policy. Target for 2011 Achieved in 2011 Reformulating human rights policy ASN Bank Human Rights Issue Paper was updated Reformulating climate change policy Commenced Issue Papers on ASN Bank’s four sustainability Issue Papers on fair trade, anti-child labour, reneissues wable energy and anti-arms industry were completed Setting up sustainability studies at ASN Bank The Sustainability & Research Department now also performs all sustainability studies We have set the following qualitative goals for In 2011, we started formulating several long-term 2012: goals at the strategic level. These include goals that ■ completing the ASN Bank Climate Change Issue translate ASN Bank’s mission into all its activities, Paper; allowing all employees to work towards achieving ■ updating the policy on government bonds. that mission. We aim to finalise this process in 2012. Long-term goals As a sustainable bank, ASN Bank wants to make an active contribution to social processes that promote the long-term sustainability of society. For 2011 we had formulated one long-term goal, i.e. regarding the equity funds’ carbon footprints. Another goal was to improve the method used to measure this footprint. We developed a method that assumes an absolute reduction of CO2 emissions instead of a relative reduction and where inflation does not affect performance. These changes will be introduced in 2012. Progress in 2015 2020 2011 Reduction of consolidated carbon footprint of the ASN equity funds compared to 1990 30% 50% 48% Direct social and environmental performance Targets for 2011 Achieved in 2011 Targets for 2012 CO2 emissions per FTE Less than or equal to 2.17 1.62 Less than or equal to (tonnes per annum) (2006) 2.00* Paper consumption Less than or equal to 0.35 0.33 Consolidation (kg/client account) (2009) Employee satisfaction More than or equal to 8.0 8.2 More than or equal to 8.0 New office accommodations Energy rating ‘A’ and Pending Energy rating A** ‘Green Certificate’ * ASN Bank moved into its new office on 19 March 2012. We anticipate that this will strongly contribute to lowe10 ring the CO2 emissions per FTE, but there are more factors that determine the total carbon footprint. We will modify the target once we know the energy consumption of our new premises. ** The goal to obtain a green certificate has been cancelled as the government is phasing out the green scheme. We depend on other parties and technical possibilities in seeking to obtain an energy rating ‘A’. For example, we need a permit from the municipality. These constitute additional limitations in renovating an existing citycentre property. You will find more information about our environmental and social results in Chapters 4, 6, 7 and 8. Global Reporting Initiative We believe it is only obvious that we are transparent and communicate about our methods and performance. That is why, in this annual report, we report on how we implement our sustainability policy in our products and operations. We also report on our social and environmental goals for 2011 and the results we achieved in these areas in 2011. As we believe communication is a two-way street, we report on our dialogue with ASN Bank stakeholders, too. In addition, in this annual report we render account of ASN Bank’s financial results. This report is mainly intended for our customers, but also for associates, social organisations, employees, regulators and all other parties who are interested in ASN Bank’s performance in 2011 and its plans for the future. ASN Bank reports in accordance with the A+ application level of the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The updated 3.1 guidelines are not tailored specifically to financial institutions, which is why we use G3 as our reporting criteria. Our GRI table is available at www.asnbank.nl. In 2010, ASN Bank was among the thirteen Dutch companies that reported at A+ level (GRI Sustainability Disclosure Database). We asked KPMG Sustainability to review information selected from this annual report. You will find the scope of the engagement and their conclusions in the independent Assurance Report on page 85. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 2. Supervision of ASN Bank 11 Photograph: Getty Images Report of the Supervisory Board To the General Meeting of Shareholders of ASN Bank N.V. Preliminary advice presented by the Supervisory Board We are presenting you with the company’s financial statements for the 2011 financial year as prepared by the Management Board, as well as the report of the Management Board. We propose that you approve these financial statements as presented, which will entail that: • t he total profit of € 51.1 million generated in 2011 will be added to the shareholders’ equity; • the Management and Supervisory Boards will be discharged from liability in respect of their managerial and supervisory work during the past financial year. The Supervisory Board’s membership was as follows during the 2011 financial year: Mr E.J.G.V. Boers Mr H.K. Kroeze (until 9 May 2011) Mr R.G.J. Langezaal, Chairman 12 Mr B. de Ruigh (as from 9 May 2011) We follow ASN Bank’s commercial, financial and sustainable developments with great interest. At our meetings with the Management Board during the year, we gained clear insight into how ASN Bank achieves its results and the resources it deploys to that end. Topics under discussion The ASN Bank Supervisory Board and Management Board met three times in 2011. During the first two meetings, we discussed the 2010 figures and annual report, which we adopted. In the autumn, we discussed the 2012 operational plan with the ASN Bank Management Board. The course of affairs during 2011 was a regularly recurring subject of discussion, also during the Chairman’s monthly consultation with the ASN Bank Management Board. The items discussed included the following: the bank’s financial position, the monthly reports, the NPS score (see the Summary on page 5), the awards that ASN Bank had won, the move into the new office building, new loans extended by the Sustainable Loans Department and workload at the operating departments. We also talked about the development of savings and the investment funds, and very specifically about the course of affairs at the relatively new activity ASN Asset Management. We will highlight a number of items below. Credit risk policy We established the frameworks for ASN Bank loans. The bank uses four frameworks: for wind energy projects, solar energy projects, thermal storage projects and other projects. These frameworks include guidelines to avoid concentration risks, stating the maximum amount of loans that the bank may provide responsibly in any sector and in any country. The frameworks distinguish between countries of different sizes. We also devoted attention to risk acceptance and the customer due diligence policy. The latter entails that the bank identifies and assesses the companies to which it provides financing. In that respect the bank assesses, for example, which activities the company performs, who the owners are and whether the company or its owners could pose a reputation risk to the bank. The Sustainability & Research Department of ASN Bank furthermore tests companies against the bank’s sustainability criteria. We also discussed with the Management Board the outstanding items of the audit that the Group Audit Department performs on a regular basis. This department performs audits at the Management Board’s request and at its own initiative based on a pre-determined risk analysis (see Chapter 10). ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Commercial developments We regularly discussed the developments of the various product categories – savings, payments, investments, asset management and finance – with the Management Board. In that context, we focused on the effectiveness of the marketing campaigns and the development of the savings market. We also monitored the bank’s strategic projects. In 2011 this mainly involved a project in which private and corporate customers were separated in the administrative records and procedures, allowing the bank to serve the latter group separately. We also talked about the strategic reorientation of the investment business and the option of introducing new investment funds. We express our appreciation of the efforts made by the bank’s employees and Management Board. Lastly, we would like to emphasise that we fully endorse ASN Bank’s sustainability mission and the ensuing policy. The Hague, 10 April 2012 On behalf of the Supervisory Board, Rob Langezaal, Chairman 13 Report of the Advisory Council The Advisory Council of ASN Bank was founded in 1993 when ASN Bank introduced its first investment fund. Originally the Council advised on investments, but that responsibility changed over the years. Nowadays, the Council monitors whether ASN Bank is delivering on its sustainability mission. The Management Board and the Advisory Council regularly consult about the bank’s activities and results, as well as its sustainability course. The Advisory Council and the Management Board met three times in 2011. The items discussed at those meetings included the following. Composition and responsibilities of the Council The Council’s responsibilities have expanded over the years. For that reason, we thought it advisable to increase the number of members from three to five. Also, as Ms Saskia Noorman-den Uyl has been the Council’s Chair for many years, we consulted about candidates for her succession and possible additions to the Council. The Advisory Council’s membership was as follows during the financial year: Ms Saskia Noorman-den Uyl (Chair) Mr Hans Kamps 14 Mr Jan van der Kolk General developments The Management Board reported to the Council about the developments at ASN Bank and informed us of the awards and honorary mentions that the bank received. It also reported staff changes in the management team and the supervisory boards of the ASN Investment Funds. Annual report 2010 The Council extensively discussed the 2010 annual report, focusing specifically on its sustainability aspects. The Council’s recommendations have been applied to the annual report for 2011. Products and services We discussed the situation in the investment market, which suffered from falling stock prices. The expansion of the bank’s investment business was a discussion item on several occasions. ASN Bank was confronted with major competition in the savings market. We discussed the possibilities of attracting more savings and consulted with the Management Board about the possibilities of offering sustainable mortgages. The conclusion was that ASN Bank will not introduce the latter for the time being. The mortgage market is under extreme pressure, while at the same time major investments are necessary to enable ASN Bank to offer mortgages. It is best to use the bank’s scarce resources for other purposes. Account number portability, which allows customers to switch to another bank while retaining their own account numbers, is of paramount importance to acquiring current account customers. Like the ASN Bank Management Board, we are great proponents, but we do realise that this is technically complicated and requires major investments by the joint banks. Memberships and support We discussed a memorandum drafted by the Sustainability & Research Department about all the national and international organisations active in the area of sustainability with which ASN Bank is affiliated in some way. This is possible in three ways: • ASN Bank expresses its support of organisations that act in line with the core issues of its sustainability policy. • The bank signs a declaration, assuming a best-efforts obligation, for example with regard to the Arms Trade Treaty Statement and the Access to Medicine Index. The banks decides to do so if this is important for the selection of its investments and its role in the public debate. • The bank undertakes to comply with specific standards and guidelines, such as the United Nations Global Compact, the GRI reporting guidelines and the Equator Principles for financing transactions. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Investments in government bonds The Council discussed the savings investments with the Management Board. In view of the bank’s sustainability policy, it is appropriate to invest in matters that help build the sustainable world of the future. The challenge in that respect is to strike the right balance between the sustainability principles and risk and return considerations. For example, the bank invests to a major degree in government bonds, bonds of lower governments and mortgages, as well as in healthcare and elderly care, water boards and water companies, social housing and sustainable loans. The Council attaches importance to a wide spread without the bank running any irresponsible risks. Sustainability policy We discussed the desirability of determining goals for ASN Bank’s sustainability in the long run. The bank will continue to work on this in 2012. Corporate savings clients The Council and the Management Board talked about whether ASN Bank should focus on corporate clients. They devoted attention to the sustainability aspect in particular. Accepting corporate clients should not mean that ASN Bank chooses to dilute its sustainability principles, according to the Council. However, as 15 the bank has such a clear sustainable position, the Council and the Management Board did not believe there would be a great risk of dilution. They concluded that extra customer screening, in addition to the screening prescribed by laws and regulations, is not desirable. Internal developments In our discussions of the internal situation at ASN Bank, we also focused on its policy with regard to employees with a physical disability. The bank’s current office makes it difficult to find a solution for such employees. The new building is much more easily accessible, which offers opportunities to hire them. Performance of the Advisory Council Lastly, we evaluated the performance of the Council itself. We find it very important to continue to deliver added value to ASN Bank and aim to further expand this value in the future. The Council concludes that ASN Bank acted in line with its sustainability mission in 2011. We would like to express our great appreciation for the manner in which the bank’s Management Board and staff performed their duties in 2011. The Hague, 4 April 2012 On behalf of the Advisory Council, Saskia Noorman-den Uyl, Chair 16 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 3. Mission, strategy and policy For more than fifty years ASN Bank’s aim has been to invest its customers’ money in a way that contributes to a fair distribution of the world’s wealth. Not only in the present, among the various regions of the world, but also among our generations and future world citizens. 17 Photograph: Sonu of FairMail. This organisation supports underprivileged Indian and Peruvian teenagers in working towards a better future. ASN Bank is an independently operating, sustaina3.3 Sustainability policy ble bank with its own banking licence, its own policy Sustainability is the guiding principle in all of ASN and its own Management Board. ASN Bank is regulaBank’s activities. We subscribe to the generally acted by the Dutch Central Bank and the Netherlands cepted definition set out in the 1987 United Nations Authority for the Financial Markets. SNS Bank N.V., report Our Common Future: ‘sustainable developpart of SNS REAAL N.V., is the sole shareholder of ment means development that meets the needs of ASN Bank. As ASN Bank is part of SNS Bank N.V., its the present without compromising the ability of financial information is included in the consolidated future generations to meet their own needs’. financial statements of SNS Bank N.V. KPMG Accountants has issued an unqualified auditor’s report Sustainability and sustainable development are for the financial statements of SNS Bank N.V. More frequently only regarded as environmental objecinformation on our organisation can be found in tives, but that is a misunderstanding. The aim for Appendix 2. sustainable development is first of all inspired by a sense of justice. The purpose of sustainable actions 3.1 Mission is to arrive at a fair distribution of wealth, now and Our economic conduct is aimed at promoting in the future. Sustainability thus includes a social assustainability in society. We help to secure changes pect, which is why we build our sustainability policy that are intended to put an end to processes whose on three pillars: human rights, climate change and 18 harmful effects are shifted to future generations or biodiversity. These pillars dovetail with internationfoisted onto the environment, nature and vulnerable ally accepted practices for distinguishing the various communities. In doing so, we do not lose sight of aspects of sustainability, for example at the United the necessity to yield returns in the long run that Nations. Human rights, climate change and biodisafeguard the continued existence of our bank. We versity cover all the issues that are important to ASN manage the funds that our customers entrust to us in Bank and its customers. The policy for each pillar has a manner that does justice to their expectations. been laid down in issue papers. Sector-specific issue papers describe how we implement these policies in the various sectors. 3.2 Strategy As a financial services provider, ASN Bank wants to Human rights do its part in achieving a sustainable society. To that We understand ’human rights’ to mean both civil end, we set demands for ourselves which ensure that and political rights, and economic and social rights, we keep our promises to external stakeholders, in such as employee rights. The foundations of our huparticular our customers. How do we do this? man rights policy are the 1948 Universal Declaration ■ We keep setting the bar higher for our activities, of Human Rights and the international standards according to strict criteria in the areas of sustaibased on it. We are also referring here to the Guinability, fairness, transparency, expertise and ding Principles on Business & Human Rights adopted reliability. by the UN Human Rights Council in June 2011. These ■ In order to achieve our mission, we cooperate as principles are based on the work performed by the much as possible with partners – both NGOs and American Professor John Ruggie as the UN’s Special sustainably operating companies – that make a Representative of the Secretary-General. positive contribution to our objectives. Ruggie’s work and the international developments ■ We initiate sustainable developments and supsurrounding his work were important factors leading port important sustainable initiatives by third us to review our human rights policy. In Novemparties. As the largest sustainable bank in the ber 2011, the new ASN Bank Human Rights Issue Netherlands, we want to be an expert in sustaiPaper was published, which was received by Ruggie nable capital growth and the leading authority in himself. In this Issue Paper, we tightened our criteria the Netherlands when it comes to the combinafor assessing the companies in which ASN Bank, the tion of sustainability and financial returns. ASN Investment Funds and ASN Asset Management ■ ASN Bank is a direct writer, which means that invest. These companies should make more efforts we communicate with our customers directly – to rule out any violations of human rights. The main through the Internet, by telephone and post. consequence is that we have adopted an even more critical attitude in approving or rejecting a company. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 The Issue Paper now also explicitly states that we asOur own operations also make a contribution, besess companies in respect of freedom of speech and cause we attempt to limit carbon emissions as much privacy. Trade union freedom will be playing a more as possible and compensate the remaining emissions important part as well, especially in the assessment (see Chapter 8). of US companies. Biodiversity As a sustainable bank, we want to contribute to Global Compact maintaining and strengthening biodiversity and ecosystems. Biodiversity is the diversity of living The Global Compact is an initiative of the United organisms and the variety of their interrelationsNations that encourages companies to include hips in ecosystems. Biodiversity contributes to our and abide by ten principles in the areas of huprosperity, but only part of that contribution can man rights, employment, the environment and be expressed in monetary terms. After all, many corruption. In 2007 ASN Bank signed the Global people enjoy nature. In addition, biodiversity offers Compact to express its long-standing involvevaluable services through ecosystems, for example ment with the ten goals of this international UN in the production of oxygen, water purification, initiative. This report shows how we implemenfood, fuels, raw materials, medicines, protection ted it in 2011. and recreation. Our economy could not function without these services. In the ecosystems that provide 19 these services, there is a fragile balance between the various animals, plants and micro-organisms. It is Climate change vital that biodiversity be maintained. This is not only Fossil fuels have been the driving force behind our desirable from a moral and ethical perspective, but economy for the past few centuries, causing increeven necessary from an economic point of view. asing greenhouse gas emissions, especially carbon dioxide (CO2). Scientists say this is rapidly warming Communication about sustainability in four up the earth. It is absolutely vital that we limit our issues emissions if we are to prevent the global warming ‘Sustainability’ is a broad concept. More than half of from assuming disastrous proportions. In addition, all people in the Netherlands do not have a specific adjustments need to be made to absorb the conseunderstanding of sustainable and social investment. quences of global warming, which have now become When they hear ‘sustainability’, they mainly think unavoidable. ‘the environment’. Other aspects, such as human rights, follow at a great distance, although people We help reduce greenhouse gases and cushion clidid find it an important issue when they were asked mate change by investing in: to give their opinion. ■ energy generation without carbon emissions and activities with the lowest emission of greenIn 2010, we therefore decided to make the conhouse gases possible; we invest, for example, in cept ‘sustainability’ more tangible for our current energy-saving measures, renewable sources of and prospective customers. We did so by focusing energy, low-energy buildings and energy efficion four sustainability issues: fair trade, anti-child ency; labour, renewable energy and anti-arms industry. ■ flexibility-increasing activities, such as waterWe chose these issues as surveys had shown that related activities, microcredit and combating our customers find these issues to be of greatest poverty. relevance to their savings. The issues were introduced in July 2010 and have We do not invest in fossil fuels, or – due to the taken centre stage in our sustainability communinumerous adverse effects – in nuclear energy. These cations ever since. Moreover, we want to respond principles apply to all investments in companies or to customers’ personal interests with these issues. institutions. When selecting government bonds, we Customers may indicate which issues they personally also consider the contributions countries make to prefer, as follows. reducing carbon emissions and the share of nuclear energy in their total energy consumption. The issues are linked to the ASN Credit Card and projects receive a contribution from ASN Bank for ASN Ideaalsparen. Customers who purchase these each payment customers make with the ASN Credit products automatically support all four issues. If Card. As regards ASN Ideaalsparen, higher savings they so desire, they may choose to focus on one or balances of customers who have chosen to focus on more of the four issues. Together with our partnea particular issue raise higher contributions for the ring NGOs, we translate each issue into projects. The corresponding projects. At year-end 2011, we supported the following projects on behalf of our customers: Issue Organisation Project Fair trade Solidaridad Textile industry in Asia Oxfam Novib Fair trade cocoa from the Ivory Coast Anti-child labour Plan Nederland and Plan Bangladesh A future for house slaves in Bangladesh Cordaid Kinderstem Help to street children in India Renewable energy Natuur & Milieu Sun looking for roof Anti-arms industry Amnesty International Nederland Special Programme on Africa 20 War Child Help to war children in Congo 3.4 Dialogue with stakeholders tions we cooperate with, please refer to the folloThe opinions of ASN Bank’s stakeholders cowing section. determine our bank’s strategy. Their input weighs heavily in our consideration of what issues are truly Sustainable businesses of the essence. We use this information to adjust our We are pleased to observe that more and more methods and strategy. That does not mean that we business owners contribute to sustainable developcontinuously change our approach, because stability ment. Our experience is that they are passionate, and continuity are also key values in our policy. Our practical individuals who translate sustainable communications are geared to five target groups. ideas into viable business cases in which they define profit not only in financial terms, but also as profit Customers for society, the planet or a specific target group. Our customers are the reason why we exist. We CSR Netherlands helps them on their way. Business therefore devote much attention to customer comowners can join CSR Netherlands for advice, access munications, based on principles of simplicity and to an extensive network and knowledge of the CSR transparency. We reach out to customers through Netherlands Academy. A number of sustainable our website, social media, our customer magazine, entrepreneurs helped set up De Groene Zaak, whose letters and meetings, and gauge their views in surfounding partners include ASN Bank. We sponsor veys. The next chapter will provide more details on CleanDrinks, which was established in 2009 by two our customer communications in 2011. young entrepreneurs aiming to promote a sustaiThe staff of the ASN Customer Service are availanable economy by bringing together, informing ble from Monday to Friday for customers who have and inspiring sustainable, innovative people during questions and can be reached through freephone online and offline events. ASN Bank collaborates number 0800-0380. In 2011, we extended the times with CleanDrinks at a variety of events. the ASN Customer Service can be reached, so that customers can now contact us directly from 8:00 Using our online community For the World of Tomora.m. to 5:30 p.m. Customers may also ask questions row, we are intensifying our focus on sustainable by e-mail or post. start-ups. This platform helps ‘sustainable go-getters’ to develop initiatives and execute ideas and ofSocial organisations fers them an opportunity to enter into discussions, We frequently consult with social organisations in a share information and meet new people. wide range of forums and are present at events and seminars. For more details about the social organisaASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Staff 3.5 Collaboration with social It goes without saying that our employees are key stakeholders of ASN Bank. We meet during employorganisations ee meetings after office hours four times per year In order to achieve our mission, we cooperate as to update each other on current events and results much as possible with social organisations; they and to celebrate success. We also communicate make a positive contribution to our objectives and with each other through department meetings and enhance our effectiveness. Our partners are primarithe Intranet, for example. We show new employees ly NGOs, but also sustainably operating companies. around the organisation using the ASN Manual. We discuss the results of SNS REAAL’s annual survey, We distinguish four types of partners: which is held to measure employee satisfaction. Our ■ Theme partners human resources policy can be found in Chapter 8. See section 3.3. ■ Strategic partners Advisory Council We maintain structural, in-depth cooperation The dialogue with stakeholders has been structured with our strategic partners to flesh out our misin ASN Bank’s Advisory Council, comprising represion. We also collaborate with these partners sentatives with a wide range of social backgrounds. to achieve our communication and acquisition The Council monitors whether ASN Bank is deliveobjectives. Some strategic partners are also ring on its sustainability mission and provides the product partners. 21 Management Board with solicited or unsolicited ■ Product partners advice. The Management Board and the Advisory We support these partners with specific proCouncil regularly consult about the bank’s activities ducts, such as Waddenvereniging with the ASN and results, as well as its sustainability course. You Waddendeposito. can find a brief report of the Council’s activities at ■ Marketing partners the beginning of this annual report. Occasionally, we use our marketing partners’ channels of communication to achieve our acquisition and communication objectives. Conversely, we also offer our marketing partners access to our communication channels. Social organisations in 2011 Theme Strategic Product Marketing partner partner partner partner Amnesty International Nederland Cordaid Kinderstem Cordaid Memisa Cordaid Microkrediet Fair Trade Original FNV Mondiaal / FNV Voordeel Natuur & Milieu Oxfam Novib Plan Solidaridad Stichting Duurzame Waardekaart Waddenvereniging War Child the Fair Trade Original chocolate sprinkles packages. Anyone who opened an ASN account on the campaign website received a basket filled with products from Fair Trade Original’s new Asian cooking range. We also transferred € 10 per new account to the Thai farmers project. Reducing CO2 emissions plays an important role in Voor u: our aim for sustainability. From this perspective, we € 20,bij het openen van een supported 10:10. Originating from Great Britain, rekening bij de ASN Bank this initiative encourages everyone to cut their carbon footprints by 10% every year, beginning in Voor FNV-Mondiaal: 2010. However, as the opportunities for collabodoneert de ASN Bank € 5,per rekening om de Zimbabwaanse vakcentrale te versterken FNV en ASN Bank ration turned out to be limited, we terminated this De samenwerking met De ASN Bank biedt u een concurrerende rente, maar niet over de rug van anderen. De bank zet zich in voor duurzaamheid, mensenrechten en een beter milieu. de ASN Bank is heel partnership. Benieuwd wat de rest van de wereld ermee wint als u kiest voor de ASN Bank? bijzonder, want de Vergelijk de ASN Bank dan eens met uw eigen bank op eerlijkebankwijzer.nl, een bank is in 1960 door initiatief van de FNV, Oxfam Novib, Amnesty International en Milieudefensie. onder andere de FNV Ga voor het openen van een rekening en meer informatie naar www.fnv-voordeel.nl opgericht. Inmiddels is de ASN Bank 22 uitgegroeid tot de grootste duurzame bank van Nederland, met meer dan een half miljoen klanten. www.asnbank.nl ASN Bank’s close ties with Dutch trade union FNV date back a long time. In 2011, we launched a campaign with FNV Voordeel for the benefit of FNV Mondiaal. Each FNV member who opened an account with ASN Bank received a € 20 welcome bonus. For each new customer, FNV Mondiaal received € 5 for the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions. The purpose of this contribution was to strengthen the member trade unions and support the trade union leaders in their battle for better employee rights. On the occasion of our fiftieth anniversary, in 2010 we gave our customers a Duurzame Waardekaart, supporting the foundation Stichting Duurzame Waardekaart. This card provides sustainable consumers with an attractive marketplace, which stimulates sustainable consumption. No fewer than 37 thousand customers activated their cards. This collaboration continued in 2011. Changes in the partnerships We set up new partnerships in order to give substance to our sustainability issues in the form of projects. For example, we added Natuur & Milieu and War Child to our partners. Another new partner was Fair Trade Original. With a € 25,000 donation, we helped this organisation to support Thai farmers in obtaining their fair trade certification. In that context we launched a product campaign in September, displayed on the back of ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 RENEWABLE ENERGY 23 ANTI-ARMS INDUSTRY FAIR TRADE ANTI-CHILD LABOUR 24 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 4. Transparency and dialogue Worldwide protests against the ‘old’ economy gained momentum in 2011. Euro crisis developments caused great dissatisfaction with the role of banks and financial markets. ASN Bank in fact aims to be a bank for the ‘new’, sustainable economy, a bank that is transparent, listens to its customers and actively involves them in its policy formation. This idea of a common responsibility resulted in the slogan of our very first TV commercial: ‘It is what we do with money that makes it good or bad’. 25 Photograph: Marcel Brands/NBB The financial crisis created an unabatedly high dethe point. Messages can have a major impact as they mand for transparency at banks. A growing number are reiterated on a large scale. For this reason, we of people suggested that banks should be seen as actively monitor message traffic, answer questions customer-focused utility companies from now on, and initiate messages, discussions and campaigns of assuming limited duties. At the same time, fifty our own. percent of people in the Netherlands believe that Our websites play an important part in the ‘new’ the financial sector should do more to finance the way of communicating. At www.asnbank.nl, custochange to a more sustainable society and the transimers can find details about our sustainability policy, tion to natural resources. Our own research furthernews and our products and services. more revealed that, in the customers’ opinion, banks Our online platform For the World of Tomorrow should take account of human rights. (www.voordewereldvanmorgen.nl) is available to ASN Bank’s sustainability mission is an excellent resanyone who wants to set up a sustainable initiaponse to these demands, but we do not sit around tive or company. At the end of 2011, this platform and do nothing. We are convinced that we can only had more than 45,000 members, up 65% from the be successful if we keep up the dialogue with our 27,000 members at the end of 2010. At For the customers and other stakeholders. In 2010, we acWorld of Tomorrow, we conduct campaigns that are ted on this by linking part of our services to the four inappropriate for the service-based website www. sustainability issues selected by our customers. In asnbank.nl but that do serve our mission, including 26 2011, we continued along this course by intensifying discussions about sustainable dilemmas that we the exchange of ideas with stakeholders, also with address in our customer magazine. We also support regard to our policy. campaigns as active members of the network sites Facebook and LinkedIn. Members of these sites and strategic partners of ASN Bank can also launch First TV commercial campaigns and publish messages there. Research had revealed that many people who are positive towards sustainable banking did Discussion about sustainable not yet know ASN Bank. We had to increase our brand awareness if we were to grow any further. investment on LinkedIn That is why we created a TV commercial that exIn November, during the Sustainable Investplained to viewers exactly, without patronising, ment Week, we organised a discussion about the values that ASN Bank represents. It was first this topic on LinkedIn. On behalf of ASN Bank, broadcast on 8 February 2011. The TV ad was the discussion was conducted by Bas-Jan Blom broadcast in five three-week periods during (Managing Director of ASN Beleggingsinstelthe year, supported by train station posters lingen Beheer B.V.) and Piet Sprengers (Head and radio commercials. The campaign created a of Sustainability & Research). They answered significant increase in brand awareness among questions and advanced statements to discuss, our target groups: spontaneous brand awarefor example Sustainable investment is only for ness in our key target group rose from 17% to idealists. We closed the discussion with the 21%, while total brand awareness (spontaneous question How can we make sustainable investplus supported) rose from 63% to 73%. We also ment mainstream? used the TV commercial as an opportunity for dialogue with customers and other interested parties at For the World of Tomorrow. Twitter Where in previous years we were only active on Twitter on an ad-hoc basis, in 2011 ‘tweeting’ be4.1 Dialogue through new and came a fixed element of our communications. Nearly 20,000 messages about ASN Bank, For the World of ‘old’ media Tomorrow, our products and our sustainability poIt is impossible nowadays to listen to and communilicy appeared in social media in 2011 as a whole. The cate with customers and other stakeholders without number of followers of ASN Bank grew to almost using new media such as the Internet, online com2,800 and those of For the World of Tomorrow to munities like Facebook and LinkedIn, and Twitter. almost 4,000. We tweeted about the news publisCommunication through these media is brief and to hed on our website’s homepage, as well as about ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 campaigns such as our TV commercial, the ASN Bank ching, payment and savings, and online campaigns. World Award and crowdsourcing about the ASN It is striking that we received nearly ten times more Bank Human Rights Issue Paper (see box). Other compliments than complaints in that respect. The people’s tweets about ASN Bank mainly relate to ASN Bank World Award in particular was a popular our sustainability policy and our services. Regularly Twitter topic, as well as crowdsourcing about the recurring topics were our products, mainly switASN Bank Human Rights Issue Paper. Crowdsourcing about our human rights policy Following John Ruggie’s work, we reviewed our human rights policy in 2011 (see page 13) in consultation with partnering NGOs such as Amnesty International. When the draft policy was completed, we asked everyone who was interested to join our discussion about the policy at For the World of Tomorrow. Under the heading ‘Wanted: critical discussion partners’, we asked for a response to four dilemmas: ■ To what extent should we hold companies responsible for their suppliers? ■ Should we stick to our principle to only invest in companies with a supply chain that does not include any child labour? ■ How much weight should be attached to our viewpoint on weapons when we select countries (in connection with investments in government bonds)? 27 ■ To what extent should we take into account the social impact of renewable energy projects? We received more than one hundred reactions, mostly substantive ones. In total, almost one thousand messages were sent through social media, four hundred of which by ASN Bank. Our partnering NGOs helped to spread the message. We concluded the crowdsourcing with a discussion meeting at our office. Virtually all respondents were positive about the manner in which we set up this discussion and the transparency we displayed in this way. ‘Old’ media renewed hard copy and the online versions of the magazine to New media are not popular with everyone. We find Ideaal (‘Ideal’). it important to reach out to all of our customers, also if they prefer information on paper. At the same The annual reports of ASN Bank and the ASN Intime, we are looking for new ways to draw attention vestment Funds are key media to inform customers to information from traditional media. We let ‘old’ and stakeholders about our policies and activities. and ‘new’ media exist side by side wherever posWe do realise that many people are deterred by sible. the prospect of reading an annual report and that is why we developed an annual online magazine. In Until the end of 2011, our customers received the 2011, we published this ASN Bank Jaarmagazine for customer magazine Spaarmotief five times per year the second time, presenting our main activities and and, if they were interested, our e-mail newsletter. results in 2010 in an accessible manner. The annual The December 2011 issue heralded a new era: we magazine was frequently consulted; visitors to the made a test version of an online customer magazine. site accessed the various pages more than twenty It withstood the tests well, which means that we thousand times. will issue an online magazine in addition to our hard copy magazine starting in 2012. The contents of Ethical Investment Day these two media are practically the same. Customers As we set great store by meeting our customers in may choose which of these two versions they prefer; person, we regularly organise customer meetings. they may also choose both. After more than fifteen On Thursday 28 April the General Meeting of Shareyears, the name Spaarmotief (‘Savings Motive’) holders of the ASN Investment Funds took place. As seemed less appropriate for the online magazine and always, it drew many people. We also met customers the name no longer covered the contents of the maat the Ethical Investment Day at Lucent Danstheagazine. After all, we inform customers about more ter in The Hague on 7 December. The day revolved than just saving: they can also pay and invest at ASN around the theme ‘Banking with manners, moral Bank. That is why we changed the name of both the leadership for the 21st century’. Journalist Jeroen Smit discussed this topic with Klaas van Egmond, during an inspiring ceremony at Chizone in ScheveProfessor of Geosciences (more specifically Environningen. The winners were: mental Science) at Utrecht University and author of ■ Fair Phone (‘fair trade’); the book Een kwestie van beschaving (‘A matter of ■ FairMail (‘anti-child labour’); civilisation’). Jeroen Smit also discussed leadership ■ Young Africa, with the project Sunny Future for with Willem Lageweg, Managing Director at CSR Young People in Namibia (‘renewable energy’); Netherlands, and Bas Haring, Professor of Public ■ Campaign Against Arms Trade with the project Understanding of Science at Leiden University, No Money for Violence (‘anti-arms industry’); and subsequently with Liesbeth Unger of Human ■ Palestine Link (public award). Rights@Work and Voline van Teeseling, Head of Marketing & Communication at ASN Bank. The Future Talents Hague children’s choir De Mussen concluded the A growing number of young people dedicate themevent. The reactions of customers during and after selves to a better, more sustainable world. That is the event were enthusiastic. why we teamed up with Timu Kota, Be More and Morgen to launch the ‘Future Talents’ competition, in which we are looking for people under the age of 25 who are involved in sustainability, new energy or a better world. The ten winners receive an honour28 able mention, a platform for their ideas, project support and a sustainable workshop trip to Uganda. The competition ran from November 2011 on For the World of Tomorrow. Call for ban on investment in cluster munitions Klaas van Egmond (left) in debate with chairman of the On 1 August 2010, the international Convention day Jeroen Smit at the Ethical Investment Day. on Cluster Munitions came into effect, prohibiPhotograph: Josje Deekens ting the use, production, stockpiling and transfer of cluster munitions. The creation of this Convention was a major step towards banning 4.2 Sustainability incentives these controversial weapons. The Netherlands ASN Bank has a long-standing tradition of devoting also ratified the Convention, yet the governitself to a sustainable society in various ways: not ment did not want to prohibit Dutch financial only through our activities as a bank, but also by institutions from investing in companies that means of campaigns and support to other people’s manufacture cluster munitions. In September sustainable initiatives. 2011, the Dutch Lower House debated a statutory ban on investing in cluster munitions. APG The ASN Bank World Award Asset Management, MN Services and ASN Bank At For the World of Tomorrow, we organised the sent the members of the Parliamentary ComASN Bank World Award for the fourth time. In 2011, mittees on Finance and Defence a letter urging it was divided into five prizes of € 10,000: one prize them to support this ban. We stated in that letfor each of ASN Bank’s four sustainability issues and ter that the Dutch government has a moral duty one public award. Eligible projects had to contrito do everything in its power to help ban cluster bute to the sustainability of society. The members munitions and other weaponry. It would be of For the World of Tomorrow shortlisted the best incomprehensible if the Netherlands ratifies the forty entries by means of voting. A professional jury Convention while still leaving room for investselected eight finalists from this list, who presented ment in this sector, we said. On 13 October, the their plans in person. On the basis of their presengovernment announced that it would work out tations, the jury chose four winners. Visitors to For plans after all to prohibit financial institutions the World of Tomorrow chose the project that would from investing in cluster munitions. win the public award. The prizes were awarded ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 29 The winners of the 2011 ASN Bank World Award. Photograph: Josje Deekens Sponsorship We closed 2011 by sponsoring the fair trade proASN Bank sponsors special, sustainable projects ject ‘Meet Your Scarf’. More and more clothing is that match our vision and that we want to stimulate. produced using sustainable methods, but Fair Wear In doing so, we aim to increase our brand awareness Foundation is looking for a bit more trendiness. Toand bring sustainability to the attention of a broader gether with the Max Havelaar Foundation, the Clean and, if possible, young audience. That is why we Clothes Campaign and the brand Charlie + Mary, this sponsor special projects each year, both small and organisation accepted the challenge to make a fair large ones. Below you will find a small selection. scarf produced with sustainable methods. Elsien Gringhuis, the winner of the first Green Fashion In the summer, we sponsored the Beeing Festival, Competition, designed the scarf. ASN Bank funded aimed at people of all ages. It called for awareness the launch. of the bee’s imminent extinction and the harm this causes to our food production. The whole day there ASN Foundation were workshops, lectures and films. Experts and For many years, ASN Bank has been making donastakeholders crossed swords in a cutting debate. At tions to projects and organisations that contribute night, there was a dinner with dishes that can only to our mission. We make these donations through be made thanks to bees. The festival received much Stichting ASN Foundation, which makes money media attention, making the bees’ predicament available to organisations and projects to realise known to visitors to the festival and a large target sustainable initiatives. We support projects across group. the globe. The organisation requesting the donation must be based in the Netherlands. The donations – We sponsored the Pure Restaurant Week in Novem137 in 2011 – range from € 250 to € 15,000. Large ber. The purpose was to boost the consumption of donations in 2011 were made to organisations organic and fair trade food and sustainable fish. This including the World Life Foundation for a reafforewas done by informing guests of participating resstation project in Kenya, We Women Foundation for taurants about the origin of the dishes. More than a university education for a Thai refugee and, in the three hundred restaurants participated in the Pure framework of our ‘fair trade’ issue, to the Fair Wear Restaurant Week. Foundation. You will find more information in the ■ October: best financial sector employer New roadmap to sustainability Effectory, market leader in employee surveys, rated ASN Bank the second best employer of In 1987, Our Common Future was published, in companies with fewer than one thousand staff, which the Brundtland Commission set out curmaking us the best employer in the financial rent sustainability issues. The report offered an services industry in 2011. inspiring view of the future and set the sustaina■ November: Sustainable 100 bility agenda of the past few decades. However, Both Ewoud Goudswaard and Jeroen Jansen 25 years after its publication, the report’s vision were listed in the Sustainable 100 of newspaper has lost its relevance for today. That is why Trouw, which ranks influential sustainable DutchOur Common Future 2.0 took the initiative to men. rewrite it. In the autumn of 2010, a few hundred volunteers – including sustainability consultant Customer friendliness Mariëtta Smid of ASN Bank – formed teams to ■ April: Dutch Consumers’ Association’s Bank work out the various issues. Their goal was to Monitor write an innovative, inspiring story about issues The Dutch Consumers’ Association’s Bank that will truly matter in the years ahead, a story Monitor reflects customers’ appreciation of the that will encourage people to contribute to the services rendered by their banks. We achieved 30 necessary changes. On Friday 20 May 2011, the the highest score together with Triodos Bank: results of Our Common Future 2.0: Roadmaps for 8.1. Our Future Society were presented at a congress ■ April: Vara’s Kassa sponsored by the ASN Foundation. We offered The Vara TV programme Kassa asked customers the book to all ASN employees. about their satisfaction with their banks. Our total score was 8.5 out of 10. 99% of the ASN customers interviewed had faith in our bank, and 94% thinks ASN Bank is customer-friendly. ASN Foundation’s annual report and newsletter and ■ May: Customer Centric DNA Award 2011 on our website. A survey by TNS Nipo revealed that Dutch consumers regard ASN Bank as the most customerfocused bank. We also achieved the highest 4.3 Recognition of our efforts scores in all eight survey categories. This made ASN Bank the most customer-driven company of In 2011, we received various honourable mentions 2011. and awards. We are convinced that they are granted ■ September: ASN Bank most customer-friendly bank to us because of our customer-driven operations. Research agency Marketresponse investigates In addition, our customers know that their money is every year which company people in the Nethermanaged in an appropriate and transparent manner. lands find most customer-friendly. ASN Bank The main mentions included the following: ranked fourth and was therefore considered the most customer-friendly bank of the Netherlands. Sustainability ■ November: best website in the category ‘Finance’ ■ February: good score in Fair Bank Guide The public chose ASN Bank’s website as the The Fair Bank Guide screened Dutch banks that Best Website of the Year 2011 in the category invest in Shell, Vedanta Resources and Barrick ‘Finance’. More than 700,000 people in total cast Gold. These three companies are active in the oil their vote. and mining industries, violating human rights. ASN Bank is one out of three Dutch banks that do Products not invest in these companies at all. ■ April: ten out of ten from the Dutch Investors’ ■ May: high score from verhuisjegeld.nl Association The independent website www.verhuisjegeld. The 2011 Savings Survey of the Dutch Investors’ nl rated the fifteen main savings banks in the Association VEB awarded ASN Ideaalsparen ten Netherlands with regard to their savings rate points out of ten as the only savings account of policy and the investment of money with norms the thirty that were included in the survey. and values. ASN Bank received the highest score for ‘Norms & Values’: 9.7 out of 10. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Investment funds 4.4 Continuing our sustain■ January: ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds leading in 2010 ability efforts in 2012 According to www.duurzaam-beleggen.nl, ASN We have been able to work towards a sustainable Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds was the best world for more than fifty years now thanks to the performing sustainable equity fund in 2010. trust our customers place in us. We are transparent ■ March: ASN Milieu & Waterfonds wins FD about our activities in order to be worthy of that Morningstar Award trust. We also want our sustainability policy and our ASN Milieu & Waterfonds won the FD Morservices to be in line with our customers’ wishes. In ningstar Award in the category ‘Sector Equity 2012, we will achieve this in the following ways: Funds’. ■ We will establish our sustainability policy for the ■ November: ASN Milieu & Waterfonds wins fifth longer term in relation to our investments, our Gouden Stier (‘Golden Bull’) funding and our operations (ASN Bank’s office). On 10 November 2011, ASN Milieu & WaterWe aim to abide by this policy for a period of ten fonds won the Gouden Stier for best sustainable years and identify indicators in order to be able investment product. The website Belegger.nl to measure its level of success. We will also conawarded the prize. tinue the dialogue with our customers regarding ■ December: ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds Product our sustainability policy. of the Year 2011 ■ We will review the ASN Bank Climate Change 31 The expert panel of the website OverGeld.nl of Issue Paper in consultation with customers and the De Telegraaf newspaper chose ASN Duursocial organisations. The same applies to the zaam Aandelenfonds as Product of the Year ASN Bank Government Bonds Issue Paper. 2011. ■ We want to finance more renewable energy projects, particularly wind and solar energy in We would sincerely like to thank our customers and Belgium, France, Germany and the United Kingother interested parties for these wonderful tokens dom. of appreciation. We will continue to dedicate our ■ Transparent banking and simplicity in finance: efforts to serving our customers with transparent those are the principles of our services in 2012 as products, excellent, duly earned interest rates and well. We will investigate what makes our current good service. and prospective customers satisfied with ASN Bank so that we can enhance this satisfaction. Two aspects we will investigate are the services and products that customers expect us to deliver and our customers’ expectations regarding our website, which plays an ever-increasing role in our services. ■ We are expanding our services in respect of payments, for example with a mobile phone application. ■ We are exploring the possibility of introducing structured sustainable investment products for large investors such as pension funds. ■ We will move into a larger office that was renovated using sustainable methods. This office uses less energy than our current building and gives us more room to serve our customers. 32 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 5. Sustainable products and services The simplification of our savings range took effect in early 2011. Various instant-access savings products were combined into one, revamped and non-conditional savings product: ASN Ideaalsparen. We also introduced the ASN Jongerenrekening account for youngsters in 2011. Our corporate clients got their own savings and investment products. This chapter provides an overview of the main developments regarding our sustainable savings, investment, payment and asset management services. 33 Photograph: Olaf Kraak/Hollandse Hoogte 5.1 Savings savings accounts with one click. ASN Saldo is just as secure as ASN Online Banking; it is secured with the In 2011, the savings deposits grew by 12% from user’s login name and password. In addition, ASN € 7.90 billion to € 8.85 billion. This growth was mainly Saldo states our main service numbers. achieved in our instant-access savings products: the revamped ASN Ideaalsparen for private customers and the new ASN Sparen Zakelijk. In the second half 5.2 Payments of the year, the savings market was dominated by banks’ campaigns offering high interest rates for At the end of 2008, we introduced our current acshort-term deposits. The amounts deposited in our count for private customers, the ASN Bank Account. deposit products remained stable throughout the In 2011, almost 29,000 accounts were opened, in year. The same was true for total deposits in our inpart thanks to our media campaign ‘Money Moves’, vestment products for private and corporate clients. which focused on the ASN Bank Account and the At the end of April and at the end of June, we sent Switching Team. At the end of 2011, our records prior announcements of interest rate changes to our stated in excess of 82,000 current accounts. The customers by e-mail for the first time. These interest ASN Bank Account is an inexpensive online current rate announcements were well-received. From now account for customers from the age of 18. Custoon, savings customers will receive them before each mers receive interest on positive balances and pay 34 interest rate change. only low monthly costs, which we succeeded to lower even more as from July 2011. Especially for our Assets under management (Millions of euro's) younger target group aged 12 to 25, we introduced 11000 the ASN Jongerenrekening account in May 2011. It 10000 offers practically the same facilities as the ASN Bank 9000 8000 Account, but is even more inexpensive: it is free of 7000 charge. More than 8,000 of such accounts had been 6000 5000 opened at the end of 2011. 4000 3000 2000 ASN Credit Card 1000 In July 2010 the ASN Credit Card was introduced to 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 the market, the result of a successful team effort Funds entrusted Investments with credit card expert ICS. Almost 17,000 cards were in use at the end of 2011. As with the renewed Sustainability issues product ASN Ideaalsparen, ASN Credit Card holders With the revamped ASN Ideaalsparen, we actively have a choice of supporting the sustainability issues support four sustainability issues, promoting fair that ASN Bank is aiming to advance, promoting trade and renewable energy and fighting child fair trade and renewable energy and fighting child labour and the arms industry. Customers may select labour and the arms industry. A small percentage one or several of these issues, to which we contriof each payment made with the card is donated to bute on their behalf. Our partnering NGOs receive the themed projects of our partnering NGOs. This an annual contribution from ASN Bank’s profits for amount is also deducted from ASN Bank’s earnings, their themed projects. This contribution is related which means that customers do not have to pay to the amount of the savings deposits and the issues anything extra. This brought in another amount of selected by ASN customers. For the full year 2011, more than € 80,000 for the relevant projects for the we contributed more than € 1.2 million in total to full year 2011. seven different projects (see Chapters 1 and 3). This support on behalf of all ASN Ideaalsparen account holders replaced the individual option to donate 5.3 Investments interest that had existed from 1991. We introduced the ASN Beleggen Zakelijk account ASN Saldo in 2011 for associations, foundations, funds, churIn November, we introduced ASN Saldo (‘ASN ches and companies that want to make investments. Balance’) for iPhones. This tool allows customers This account enables them to invest in the seven to check their current balance and the most recent sustainable ASN Investment Funds. transfers to and from their ASN Bank current and Due to the financial crisis, investing lost ground to ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 saving in the year under review. Sustainable investdit to small business owners in developing countries. ment at ASN Bank was no exception. Total assets at In 2011, customers invested fresh capital to the the ASN Investment Funds were down € 79 million sum of € 50 million in the fund, especially in the last in 2011 (-5.8%) due to an outflow of cash as well as month of the year. As from 2011, the tax authorities capital losses. However, there was one fund that use 1 January as the reference date for calculating managed to escape the downturn: the ASN-Novib the capital gains tax. Customers that wanted to use Microcredit Fund. The ASN Investment Funds did the (remaining) additional tax benefits of this sociowin various awards in 2011 (see Chapter 4). ethical fund in 2012 therefore had to invest before that date. We anticipated this by launching a camASN-Novib Microcredit Fund paign in which customers that invested € 1,000 or The ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund provides microcremore received the Oxfam Novib calendar for 2012. Growth of ASN Investment Funds 2011 2010 (amounts x 1,000/€ 1,000) Number of shares Net assets Number of shares Net assets ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds 5.376 292.661 5.454 318.869 ASN Duurzaam Obligatiefonds 4.217 114.369 4.416 119.733 ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds 2.035 124.395 2.156 136.550 35 ASN Milieu & Waterfonds 11.481 184.549 12.024 213.703 ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds 2.013 39.080 1.997 54.766 ASN Groenprojectenfonds 12.073 309.240 13.657 353.186 ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund 4.152 231.264 3.236 178.059 Total net assets of investment funds 1.295.558 1.374.866 List of ASN Investment Funds Fund Invests in: Return* in % 2011 past three past five years** years** ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds Global listed companies -6,94 11,73 -2,35 ASN Duurzaam Obligatiefonds Government and corporate bonds 2,81 2,09 3,25 ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds Bonds and equities -1,72 6,70 1,08 ASN Milieu & Waterfonds Renewable energy, water and the environment -10,39 13,26 -1,39 ASN Duurzaam Small, medium-sized and large Small & Midcapfonds European enterprises -30,13 13,64 -5,57 ASN Groenprojectenfonds Projects covered by the Green Scheme 0,60 1,17 1,78 ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund Microfinance institutions 4,92 5,11 4,59 * Return based on share prices, including reinvestment ** Average per year Notes to the results and investments of the indiFund Annual Report and the ASN Groenprojectenvidual funds can be found in the ASN Investment fonds Annual Report, which we publish as separate Funds Annual Report, the ASN-Novib Microcredit documents. 5.4 Asset management At the end of 2010, ASN Asset Management was introduced for private individuals, foundations, associations and social institutions with investable assets of € 250,000 or more. ASN Asset Management structures tailor-made portfolios on the basis of the wishes and financial position of the client and ASN Bank’s special investment criteria. These activities gained momentum in 2011. In spite of turbulent times in the financial markets, the assets that clients entrusted to ASN Asset Management grew by 114%. Returns based on stock market developments were good. Retaining its sustainability criteria, ASN Bank succeeded in having its investment results compete with those of non-sustainable colleagues. This confirms that sustainable investment is not necessarily inferior to regular investment. 36 We organised two successful meetings for clients of ASN Asset Management. Especially the traditional spring walk, combined with a visit to the island of Pampus, attracted a host of people. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 6. Sustainable investment and finance It ensues from ASN Bank’s mission that we help create a society in which people are free to make their own choices, without this being at the expense of others. A just society without poverty, in which everyone has access to education, good housing and medical care. ASN Bank’s current investments therefore reflect the sustainable society of tomorrow. 37 Photograph: Ger Loeffen/Hollandse Hoogte ASN Bank exists by the grace of its customers and to hedge those risks. We opt for investments with a their trust. They must be able to depend on us to low risk profile that meet our sustainability criteria. invest their savings in a careful, risk-averse manner. Accordingly, we invest mainly in loans to public As shown by the list of our investments, over the authorities (central, regional and local) and, in the past few years our investments have shifted from context of home mortgages, to financial institutigovernment bonds towards mortgages. This is ons. Other major asset categories are water boards, because we invest in mortgage-backed loans that energy companies, healthcare institutions, housing are linked to our sustainability criteria (see the ASN corporations, education, culture and leisure, and Bank Banks and Insurers Issue Paper). By investing in renewable energy. This spread creates a good such mortgages, we ensure – as with investments in balance between the various sectors. Appendix 3 the social housing sector – that people can still buy to this report shows where we invest your money; a home of their own. The money we invest in loans section 9.5, ‘Notes to the balance sheet’, shows the to the relevant banks allows them to provide new spread across sectors of our investments and loans. mortgages. Here, you will find notes to the main investment categories. In addition, we particularly focus on investing in the renewable energy sector. Taking account of our low Principles and developments in 2011 risk profile, we can finance projects in this sector 38 Our objective is to contribute to sustainable ecoevery year. If we want to step up our investments in nomic development as a bank. This means that we this sector, we need more shareholders’ equity. To act within the parameters imposed on us as a bank. that end, we add the annual profit to our shareholWe base our actions on two key principles. First, we ders’ equity. This allows us to maintain our moderainvest our customers’ money only in ways acceptable te risk profile while having more capital available for to them. Second, we must satisfy the requirements investing in renewable energy projects. Our current set by regulatory bodies. capital level enables us to achieve further growth. The capital requirements set by regulators determine our investment policy to a great extent. We 6.1 Sustainable lending ourselves can mainly determine the levels of risk and liquidity. The more liquid the investments, the faster The business sector is increasingly interested in your savings are available if you wish to withdraw practising corporate social responsibility. We consithem. The level of risk is a more complicated issue. der it important that helpful innovative technologies It is related to the risks associated with a particular and products get the opportunity to develop and investment and the amount of capital we must have spread. To this end, we provide business loans based Solar power plant Lavansol – Photograph: ANP ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 on the knowledge of the market of our Sustainable ASN Bank funded new projects totalling € 138 milLoans Department. This department provides and lion and ASN Groenprojectenfonds € 13 million in manages business loans for ASN Bank, ASN Groenthe aggregate in 2011. A list of investments made projectenfonds and ASN Groenbank (see the organiby ASN Bank is included in Appendix 1. Below are a sational chart including notes in Chapter 11). number of examples of our sustainable loans. ASN Bank loans: renewable energy Global Tech We extended a € 29 million loan to Global Tech I, the largest German offshore wind farm constructed so far. The project has three major shareholders, including energy companies from the German city of Munich and the federal state of Hesse. These shareholders have strategic goals in the area of renewable 39 energy. Stadtwerke München, for example, aims to be fully energy-neutral within twenty years. That is why this utility company invests in onshore and offshore wind projects. Global Tech I consists of eighty wind turbines that jointly generate 400 megawatts of electricity, sufficient to serve 445,000 households. The total investment in Global Tech I is more than € 1 billion and is provided by sixteen commercial banks – including ASN Bank – and other parties. That makes it the largest loan to wind energy ever. The internationally acclaimed magazine Project Finance International declared this project Wind Deal of the Year, as Europe’s best wind project in 2011. Lavansol The Provençal village of Les Mées, on the Puimichel plateau, is one of the sunniest locations in France. In the environs of Les Mées, a solar power plant is being built. ASN Bank is financing two of its projects, Lavansol M7 SAS and Lavansol II SAS, for a total of € 25 million. Together, these projects have an annual capacity of 18.2 megawatts. That is enough to provide around ten thousand* households with electricity. Doric Asset Finance has bought the projects from Enfinity. Enfinity was responsible for the construction and operates the farms. This international property developer in renewable energy has extensive experience in setting up and selling solar power projects and is well acquainted with the French market. Doric Asset Finance, an independent fund manager, gives private investors in Germany the opportunity to invest in infrastructural projects including renewable energy. The financing was structured by Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale (NORD/LB). This bank is highly experienced in financing renewable energy projects. ASN Bank is the mandated lead arranger of the financing. Lavansol M7 and II became operational in April 2011. Akuo Corsica In 2011, ASN Bank extended a long-term loan of € 22 million to Akuo Corse Energies Solar. This loan was used to develop three French solar power projects in Corsica, which are now operational and located near the cities of Corte and Sainte-Lucie-de-Porto-Vecchio. Generating 12.15 megawatts of electricity per year, the projects can provide approximately 6,500* households in Corsica with electricity. Akuo Corse Energy Solar is part of the Akuo Energy Group, an independent producer of electricity and energy from renewable energy sources. Akuo develops projects around the globe. The French bank Dexia, which has broad experience with financing renewable energy projects, structured the transaction. Dexia provided the other half of the long-term loan. Newsolar In December 2011, ASN Bank extended a long-term loan of € 13.4 million to Newsolar. Newsolar is a French solar power project in Saint-Léger, Charante-Maritime, one hundred kilometres north of Bordeaux. Generating 10.7 megawatts of electricity per year, this project can provide almost five thousand* households with electricity. The project is now operational. Newsolar is part of the Spanish company Longsol, an independent producer of electricity from solar power. Longsol’s portfolio comprises Spanish and French projects. The French bank Dexia, which has broad experience with financing renewable energy projects, structured the transaction. Dexia provided the other half of the long-term loan. * Households in France consume an average of more than 2,500 kilowatt hours of electricity per year (excluding heating), one thousand less than Dutch households. ASN Bank loans: sustainable construction and renovation 40 Renovation of, and introduction of sustainability in, former Soviet flats In the former Eastern Bloc, identical blocks of flats were built on a large scale in the last century. After the Soviet Union collapsed, the occupants could buy their flats at a trifling amount. However, many of them do not have money for maintenance and renovation, although the flats are of low quality and consume a lot of energy. As a result, more than half of the population is suffering from high energy bills and are watching their homes decay. Renesco invests in maintaining and modernising such blocks of flats. At the beginning of August 2011, ASN Bank – through the Dutch International Guarantees for Housing Foundation (DIGH) – provided Renesco with a € 1,150,000 loan to renovate five blocks of flats in Latvia and make them more sustainable, with a guarantee from housing corporation AlleeWonen. Renesco is renovating the façade, window cases, balconies, staircases and other aspects. It is isolating roofs and basements and adding new hot water pipes, radiators and controlling equipment. In some cases, it is also replacing the old, inefficient district heating with modern, geothermal storage. The result is a reduction of energy costs by some 75%. Sustainable heating for seven large offices ASN Bank provided financing to Unica in excess of € 8 million for the placement of thermal storage systems in seven office buildings. Thermal storage is an energy-efficient, reliable, affordable way to heat and cool buildings. Unica will install the systems and operate them for many years. The offices have a joint floor area of 124,000 m2. The following projects are involved: ■ The building of the Faculty of Science of the University of Amsterdam at Science Park Amsterdam ■ Irdeto in Hoofddorp ■ Residential care centre Spikvoorde in Deventer ■ Het Facet in Utrecht ■ Shopping centre Centrumplan in Geleen ■ KPMG office Victoria in Rotterdam ■ Oostereiland in Hoorn, a housing, working and leisure project ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Equator Principles The Equator Principles for large project loans require the loans to meet the social and environmental criteria set by the International Finance Corporation (IFC). ASN Bank has adopted the Equator Principles, which reaffirms our policy to provide loans only to projects that are developed in a socially responsible manner and are in line with the requirements for sound sustainability policies. In addition to our own sustainability criteria, we apply the Equator Principles to all the projects we finance whose total value exceeds $ 10 million (we apply a limit of € 8 million). The Equator Principles distinguish three project categories, ranging from a high possible adverse effect on the environment and human rights (category A) to a low effect (C). As we apply our own sustainability criteria, we do not finance any projects from category A. We did finance three projects in category B and six in category C. The table below shows how many projects from each category we assessed and approved in 2011. Project category Assessed Approved A 0 0 B 3 3 C 6 6 41 Finance through ASN Groenprojectenfonds should be combined with a limitation of the total ASN Groenprojectenfonds provides loans in the amount that may be extended with a tax exemption. fields of sustainable construction and renewable This limitation could affect the size of the investenergy, e.g. energy generated by wind turbines and ments of our other tax-based fund, the ASN-Novib decentralised energy supplies (thermal storage, Microcredit Fund. This is unacceptable to us because cogeneration and solar energy). We have acquired the objective of the ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund – considerable expertise in these fields, particularly in to provide microcredit to small business owners in respect of thermal storage. developing countries – is more important than mainIn 2011, ASN Groenprojectenfonds could lend sigtaining a tax exemption for high-net-worth investors nificantly less than in 2010. Resources decreased as in the Netherlands. investors withdrew € 40 million from the fund on the back of a reduction of the tax benefit and – in part as ASN Bank is represented at the Green Funds Council a result – of the net return. Moreover, ASN Groen[Beraad Groenfondsen], which explicitly continues projectenfonds had to maintain more liquidity than to be a discussion partner of the government. The usual. In order to somewhat compensate the tax Council urged the government to carefully monitor benefit reduction for investors, we raised the rates the impact of phasing out the tax credit. In order for loans provided by ASN Groenprojectenfonds. to support the Green Project Regulations, we are Sustainable projects must now pay higher interest also member of the Renewable Energy Organisation rates. [Duurzame Energie Koepel]. We have joined these bodies to establish the highest level of harmonisaEspecially housing corporations suffered from a tion between the government and interested parties lack of funds, as they had just submitted sustainain the area of renewable energy. ble renovation and construction plans on a larger scale. Although NL Agency issued green certificates for their plans, the corporations were unable to obtain the favourable loans they had been hoping for. According to the umbrella organisation AEDES, housing corporations had to adjust their ambitions as fewer green loans were available at all the green banks and funds. The Dutch Banking Association (NVB) urged politicians until late 2011 not to phase out the tax credit in full, but to no avail. We did not take part in this lobby. According to the NVB, maintaining the tax credit ASN Groenprojectenfonds loans: renewable energy TexelEnergie TexelEnergie’s objective is to provide the entire island of Texel with renewable energy, generated from local energy sources to the greatest extent possible. The revenues earned by this local energy supplier go to the Texel economy. TexelEnergie has been granted a subsidy under the Sustainable Energy Production Stimulation (SDE) Scheme to place solar panels with a total capacity of 175 kilowatts-peak onto four company roofs. For the purposes of this solar energy project, TexelEnergie created a wholly-owned subsidiary, TEzon B.V. In 2011, TEzon received a loan of more than € 400,000 to finance the four solar energy systems. 42 ASN Groenprojectenfonds loans: sustainable construction Spoolderwerk In the spring of 2011, ASN Groenprojectenfonds invested in the thermal storage system of the Spoolderwerk office building in Zwolle. Belgian energy supplier Electrabel will lease this building as its new head office. The complex comprises two towers of thirteen and nineteen floors. The design focuses especially on energy efficiency and sustainability. Voorst Energie B.V. will install the thermal storage system with a loan of nearly € 1.1 million from ASN Groenprojectenfonds. Villa Flora Along the A73 motorway near Venlo, Villa Flora was created as part of the world horticultural expo Floriade 2012. ASN Bank finances the construction of Villa Flora for € 8.15 million. The building was designed according to the cradle-to-cradle concept. The construction materials are environmentally friendly, the energy is renewable and the water in the building is reused. The building will be entirely self-supporting in its energy consumption, including thermal storage for comfortable ambient temperatures in all seasons. Electricity will be generated from the organic waste that is collected. In addition, Villa Flora will serve as a ‘test lab’ for recent technological breakthroughs that may accelerate sustainable construction developments, such as the low-temperature technology and the ‘breathing window’. Yellow Step Solar In June 2011, ASN Groenprojectenfonds issued a loan in excess of € 1 million to Yellow Step Solar (YSS). YSS used this loan to install 39 solar energy systems at 27 primary schools in Amsterdam. YSS is a joint venture of Greenchoice, the largest green energy supplier in the Netherlands, and solar energy producer International Solar. YSS responds to the interest of provinces, municipalities, housing corporations and other parties in placing solar energy systems on buildings. However, it is as yet not possible to do so in a profitable way without support in the form of subsidies. Yellow Step Solar provides investment capital and expertise to roof owners and installers who have been granted subsidies in order to help them execute the projects. The 39 solar energy installations in Amsterdam are owned by the special purpose vehicle YSS Projects 1 VOF, which has been set up especially for this purpose. The comprehensive schools will obtain the ownership for no consideration after fifteen years. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 6.2 Government bonds their assets in readily marketable investments such as government bonds. Government bonds are loans extended to countries’ As we do not want to run any currency risks on our governments, which often require capital. Issuing government bond investments, only government government bonds allows them to obtain capital bonds denominated in euros are eligible for inquickly. They repay these loans with taxpayers’ clusion in our investment universe. We assess the money. countries that issue these bonds on the basis of huGovernments play an important role in a society’s man rights and environmental criteria. A number of sustainability. They provide basic facilities such as countries are excluded automatically, as we do not housing, education and healthcare and rules to stiinvest in government bonds of countries that violate mulate renewable energy, for example. Investments human rights, such as China and the United States. in government bonds are in line with our policy as, in After all, these countries impose death sentences. our view, governments are vital to the functioning of We measure the performance of the remaining a just, sustainable society. On top of that, governcountries in the areas of the environment and human ment bonds are readily marketable and the investrights on the basis of the indicators listed below. In ment risk is relatively modest – although the euro that regard, we rate a country higher as the outcocrisis recently demonstrated that the risk is higher mes of the various indicators are closer together. A than had been assumed for a long time. The Dutch country with a disparate spread across the indicators Central Bank requires all banks to maintain part of is given a lower rating. 43 ASN indicators to measure the performance of countries Topic Indicator Human rights Child labour Risk of the occurrence of child labour Trade union freedom Risk of low trade union freedom Forced labour Risk of the occurrence of forced labour Discrimination Risk of discrimination Defence expenditure Share of defence in a country’s budget Corruption Risk of corruption Distribution of income Difference between highest and lowest incomes Freedom Freedom of the press Development contribution Share of development funds in GNP Environment Climate change Per capita emission of greenhouse gases Share of renewable energy Hydropower and renewable energy as a percentage of total electricity generated Nuclear energy Per capita consumption or production Water pollution Phosphate and nitrate emissions to water Air pollution Per capita emission of sulphur oxides Waste processing Paper and glass recycling Nature conservation Share of nature reserves in total nature The ASN Bank Government Bonds Issue Paper, avaiowned government bonds as at 31 December 2011 lable at www.asnbank.nl, includes an explanation of are stated in Appendix 1. We will update the ASN these indicators. The countries of which ASN Bank Bank Government Bonds Issue Paper in 2012. 6.3 Other fixed-income investwe definitely do not want to invest. That is why we do not invest in banks and insurance companies. ments However, there are a few exceptions. Especially We invest not only in government bonds, but also in the ‘loan portfolios’ of banks and insurers can be an fixed-income securities of parties including: investment option, as details are available regarding ■ Local and regional governments the investments included in these portfolios, for Just like national governments, they play an example mortgages, student loans, loans to semiimportant role in a society’s functioning. If we public institutions and microcredit. In that regard, have approved a country’s government bonds we verify whether the bank or insurer that issues the based on the criteria laid down in the ASN Bank loan portfolios, as well as the loan portfolios themGovernment Bonds Issue Paper, the local governselves, satisfy our sustainability criteria. ments have also automatically been approved. In this category, we invest mainly in bonds of Dutch Although ASN Bank does not sell individual mortgamunicipalities and provinces. ges, such loan portfolios give us the opportunity to ■ Water boards invest in mortgages after all. Mortgage investment In the Netherlands, water management is very is in line with our sustainability vision, because the important indeed. Water plays a key role in the right to a home is one of the human rights. Good, development of our living environment, for affordable, energy-efficient homes are necessary 44 example with regard to housing, working, nature in the sustainable society of the future as well. If conservation and leisure. As far as the environmortgages meet the criteria as laid down in the ASN ment is concerned, since 2007 a number of water Bank Banks and Insurers Issue Paper, they may be boards have been intensifying their activities approved for investment. These are mortgages that in the areas of climate change, water quality, have the features of mortgages extended under the nature conservation and biodiversity, and exporNational Mortgage Guarantee Scheme (‘NHG mortting knowledge to Third World countries. As the gages’), i.e. loans to average-income households water boards’ activities are highly harmonised, that need a little support to be able to buy their own we assess the sector as a whole in terms of huhomes. man rights and the environment. ■ Health and old-age care ASN Bank recognises the current problems in the We consider good healthcare to be an essenDutch housing market. In part as a result of the tial element of a just society. It is a key human mortgage interest tax relief, the prices of homes are right to which we wish to contribute with our higher in the Netherlands than in surrounding couninvestments. Healthcare institutions play a major tries. This and other factors have made it difficult social role as they provide healthcare with due for first-time buyers to buy a home. We recognise attention to quality and safety for patients and the necessity to critically review the Dutch housing staff. We verify whether the organisation of the market in all its facets, based on the principle that healthcare institutions is such that they contrieveryone has a fair chance of a comfortable home. bute to good healthcare, now and in the future. • Housing corporations Housing corporations have a social objective: they provide good, affordable housing, specifically for low-income households. They increasingly add environmental goals to this social objective, which makes them eligible for investment by ASN Bank. 6.4 Mortgages When investing in banks and insurers, we are confronted with the fact that they are usually not transparent about their loans and investments. We do not know to whom they extend loans and for what purposes. They may include sectors in which ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 7. Sustainable investment in practice One of the foundations of trust, transparency, is a key theme at ASN Bank. Our customers know where we have invested their money, because we think it speaks for itself that we are completely open in this respect. The financial crisis demonstrated once again how important it is that banks clearly show how they invest their money. 45 ASN Bank’s Sustainability & Research Department Photograph: Lennaert Ruinen We can only be fully transparent if the companies Into our own hands and countries we invest in also provide full insight Until 2011, we largely outsourced the assessments into their affairs. Only then can we establish how of the sustainability of countries and companies to countries and companies deal with their citizens SNS Asset Management. As from January 2011, the and employees, nature and the climate. In respect Sustainability & Research Department performs all of companies, we are convinced that the future lies assessments in-house. To that end, the department with companies that invest in, for example, proper was expanded from two to six employees. They are working conditions and solutions to the climate responsible for sustainability policy formulation, change issue. We select them on the basis of our the assessments, the dialogue with companies and sustainability policy. the execution of the voting policy. In addition, the department takes part in social debates about sustainability issues on behalf of ASN Bank (see the box 7.1 Sustainability criteria about cluster munitions in Chapter 4). Our sustainability policy is laid down in the ASN Bank Issue Papers, which formulate the sustaina7.2 Selection bility criteria we use to select investments. These criteria apply to all loans extended by ASN Bank (see The selection process is one of the key procedu46 Chapter 6). ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. res that we use to implement ASN Bank’s mission (‘ABB’, the manager of the ASN Investment Funds) for our customers. Our sustainability is, first and and ASN Asset Management have adopted these foremost, expressed in the selection of investments special investment criteria in full as the basis for on the basis of criteria in the areas of human rights, their investment policies. climate change and biodiversity. Accordingly, it is key that we can be certain that the selection occurs Companies, government bonds and institutions that in accordance with our sustainability criteria. meet our sustainability criteria have been included in the ASN Investment Universe. When structuring The selection of sustainable investments is a their portfolios, the managers of the ASN Investcomplicated and thorough process that takes place ment Funds, the ASN Bank savings and ASN Asset according to a standard procedure. We continuously Management make a selection from this list of verify whether investments meet our investment approved companies and institutions. It depends on criteria. In that process, we use information from the financial performance of a company or instituthe company itself, as well as information provided tion whether it is indeed selected. In the aggregate, by specialised research institutes, the media, NGOs 303 listed companies satisfied the sustainability such as Amnesty International, and trade unions. We criteria at the end of 2011. discuss the assessments in the ASN Selection Committee after completion. The Committee consists of We implement the concept of sustainable investing the Management Board of ASN Bank, the Managing at ASN Bank and the ASN Investment Funds using Director of ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer three tools: B.V. and the Head of Sustainability & Research. ■ the sustainability criteria laid down in the ASN The Committee is advised by the Sustainability & Bank Issue Papers when selecting investments; Research Department. It met six times in 2011. The ■ engagement, or the dialogue with the companies ASN Selection Committee is the only body that has or institutions in which we invest; the power to approve or reject an investment for ■ exercising the voting rights associated with the investment universe. If the Committee decides equity investments. positively on an investment in a company, government or institution, we include it in our universe. All Each of these activities is performed according to a companies and countries in the universe are reviestandard procedure, ultimately leading to a specific wed based on the criteria and discussed within three result, i.e. approval or rejection of a company, bond years. If new information shows that the review or institution, the casting of a vote at a meeting of should be performed earlier, we will do so. shareholders, or completion of engagement with a company. We will explain these procedures below. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Carbon emissions When you invest in a company, you also invest in its carbon emissions – or reduction. The investments of the ASN Investment Funds are selected on the basis of our sustainability criteria for human rights and the environment. We measure our climate policy effectiveness by calculating the carbon emissions of our equity funds. To do so, we have engaged Trucost, an English research organisation specialising in determining the impact that business operations have on the environment. In 2012, we will improve the methods, for example by removing the impact of inflation. 47 In 2011, on balance carbon emissions of ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds, ASN Milieu & Waterfonds and ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds were reduced. In the first half of the year, emissions of ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds in particular were rising. We anticipated an economic upturn at the time, which is why we invested relatively much in cyclical companies such as DSM, Umicore and Stora Enso. Such companies tend to place a heavier burden on the climate than non-cyclical companies. In August we started to substantially reduce our stakes in such companies, which significantly lowered the funds’ carbon emissions. We are glad to see that the carbon emissions of the MSCI All World Index, which represents companies worldwide, have likewise decreased. Unfortunately, that is certainly not enough – it is important that the emissions of all companies are reduced to a considerable extent. CO2 emission in tonnes per million euros Fund % above the Improve2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 MSCI* ment from 2010 ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds 68.9% 25.7% 142 191 213 239 293 ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds 45.8% 24.2% 247 326 343 403 473 ASN Milieu & Waterfonds 30.3% 6.5% 318 340 338 344 639 Consolidated 54.8% 17.6% 206 250 261 277 392 MSCI All World Index* 10.8% 456 511 515 555 491 * MSCI All World Index is the benchmark The ASN Investment Universe: always in flux Admitted in 2011: Wolters Kluwer Wolters Kluwer is a Dutch online publishing company. It also provides information to professionals in a variety of areas, including law, finance and accountancy. Wolters Kluwer has a solid human rights policy, in which it explicitly refers to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and various ILO (International Labour Organization) guidelines. The company visits other businesses to verify whether its suppliers also abide by those rules. In order to reduce its paper consumption, Wolters Kluwer digitises as many products as possible. The products that are still published in hard copy are largely made from sustainable paper: 98% of the books and all of the journals and magazines. Removed in 2011: Whole Foods Market US supermarket chain Whole Foods Market specialises in natural and organic food, household products and personal care products. The company uses its own criteria with regard to the sustainability of its natural food products. On account of its focus on natural and organic food, Whole Foods Market is an example of sustainable operations. However, it does not take trade union freedom as a fundamental employment right seriously. This right is often violated in the United States in particular. We contac48 ted Whole Foods Market about this matter. The company indicated that it has no intention to change anything in that regard. That is sufficient reason for us to remove the company from the investment universe. 7.3 Engagement 3. By way of encouragement. Companies, institutions and projects appreciate it greatly if they are We regularly contact the companies and institutions selected for our universe. This is why we inform that we or our funds invest in, with a question or a them of their admission where possible. If we request. We do this in order to make them increaregularly contact the companies and institutions singly aware of their performance in the areas of we invest in, they will understand more clearly human rights, climate change and biodiversity and what we expect of them in the fields of human to improve this performance. We avail ourselves of rights, climate change and biodiversity perforthis engagement in the following cases: mance. 1. With small and medium-sized European companies in which ASN Duurzaam Small & MidcapIn 2011, we conducted a dialogue with: fonds invests. If they do not yet fully meet our ■ 19 companies from the ASN Duurzaam Aandelencriteria, we encourage them to pursue a business fonds universe; strategy of maximum sustainability. If a company ■ 77 companies from the ASN Duurzaam Small & fails to show any improvements within two years, Midcapfonds universe; it is removed from the universe. ■ 4 companies from the ASN Milieu & Waterfonds 2. If a company in the investment universe possibly universe. no longer meets our investment criteria. Such a suspicion may arise from the three-yearly review ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds mainly involves or from new information. We will ask the comcompanies that do not yet perform adequately on all pany specific questions in that regard or request sustainability criteria. For that reason, their admissiit to adjust its policy or improve the implementaon to the universe is tentative. By actively engaging tion of its policy. Depending on the answers we them in dialogue, we steer them towards improreceive, we will contact the company again. If the vement. When they fail to show any improvement desired response is not obtained, the ASN Selecwithin two years, we remove the company from the tion Committee decides whether the company fund’s universe. should be removed from the universe. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Principles for Responsible Investment In 2010, we signed the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). These principles were introduced in 2006 as a set of voluntary best practice standards for wealthy individuals and asset managers who want to consider the environment, society and good governance in their investment procedures. The PRI provide investors with a platform to jointly engage with companies, giving them more power to make a difference. They can also jointly submit agenda items, or shareholder resolutions, to shareholders’ meetings. The PRI organisation has submitted many agenda items, mainly on issues concerning climate change and human rights. The PRI members are committed to providing insight into their engagement with companies and their voting conduct. 7.4 Voting sustainability criteria of ASN Bank and ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. In recent years, The ASN Investment Funds are entitled to vote at we have been exercising our voting rights in an shareholders’ meetings of the companies in which increasing number of companies. In 2011 we voted they invest, which enables them to influence the according to this sustainable voting policy at 207 49 policies and management of those companies. The shareholders’ meetings worldwide. funds cast their votes according to the mission and Voting for a sustainable world Here are a few examples of the votes we cast at shareholders’ meetings in 2011: Recycling at Starbucks In the United States, it is quite common for shareholders to submit their own agenda proposals. More than half of the time, those proposals concern matters such as climate change and human rights. One shareholder at Starbucks, for example, submitted a proposal for much more ambitious goals with regard to recycling plastic, glass, paper and cans. Although the Starbucks management recommended voting against this proposal, we voted in favour of it on 23 March 2011. Nike, British Telecom and KPN We only vote in favour of fees and bonuses if they are linked to sustainability results, and not only to the financial results. Companies can do so, for example, by making a director’s bonus dependent on a reduction of the number of accidents or the achievement of climate change targets. In 2011, we voted according to this principle at companies including Nike, British Telecom and KPN. Purchase of company shares If a company has a surplus of cash, it can use that money to repurchase its own shares. As fewer shares remain, the value of the other shares increases. That is a gift to the company’s existing shareholders. However, we believe that this money could be put to better use: to increase the company’s sustainability. That is why we always vote against a repurchase of the company’s own shares. 7.5 Sustainable dilemmas the resulting waste. Accordingly, we assign more weight to safety and the waste problem than to the ASN Bank regularly faces dilemmas in its sustainacontribution that nuclear energy can make towards bility policy, because the choice for sustainability reducing the greenhouse effect. That is a clear or ethics is not always an unequivocal one. Do we choice in this dilemma. However, policy can never invest in a wind turbine manufacturer without a solve all dilemmas. If a specific dilemma so requires, human rights policy? How do we act if a company is we will look for an answer that is in line with our accused of corruption that is not proven? By formumission and our customers’ wishes. We do so on the lating our sustainability policy as clearly as possible, basis of our own research, consulting our stakeholwe attempt to obviate such dilemmas. For example, ders as well as specialists. we lay down in the policy that we do not invest in nuclear energy on account of the safety hazards and Sustainable dilemmas in 2011 Trade union rights in the United States 50 In the area of trade union rights, we follow the ILO, the International Labour Organization. This creates a dilemma for us with regard to investments in the United States, as this country did not sign all of the ILO Conventions. US companies are often unsympathetic to trade unions. Some US companies even lobby in countries like China to ease labour standards. This negative attitude towards trade unions is a common phenomenon among US companies. Should we take account of US society’s acceptance of such viewpoints? Or should we stick to the ILO principles? That would mean that many US companies are ruled out as investment options. We choose to abide by the ILO Conventions. We therefore engage sustainable US companies in dialogue about their policies regarding trade union rights. Onshore wind farms One of the ways in which ASN Bank executes its sustainability mission is to invest in wind farms. But should we also finance large-scale onshore wind farms? After all, local residents often object to their construction. This is relevant as our choice for a particular investment also depends on the degree to which the local population’s interests are taken into account. In our assessments, we not only comply with laws and regulations, but also consider whether we find them sufficient. We therefore weigh both interests – the necessity to switch to clean energy and the desire of local residents to keep their living environment intact. Animal welfare For a long time, we maintained the following viewpoint in respect of animal testing: it is only allowed to test medical products, and then only under proper, controlled conditions. But what are medical products? There is often no clear distinction between medical products and personal care products. Zinc ointment, for example, cures damaged skin but is freely available. On top of that, the law only allows the introduction of chemical products to the market if they have been extensively tested. The same applies to paint, for example. Paint is important in sustainable construction as it contributes to the life span of buildings, but the substances in the paint may have been tested on animals because of statutory requirements. Climate change Global warming is upon us. Chances that the temperature increase will be less than 2 degrees Celsius are falling. Considerable investments are necessary to absorb climate change effects. Does this mean that ASN Bank will invest not only in renewable energy, but also in raising the dikes, for example? After all, that could be regarded as an acceptance of climate change as something unavoidable – and therefore as an acceptance on our side of higher carbon emissions. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 8. Sustainable operations In our office in The Hague we have over one hundred people working with a passion to achieve a sustainable, liveable world. We are also faithful to our mission as an office organisation, which drives us to improve our direct sustainability performance in many ways. Since energy and paper consumption account for by far most of the burden on the environment, we will discuss these aspects in more detail in this chapter. 51 Students of the agricultural college in Oaxaca, Mexico, study the growth of coffee plants. Photograph: Éric St. Pierre/www.ericstpierre.ca 8.1 The environment In 2011 we continued working on the main environwe shared our building with third parties, but we mental effects of the ASN Bank office, which are have occupied the entire building since early 2008. paper consumption and the emission of the greenThis growth of ASN Bank resulted in higher absolute house gas CO2. Because of their volume, they conenergy, gas and water consumption figures. tinue to be a spearhead in 2012 as well. In the past 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 CO2 emissions1 CO2 emissions: tonnes 140 143 141 144 114 CO2 emissions: tonnes per FTE2 1.62 1.75 1.82 2.22 1.98 Energy consumption Electricity: kWh 198,126 181,101 199,744 180,711 139,051 Electricity: kWh per FTE 2,290 2,217 2,584 2,782 2,421 Gas: m3 gas 27,053 29,434 24,167 26,743 19,760 Gas: m3 per m2 13 15 12 13 13 52 Paper consumption Paper consumption in kilograms 249,766 258,919 211,103 214,538 179,113 Kg of paper consumption per client account 0.33 0.36 0.35 0.36 0.37 Water consumption Water consumption: m3 677 637 604 585 458 Water consumption: m3 per FTE 7.8 7.8 7.8 9.0 8.0 Waste Paper waste: tonnes 13.0 14.8 17.7 18.4 15.4 1 This figure comprises all transport (commuting and business mileage) and heating of ASN Bank, excluding ASN Asset Management. The latter is responsible for 16.6 tonnes of CO2 emissions (commuting and business mileage). 2 FTE (full-time equivalent): converted to the number of full-time staff. CO2 emissions purpose. In 2012, we will search for a project that Our office activities lead to carbon emissions as we meets this requirement. We will therefore reserve use fossil fuels for transporting employees, use gas the compensation for 2011 (140 tonnes of CO2) and for heating, and consume electricity. We are reduoffset it, along with the CO2 emissions for 2012, in cing the net emission levels of greenhouse gases in 2013. various ways. Firstly, all our electricity is generated in sustainable ways. Secondly, we are continuously Reduction of paper consumption working on a reduction of energy consumption, It takes a lot of paper to inform all of ASN Bank’s both in the office and in the transport of employees. customers (over half a million) through, for example, For example, the stricter environmental guidelines bank statements, letters and our customer magaadopted in 2008 resulted in lower carbon emissions zine. Our strategy is to reduce paper and envelope levels in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Effective 2011, we consumption in part by further developing as an have again tightened the criteria of our lease cars. Internet bank. The target for 2011 was to keep the Our restrained use of airlines also translates into a paper consumption at the same level as 2009 or to reduction of carbon emissions per FTE. reduce it. Ultimately, paper consumption per client We do not aim to offset our remaining carbon emisaccount dropped by 5.7% compared to 2009 and sions in the usual way (purchasing carbon certifi8.1% compared to our reference year 2006. Absolucates), but by supporting projects with a broader te paper consumption fell sharply compared to 2010 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 in spite of the strong growth of our customer base. Other measures Measures like a reduction of the number of bank The third important way to accomplish our mission statements contributed to this achievement. at the office is our purchasing policy. We assess all We do not believe that we will be able to achieve suppliers in terms of our supplier policy. The social any further substantial paper reduction, because we and environmental impact of the hundreds of promeet the request of customers who prefer to receive ducts we purchase are highly varied, which is why we information in writing. Still, we continue to aim for divided all products into three categories. a long-term reduction of paper consumption, for example by offering our magazine Ideaal in electronic form to customers who wish to avail themselves of this option. Category Comprises Policy A: Products that we purchase in large We examine these products high priority quantities, such as bank cards ourselves in order to determine whether they meet our criteria B: Products that have a large Endorsing the SNS REAAL sustaiaverage priority purchasing volume, such as IT nability declaration services 53 C: Products that represent low voCompliance with SNS REAAL’s low priority lume, low value or low risk sustainability policy 8.2 Business accommodation and secondary benefits that comply with the market standard, also apply to our bank. ASN Bank has experienced tremendous growth in the past few years, also in terms of its workforce. Objectives, competencies and development Our current building no longer provides sufficient The human resources policy is based on mature room to everyone. In 2012, we will therefore move labour relations: on principles of mutual responsiinto a new office at Bezuidenhoutseweg 153, a bility, equality and due care. This is expressed, for 1970s office building that has been unoccupied example, in the performance and competency asfor some time. It is in line with our sustainability sessment cycle. Supervisors use the annual planning vision to choose an existing building for our new meeting to provide specific targets for their employoffice, which consequently will not remain vacant ees that reflect their expectations of the employees but is given a new, sustainable purpose. This way, for the year ahead. They also focus on the developwe contribute to a reduction of the number of voids ment of competencies in view of the employee’s among older offices and maintenance of undevelocurrent position and ambitions for the future. ped space. In 2011, the building was renovated and In 2011, we initiated an assessment of the job made more sustainable within reasonable financial grading applied at ASN Bank. All positions will be frameworks. It will obtain an energy rating A or B, regraded, in part in view of our bank’s larger size. depending on technical possibilities and the MuniWe will finalise this process in 2012. cipal Executive’s decision on whether it will grant a In 2010, SNS REAAL introduced a new core value: permit to install a thermal storage system. We will CARE! The CARE! values are in close harmony with also create an enjoyable working environment for the way in which we execute ASN Bank’s sustainaour staff, who are closely involved in the design of bility mission and the services to our customers. We our office. have included these values in our performance and competency assessment cycle. Furthermore, ASN Bank has a business-specific competency: coope8.3 Human resources ration. We can deliver better performance if we cooperate, both within departments and between ASN Bank’s human resources policy is grafted onto the bank’s various departments. that of SNS REAAL. The SNS REAAL Collective The personal development plan (PDP) is an imLabour Agreement, which contains good primary portant tool that empowers employees to control their own development. The PDP lays down in what can reach that goal. We make internal and external direction an employee wants to improve and contraining available for the further development of our tains arrangements about the way in which he or she employees. ASN Squirrel Team walks for refugees CARE! dovetails well with the enthusiasm and commitment displayed by our staff as they fight for a sustainable world. Ten ASN employees and sympathisers walked forty kilometres in the Night of the Refugee on 19 June. The walk started on the Erasmus Bridge in Rotterdam and ended in The Hague at Humanity House, a museum that lets visitors experience what it is like to be a refugee. The 54 ASN Squirrel Team raised approximately € 1,800 for Stichting Vluchteling. The amount raised by all teams together, € 136,671, was donated to backpack doctors in Burma. Representation Service. The Marketing & Communication, SustaiSince the works council elections of May 2010, the nable Loans, Sustainability & Research and Capital SNS REAAL works council also represents the ASN Management Departments also expanded their staff Bank employees. Two members of the works council numbers. have ASN Bank as their area of attention. Absenteeism was low in 2011: 3.2%. Absenteeism Workforce developments meetings and, where necessary, proper support The number of staff rose by 18% to 107, in part as a from the occupational physician take centre stage in result of an increase in workload at ASN Customer our sick leave policy. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Number of new staff 22 7 16 18 13 Leavers 6 5 4 6 5 Absenteeism (in %) 3.2% 2.9% 4.2% 2.6% 2.8% Part-time staff (in %) 39.3% 39.6% 38.2% 37.7% 30.8% Workplace health and safety costs (in euros) 25,530 27,316 20,116 19,100 17,760 Training costs (in euros) 68,208 87,592 54,519 73,800 42,600 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Composition of personnel (age) Number 100 14% 16% 18% 90 19% 19% 18% 80 70 44% 38% 41% 38% 39% 60 42% 50 40 30 36% 31% 29% 30% 32% 37% 20 10 10% 11% 12% 14% 7% 5% 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 20-29 30-39 40-49 50+ Composition of personnel (gender) 55 Number 100 90 80 70 60% 62% 63% 65% 66% 68% 60 50 40 30 20 40% 38% 37% 35% 34% 32% 10 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Male Female Employee satisfaction the 2011 Best Employer Awards. We reached second SNS REAAL conducts an employee survey every place in the category of companies employing fewer year. In 2011, the satisfaction of ASN Bank employthan one thousand staff. ees was 8.2, down from the high figure for 2010 The management team and the employees have (8.6). Accordingly, ASN Bank achieved the Managediscussed the results of the survey. The 2010 survey ment Board’s permanent target, i.e. a score of at had revealed that improvements could be made in least 8 out of 10. The employees are proud to be respect of internal communications. We devoted working at ASN Bank and enjoy their work. That is extra attention to this issue in 2011. also demonstrated by the high score we achieved in 56 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 9. Financial results 57 Fair trade rice, Thailand. Photograph: Éric St. Pierre/www.ericstpierre.ca 9.1 Balance sheet In thousands of euros before profit distribution 31-12-2011 31-12-2010 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 140 36,987 Loans and advances to banks 4,985,440 3,576,283 Loans and advances to customers 1,962,296 1,639,755 Derivatives 28,265 12,618 Investments 2,775,242 3,166,359 Tangible fixed assets 8,785 6,565 Intangible fixed assets 525 525 Deferred tax assets 5,376 21,010 Other assets 122,323 82,191 Total assets 9,888,392 8,542,293 Liabilities Funds entrusted 8,969,059 7,991,567 58 Other amounts due to customers 25,608 27,874 Derivatives 67,123 42,486 Deferred tax liabilities 14,365 271 Other liabilities 570,047 377,209 Share capital 11,350 11,350 Other reserves 179,755 48,432 Profit for the year 51,063 43,098 Minority interests 22 6 Equity 242,190 102,886 Total liabilities 9,888,392 8,542,293 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 9.2 Income statement In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Income Interest income 311,304 281,196 Interest expenses 222,985 198,227 Net interest margin 88,319 82,969 Commission and management fees 19,046 17,829 Commission and management fees due 7,994 9,801 Net commission and management fees 11,052 8,028 Result on investments 2,361 -6,536 Total income 101,732 84,461 Expenditure Impairments 97 24 59 Staff costs 9,350 8,190 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 121 121 Other operating expenses 24,116 18,345 Total expenditure 33,684 26,680 Profit before tax 68,048 57,781 Tax 17,067 14,824 Net profit 50,981 42,957 Minority interests -82 141 Net profit attributable to shareholders 51,063 43,098 9.3 Cash flow statement In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Cash flow from operating activities Net profit for the period 51,063 43,098 Adjusted for: Depreciation and amortisation of fixed assets 121 121 Changes in deferred taxes 29,728 -25,986 Cash flow from operating activities 80,912 17,233 Changes in loans and advances to customers -324,807 -40,647 Changes in loans and advances to banks -1,409,157 -1,828,095 Changes in funds entrusted 977,492 1,645,538 Revaluations and exchange rate differences in investments -79,527 80,033 Changes in other operating activities 249,921 31,846 Net cash flow from operating activities -586,078 -111,325 60 Cash flow from investing activities Purchase of investments 3,356,028 873,207 Purchase of investments and derivatives -2,885,384 -836,664 Purchase of intangible fixed assets -525 Purchase of tangible fixed assets -2,341 -6,324 Net cash flow from investing activities 468,303 29,694 Cash flow from financing activities Dividend paid Share premium paid in by holding company 100,000 Minority interests 16 6 Net cash flow from financing activities 16 100,006 Cash and cash equivalents on 1 January 36,987 1,380 Net increase of cash and cash equivalents -36,847 35,607 Cash and cash equivalents on 31 December 140 36,987 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 9.4 Notes to the annual figures General part of the SNS Bank N.V. tax unit and pay the releSince 5 January 1998, ASN Bank N.V. has been a vant corporate tax thus calculated each year. wholly-owned subsidiary of SNS Bank N.V., whose financial statements are filed with the Trade RegisCash flow ter in ‘s-Hertogenbosch. The cash flow statement outlines the changes affecting the funds held by ASN Bank, broken down by The company’s figures have been incorporated in operations, investments and lending. These funds the consolidated financial statements of SNS Bank consist of cash and cash equivalents. The cash flow N.V. Based on a guarantee issued by SNS Bank N.V. statement has been prepared using the indirect in accordance with Book 2, Section 403 of the Dutch method. Civil Code, the company financial statements of ASN Bank N.V. have not been audited. Financial instruments Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts are stated in thousands of euros. Interest rate risk The company is exposed to interest rate risks. The 61 interest rate risk on our investments in government Valuation principles bonds is partly hedged through fair value hedge accounting (see Chapter 10 for more information). Investments The other interest rate risk is hedged for SNS Bank All investments are stated at their market value. The as a whole. market value of private loans and mortgages is equal to their amortised cost. Bonds are stated at their fair Credit risk value. Any gains and losses ensuing from changes Disregarding any security obtained, the maximum in their fair value are accounted for in shareholders’ credit risks involved in the financial assets on the equity if unrealised, and as part of the result on balance sheet date consist of the nominal value of investments in the income statement if sold. the debtors accounted for in the balance sheet. Given the nature and term of the debtors and/or the Fixed assets security that has been obtained, these credit risks This item only consists of business equipment and are limited. There are no major concentrations of real estate, which are stated at their historical cost credit risks. less straight-line depreciation based on their estimated useful life. Real estate under construction is Currency risks not depreciated during the renovation period. There were no assets stated in a foreign currency as at the balance sheet date. Consequently, there are Provisions no currency risks. The provision for deferred tax liabilities pertains to taxes that are due and payable in the future in connection with taxable temporary discrepancies. These deferred taxes are stated at face value. Income and expenditure Income and expenditure are allocated to the period to which they relate. Losses are accounted for when they become known, while income is only accounted for when realised. Tax Corporate tax is levied on taxable profits. ASN Bank N.V. and its subsidiaries ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. and ASN Groenbank B.V. constitute 9.5 Notes to the balance sheet Investments In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Loans and advances to banks 4,985,440 3,576,283 Loans and advances to customers 1,962,296 1,639,755 Investments 2,775,242 3,166,359 Total investments 9,722,978 8,382,397 ASN Bank uses the funds entrusted to it for investdivided into the following categories: ments and loans to banks and customers, which are In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Government bonds 2,596,614 2,881,800 Municipal and provincial councils 578,964 639,130 62 Banks 797,278 537,803 Residential construction 331,100 158,356 Health and old-age care 422,470 340,227 Education, culture and leisure 22,793 25,426 Water boards and power companies 339,853 292,324 Renewable energy 188,775 111,681 Mortgages 4,392,891 3,262,273 Shares 650 485 Other 51,596 132,897 Total investments 9,722,984 8,382,402 Provision for impairments -6 -5 Total 9,722,978 8,382,397 See Appendix 3 for a breakdown of investments and loans. Movements in loans and advances to banks In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Balance as at 1 January 3,576,283 1,748,188 Investments 1,200,000 1,600,000 Disposals/redemptions -1,263 Amortisation Other 209,157 229,358 Balance as at 31 December 4,985,440 3,576,283 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Movements in loans and advances to customers In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Balance as at 1 January 1,639,755 1,582,819 Investments 466,803 141,286 Disposals/redemptions -142,609 -84,685 Amortisation 268 251 Other -1,921 84 Balance as at 31 December 1,962,296 1,639,755 Investments Investment listings Fixed income In thousands of euros Shares investments Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Listed 2,766,201 3,158,070 2,766,201 3,158,070 63 Unlisted 9,041 8,289 9,041 8,289 Total 9,041 8,289 2,766,201 3,158,070 2,775,242 3,166,359 Valuation of investments Fixed income In thousands of euros Shares investments Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Amortised cost 8,872 7,255 2,670,965 3,148,377 2,679,837 3,155,632 Revaluation 169 1,034 58,634 -55,782 58,803 -54,748 Accrued interest 36,602 65,475 36,602 65,475 Total 9,041 8,289 2,766,201 3,158,070 2,775,242 3,166,359 Movements in investments Fixed income In thousands of euros Shares investments Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Balance as at 1 January 8,289 5,313 3,158,070 3,277,622 3,166,359 3,282,935 Investments 1,622 2,453 2,883,763 834,211 2,885,385 836,664 Disposals -5 -3,356,023 -873,208 -3,356,028 -873,208 Revaluations -865 523 114,416 -74,133 113,551 -73,610 Amortisation -5,152 -9,568 -5,152 -9,568 Other -28,873 3,146 -28,873 3,146 Balance as at 31 December 9,041 8,289 2,766,201 3,158,070 2,775,242 3,166,359 Derivatives In thousands of euros Positive fair value Negative fair value Balance 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Derivatives 28,265 12,618 67,123 42,486 -38,858 -29,868 ASN Bank uses derivatives to hedge undesired interisk in part of the bond portfolio. For more informarest rate risks on an economic basis. We use futures tion, see section 10.3 of the chapter ‘Risk policy’. and swaps, for instance, to hedge our interest rate Tangible fixed assets In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Buildings under construction 8,563 6,263 IT equipment 22 29 Other tangible fixed assets 200 273 8,785 6,565 Movements in tangible fixed assets In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Accumulated acquisition costs 9,307 7,044 Accumulated depreciation -522 -479 8,785 6,565 In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Balance as at 1 January 6,565 362 64 Investments 2,341 6,624 Divestments Depreciation -121 -121 Balance as at 31 December 8,785 6,565 Intangible fixed assets In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Goodwill 525 525 In 2010, ASN Bank acquired a majority stake of of € 525,000 for this acquisition. This goodwill 62.99% in NBC Vermogensbeheer B.V. (now called valuation is assessed by means of an impairment test ASN Asset Management). ASN Bank paid goodwill each year. Deferred tax asset In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Deferred tax asset 5,376 21,010 Interest-bearing financial instruments are stated at a provision for deferred tax liabilities equivalent to their market value. The revaluation of the interestthe applicable corporate tax rate. The tax liability bearing financial instruments has produced an unrehas been broken down into an active and a passive alised result. The result has been used to establish component. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Other assets In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Interest receivable 84,887 59,513 Prepayments and accrued income 37,436 22,678 Total other assets 122,323 82,191 Funds entrusted In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Private customer savings 8,300,451 7,548,383 Other amounts due to customers 668,609 443,184 Total funds entrusted 8,969,059 7,991,567 Amounts due to customers In thousands of euros 2011 2010 65 Mortgage account 22,274 24,798 Private borrowings 2,795 2,871 Due on demand 539 205 Total amounts due to customers 25,608 27,874 Deferred tax liability In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Deferred tax liability 14,365 271 Interest-bearing financial instruments are stated at a provision for deferred tax liabilities equivalent to their market value. The revaluation of the interestthe applicable corporate tax rate. This pertains to a bearing financial instruments has produced an unrepassive deferred tax liability. alised result. The result has been used to establish Other liabilities In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Other debts 357,546 211,333 Accrued interest 208,931 162,555 Other accrued liabilities 3,570 3,321 Total other liabilities 570,047 377,209 Shareholders’ equity In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Share capital 11,350 11,350 Share premium reserve 115,886 115,886 General reserve 103,829 60,629 Revaluation of shares and bonds -39,960 -128,083 Minority interests 22 6 Profit 51,063 43,098 Total shareholders’ equity 242,190 102,886 A revaluation reserve for shares and bonds constituExcluding the revaluation reserve on the bond tes part of the shareholders’ equity. This revaluation portfolio, shareholders’ equity was € 282 million as reserve reveals the effect that an immediate sale of at year-end 2011 and € 232 million as at year-end ASN Bank’s share and bond portfolios would have 2010. on its result. The retention of the bonds until the end of their term has no effect on ASN Bank’s shareholders’ equity or result. 66 In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Shareholders’ equity excluding revaluation reserve on bond portfolio 282,332 231,740 Breakdown of movements in shareholders’ equity In thousands of euros Share Share RevaOther Profit for Minority Total capital premium luation reserves the year interests reserve reserve Balance as at 1 January 2010 11,350 15,886 17,334 50.745 9,884 105,199 Profit for the previous financial year Movements in revaluation reserve -145,417 -145,417 Share capital movements Movements in share premium 100,000 100,000 Movements in other reserves 9,884 -9,884 0 Profit for the year 43,098 43,098 Minority interests 6 6 Balance as at 31 December 2010 11,350 115,886 -128,083 60,629 43,098 6 102,886 Balance as at 1 January 2011 11,350 115,886 -128,083 60,629 43,098 6 102,886 Profit for the previous financial year Movements in revaluation reserve 88,123 88,123 Share capital movements Movements in share premium Movements in other reserves 43,200 -43,098 102 Profit for the year 51,063 51,063 Minority interests 16 16 Balance as at 31 December 2011 11,350 115,886 -39,960 103,829 51,063 22 242,190 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Off-balance sheet liabilities In thousands of euros 2011 Liabilities from pledges and guarantees given 32,341 Liabilities from committed and uncommitted facilities 33,161 ASN Bank offers products such as pledges and products, assuming that all parties to contracts with guarantees in order to meet its finance customers’ ASN Bank cease to comply with their contractual wishes. We do not recognise the underlying values obligations and all existing securities have no value. of these products as either assets or liabilities in The committed facilities consist primarily of credit the balance sheet. The aforementioned amount is facilities promised to customers but not yet claimed. ASN Bank’s maximum potential credit risk for these 9.6 Notes to the income statement Net interest margin 67 In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Interest revenue from investments 311,304 281,196 Interest paid to customers 222,985 198,227 Total net interest margin 88,319 82,969 Interest rate risks are partly hedged at group level, are set off against this fee. The increase in interest to which end ASN Bank pays its parent company a income can be attributed to the strong growth of fee. Any capital gains realised on investment portfosavings. The relative net interest margin was lower lio sales are accounted for directly in the result and in 2011 compared to 2010. Other income In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Commission income 19,046 17,829 Commission expense 7,994 9,801 Result on investments 2,361 -6,536 Total 13,413 1,492 Other income largely consists of commission income pense decreased compared to 2010 as we paid SNS which ASN Bank receives from its investment clients Asset Management less commission for managing for managing its investment funds and income our assets, mainly because the arrangements regarrelated to other products, such as the ASN Bank ding the management of our mortgage portfolio Account. The increase is mainly the result of the changed. growth of the ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund. It is partly offset by the commission the bank pays to The proceeds from securities are positive as a result SNS Asset Management and SNS Financial Markets of the capital gains realised on our investment portfor the management of its assets. Commission exfolio and the gains on futures and forward contracts. Impairment In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Impairment 97 24 Impairments in 2011 largely concern amortisation 0.08% of total balances of the ASN Bank Account of debit balances on private current accounts. Only are involved. Staff costs In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Salaries 5,215 4,843 Pension costs 953 948 Social security 646 641 Other staff costs 2,535 1,758 Total staff costs 9,350 8,190 68 The average number of employees amounted to 86.5 salary. The other staff costs rose due to the increin 2011 (2010: 81.7), all of whom work in the Neased number of temporary workers we hired relative therlands. Staff costs rose due to the increase of the to 2010, which followed from an absorption of peak average number of staff. The highest gross salary at workloads and the temporary filling of vacancies. ASN Bank is 5.5 times higher than the lowest gross Other operating expenses In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Office and general expenditure 15,845 11,541 Marketing costs 8,271 6,804 Total other operating expenses 24,116 18,345 In 2011, office and general expenditure rose due to expense as early as 2009. In 2011, an additional the increased number of payment transactions and expense of € 0.6 million was recorded. rising printing and postage costs. This expenditure The marketing costs rose due to extra activities, was also adversely affected by a claim under the mainly a TV advertising campaign, supported by deposit guarantee scheme in connection with DSB’s radio commercials, advertisements and train station bankruptcy, which was recognised as an € 11 million posters. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Tax In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Taxable profit 68,048 57,781 Tax burden 17,067 14,824 Net profit 50,981 42,957 Minority interests -82 -141 Net profit attributable to shareholders 51,063 43,098 Provisions in the Articles of Association regarding profit appropriation Profit appropriation is provided for in Article 34 of the Articles of Association. 69 This article reads as follows: 1. Any profit is at the disposal of the general meeting. 2. Distributions can only be made to the extent that shareholders’ equity exceeds the amount of the issued capital plus the reserves to be kept pursuant to the law. Profit appropriation It is proposed that the profit of € 51,062,949 generated in 2011 be added to the shareholders’ equity. The Hague, 10 April 2012 Management Board: Ewoud Goudswaard Jeroen Jansen Joyce van der Est Supervisory Board: Ernst-Jan Boers Rob Langezaal (Chairman) Bart de Ruigh 70 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 10. Risk policy The Controlling Department is responsible for controlling the risks to which ASN Bank is exposed. It controls ASN Bank’s risks in close cooperation with SNS REAAL’s risk committees and departments. You will find a description of the entire risk management organisation of SNS REAAL in the SNS REAAL annual report. 71 Photograph: Frans Lemmens/Hollandse Hoogte ASN Bank maintained its moderate risk profile in in contact with various SNS REAAL risk management 2011 despite continuing turmoil in the financial departments, including: markets. Concerns about the adequacy of the government finances of several eurozone countries were a Group Risk Management (GRM) continuous topic of discussion. Particularly Greece, GRM supports ASN Bank in Italy, Spain and, to a lesser extent, Portugal and ■ identifying changing market conditions and rules Ireland were countries of concern. However, counthat are of interest to strategy and policy; tries that were considered safe until recently were ■ pricing products; considered as well. The difference in risk premium ■ setting up and performing asset & liability mabetween Northern and Southern European countries nagement; increased considerably. Pressure on Greece and Italy ■ coordinating strategic projects related to finanto introduce reforms rose to such an extent that new cial risk management (Basel III). governments took office in these countries. Compliance, Security & Operational Risk ASN Bank hedges the interest rate risks of the Management government bond portfolio by means of hedge ASN Bank has its own compliance officer, who is structures. However, these do not hedge the value managed by the Director of Compliance, Security fluctuations ensuing from country risks. ASN Bank’s & Operational Risk Management. This department 72 exposure to the euro countries in question had advises the Executive Board and the Management already partly been scaled down in 2010. In 2011, Boards of the business units on controlling nonthis exposure was reduced to nil. More information financial risks, i.e. the risks related to employee about our position as at year-end 2011 may be found behaviour and the structuring of business procesin section 10.2.2. A sum of € 68 million was added to ses. The local compliance officer’s main duties are the revaluation reserve in 2011. formulating policy, advising on ethical, controlled operations, coordinating and stimulating operatiKey figures onal risk and integrity risk control, and permanent Balance sheet total € 9.9 billion supervision of process execution. Risk weighted assets € 1,282 million Qualifying capital € 283 million Legal Affairs Tier 1 ratio 22% The Legal Affairs Department prepares risk management policy and supports the operational aspects. This department’s main duties in this area are the 10.1 Risk management following: ■ identifying and advising on current and future organisation laws and regulations; Various risk committees prepare SNS REAAL’s risk ■ advising on integrity and the duty of care. policy and advise the Executive Board on it, which then adopts the policy and gives mandates to the Credit Risk Management committees working out the policy. More explicitly Credit Risk Management prepares policy on credit than in the past, the committees are responsible for risk management and supports the operational developing and enforcing group policy. The primary aspects. This department’s duty in support of ASN committees that support ASN Bank in fleshing out Bank is the following: policy are the Asset Liability Committee and the ■ Credit Risk Management gives binding advice on Product Market Pricing Committee. general lending policy and on the credit risks of individual loans exceeding € 3.5 million. Acting as common service centres and bearing responsibility for modelling, measuring, monitoring, In the context of credit risk management, reporting and advising on risks, the risk manageASN Bank’s Sustainable Loans Department annually ment departments advise ASN Bank through the revises all loans extended by ASN Bank. ASN Investment Committee on risk management and report on the risk profile. They are not responsible for formulating definitions or making policy. The ASN Bank Controlling & Compliance Department is ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Group Audit 10.2 Risk management at Group Audit comes under the Chairman of the SNS REAAL Executive Board and also reports to the ASN Bank Supervisory Board audit committee. This allows the The risks to which ASN Bank is exposed can basically department to perform its work independently of be divided into five categories: credit risk, market the business units. Group Audit performs studies risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and reputation for the Management Board starting from a prederisk. termined risk analysis. The department studies the internal risk management and control system, the related processing system, management information 10.2.1 Credit risks and the reliability of this information. Credit risk is the risk of a debtor defaulting in whole In addition, Group Audit regularly tests the effects or in part, or of its rating deteriorating to such an of the control measures included in the procedures. extent that it has a negative impact on ASN Bank’s The department weighs its findings based on a preresults or financial position. determined standard to create adequate management information related to the organisation and ASN Bank’s credit risk profile process objectives. The risk of our loan portfolio remained stable in 2011. This portfolio is formed based on sustainable 73 objectives. The increase of funds entrusted led to a further growth of the portfolio to € 8,969 million in 2011. In 2011, too, we extended more loans to sustainable projects (+€ 138 million), such as solar energy projects Lavansol and New Solar, and wind farm Global Tech. Due to our investments in BLG, RegioBank and SNS Bank mortgages, our exposure to credit institutions was 39% up. The fixed-income investment portfolio decreased by 12.4% to € 2,766 million at year-end 2011. The credit risk to which ASN Bank is exposed is divided as follows: In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Investments 2,775,242 3,166,359 Loans and advances to customers 1,962,296 1,639,755 Loans and advances to credit institutions 4,985,440 3,576,283 Total investments 9,722,978 8,382,397 Cash and cash equivalents 140 36,987 Total 9,723,118 8,419,384 Credit risk profile of investments Rating of ASN Bank’s government bonds Part of our investments (28.5%) are fixed-income inA vestments, mainly government bonds. A minor part AA 1% Unrated 5% 1% of the investment portfolio is held in other bonds, and shares. AAA The credit rating of investments is an indication of AA the credit risk of the relevant investment. The inA Unrated vestment portfolio predominantly (93%) comprises investments with an AAA rating. AAA 93% The table below shows the division of the investment portfolio into rating classes: 74 In thousands of euros 2011 2010 AAA 2,589,708 2,080,897 AA 144,469 221,118 A 22,278 850,741 BBB 1,452 1,452 BB 3,862 Unrated* 17,335 8,289 Total 2,775,242 3,166,359 * Shares Credit risk profile of loans and advances to Loans and advances to customers by category customers and credit institutions ASN Bank’s lending to companies, municipalities, 12% water boards and healthcare institutions supports Mortgages our mission, as explained under ‘Investments’ (ChapMunicipal & 11% provincial councils ter 6). The loan portfolio comprised 73.3% of the Energy total investments at year-end 2011. Our stringent Social economy sustainability criteria exclude many sectors from our Miscellaneous lending operations in advance, resulting in concen7% tration risks. These concentration risks are limited thanks to our knowledge of the relevant sectors and because we provide sufficient security to be able to 8% absorb any defaults. The chart and table show the 62% division of the loan portfolio into sectors. Category: Investment category: Mortgages Mortgages 62% Municipal & provincial councils Municipal & provincial councils 8% Energy Water boards and energy companies, renewable energy 7% Social economy Healthcare and care of the elderly, housing sector, education, 11% culture and leisure Miscellaneous Shares, miscellaneous and liquid assets 12% ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Special Credits arrears are controlled in close consultation with An essential element of risk policy is the timely ASN Bank. The Special Credits Department reports deployment of the SNS Bank Special Credits Deto ASN Bank every month. partment, which is part of Credit Risk Management. At year-end 2011, the provision for loans and advanThis department supports ASN Bank in managing ces to customers was € 40,017, of a total provision payment arrears. A uniform procedure has been of € 1.96 billion (0.002%). implemented to identify high-risk items. Payment Provisions in % for loans and advances to customers 0,025% 0,020% 0,015% 0,010% 0,005% 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 10.2.2 Market risks ECB was forced to buy distressed debt from coun75 tries and provide the financial system with sufficient Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices liquidity. will adversely affect ASN Bank’s results and financial position. Market prices include interest rates, share We had already partly sold our positions in Irish, Itaprices and exchange rates. lian and Spanish government bonds in 2010 and the first six months of 2011. In August 2011, we transIn ASN Bank’s moderate risk profile, the interest ferred the remaining part to our parent company by rate risk is an important component. Interest rate means of an intercompany transaction. As at yearrisks arise due to differences in the interest rate end of 2011, ASN Bank invested in Dutch, German, sensitivity of assets and liabilities on the bank’s Austrian, French and Belgian government bonds. balance sheet. The duration of investments on the bank’s balance sheet is generally longer than that of The table below shows the exposure to the relevant the funding, for example, including savings depoeurozone countries, stating the nominal value of the sits. Because of this balance sheet structure, we will underlying government bonds. normally benefit from a drop in interest rates. SNS Bank’s ALM Committee manages our market risks. In thousands of euros 2011 2010 When managing SNS Bank’s interest rate position, Portugal 0 0 assessments are made to establish whether the risks Ireland 0 198,000 fall within the pre-set limits. Risks are controlled Italy 0 691,600 within these limits by weighing returns and risks in Greece 0 0 conjunction with short and medium-term interest Spain 0 60,000 rate forecasts. Total 0 949,600 The market risks of our investments in government We use hedge accounting to limit the interest rate bonds comprise interest rate risks and country risks, reducing the impact of interest rate fluctuatirisks. Both factors influence the market price of ons on our capital position. An explanation of hedge the underlying government bonds. Although 2011 arrangements made for ASN Bank can be found in was off on a good start, the solvency of the Greek, section 10.3. Italian and Spanish government finances fuelled investors’ concerns about eurozone stability in the course of the year. Several European summits were held under pressure of the financial markets, credit rating agencies and the ECB. The Italian and Greek governments were replaced and Spain called early elections. Due to slow political decision-making, the 10.2.3 Liquidity risks The funds entrusted grew by 12% to € 8,969 million in 2011. This increase was largely invested in busiLiquidity risk is the risk that the bank cannot release ness loans, mainly in mortgages. sufficient cash to satisfy its immediate payment obligations. We raise entrusted funds among private Although only a minor part of the funding has been individuals, associations and foundations for the secured for a longer period of time (time deposits), provision of loans and investments in government our liquidity risk is limited. After all, the investments bonds and (private) loans. in liquid assets are substantial, as shown in the chart, and amount to 39% of funds entrusted. Our funding is therefore fully comprised of savings deposited by private and corporate clients, making us independent of the money and capital markets. Liquid assets 4.000 3.500 3.000 Millions of euro’s 76 2.500 2.000 1.500 1.000 500 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 10.2.4 Operational risks 10.2.5 Reputation risks Operational risk is the risk that we do not achieve Reputation risk is the risk that losses arise due to a (strategic) objectives or targets due to the unpredicnegative image among stakeholders, and customers tability of performances, unreliable information or in particular. For ASN Bank, this risk mainly concerns unanticipated losses, caused by fraud, inadequate or the manner in which customers believe we implefailing internal processes, external events, systems ment our sustainability policy and provide services or security. to them. ASN Bank is supported by the SNS REAAL deWe present ourselves as a bank with a sustainabipartments stated in section 10.1, such as Group lity mission, which is one of the main reasons for Audit and Compliance, Security & Operational customers to choose our bank. They will not so much Risk Management, in controlling its operational question the actions of a sustainable bank, because risks. This support includes staff screening, system sustainability is not a clearly defined concept, but information security and support in cases of fraud. rather whether we keep our promises when seGroup Audit monitors the procedures embedded in lecting our investments. In order to help control the organisation and performs periodic checks. ASN this risk, we have laid down our sustainability policy Bank also has a remote backup facility that allows it in thirteen ASN Bank Issue Papers. These papers, to continue its activities under all circumstances. which are all publicly available, give a detailed description of our interpretation of sustainable The Management Board declares that the interbanking. Furthermore, we have recorded our internal risk management and control systems provide nal processes and Group Audit (see section 10.1) a reasonable degree of certainty that ASN Bank regularly assesses the structure and effectiveness properly controlled its operational risks during the of those processes. All this guarantees that we keep financial year. the promises laid down in our sustainability policy. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 10.3 Hedging and hedge of the average duration of government bonds. As a result, a more limited hedging of the interest rate accounting risk sufficed. ASN Bank uses derivatives to hedge undesired market risks on an economic basis. We use futures and swaps, for instance, to hedge our market value risk in part of the bond portfolio. Under IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards), derivatives must be valued at market value and market value changes must be recognised through profit and loss. If changes in the market value of the hedged risk are not recognised through profit and loss, there is a mismatch in profit accounting, making the results more volatile. In these cases, hedge accounting is applied as much as possible to mitigate accounting mismatching and volatility. 77 10.3.1 Hedging at ASN Bank Under IFRS, we value our fixed-income investment portfolio in the category ‘available-for-sale’, which means that valuation is at fair value and that value changes are recognised in equity. This carries undesired market value risks. Consequently, we hedge the value of part of the fixed-income investment portfolio against this undesired interest rate risk. Fixed-income investments with a market value exceeding par value are hedged by means of futures and swaps. The development of their market value is diametrically opposite to that of the underlying fixed-income investments. As a result, negative market value fluctuations are offset by positive value changes in derivatives, and vice versa. 10.3.2 Fair value hedge accounting In fair value hedge accounting, the developments in fair value of the hedged risk are recognised through profit and loss in order to counterbalance the market value movements of the related derivatives. The par value hedged against undesired market value fluctuations at year-end 2011 totalled approximately € 1,625 million. The hedged position thus amounted to approximately 63% of the par value and decreased relative to 2010, when approximately 80% of the par value was hedged. In 2011, changes in the fixed-income portfolio triggered a reduction 78 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 11. Corporate governance 79 Teaching nature to primary-school children Photograph: Marc de Haan/Hollandse Hoogte 11.1 Capital structure ASN Bank N.V. (ASN Bank) is an independent legal entity within SNS REAAL N.V. All ASN Bank shares are held by SNS Bank N.V. ASN Bank N.V 100% 100% 62,99% ASN ASN ASN Groenbank N.V Beleggingsinstellingen Vermogensbeheer B.V. Beheer B.V. 80 ASN Groenbank N.V. is a wholly-owned subsidiary 11.2.1 Governance highlights of ASN Bank, established to attract ‘green’ savings deposits with tax benefits from private individuals ASN Bank has a Management Board and a Supervisoand to offer ‘green’ sustainable loans. ASN Groenry Board carrying all powers assigned to supervisory bank did not engage in any new activities in 2011. boards by law. ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. is the fund In 2011, the ASN Bank Supervisory Board comprised manager of the investment funds offered by three members of the Management Board of SNS ASN Bank. Retail Bank. On 9 May 2011, Mr Kroeze retired and Mr De Ruigh joined the Supervisory Board. At the ASN Vermogensbeheer B.V. is a subsidiary of end of 2011, the Supervisory Board consisted of Mr ASN Bank, which holds 62.99% of the shares. Boers, Mr Langezaal and Mr De Ruigh. 11.2 Corporate governance 11.2.2 D  utch Corporate GoverASN Bank’s governance (its management structure) nance Code (Frijns Code) focuses on the optimum deployment of our operatiThe Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the Frijns onal processes for the benefit of our customers. This Code) applies to all companies listed on the Dutch is done in collaboration with several supporting SNS stock exchange and therefore to SNS REAAL. ASN REAAL business units. Bank endorses the principles of the Frijns Code. Its aim is to abide by the principles and best practice provisions of this Code to the extent possible. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 The Banking Code contains principles that are in 11.2.3 A  SN Bank Advisory line with those of the Frijns Code. The Banking Code applies to all of SNS REAAL’s banking activities, and Council therefore also to ASN Bank. ASN Bank has an Advisory Council that provides requested and unrequested advice to its Management SNS REAAL applies the Banking Code. Consequently, Board on policy in relation to the bank’s mission and compliance with the Banking Code is mainly orgathe investment criteria derived from this mission. nised at group level e.g. as regards internal audit The name of the Council is ‘Raad van Advies ASN and the remuneration policy. SNS REAAL’s risk Bank’. management architecture also complies with the Banking Code. Please refer to the SNS REAAL annual The Advisory Council advises solely on policy in the report for SNS REAAL’s application of the Code. interests of ASN Bank and with due observance of ASN Bank puts the customer focus required by the ASN Bank’s vision and mission. The Advisory CounBanking Code into practice in its open, transparent cil’s function and position indirectly contribute to communication with customers about its mission, the principle of diversity of the Supervisory Board products and investment policy. Customer focus and the Management Board. The composition, (re) is part of the ASN Bank culture. We promote this, appointment and methods of the Council are laid 81 among other things, through individual employee down in rules. targets and on the basis of the product development process, which is structured in accordance with the Banking Code. 11.3 Remuneration report Please refer to the SNS REAAL annual report for The remuneration report deals with the remuneratimore details on compliance with the Banking Code. on of the ASN Bank Management Board and Supervisory Board, the way the remuneration policy was put into practice in 2011 and remuneration policy developments in 2011. The remuneration policy of ASN Bank Managing Directors is in line with SNS REAAL’s remuneration policy. In 2011, the policy was adjusted following amendments in European legislation and the Dutch Regulation on Restrained Remuneration Policies under the Financial Supervision Act 2011 (Regeling beheerst beloningsbeleid Wft 2011), which entered into effect on the basis of that legislation. At an Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of SNS REAAL, the remuneration policy was adopted. The policy entered into effect with retroactive effect as from 1 January 2011. 11.3.1 Remuneration of the ASN Bank Management Board In thousands of Fixed Pension Variable remuneration euros salary (1) One-off Total payment Short-term Long-term (4) (2) (3) Amortisation of previously granted 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Ewoud Goudswaard 160 146 34 30 0 24 2 3 0 2 21 0 217 205 Jeroen Jansen 140 130 28 27 0 21 1 2 0 2 15 0 184 182 Joyce van der Est 112 22 10 0 0 0 144 Total 412 276 84 57 10 45 3 5 0 4 36 0 545 387 1)  Fixed salary including holiday allowance and thirteenth month’s salary, social security charges, expense allowance (until 1 July 2010) and contribution to health insurance. 2)  As from 2011, the short-term variable remuneration is the part that has been granted for 2011. 3)  This is the payment of the long-term allotment of 2008. During the performance period (three years), the fair 82 value of the shares conditionally allotted is recognised as an expense under staff costs. 4)  In connection with the re-evaluation of the salaries of Mr Goudswaard and Mr Jansen, a one-off payment relating to 2010 was made in 2011. In 2011, the remuneration policy was revised as folThis allowance was cancelled as from that date. lows: For business travel (including commuting), the ■ Regular increase of fixed salary by 10% on Managing Directors are allocated a company car, for average. which they pay a personal contribution where appli■ Increase of the fixed salary under the Collective cable. The members of the ASN Bank Management Labour Agreement by 1% as at 1 January 2011. Board receive a health insurance contribution. ■ No payment of variable remuneration for performance in 2011. The fact is that the remuneration Pension policy provides that, as long as SNS REAAL has The Management Board of ASN Bank participates not repaid the financial support from the Dutch in the pension scheme in accordance with the SNS State, no variable remuneration will be paid out REAAL Collective Labour Agreement and the current to senior management. Ms Van der Est is not part pension scheme rules-I. The member’s contribution of senior management; she has been granted a to the pension premium, which is charged on the performance-related bonus in accordance with pensionable earnings, is 4.5%. The employer’s penarrangements laid down in the Collective Labour sion contribution is included in the table. Agreement. ■ Payment of a long-term bonus for performance Short-term variable remuneration period 2008-2011: 1% of the fixed salary. The Supervisory Board determines the short-term ■ In 2011, a one-off payment was made for the bonus based on the performance of the ASN Bank suspended salary increases since 1 January 2010. Managing Directors in three areas: This has been included in the table above under ■ financial, operational and sustainability perfor‘one-off payment’. mance, As a result, the total remuneration of the ASN Bank ■ contribution to achieving the strategic objectiManagement Board is 3.5% higher than in 2010; Ms ves, Van der Est’s data have been disregarded, because ■ individual performance based on individual comshe was not yet a member of the Management Board petencies. in 2010. If a Managing Director achieves the pre-set objecOther remuneration components tives, he receives the variable remuneration. When The members of the ASN Bank Management Board selecting performance measures, the various stakereceived a net expense allowance until 1 July 2010. holders are borne in mind. The performance meaASN Bank Annual Report 2011 sures are aimed at long-term success for ASN Bank, Consequently, no new rights were granted in 2010 with due regard to the desired risk profile. The and 2011. The existing benefits for the members of standards for sustainability performance are related the Management Board of ASN Bank were calculato the qualitative sustainability objectives described ted annually in accordance with the old scheme in in Chapter 1. They also include other objectives, for the form of a claim entitling the holder to payment example with regard to customer satisfaction and in cash. Three years after the conditional granting, employee satisfaction. the actual bonus is calculated based on the extent to which the Managing Directors have satisfied the Long-term variable remuneration performance criteria. This long-term bonus as deThe long-term variable remuneration scheme finitively granted is paid in cash. In 2011, payment introduced in 2007 was cancelled as from 2010. was made for the 2008-2011 performance period. Overview of the number of rights still outstanding for the ASN Bank Management Board: Number of rights granted in Fair value at the end of 2011 2009 2010 2011 Ewoud Goudswaard 5.968 0000 € 841 83 Jeroen Jansen 5.300 0000 € 747 Joyce van der Est 0 0000 11.3.2 Remuneration of the Supervisory Board for 2011 The members of ASN Bank’s Supervisory Board perform their duties as members by virtue of their position at SNS Bank. They do not receive a separate fee for these duties. 84 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Independent Assurance Report 85 Photograph: Van Beek Images To the readers of the Annual Which assurance standard did Report of ASN Bank we use? We carried out our engagement in accordance with Introduction Standard 3410N ‘Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports’ of the Royal Netherlands We were engaged by the Management Board of ASN Institute of Chartered Accountants (NIVRA). This Bank to provide assurance on selected information Standard requires, among other things, that the in the Annual Report 2011 (further: the Report). members of the assurance team possess the specific The ASN Bank Management Board is responsible for knowledge, skills and professional competencies drawing up the Report, including the identification needed to understand and review the Selected of material issues to be reported. It is our responsiInformation, and that they comply with the requibility to issue an assurance report on the selected rements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional information. Accountants, including independence. Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance as to whether the information in Chapters What did we do? 1.3 and 3 through 8 of the Report (further: the Se86 lected Information) is fairly stated. The information, Our work included the following procedures: including the financial data, as presented in Chap■ a media and Internet analysis of social issues for ters 1.1, 1.2, 2, 9, 10 and 11 of the Report was not ASN Bank in order to deepen our understanding included in our investigation. ASN Bank’s financial of relevant sustainability topics and issues during data form part of the financial statements of SNS the period under review; REAAL N.V., of which ASN Bank is a subsidiary. To ■ a review of the systems and processes for the obtain a thorough understanding of the financial gathering and processing of information, and results and financial position of SNS REAAL, the reainternal controls with regard to the Selected der should consult the audited financial statements Information; of SNS REAAL N.V. for 2011. ■ interviews with relevant staff in relation to policy and the application of the special investment Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of ascriteria for the investment and lending activities; surance are aimed at determining the plausibility of ■ a review of internal and external documentation, information and are less extensive than those for a based on sampling, to determine whether the reasonable level of assurance. We do not provide asSelected Information is supported by sufficient surance concerning the feasibility of the objectives, evidence. expectations and ambitions of ASN Bank. During our investigation we discussed the necessary changes to the Selected Information with ASN Which reporting criteria did Bank and determined that these changes have been included in the final version. ASN Bank use? ASN Bank applies the ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidelines’ (G3) of the Global Reporting Initiative for drawing up the Report, as detailed on page 10 of the Report. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 What are our conclusions? Based on our work, nothing came to our attention to indicate that the Selected Information (Chapters 1.3 and 3 through 8) is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. Amstelveen, 29 March 2012 KPMG Sustainability, part of KPMG Advisory N.V. W.J. Bartels (partner) 87 Appendix 1 Investments by ASN Bank Accounts Receivable Amounts x € 1,000 Government bonds 2,596,614 Germany 1,435,274 The Netherlands 616,449 Austria 288,192 Belgium 134,125 France 122,574 Banks 797,278 SNS Bank 733,083 FMO 50,825 CEB 8,039 Nederlandse Waterschapsbank 2,357 Nederlandse Financieringsmaatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden 1,744 Bank voor Nederlandse Gemeenten 1,230 88 Mortgages and other loans and advances to customers 4,392,885 ASN Bank Particulier 55,477 ASN Bank Zakelijk 1,564 ASN Bank: private customer debit balances 884 Mortgage-backed loan portfolios: 4,334,960 SNS Bank 3,200,000 BLG 550,000 SNS Regiobank 500,000 Storm BV 27,014 Colonnade 26,261 Candide Financing 19,501 Eleven Cities 7,954 Arena 4,230 Municipal and provincial councils 578,964 Gemeente Rotterdam 50,000 Gemeente Enschede 45,000 Gemeente Venlo 41,807 Gemeente Zwolle 35,500 Gemeente Middelburg 28,748 Gemeente Nieuwegein 26,000 Gemeente Kampen 26,000 Gemeente Apeldoorn 20,000 Gemeente Bergen op Zoom 20,000 Gemeente Groningen 16,000 Gemeente Almere 15,000 Gemeente Leeuwarden 15,000 Gemeente Zevenaar 15,000 Gemeente Veldhoven 14,286 Gemeente Haaksbergen 13,000 Gemeente Pijnacker 13,000 Gemeente Diemen 12,000 Gemeente Hengelo 12,000 Gemeente Alphen aan den Rijn 10,000 Gemeente Kaag & Braassem 10,000 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Accounts Receivable Amounts x € 1,000 Gemeente De Ronde Venen 9,600 Gemeente Heusden 9,167 Gemeente Weststellingerwerf 9,000 Gemeente Maassluis 8,000 Gemeente Leiden 7,500 Gemeente Oldenzaal 7,333 Gemeente Culemborg 7,000 Gemeente Sluis 6,933 Gemeente Boxmeer 6,800 Gemeente Montfoort 6,000 Gemeente Utrechtse Heuvelrug 6,000 Gemeente Schijndel 5,667 Gemeente Bunschoten 5,040 Gemeente Gorinchem 5,000 Gemeente Papendrecht 5,000 Gemeente Tilburg 5,000 Gemeente Vlaardingen 5,000 Gemeente Vlissingen 5,000 89 Gemeente Krimpen 4,333 Gemeente Renkum 4,250 Gemeente Nijkerk 4,200 Gemeente Elburg 4,000 Gemeente Hellendoorn 2,600 Gemeente Hoogezand 2,200 Water boards and water companies 339,853 Waterschap Brabantse Delta 40,200 Waterschap Rivierenland 30,000 Hoogheemraadschap Hollands Noorderkwartier 25,967 Waterschap Hollandse Delta 25,500 Hoogheemraadschap van Rijnland 24,500 Waterschap Aa en Maas 20,000 Waterschap Rijn en IJssel 20,000 Waterschap Schieland & Krim 18,000 Waterschap De Dommel 15,000 Waterschap Reest en Wieden 15,000 Waterschap Scheldestromen 15,000 Wetterskip Fryslân 15,000 Waterschap Zeeuwse Eilanden 13,000 Waterleiding Maatschappij Limburg 12,581 Waterschap Roer en Overmaas 9,120 PWN Waterleidingbedrijf Noord-Holland 9,073 Waterschap Noorderzijlvest 8,000 Brabant Water 6,809 Waterschap Regge en Dinkel 5,000 Hoogheemraadschap De Stichtse Rijnlanden 4,667 Waterschap Veluwe 4,000 Waterleidingmaatschappij Drenthe 1,295 Stichting D.A.G. Friesland 1,232 Vitens, formerly Hydron Midden-Nederland 552 PT Air Manado 357 Accounts Receivable Amounts x € 1,000 Healthcare / care of the elderly 422,470 Academisch Ziekenhuis Maastricht 46,193 Universitair Medisch Centrum Groningen (UMCG) 38,550 Stichting Zorggroep Noorden Midden Limburg 20,165 Academisch Medisch Centrum 20,000 Stichting Dimence 19,727 Stichting Antonius Ziekenhuis 17,736 Stichting Volkaert SBO 17,525 Stichting Arduin 14,713 Vincent van Gogh voor geestelijke gezondheidszorg 14,400 Stichting Zorgsaam Zeeuws-Vlaanderen 13,000 Stichting Sint Elisabeth Ziekenhuis 12,750 GGZ Breburg 12,000 Stichting Zeevesta 11,000 Stichting Magenta Zorg 10,514 Stichting Franciscus Gasthuis 10,000 Stichting Protestants Christelijk Ziekenhuis Ikazia 9,750 90 VieCuri Medisch Centrum 9,000 Catharina Ziekenhuis 8,667 Christelijke Zorgcombinatie Zwolle 8,640 Stichting Parnassia Bavo Groep 8,434 Stichting Tragel 8,175 Stichting Argos Zorggroep 8,000 Stichting Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Ziekenhuis 7,500 Regionale Stichting Zorgcentra De Kempen 7,485 Stichting Verbeeten Fonds 7,453 Stichting De Blink 6,000 Stichting Geestelijke Gezondheidszorg Oost Brabant 5,000 Maastro Clinic 4,950 Stichting Amphia 4,900 Stichting Revalidatie-Centrum ‘De Hoogstraat’ 4,821 Stichting De Stromen 4,084 Stichting Saxenburgh Groep 3,749 Stichting Reinaerde 3,220 Stichting Medisch Spectrum Twente 3,080 Stichting Rode Kruis Ziekenhuis 2,500 Zorggroep Noorderbreedte 2,000 Stichting Woonen Leefcentra Lichamelijk Gehandicapten West-Brabant 1,921 Zeeuws Radio-Therapeutisch Instituut 1,768 Stichting De Vlasborch 1,620 Promens Care 1,563 Stichting Het GORS 1,400 Stichting Interakt 1,318 Stichting Odion 1,238 Stichting Woon & Zorgcentrum ‘Herfstzon’ 1,069 Stichting Zorgverlening ’s Heeren Loo 649 Stichting Radar 611 Stichting Gelre Ziekenhuizen 528 Stichting Blixembosch 516 Stichting Mondriaan Zorggroep 515 Stichting Frion 472 Stichting Heliomare 434 Stichting Aveleijn/SDT 333 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Accounts Receivable Amounts x € 1,000 Stichting De Driestroom 278 Stichting Dichterbij 258 Stichting Revalidatie Centrum Roessingh 104 Stichting Wende 87 Brabantzorg 57 Stichting Groenhuysen 46 Stichting Pameijer Keerkring 4 Residential construction 331,100 Woningstichting Rochdale 35,971 Stichting Duwo 25,000 Stichting Ymere 25,000 Woningcorporatie R&B Wonen 20,000 De Woonmensen 15,000 Woonstichting SSW 15,000 Woningcorporatie de Alliantie, formerly SCW 14,952 Stichting Woongroep Holland 13,000 Stichting Woonzorg Nederland 11,021 91 Stichting Waterweg Wonen 11,000 Stichting Portaal 10,000 Stichting Woonbedrijf SWS 10,000 Woningbouwvereniging St. Laurentius 10,000 Woningstichting Servatius 10,000 Stichting Sociale Woningbouw en Beheer 8,000 Woningbouwvereniging Onze Woning 8,000 Woningstichting Haag Wonen 7,941 Stichting Woonbeheer Betuwe 7,500 Woningstichting SWZ 7,500 Woonstichting Triada 7,500 Intervolve Credit B.V. 5,506 Woningstichting Omnivera 5,500 Woningstichting Groninger Huis 5,000 Woningstichting Weststellingwerf 5,000 Stichting Woonzorg West Zeeuws-Vlaanderen 4,800 Stichting Woonpunt 4,538 Woningcorporatie Weller 4,538 Woonstichting Domesta 4,538 Woonstichting Vaals 4,000 Stichting Wonen Wierden 3,500 Woningcorporatie de Alliantie, formerly Atrium 3,398 Woningcorporatie Staedion 2,269 Woningbouwvereniging Ons Doel 2,098 Vieya, formerly DWV Woningcorporatie 2,046 Stichting Dutch International Guarantees for Housing (DIGH) 1,126 Stichting Habion 627 Stichting Mooiland Vitalis 231 Education, culture and leisure 22,793 Erasmusacademie 11,550 Nationaal Groenfonds 4,854 Stichting Texels Museum 1,796 Bibliotheek Vlissingen 1,636 Stichting Kinderopvang 2Samen 1,622 Accounts Receivable Amounts x € 1,000 Stichting Vrijburg 1,275 Den Haag Centraal B.V. 60 Shares 650 Triple Jump 568 Oikocredit 82 Renewable energy 188,775 Wind energy 70,275 Belwind N.V. 31,001 C-Power N.V. 21,896 Windpark Rijnwoude B.V. 6,611 Windpark Logistiekweg B.V. 5,254 Sailwind B.V. 2,500 Global Tech I Offshore 1,499 Offshore Windpowercentre Nederland 1,320 Vaanster Services B.V. 172 92 Kriekewind B.V. 22 Solar energy 101,986 Lavansol II SAS 19,330 Centrale Photovoltaïque Du Gabardan 16,952 Newsolar SAS 15,999 Lavansol M7 SAS 10,275 Belfuture CVBA 10,171 SECP OLMO2 SAS 8,092 FPV Pascialone SAS 7,908 NPG Willebroek N.V. 7,314 FPV Santa Lucia SAS 5,945 Other 16,514 Unica Financial Services B.V. 8,123 Dif Renewable Energy Fund 4,735 Dif Infrastructure Fund 3,619 Impax New Energy Investors II 37 Other 51,596 Foreign public and semi-public institutions 10,345 Land Nordrhein-Westfalen 10,345 Microfinance 1,452 BlueOrchard Loans for Development 1,452 Other 39,799 TenneT 22,278 CAIW 16,714 Wereldwinkels 245 Stichting Chizone 165 Algemeen Verbond van Volkstuinders Verenigingen in Nederland (AVVN) 120 Groen Vervoer 119 Basic Water Needs B.V. 100 Nuon energiebesparende investeringen in het MKB 41 Almeerse Reddings Brigade 17 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Appendix 2 Organisation and history Organisation Management Board Controlling & Executive Secretariat Compliance Marketing & Sustainability Communication Sustainable Operations ASN Asset Management Capital Management Loans 93 Customer & Customer Facilities Information Account Contact Centre Management Management Management Explanation of the organisational chart processes customer and account details and ■ Controlling & Compliance is responsible for all sends out requests for information. ASN Custofinancial flows, including information, financial mer Service provides services to customers by reporting and analyses, the annual and interim telephone, e-mail and correspondence. Finally, reports of the investment funds and the annual Facilities Management makes sure that all ASN report of the bank. Controlling also supervises staff have the space and resources they need for compliance with regulations, risk management, their work. accounting procedures and internal control. ■ ASN Asset Management manages capital of ■ Marketing & Communication is responsible for € 250,000 or more for private customers and communicating ASN Bank’s policy and sustaiinstitutions based on ASN Bank’s sustainability nable values, and for customer acquisition and criteria. retention through campaigns. The department ■ Capital Management is responsible for the develops and creates distribution channels for development and sale of savings and investment the ASN products and maintains relations with products. In addition, this department is responour partners. sible for implementing legislation and regulati■ Sustainability & Research is responsible for forons to the extent they relate to customers and mulating and implementing ASN Bank’s sustaiproducts. It manages the day-to-day affairs of the nability policy. The department writes ASN Bank ASN Investment Funds and also represents ASN Issue Papers, conducts research with regard to Bank and the ASN Investment Funds at meetings countries and companies in which ASN Bank and for intermediaries and interested parties. the ASN Investment Funds may invest, carries out ■ Sustainable Loans lends money on behalf of ASN the voting policy and engages in dialogue with Groenprojectenfonds, ASN Bank and ASN Groencompanies. It also advises on the bank’s sustainabank, and manages those loans. ble operations. ■ Operations comprises several components. InforTriple Jump mation Management’s activities include ensuring ASN Bank holds 25% of the shares of Triple Jump, that all systems and resources, such as telephone which is responsible for the investments of the ASNand Internet access, are available in the various Novib Microcredit Fund in its capacity as project workspaces. Customer & Account Management manager. Oxfam Novib, NOTS Foundation and management are the other shareholders. The aim of the areas of human rights and the environment were Triple Jump is to invest capital in developing counformulated as a point of departure in the selection tries mainly through microfinance institutions (MFIs) of the funds’ investments as well as the investment to facilitate the fight against poverty. Triple Jump: of savings deposits. ■ supports MFI start-ups by providing expertise and loan capital; In 1996, ASN changed its name to ASN Bank. The ■ provides high-risk loan capital and equity to MFIs closer collaboration with the financial institutions that are growing from start-up to maturity; affiliated with the trade union movement had resul■ provides low-risk loan capital and equity to mated in the REAAL Group in 1990, in which ASN held ture, stable MFIs. an independent position. In 1997, the REAAL Group merged with SNS Group and ASN Bank became a In addition to the loans provided by the ASN-Novib subsidiary of SNS Bank. Microcredit Fund, Triple Jump manages the loan portfolios of Oxfam Novib, Calvert Social InvestASN Bank increased the number of investment funds ment Foundation and SNS Institutional Microfinanto seven, including a green fund and a socio-ethical ce Fund. At present Triple Jump manages an equity fund. However, the main emphasis was still on and loan portfolio of approximately € 270 million. saving, and the bank introduced several successful savings accounts. It also developed considerable 94 The ASN Foundation expertise in financing sustainable construction and Our involvement goes beyond sustainable banking. renewable energy production. Every year, ASN Bank donates part of its earnings to projects and organisations that contribute to its misIn 2009, it introduced a current account (ASN Bank sion. The ASN Foundation was established in 2004 Account), followed by the ASN Credit Card in 2010. in order to standardise our donation policy. The In 2010, ASN Bank also acquired a majority interest Foundation publishes its own annual report. in ASN Asset Management, which manages capital starting from € 250,000 on the basis of ASN Bank’s sustainability criteria. As a result, ASN Bank has History positioned itself as a comprehensive financial services provider for customers who look for simplicity, On 21 January 1960, ASN was established as the transparency and ideals. bank of the socialist workers’ movement. Its main object was to provide socially responsible employee savings schemes. However, from the outset the inflow of private savings exceeded the inflow of savings schemes. In order to absorb that inflow, ASN as the first savings bank in the Netherlands introduced saving by funds transfer in 1960. From the very start, the bank invested the savings deposits in accordance with trade union principles as much as possible, for example in the public sector and in the socio-cultural field. Nevertheless, it never became the ‘bank for the trade union movement’ envisaged by its founders. That is why in the 1970s ASN shifted its focus to a new target group: people involved in issues such as war and peace, human rights and discrimination, international economic relationships and the environment. ASN grew to become a truly idealistic bank in the 1980s and 1990s, with regard to both its products and its office setup. It introduced sustainable investment funds, the first one being ASN Aandelenfonds in 1993. ASN’s ‘special investment criteria’ in ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Appendix 3 Supervisory Board, Mr Bart de Ruigh Bart de Ruigh (1956) has been COO and a member of Advisory Council and Managethe SNS Retail Bank Management Board since 2010. ment Board He is responsible for product management and transaction processing by different service centres Supervisory Board and holds the IT and facilities management portfoMr Ernst-Jan Boers lios. Bart de Ruigh has worked in management poMr Rob Langezaal (Chairman) sitions in the financial services sector, i.e. at banks Mr Bart de Ruigh and insurance companies, for almost thirty years. He has extensive experience in operations, IT, product Advisory Council management and organisational issues, as well as Ms Saskia Noorman-den Uyl (Chair) in finance & control, risk management and facilities Mr Hans Kamps management. Mr Jan van der Kolk Management Board of ASN Bank N.V. Advisory Council Mr Ewoud Goudswaard Mr Jeroen Jansen Ms Saskia Noorman-den Uyl Ms Joyce van der Est Saskia Noorman-den Uyl (1946) joined the Heemste95 de town council in 1978 and became alderwoman for welfare, culture, social affairs, employment and Personal details staff in 1985. She was appointed Director of Social Services in Leiden in 1990 and Director of the city’s Economic and Social Affairs department in 1992. Supervisory Board She was a member of the Dutch Lower House for the labour party Partij van de Arbeid from 1994 to 2007, Mr Ernst-Jan Boers with Social Affairs and Finance as her focus area. She Ernst-Jan Boers (1966) has been the CEO of SNS was also Chairman of the standing committee for Retail Bank since January 2012. He started working the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. at SNS Reaal in 2007 as the Group Finance Director. Saskia Noorman-den Uyl was appointed Chairman of As from 2009, he acted as CFO of SNS Retail Bank. the Supervisory Council of Koninklijke Visio effecHe worked for Ernst & Young during the first seven tive 1 January 2008. She has been a member of the years of his career, and then joined REAAL VerzekeSupervisory Council of Stichting De Jutters, a centre ringen, where he worked for six years. Subsequentfor youth mental health in The Hague, since 2009. ly, he held the position of Managing Director of ABN She also holds various other positions: Chairman of AMRO Hypotheken Groep and its legal predecessors Landelijke Organisatie Sociaal Raadslieden, Chairfor eight years. Ernst-Jan Boers is also Chairman of man of the Board of feminist monthly Opzij, and the Supervisory Board of ASN Groenbank. Secretary of the Board of Stichting Dr. J. M. den Uyl-lezing. Mr Rob Langezaal Rob Langezaal (1958) has been a member of the SNS Mr Hans Kamps Retail Bank Management Board since November Hans Kamps (1952) combines numerous positions. 2007. He is responsible for the marketing and sales He is Chairman of Algemene Bond Uitzendonderneportfolio and the labels SNS, ASN Bank, Regiobank mingen (ABU), Chairman of Jeugdzorg Nederland, and BLG Hypotheken. Rob Langezaal has more than the Netherlands Museums Association and Crown thirty years’ experience in various positions in the member of the Social and Economic Council of the retail and business markets, such as CEO, division Netherlands (SER). His other positions focus on – manager and general manager. Rob Langezaal is a but are not limited to – youth, the labour market and member of the Advisory Council of XS4all Internet business acumen. He is a member of several superB.V., member of the Supervisory Board of ASN visory boards and a member of the Advisory Council Groenbank, member of the Supervisory Board of or Supervisory Council of different companies, incluRegiobank, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ding KPC Groep, FD Mediagroep and Staatsloterij. SNS Beleggingsfondsen Beheer B.V. and a member of the Board of Stichting Weet Wat Je Besteedt. Mr Jan van der Kolk Strategy at SNS REAAL Corporate Communications Jan van der Kolk (1953) studied environmental in 2000. He was also part of the ASN Bank Mascience and management consultancy at univernagement Board’s support staff. He was appointed sity. Over a period of twenty years, he held various deputy Director of ASN Bank in 2001. Among other positions at KPMG, including member of the KPMG positions, Jeroen Jansen is treasurer of Stichting Consulting Board of Directors and managing partner Avondster and a member of the programme council of KPMG Sustainability. He is currently an indepenof CSR Netherlands. dent consultant, executing many projects for major companies in the area of sustainability strategy and Ms Joyce van der Est reporting, management systems and sustainable Joyce van der Est (1965) has been deputy Director investing by financial institutions. He holds several of ASN Bank since 2011 and is responsible for the other positions, including Chairman of the investbank’s operations, which includes customer service, ment advisory committee for church social welfare customer and account management and IT. In this work of the Protestant church in The Hague, Chairposition, she creates the conditions for professional man of the jury for the Verantwoord Ketenbeheer services to customers. Joyce van der Est has years of Award of the Vereniging van Beleggers in Duurzame experience in managing operational and IT procesOndernemingen (VBDO) and member of the Envises in branch banking. She started her career at ronmental Advisory Council of Studiecentrum voor Robeco in 1988. After nearly ten years, she conti96 Bedrijf en Overheid. nued her career at Bank Labouchere, where she also professionalised customer and IT processes. Since 2003, she has managed ASN Bank’s operations. Her Management Board of focus is on the continuous development, professionalisation and innovation of the internal organiASN Bank N.V. sation with the objective of achieving high-quality Mr Ewoud Goudswaard service and transparent products. Ewoud Goudswaard (1958) has been ASN Bank’s Managing Director since 2001. He is also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ASN Vermogensbeheer B.V. and member of the Supervisory Board of ASN Groenbank N.V. Ewoud Goudswaard started his career at NMB Bank, later ING Bank, in credit risk management for (large) corporate clients. He held management positions in Haarlemmermeer, Amsterdam and Rotterdam starting in 1992 and became Chairman of the Management Board of the MiddenHolland district in 1997. Ewoud Goudswaard has several external positions: he is treasurer of Nationaal Comité 4 en 5 mei and Nationaal Fonds 4 en 5 mei, member of the Advisory Council for the Dutch Association of the Club of Rome and the Advisory Council of Plan Nederland, and treasurer of the Netherlands Museums Association and Stichting Museumkaart. Mr Jeroen Jansen Jeroen Jansen (1962) has been Director of ASN Bank since 2005, primarily focusing on marketing, communication, public relations, asset management, sustainability policy and research. Jeroen Jansen started his banking career at Triodos Bank. He joined Hollandse Koopmansbank (currently SNS Asset Management) in 1995, where he developed asset management services and sustainability research for institutional investors, social institutions and ASN Bank. He took up his position as manager of Social ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank Bezuidenhoutseweg 153 2594 AG The Hague P.O. Box 93514 2509 AM The Hague ASN Customer Service 0800 – 03 80 (freephone) Fax 070 – 361 79 48 E-mail informatie@asnbank.nl www.asnbank.nl 175
