Template for creating a Communication on Progress Report Instructions for use of this template Templates like this one can provide an excellent way to get started on the continual improvement path. This template is designed to provided, step by step guidance for companies in creating their communication on progress (COP). It is not meant to impede innovation, nor replace other means of communicating progress. What is a COP? One of the explicit commitments that a company makes when it participates in the Global Compact is to produce an annual COP. A COP is a communication to stakeholders (consumers, employees, organized labour, shareholders, media, government…) on the progress the company has made in implementing the ten principles in their business activities and, where appropriate, supporting UN goals through partnerships. What are the benefits for a company creating a COP? The value of sustainability reporting in general, but specifically the COP, lies in both the creation of the report (internal benefits) and in sharing it publicly (external benefits). Internal benefits Motivates a company to define and live up to a sustainability vision and strategy. Enhances corporate governance and leadership commitment by the CEO, and promotes senior management involvement by reviewing and endorsing the report. Supports efforts to identify business risks and opportunities. Encourages internal information sharing and learning due to connecting different corporate departments (e.g., human resources, communications, environment, health and safety, operations, community relations). Stimulates internal progress and contributes to continuous improvement thanks to measuring actions by indicators. Clarifies the commitment of senior management for employees. External benefits Demonstrates active participation in the Global Compact and prevents company participation being seen as a public relations exercise. P 1/21 Improves corporate reputation and brand value due to increased transparency and creation of trust. Enhances stakeholder relations by articulating a sustainability vision, strategy, and implementation plans. Provides significant learning to stakeholders through collaboration. Makes inclusion in socially responsible investment funds or indices possible. Three steps to communicate your progress There are three steps to Communicating progress: creating, sharing and submitting a COP. This guide explains what is required for each step, and concentrates on the creation of a COP. Step One: Creating your COP The creation of a COP is a process unique to each company and while there is no single structure for the creation of a COP, a COP must include 3 key elements: Element 1: A statement of continued support for the Global Compact in the opening letter, statement or message from the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman or other senior executive. Element 2: A description of practical actions (commitments, policies, systems, activities), including, if appropriate, partnerships created, that participants have taken to implement the Global Compact principles during the previous year. Element 3: A Measurement of outcomes or expected outcomes using, as much as possible, indicators or metrics such as those developed by the Global Reporting Initiative. Step Two: Sharing the COP with the Company’s Stakeholders A COP only drives value if it is actively shared and used as a tool for dialogue and action in support of continual improvement. Towards this end it is important to note that the COP is not a communication with the United Nations Global Compact Office. Rather it is intended to provide a means for participants to communicate their progress on implementing the ten Global Compact principles directly with their stakeholders. Therefore, ideally, COPs should be integrated into a companies existing communication with stakeholders, such as an annual financial or sustainability report. A stand-alone COP should not be created, unless the company has no other vehicle to report on corporate citizenship issues. Just as important as the medium chosen for communicating progress (CSR report, or stand-alone COP), is the method of distributing it to stakeholders. Submission to the Global Compact website is not sufficient and companies should use the established methods where stakeholders would expect to find sustainability information (e.g. websites, direct mailings, employee alerts, open houses) to share their COP. P 2/21 Step Three: Uploading the COP to the Global Compact Website Companies are also expected to post an electronic version (and web link if available) of their COP on the Global Compact website and describe how the COP is being are made available to stakeholders. Instructions for posting your COP are available at http://www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/communication_on_progress/4.3/COP_posting_doc_eng.pdf For More Information The above guidance covers the three key steps and related elements of a COP. We have gathered answers to the most frequently asked questions at http://www.unglobalcompact.org/COP/FAQ.html Guidance for simplifying the COP process and creating the most value with your COP The COPs only develop their value creating potential for a company and its stakeholders if the COP is based on key considerations. Based on our previous Hints and Tips and recommendations by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G31) and the AccountAbility (AA1000 Series2), the following aspects should be considered to ensure the effectiveness of the process, the quality of the content and credibility of disclosed information. Process Effectiveness Involve Stakeholders The organization should implement a system that ensures they respond coherently and consistently to stakeholders' concerns and interests. Make the Connections Review the ten principles closely in order to understand the connections that exist between the principles and the companies’ vision / strategy, polices, activities and measurement and reporting systems already in place for current internal, government, investor, or industry association reporting (i.e. your companies CSR report, GRI…). The headquarters of multinational corporations can report for their participating subsidiaries; however this reporting must cover the actions and indicators of the subsidiary and should be available in the local language of the subsidiary. If the subsidiaries actions and indicators are not sufficiently addressed in the COP from headquarters, the subsidiary should submit the headquarters COP and a supplement or their own COP. Content Quality Be Complete There is no expectation that all ten principles will be covered in every COP, nor all 10 principles addressed to the same extent, nor that small companies will be able to provide as 1 www.globalreporting.org 2 www.accountability21.net/aa1000 P 3/21 much depth and breadth in their COPs as multinational companies. However, the information contained within a COP should be complete and accurate enough to assess and understand the organization’s performance in relationship to the 10 principles and related issues. Provide Context Your COP should be a document that seeks to put into context the actions and indicators so that readers can make informed judgments as to the extent of the challenges and the depth of your commitment. Ensure Relevance COPs should contain all information that is necessary for a stakeholder to judge the sustainability performance of the company. Assuring that this is the case is best determined via a stakeholder dialogue process e.g. AA 1000 or that described in the GRI G3 guidelines. Define Boundaries Some companies specifically define the boundaries of their responsibility. This can be very useful in helping to manage stakeholder expectations and also to foster a dialogue about the boundaries. Make Your COP accessible Language: A COP should be created in the language which is most appropriate for the companies’ stakeholders. Structure: A COP needs to be structured so that the report clearly communicates the companies progress in implementing the 10 principles. Some companies achieve this through a index or table of contents that directs the reader to the page on which they can find information relevant to the 10 principles. However, emerging best practices indicate the most effective way to structure the report is to base the report on the principles themselves. Chart progress: Reported information should be presented in a manner that enables readers to analyze changes in the organization’s performance over time and to follow-up on commitments a company has made in earlier COPs. Use Standard Indicators Use Indicators, appropriate for your companies’ size, sector and unique operating environment, which allow for benchmarking and comparability, such as those of GRI or Ethos. Credibility of Communication Present a Balanced View COPs should reflect positive and negative aspects of the organization’s performance to enable a reasoned assessment of overall performance. Be Specific Avoid Generic Statements: As companies implementation and communication on progress of the principles matures it is important that the COP not contain generic statements (e.g. “we have a training program for suppliers”), but rather include more specific descriptions (e.g., “we trained 50 suppliers on how to improve their spill response performance”). P 4/21 Provide Assurance Companies should develop systems and monitoring evaluation programs (such as peer review, third party assurance…) to assure that the information they are recording, collecting, analyzing, and disclosing is accurate and reliable. Some examples on how to develop a COP report This template focuses on the following aspects*: What actions did the company take to implement the 10 Principles of the Global Compact within its operations? e.g. commitments made, systems created (including policies, programmes and / or codes of conduct) and activities undertaken. What were the results of the actions described and what was the value created for your company? (It is advised to use standard indicators such as the GRI if possible and appropriate) * The spaces which are available in this template shall not be treated as a restriction, since other types of describing actions or results can be appropriate as well. Companies are free to make the necessary changes which seem to be appropriate for their individual COP. PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Actions taken Commitment: Our company supports and implements international labour standards from the ILO Convention 29 in its mission statement and corporate policy, eliminating all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Actions System: We have implemented a system for checking and recording that all employees are paid minimum wage and to avoid excessive overtime hours. Therefore, timecard, payroll and production records are reviewed on a regular basis and are verified through worker interviews. Activities: We have implemented a system that tracks violations and installed a backpayment system of wages. Employment contracts stating the terms and conditions of service are made available to all employees. We have installed an independent monitoring programme regarding labour conditions and receive an annual reporting. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes With all business units having to notify the head office of the lowest wage paid on site, every case showed that the wage level was above minimum wage. Our commitment led us gain a community price for SME’s as most popular employer of our region. (See GRI HR7) P 5/21 PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions taken Commitment: Our company is committed to foster and promote a clean environment and to implement appropriate measure within production. We rely on the guidelines of the UNEP International Declaration on Cleaner Production and use environmental indicators of the GRI to report. System: Our business strategy is a triple bottom line approach. We use ISO14000 and have Actions installed a system to monitor general environmental performance data for waste, emission, energy and water use. We have worked actively to reduce power consumption in our facilities. The focus has been on enhancing the expertise of our own property management staff, making more efficient use of lighting and heating, turning down heating at night, heat recovery and installing heat pumps. For internal correspondence, our employees use recycled paper. Activities: We have implemented a system for pollution prevention and to increase recycling programmes for our products in cooperation with our main suppliers. In the next year we will focus on partnerships with our suppliers and customers to address environmental issues, such as packaging take back and chemical use reduction. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes In the last year, we were able to significantly reduce energy consumption and the total amount of residual waste per employee, leading to an overall cost reduction in these areas. We have been recognized by an independent environmental audit as an environmentally friendly company which has increased overall awareness of our company in the region. (See also GRI-indicators EN1-30) P 6/21 Insert C Communication on Progress Year: 2012 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT WE COMMEND THE GLOBAL COMPACT AS A FRAME WORK OF STANDARDS ON THE ENVIRONMENT, CORRUPTION, HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS TO WHICH ALL PRIVATE AND PUBLIC SECTOR COMPANIES SHOULD ADHERE AND OPERATE CLOSELY WITH EACH CARRYING OUT THE ROLE FOR WHICH THEY ARE BEST EQUIPPED. WE APPRECIATE GLOBAL COMPACT PAKISTAN LOCAL NETWORK FOR THEIR STRONG COMMITMENT AND EFFORTS FOR PROMOTION OF UNGC PRINCIPLES IN THE COUNTRY. WE ASSURE FOR OUR CONTINUED SUPPORT TO UNGC PAKISTAN LOCAL NETWORK AND WISH THEM TO ACHIEVE EXCELLENCE IN THEIR ENDEAVORS. March 7, 2012, GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan, Pharmaceutical Company Contact: Mr. Shahid Mustafa Qureshi Email: Shahid.M.Qureshi@gsk.com Phone:32311101 Fax: 32314898 P 7/21 Brief description of nature of business GSK Pakistan is the largest pharmaceutical company in Pakistan. It is listed on the two major houses of the country i.e. Karachi Stock Exchange and Lahore Stock Exchange – GSK group shares holding is 78.78% of the total shares holding. Major products and poctfolio manufactured and sold includes Antibiotics, dermatology products, CNS portfolio . Antiviral and Anti fungus product, Anti Allergic, Anti ulcer and vaccines. GSK is one of the world’s leading research-based pharmaceutical and healthcare companies. Our mission is to improve the quality of human life by enabling people to do more, feel better and live longer. We develop, research, produce and market vaccines and medicines that target serious diseases. Our Consumer Healthcare business includes over the counter medicines, nutritional and oral healthcare products. Our business employees over 1700 people across Pakistan. We contribute the country in which we operate through creating income and employment, paying taxes and purchasing products and services. As well as these direct financial contributions our products contributes indirectly to economy by preventing and treating diseases and promoting health. We are transforming GSK into a more competitive and efficient company. A company built on strong values and a deep commitment to excellence – a company that our employees, our customers and the societies we work in can be proud of. P 8/21 PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Actions taken Commitment: We support and are committed to upholding the human rights in our sphere of influence in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. System: We are guided by GSK’s own values and ethics in circumstances where Actions there is uncertainty or conflicts of priority. Activities: We have most direct controls over human rights in our own operations. We extend our influence to employees, suppliers, contractors, stakeholders and wider society for respect and protection of human rights for which we feel it as our direct responsibility. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company It is observed that within our sphere of influence the faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person has been enhanced Outcomes considerably and have also determined that it triggered for social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. The respect of law and behave with honesty and integrity in all aspects of public life is improved which also perk up our good name and respect in host communities. P 9/21 PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Actions taken Commitment: We have a candid commitment not to indulge in any activity complicit in human rights abuses and violating the human rights as per the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. System: Adopting best management practices we prohibit human right abuses Actions occurring within our sphere of responsibility. We keep on efforts and remain engaged with stakeholders which enables us to connect with the views and opinion of the societies in which we operate. It helps us identify and address important issues on human rights abuses. Activities: We keep on engaged and better informed of emerging and current issues and changing society expectations. It provides an opportunity for us to voice our approach to responsibility issues, obtain important feedback, build trust, redressal and impletmenting for not to reoccur. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Most of the human right abuses are minimized. We are now more encouraged for Outcomes compliance with ethical standards & rights and performing our obligations. A trust has been built and stake holders are confident of fairness, transparency, equality and free of favoritism and discrimination while dealing with us. We can confidently say that GSK is safeguarding and promoting human rights within our sphere of influence. PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Actions taken Actions Commitment: We uphold the freedom of association, right to organise and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining as per the core labour standards set out by the International Labour Organisation. P 10/21 System: We have separate CBA’s for our workers of former Glaxo Laboratories, former Wellcome, former Beecham and former Brystol Myers Squibb. We always fulfill our responsibility and commitment in respect of agreement with CBAs as well as give freedom of association. Activities: We respect the rights of employees to join an independent trade union and freedom of association and right to organise and or collective bargaining. The workers, unions/their office bearers enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilites without any interference by the management. We believe in dialogue and negotiation. We also regularly conduct meetings with CBA officials besides different forums like Joint Works Council etc. We are providing our workers with best working conditions. In the year 2011 we have concluded separate agreements with our former Glaxo, former Wellcome and former Beecham CBAs amicably, whereas bilateral negotiations with former Brystol Myers Squibb is in progress. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Upon signing of amicable agreements with the CBAs our workers are well Outcomes satisfied and contributing for company growth with hardworking and integrity. Our relations with CBA’s are friendly and based on trust and confidence . We have peace and harmony at all of our instalations. No strike, lockout, go-slow of any nature or any other untoward incident of industrial dispute took place during last 15 years. P 11/21 PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Actions taken Commitment: By implementing international labour standards from the ILO Convention 29 in its mission statement and corporate policy we are committed to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. System: We do not force our employees, contractors and stakeholder to work or extend their services against their will under threat. All work or services which are exacted from any person under the menace of a penalty and for which the said Actions person has not offered himself voluntarily is strictly prohibited. Activities: While appointing employees or making contracts we mention clear and transparent terms and conditions with competitive high valued compensation and benefits. In day-to-day working affairs supervisors deal with their subordinates in a very polite and friendly manner without forcing them against their will and not beyond their strength. Also “work-life balance” is an important socio-economic and labour facilitation in our organisation. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Our employees, contractors and other stakeholders are well satisfied and doing Outcomes their jobs exultantly without have any compel. Our employees have faith on company’s trustworthiness. Employees are entirely satisfied and discharge their duty without such fears. There is no compulsion or force applied and the relationship is based on an employment contract governed by law. P 12/21 PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Actions taken Commitment: We oppose all forms of slavery and exploitative child labour and work with appropriate partners to address this problem responsibly wherever it encounters. System: No one can be hired for employment unless attained the age of 18 years. We are very strict in appointing a person having not completed 18 years of Actions age. The candidate must have CNIC without which he/she is not considered for employement in the company on any nature of job i.e. permanent, temporary, badli or contractual etc. We also keep check and restrict our contractors and suppliers not to use child labour while functioning with the company. Activities: Entry in company premises of a child (below 18 years of age) is prohabited which is very strictly followed. During group audits of HR/IR the issue of child labour is rigorously checked. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Due to our policy, no child labour is used by our company and no such cases have been reported due to which we never have any showcause from the Labour Department. We also never have any complaint from any NGO or any other agency. We have a spotless record in respect of child labour. P 13/21 PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Actions taken Commitment: GSK eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We are committed to continuous improvement in the performance management system for employees at all levels without any discrimination. System: We aim to attract the best employees from a diverse range of backgrounds which gives us a range of perspectives to draw on and helps us to anticipate the needs of the wide range of pepole who use our products. We have not distinction, preference or discrimination regarding gender, race, cast, colour, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin in employment in our company, it is entirely on merit and according to requirement and nature of job. Our employment procedure is based on fairness, transparency, equality and free of favoritism and discrimination. Actions Activities: All workers have equal rights. There is no gender harassment or discrimination in our company at all. All employees pay full respect to oponent gender. We value each employee, value their input and views and benefit from unique flavour this wonderful potential brings. We continuously strive to become employer of choice provide a workplace where people feel confident, valued and inspired. We recognize there is life beyond work and diversity is the key to organizational success. Motivation, work ownership and fair evaluation are some of the defining attributes of staff management practices at GSK. As an employer we are: Providing a fair salary and good conditions of employment; providing a healthy, safe and secure work place for all employees and contractors; oppose to discrimination at work and promoting respect for diversity; promoting the personal development and dignity of every individual employee; Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company We have an atmosphere where all employees feel satisfied and secure and this is the Outcomes reason all employees are working in trouble-free and relaxed environment since long which provides creativity and innovation, and makes GSK a more attractive employer. More active equal opportunity policies have a greater positve effect on our productivity. We continue to make important and exciting changes and by living our values we will achieve results that are good for society as well as for GSK. P 14/21 PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Actions taken Commitment: We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges to achieve sustainable competitive business advantage through leadership and excellence in Environment, Health and Safety. System: We adopt a comprehansive approach to product stewadship, which includes key suppliers and contract manufactures. Interect and cooperate actively with key stakeholders in resolving issues and improving performance. Actions Activities: We strive to reduce the environmental impacts of our operations and products. After many years of managing emissions we are now working towards our long-term goal of environmental sustainability, designing more efficient processes that use fewer types and quantities of materials that are less hazardous and prouce less waste. We engage with stakeholders at corporate and local level to inform our approach to managing EHS and to help identify emerging issues. We have strengthened our commitment to the environment, setting new mbitious targets. Our goal is to reduce the environmental impact of our value chain, from raw materials to product disposal. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Apart from our other remarkable achievements we also achieved reduction in greenhouse gas emissions which, although less than we had hoped, gives us a Outcomes good foundation to build on in the coming years. This approach benefiting the environment, encourages innovation, helps reduce costs and improves relationships with our stakeholder. P 15/21 PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions taken Commitment: We commit to continuous improvement of Environment, Health and Safety performance. Making a clear Envoronment is integral to all GSK business processes, planning and decision making. System: We manage our environmental impacts through our intergrated Environmnet, Health and Safety (EHS) management system. This covers risk identification, standards, training, taget setting and audits. Our EHS system is alingned with the international standards ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Activities: Our EHS policy sets out the broad principles we expect our operations to meet. We have also established 64 Global EHS Standards which outline specific requirements for the company. We provide sites with an EHS management toolkit which contains detailed guidance to help them comply with the standards. Our EHS plan for exvellence sets out our Ten-year strategy to improve EHS performance. The plan is reviewed every five years and new targets Actions are set. It is designed to support GSK’s business strategies and contains three aspirations: EHS fundamentals embedded in the business Environmental sustainability Open and transparent EHS external relations Each of these aspirations is supported by strategic objectives with performance targets in key areas. Furthermore, in order to promote EHS and enhance the knowledge and importance of EHS at workplace we use to celebrate Earth Week, Safety Week and Envioronment Day. We conduct a number of trainings and workshops for all level of staff on regular basis. We also conduct drills and get the employees involved practically to get practical experience. We organise Tree Plantation activity at company level as well as community level. We distribute sampling of trees to various schools and institutions and teach students about the trees and green culture. We provide plants to general parks. We also arrange competitions in schools for presenting environment related paintings and give prizes to the winners. P 16/21 Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes By adopting a philosophy of caring for environment, we imporve our efficiency and productivity, competitiveness, operational excellence and people. P 17/21 PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Actions taken Commitment: We believe that Environment related goals can only be achieved by encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. System: We are dedicated to identifying emerging environmental issues relevant to the pharmaceutical and biotechnical industry and stakeholders and leading efforts to address them strategically and tactically through innovative policies and technology programs. We continue to look for ways to reduce waste and have undertaken waste management by adopting environmentally friendly technologies. Activities: We apply tools, techniques and technology to minimise waste and increase the environmental efficiency of manufcaturing processes. We identify and select waste storage, recycling and disposal options alongwith alternatives Actions considered of the individual waste streams generated at GSK facilities and use environmentally friendly tegnologies to minimise risk to environment, in this regards we have accomplished the following:Occupational exposure limits tests for dust free environment. Installation of Fire & Safety equipments and enhancement of the same as per our Global requirement. Carried out business continuity drill at company level. Machinery/monitoring & air emission tests. Noice surveys Process safety Effluent testing and disposol Ergonomic Surveys P 18/21 Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes We reduced disposal of hazardous waste at our sites. By using the technology we have reduced our engery consumption and reduced the hazardous and nonhazardous wastes and save our cost considerably and able to achieve our corporate goal of protection of environment. P 19/21 PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Actions taken Commitment: Our commitment is that business should work against corruption in all its forms, including exortion and bribery. Business must lead against coruption which entail the integration of value, ethics and standards throughout the organisation such that every employee actively uphold the highest standards. System: We expect employees to meet high ethical standards in all aspects of our business by conducting our activities with honesty and integrity, adhering to our CR principles, and complying with applicable laws and regulations. Strong policies, codes of practice and good training are essential elements of our approach. Our internal compliance systems are designed to identify and address breaches of our codes. Our Employee Guide to Business Conduct requires all employees to act with integrity, comply with the law, avoid conflicts of interests and report any violations or unethical behaviour. It provides guidance, including specific examples, on what constitues unacceptable behaviour. Our policies Actions prohabit kickbacks, bribery or other inducements to doctors, and any promotion for unapproved uses of our medicines. Activities: Apart of our other efforts against corruption and bribery, our anticorruption training, introduced in November 2010. In this respect a comprehensive training course “BUS-010-351, Preventing Bribery and Corruption at GSK (English)” has been launched in our “MY LEARNING” system This course is designed to help employees understand and comply with our anti-bribery and corruption policies. It includes examples of scenarios that employees could encounter in their work. It explains how they should deal with such situations, including how to report a potential problem. The course is available in 18 languages and completing it is mandatory for all GSK managers, as well as employees working in functions such as legal or in regions where there is a higher risk of corruption. Additional face-to-face training has also been introduced for employees involved in the selection, payment and oversight of third parties, in business development and in interactions with government officials. P 20/21 Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company All stakeholders trust in GSK and our products including regulators, doctors and Outcomes patients. Improved risk management by preventing breaches of our ethical policies which could have serious financial or legal consequences, we have a competitive advantage, better reputation and reduced costs of failures. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? Through handout to be distributed to all stake holders i.e. employees, trade unions, suppliers, contractors and related communities. P 21/21
