Sustainability Report 2011 IKEA Group September 1, 2010 – August 31, 2011 Introduction Co-workers IKEA at a glance 4 Our most valuable resource 43 Milestones 5 Highlights 2011 6 Communities Letter from the President and CEO 7 Community involvement 46 Letter from the Chief Sustainability Officer 8 Sustainability Direction 9 Metrics & References Governance 10 Key performance indicators 49 Cross-reference table 52 Customers IKEA products 13 Customer engagement 17 Environment Climate 20 Forestry 26 Cotton 29 Water 31 Waste 32 About this report Yearly Summary, which provides an ness” contains descriptions of our This report describes the sustain­ overview of the company’s financial systematic work with sustainability. Suppliers ability work carried out and results results and highlights from FY11. Home furnishing suppliers 35 on a global level by the IKEA Group It is available at the IKEA website. Read the Yearly Summary at during financial year 2011, from In the last chapter, “Metrics & www.IKEA.com Other IKEA suppliers 39 1 September 2010 to 31 August references”, we have gathered the 2011 (FY11). metrics presented throughout this Would you like to know more? report. This report is our communi­ You can find more information and How to read this report cation on progress (CoP) as a sig­ download documents on our website. The structure of this report reflects natory to the UN Global Compact, Please visit “About IKEA/People and the environmental and social and a cross-reference list shows the Environment” at www.IKEA.com responsibility approach to our how we implement the ten princi­ stakeholders and describes devel­ ples of the UN Global Compact in TELL US WHAT YOU THINK opments during FY11. We use key our operations. We encourage you to send your performance indicators (KPIs) to The report supplement “The IKEA feedback and/or questions about show results against our targets. approach to sustainability – How we this report to us at The report complements the IKEA manage sustainability in our busi­ sustainability.report.se@IKEA.com 2 Contents CO2 reduction target for transportation of products in our operations. –10 % by 2015 Introduction TOTAL SALES FY11 Sales increased by 6.9% compared to 2010. Total sales amounted to EUR 24.7 billion. 13 Store Visits 49 208 In 2011, the IKEA Group stores had 655 million visits. 14 PRODUCTS The IKEA range consists of approximately 9,500 products. PRINTED CATALOGUES, LANGUAGES & EDITIONS The IKEA catalogue was printed in more than 208 million copies in 30 languages and 59 editions. 3 IKEA.com IKEA websites had 870 million visits in 2011. IKEA group CO-WORKERS PER FUNCTION Top Selling Top 5 287 stores Purchasing, distribution, Countries purchasing worldwide wholesale, range & other: 14,300 Germany 15% countries Retail: 100,000 USA 11% China 22% Swedwood: 16,000 France 10% Poland 18% Swedspan: 700 Italy 7% Italy 8% Total co-workers in FY11 131.000 Sweden 6% Sweden 5% Germany 4% The IKEA Group The IKEA Group has operations in 41 countries. 29 Trading offices are located in 25 of these countries. The remaining 16 countries are home to 26 Distribution Centres and 11 Customer Distribution Centres. SUPPLIERS IN 2011 IKEA had 1,026 home furnishing suppliers in 53 countries. PURCHASING CO-WORKERS Sales INDUSTRIAL GROUPS PER REGION PER REGION per region Swedwood, a manufacturing group within the IKEA Group, Europe 63% Europe 106,500 Europe 79% had 16,000 co-workers and 33 production units in 10 countries. Russia, Asia & Australia 33% North America 16,500 North America 14% North America 4% Russia, Asia & Australia 8,000 Russia, Asia & Australia 7% Swedspan, an industrial supplier within the IKEA Group, had 700 co-workers and 5 production units in 5 countries. IKEA Industry Investment & Development (IIID) is an advisory and investment service company and has 13 co-workers. 4 Introduction IKEA at a glance Steps towards a sustainable IKEA Flatpacks and self-assembly become part of the IKEA concept. By using flat packing we can The Dutch registered charitable fit more products in every trailer and container foundation, IKEA Foundation, is IKEA appoints its first The first IKEA environmental policy and thus minimise the number of shipments created. Since 2009, all our global environmental manager is developed, stating that IKEA shall – which in turn means less carbon emissions. philanthropic efforts have been for our global business. always strive to minimise any possible managed by the IKEA Foundation. damaging effects to the environment. 1953 1982 1989 1990 IKEA updates all supplier contracts to reflect Inter­ IKEA bans the use The iconic IKEA Catalogue becomes national Labor Organization (ILO) standards on IKEA becomes a founding member of tropical wood the first major colour print publication child labour. IKEA starts work with Save the of the global forest certification not originating from in the world to use totally chlorine ­Children to promote and protect children’s rights, organisation Forest Stewardship responsible forestry free (TCF) paper. integrating knowledge into our supplier standards. Council (FSC). or plantations. 1994 1993 1992 1991 IKEA employs its first IKEA launches its supplier code of conduct, IWAY, Together with WWF, IKEA forestry manager to 1998 A Waste Management covering both environmental and social standards. starts a number of projects to increase respons­ible Manual is established for A children’s rights project with UNICEF breaks further encourage greater forest management IKEA retail operations. ground in India, providing quality education to adoption of responsible forest practices. 80,500 children in Uttar Pradesh. management. The IKEA Soft Toys campaign is introduced. During the holiday 1999 2000 2002 2003 season at the end of each year, the IKEA Foundation donates IKEA becomes a founding member of the Better Cotton one euro for every soft toy sold IKEA confirms its long-term ambition Initiative, which aims to reduce stress on the environ­ in IKEA stores to support Save to run all IKEA owned operations from The first IKEA Social the Children and UNICEF proj­ ment and improve the livelihoods in cotton farming 100% renewable energy and to be­ and Environmental ects aimed at improving access communities. IKEA and WWF establish Farmer Field come 25 percent more energy efficient Responsi­bility Report to quality education for children. Schools in India and Pakistan to train cotton farmers in compared to 2005. is published. So far, 35.2 million euro have more sustainable cultivation practices. been donated as a result of 2006 2005 2004 the campaign. IKEA and WWF form a strategic partner­ IKEA Foundation supports UNICEF 2007 ship aimed at further All coffee sold and served across IKEA is converted to UTZ Certified, meeting independently verified and Save the Children programmes reducing greenhouse social and environmental standards for responsible on children’s rights in cotton growing IKEA develops a Sustainability Direction for gas emissions in IKEA coffee-growing practices. The coffee beans can be com­munities in India and Pakistan. 2015, with key priorities and overall goals. operations, supply traced back to the plantations through a unique The Never Ending List is released to Steve Howard is appointed to the IKEA Group chain and among code on each pack. IKEA customers, outlining our prog­ management as Chief Sustainability Officer. customers. ress on sustainability. 5 2008 2009 2010 Introduction Milestones Speeding up investments in Driving renewable energy energy efficiency IKEA has made major investments in renewable energy as we move towards our long-term goal of using 100 During FY11, energy efficiency across all IKEA stores improved by 4 percent compared to FY10, helping us save 6.2 million euro and percent renewable energy. More than half of our demonstrating how sustainability improvements can deliver strong buildings’ energy need now comes from renewable business benefits. This was mainly achieved through improved sources. Solar panel installations on 40 IKEA build­ energy efficiency of store equipment, such as h­ eating, ventilation, ings in seven countries and 60 wind turbines pro­ and air conditioning (HVAC) systems duced 152 gigawatt hours (GWh) of “green” and smarter use of commercial light­ electricity this year, equivalent to around 12 ing. We are also enabling cus­ percent of the electricity needed to run all tomers to save energy in IKEA stores and distribution centres. their homes. During FY11, Read more on page 20 we sold around 168,000 energy efficient induction hobs, which is nearly half of Increased share of all kitchen hobs sold at IKEA. Read more on page 20 certified wood in the range IKEA forestry requirements demand that all wood used in our prod­ ucts shall be of known origin, and we work in partnership with WWF large donations from the and the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) toward our long-term goal IKEA Foundation of sourcing all of our wood from responsibly managed forests that are independently verified. The IKEA Foundation aims to improve the opportunities for In FY11, the share of FSC-certified wood in the IKEA range children and youth in developing countries by funding holistic, increased from 15.8 percent to 16.2 percent, bringing our total use long-term programmes run by expert partners such as UNICEF of FSC-certified wood to 2.2 million cubic metres – equivalent to and Save the Children. Programmes are designed to c ­ reate 55,000 fully loaded timber trucks. substantial, lasting change, enabling communities in develop­ Read more on page 26 ing countries to take charge of their own future. Total dona­ tions from the IKEA Foundation increased Significantly more to 65 million euro from 45 million the year before, and currently funded pro­ grammes are expected to benefit sustainable cotton in IKEA textiles an estimated 100 million children. IKEA works with WWF and other local partners to help cotton farm­ Read more on page 46 ers in India, Pakistan, China and Turkey to introduce more sustaina­ ble cultivation methods to their cotton-growing practises. More than 100,000 farmers now use techniques that significantly reduce the need for chemical pesticides, fertilisers and water. The share of more sustainable cotton in the IKEA range increased signifi­ cantly in FY11 – up to 50 000 tonnes, representing 23.8 percent of our total ­cotton use, compared to 13.4 percent last year. Read more on page 29 6 Introduction Highlights 2011 “What is good for society is good for us” Our vision “to create a better everyday life for the many people” gives IKEA endless opportunities to do good for people and the environ­ ment. The “many people” are not just customers or potential custom­ ers. It also covers our co-workers, the ­people working at our suppli­ ers’ factories, the local community and beyond. We believe what is good for society is good for IKEA. We are pas­ sionate about creating a successful business where we act in a responsible way through small and large actions. It is a way of being. This is why sustainability is a cornerstone in the IKEA strategic direction – it is highly prioritised and serves as a driver of further innovation and development. Economising with resources, finding new ways of doing things and developing our knowledge and exper­ tise, are important parts of our business idea and heritage. A low price company must be a low cost company, and this includes being careful with earth’s limited resources. IKEA has unique capabilities and tremendous enthusiasm to make a positive contribution across the world from the forests of Siberia to the cotton fields of India and all the way into people’s homes in New York, ­Lisbon and Shanghai. Our customers rightly expect us to not only to make our products in a responsible way, but also to help them live more sustainably. Many of our ambitions and endeavours to “create a better every­ day life” involve risks, and we are aware that we will make mistakes along the way. We are constantly learning new things, and must remain honest about the areas where we can improve – continuing to share our progress. Thank you for letting us share some of them through this report. Mikael Ohlsson President and CEO, IKEA Group 7 Introduction Letter from the CEO “IKEA truly wants to make a difference” There is no doubt that sustainability is having a greater impact on all of our lives. In a world where millions of people will come out of poverty in the coming decades a positive step forward for society and many millions are moving into cities every year, we need to move quickly if we are to ensure this growth has less impact on the environment. Climate change is already having an effect on people’s lives. Extreme weather is causing chaos. Resource shortages are being reflected in higher market prices for everything from cocoa to copper. If we are not really smart and do things right – and fast – we will risk serious food and raw material scarcity in the future. Yet I am optimistic. The sense of urgency in IKEA has intensified and we are continuing to push ourselves to do even more. We are working hard to secure more renewable energy, protect raw materials, and drive innovation to eliminate waste choosing instead to create new, valuable resources. And we are making good progress. Nearly a year has passed since I joined IKEA. It is clear that IKEA sees sustainability as a key, strategic issue which is also driven from a values perspective, deeply rooted in the company culture. As a lifelong environmentalist, I can see that IKEA truly wants to make a difference. IKEA co-workers are enthusiastic and committed, and this is incredibly powerful. We could not do this alone. We are grateful for the support from those that have helped take us this far – IKEA suppliers, customers, and expert partners. But we should not forget that the real task lies ahead of us. Social and environmental leadership is not optional if we are to be the world’s leading home furnishing company. We must continue to go further with our commitments, engage even more with society, take full responsibility of every impact of our business, and bring a sustainable lifestyle into people’s homes. I believe that IKEA can make sustainable life affordable and inspiring and that business can be a force for good. If we can achieve that, we will be doing both ourselves and society a great service. Steve Howard Chief Sustainability Officer, IKEA Group 8 Introduction Letter from the CSO The IKEA Sustainability 3 Turning waste into resources Direction 2015 IKEA is investigating new and innovative ways to turn waste into resources, and is testing how to close material loops – minimising the amount of waste that Sustainability is one of four cornerstones in the five-year strategy for IKEA, ends up in landfill or being incinerated. So far, we have focused on testing plastics from packaging and home furnishing products. The results show great potential “Growing IKEA together”. The Sustainability Direction outlines our priorities for recycling of materials. until FY15. Its five main priorities that influence the entire value chain, from GOALS FY15 product design and development to the very end of a product’s life, are: • We shall have zero waste to landfill from our own operations. 1 • We shall enable and encourage all customers to reuse or recycle all IKEA products Offering a range of products that are more sustainable at end-of-life. We have started to evaluate our home furnishing products against the IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card, our tool for more sustainable product development and purchasing. The 4 Reducing our water footprint ambition is to have evaluated 80 percent of products (based on sales value) by FY12. Existing products are continuously improved, and designers and product developers have new tools Our most significant water footprint comes from cotton cultivation. This is why we actively that enable us to develop a more sustainable range of products. support cotton farmers’ efforts to introduce more sustainable farming practices. In FY11, we mapped water use in the manufacturing of our products and started working with suppliers GOALS FY15 to help them reduce water consumption. • 90 percent of our sales value shall come from home furnishing products classified as “more sustainable” in the IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card. GOALS FY15 • All materials for home furnishing products shall be renewable, recyclable or recycled. • We shall significantly reduce the water footprint in our own operations and • Our energy-consuming products shall on average be 50 percent more efficient than what throughout our supply chain. was installed on the market in 2008. 5 Taking social responsibility 2 Taking a leading role towards creating a low carbon society The share of suppliers that fully comply with the IKEA supplier code of conduct IWAY has IKEA has made major investments in renewable energy. Today, we have 60 operational wind increased steadily. Today, 67 percent of our home furnishings suppliers are IWAY approved. turbines and 40 photovoltaic installations that contribute a total of 152 Gigawatt hours (GWh) Since IWAY was first introduced in 2000, it has contributed to more than 165,000 registered to the electricity grid, and many more are under way. More than half of improvements. the energy used to run our units is now renewable. GOALS FY12 GOALS FY15 • All our home furnishing suppliers and transport service providers shall comply • By being innovative, energy efficient and using more renewable energy, we shall with all requirements in our supplier code of conduct, IWAY. significantly reduce CO2 emissions from our own operations, the supply chain GOALS FY15 and customers travelling to IKEA stores. • The global index average in the annual co-worker survey VOICE shall reach • We shall help reduce CO2 emissions in society by offering products, solutions 700 or above out of a maximum of 1,000. and know-how that enable our customers to reduce their carbon footprint and • The IKEA Foundation funded projects will reach more than 100 million children. live a more sustainable life at home. • All IKEA units shall have a clearly defined plan for community involvement • We shall actively participate in developing tools to measure the company’s based on our Charity Policy. positive impact on the climate. 9 Introduction Sustainability Direction Sustainability is core Sustainability is a cornerstone of our overall direction Sustainability is one of the four cornerstones of the overall direction for to everything we do the IKEA Group, “Growing IKEA together”. We want sustainability to be an integrated part of our business, which means that all IKEA strategies and business plans must clearly and systematically integrate sustaina­ bility improvements and investments as part of everyday operations. To The vision for the IKEA business is to “create a better assist this process, we have developed the “IKEA Sustainability Direc­ tion” with key priorities and overall goals for FY15. everyday life for the many people”. This means caring We want to take social and environmental responsibility in every about people and the environment. IKEA sees sustain­ stage of our value chain. We are therefore creating and securing sus­ ability as a business opportunity as well as tainable processes for: an essential component of being a good company. • product development and sourcing of raw materials The IKEA Sustainability Direction for FY15 helps us of home furnishing and food products consistently move all aspects of our operations in the • production and distribution right direction towards our goals. • stores and shopping centres • product end-of-life Local, national and global responsibility IKEA vision, business idea and sustainability The IKEA culture is key in defining how we work with sustainability. • The IKEA vision is to create a better everyday life for the Among our values are togetherness, humbleness, simplicity and costmany people. consciousness. We believe in doing more from less, listening to and learning from others, and being fair and honest. • Our business idea is to offer a wide range of well-designed, func­ IKEA managers and co-workers, right across our business, are all tional home furnishing products at prices so low that as many responsible for including sustainability in their areas of responsibility people as possible will be able to afford them. and setting relevant goals to measure progress. Sustainability manag­ • Our ambition is to take the lead in a sustainable, affordable life ers and social and environmental experts provide support on a wide at home – inspiring “the many people” to fulfil their needs and range of areas, such as chemical, forestry, energy, code of conduct dreams at home, within the limits of the planet. and auditing. In addition, all IKEA stores and distribution centres have social and environmental co-ordinators who deliver with sustainabilityrelated training, and review and manage working conditions, safety, waste, and water and energy conservation. All sustainability managers report to their line manager, but they are also part of a sustainability matrix headed by the Chief Sustaina­ bility Officer (CSO), IKEA Group. The CSO reports to the CEO of IKEA and is also a member of the IKEA Executive Management. 10 Introduction Governance Anti-corruption stance IKEA does not accept corruption in any form, whether direct or indi­ rect, and works proactively to prevent it. All suppliers must sign an acceptance of this policy. Our anti-corruption policy and internal code of conduct describe how to act if fraud, corruption, theft or other misconduct is sus­ pected. Clear policies and an internal ethics program with training and workshops help to minimise the risk of unwanted behaviour in the IKEA organisation. We make regular risk assessments in coun­ tries around the world and handle any deviations to our policy and guidelines with systematic urgency. Working together with others Read more in IKEA cooperates with companies, trade unions, NGOs, governments “The IKEA approach to sustainability” and industry organisations to develop and strengthen the impact of our work within the sustainability field. By sharing experiences and learning from others, we can accomplish more than we could have done by working on our own. IKEA has long-term partnerships with UNICEF and Save the Chil­ dren to strengthen children’s rights. We also work with the global con­ servation organisation, WWF, on forest, cotton and climate change projects. Global Compact’s guiding principles Read more on page 51 IKEA is a signatory to the United Nation’s Global Compact. We are Communication on progress committed to aligning our operations and strategies to the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, envi­ ronment and anti-corruption. 11 Introduction Governance We were the first retailer in the world to introduce 100% traceable UTZ Certified cocoa in the form of a chocolate bar. Customers Developing more New tools to facilitate sustainable product development The IKEA Sustainability Score Card, developed last year, is now actively sustain­able products in use. This is the most important of a number of new tools helping IKEA develop more sustainable products. By the end of FY15, we aim to without compromises have 90 percent of our sales value come from products that are classi­ fied as more sustainable according our Score Card criteria. In addition to evaluating all the products we sell, we are continuing to make improvements at an individual product level. At the start of 2011, 200 design and range development co-workers received train­ We want customers to confidently and freely choose Read more in ing on how to use the web-based Score Card. So far, products that “The IKEA approach among all our products, knowing that IKEA is com­ account for around seven percent of IKEA sales value have been eval­ to sustainability” mitted to sustainable practices and that they do not uated using the Score Card’s 11 criteria. Our ambition is to have 80 have to choose between sustainability, style, function percent of the sales value evaluated by the end of FY12. or price. It is in our nature to economise on resources, IKEA has also started to use a basic life-cycle assessment tool that helps us compare materials and products with a focus on CO2 emissions. and we always try to make more from less. In addition, product developers and technicians use a new guide Our products must always be safe and healthy. that provides a quick overview of key sustainability aspects of 100 of IKEA started to test product quality back in the 1960s. the most important materials in IKEA products, outlining the carbon Today, we conduct thousands of tests in laboratories footprint and to what extent it is renewable and/or recyclable. All three tools – the IKEA scorecard, lifecycle assessment tool and each year to check IKEA products’ fire resistance, material guide – contribute to making sustainability part of product durability, emissions and much more. development, helping us identify opportunities for continuous improvements of the IKEA range of products. Mapping materials to investigate the need for alternatives Did you know • We meet our customers in the IKEA • All IKEA stores have a customer By the end of FY15 we aim to ensure that all materials used in stores, where we sell everything for restaurant serving fresh, affordable IKEA products shall be recycled, recyclable or renewable. Analysis the home displayed in inspiring dishes including organic and conducted in FY11 shows there are currently 45 materials – used in room settings. In FY11, 655 million healthy options. Most stores also products representing around 10 percent of IKEA sales value – that customers visited our 287 stores in have a Swedish Food Market, offer­ do not meet any of these criteria. Challenging materials include foam, 26 countries. ing delicious food items under the rubber and plastic composites. The next step is to develop action • The IKEA range comprises some IKEA Food brand. plans for replacing these materials or improving them so they can, for 9,500 home furnishing products. example, become recyclable. At the same time, it is important not to Materials and products are subject introduce additional renewable materials that lead to new social and to extensive testing, and we work proactively to stay ahead of health environmental conflicts. For instance, plastics made from vegetable oils and safety standards and regula­ may cause conflicts if land is used for raw material crops instead of tions. food crops. 13 Customers IKEA products Polyurethane foam, which is widely used for mattresses and sofas, Innovative technology saves on resources for flat-line products is durable and comfortable, but it is based on fossil oil and is difficult Many popular IKEA products such as PAX wardrobes and MALM chest to recycle. This is why we are investigating how to make it more sus­ of drawers are made from foiled, veneered or lacquered particle tainable – by introducing, for example, renewable raw materials in board. This heavy material is increasingly being replaced with a lightthe foam and by recycling production scraps as well as foam that has weight particle board called BoBoard, which is unique to IKEA. Using been discarded by consumers. BoBoard, products are made with high density board only where fit­ tings are placed and extra sturdiness is needed. Significantly less raw Products that reduce the use of energy and water material is needed. Product quality and durability, however, remain We want to help our customers reduce their energy and water use at the same. home. We are well on our way to reaching our FY15 goal that all energy Developed at one of our Swedspan factories in Sweden from 2004 and water consuming products shall be on average at least 50 percent onwards, this technology was implemented on a bigger scale in FY11 more efficient than the average installed products in 2008. when Swedspan Lithuania introduced BoBoard manufacturing. Next All IKEA appliances now have energy rating A or A+, and all incandes­ year, we expect to produce 400,000 cubic metres of BoBoard for the cent light sources have been replaced with the more energy efficient IKEA range, saving around 40,000 tonnes of raw materials or 80,000 Compact Fluorescent (CFL), halogen and energy-saving light-emitting cubic metres of wood. diodes (LED). Our new range of front-loaded washing machines, introduced on Tackling challenges with palm oil European markets in FY11, is highly water-efficient. The largest, with IKEA purchases Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certifi­ a seven kilogram capacity, uses only 45 litres per load. cates equivalent to the volume of palm oil used in IKEA products, mainly for candles. We estimate that we will buy 60,000 certificates to Introducing more and more affordable LED light sources cover the palm oil volume used by IKEA in FY11. Energy-saving light-emitting diode (LED) solutions are one example Our goal is to help stimulate more sustainable palm oil production. of how IKEA makes efficient technology more widely available by cre­ We want to play our part in addressing deforestation, peat land ating an affordable, competitive offer. destruction, and social issues relating to indigenous populations and Our first LED lighting product was introduced in the range in 2007. smallholders as well as working conditions in big producer countries The first separate LED light bulb, with a bayonet fitting, was intro­ such as Malaysia and Indonesia. duced in FY11. In FY12, the range of LED bulbs will be expanded to This is also why IKEA, together with Kraft Foods, has committed to fit a variety of lamp sockets and lighting needs. The range of lamps support a United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) project in with integrated LED lights will also be significantly expanded. Indonesia, which aims to achieve sectorial change that will support sus­ tainable palm cultivation on a national scale. Focus will be placed on Phasing out expanded polystyrene packaging small palm oil producers’ needs in order to produce sustainable crops. IKEA has decided to phase out packaging solutions using expanded Smallholders account for 40 percent of Indonesia’s total palm oil pro­ polystyrene (EPS) foam by the end of FY15, and no new EPS packag­ duction and are key to the country’s economic growth and to preserv­ ing applications will be allowed as of 2012. EPS is commonly used as ing the environment. The ambition is to start in mid-2012 and run the a shock absorber for fragile products, including white goods and initiative over five years, depending on additional funding from other ceramics. parties. EPS is oil-based and difficult to recycle in many IKEA markets, and We hope that national, provincial and district governments in Indo­ in some regions it ends up in landfills. Instead, IKEA wants to use a nesia as well as companies, NGOs and other associations will provide number of more sustainable alternatives. One promising solution is to coordinated support across the sector and throughout the value chain use fibrous shock absorbers made from 100 percent recycled paper to address the key issues and thus contribute to thriving ecosystems, and cardboard, which is folded or moulded to suit the product it sur­ local communities and economy. rounds – basically the same solution commonly used for egg cartons. 14 Customers IKEA products Converting the IKEA Food range to 100% IKEA branded standards for food sourcing, such as our standard on broiler chicken we products developed together with Compassion in World Farming (CIWF) in FY10. The entire range of some 100 food products sold in our stores’ Swed­ Instead, IKEA supports the development and use of globally accepted ish Food Markets is now IKEA unique and sold under the IKEA Food independent standards for animal welfare from the non-profit Global brand. Animal Partnership (GAP). Standards originally developed for the US By moving exclusively to IKEA branded food products we can offer market are now being adapted globally by GAP, which includes input unique, quality products at low prices, and gain better opportunities from farmers, scientists, retailers, sustainability experts and animal wel­ to influence sustainability aspects during product development and fare advocates. We believe this will support harmonised efforts and help along the supply chain. solve challenges related to animal welfare. Over the coming years, the IKEA Food range will be expanded fur­ ther. Among the new products to be introduced in FY12 are organic Increased training in product safety ginger bread cookies and organic sweets. Annual training in the IKEA safety alarm process, which helps us pre­ vent injury and/or health hazards, became mandatory for represent­ Focused efforts to use more sustainable food ingredients atives for all IKEA stores in FY11. Each IKEA market has at least one We are currently working to increase our use of more sustainable raw dedicated specialist resource, spreading knowledge through a trainmaterials in our food products, focusing on those that have particular the-trainer approach. social and/or environmental impacts. We have chosen to work mainly IKEA has also started a Product Safety and Compliance School, with coffee, cocoa, tea, salmon and other animal-based products. offering key co-workers from across IKEA training in the safety alarm At least one dish served in IKEA restaurants must be made exclu­ process, risk assessment, investigations in case of non-compliance sively with organic ingredients. All coffee sold and served at IKEA is and much more. The training is built of different modules relevant for UTZ Certified since 2008. In 2011, IKEA was the first retailer in the different IKEA functions working with product-related safety devia­ world to introduce UTZ Certified cocoa in the form of a fully traceable tions. The aim is to have all modules ready in 2013, mixing class­ chocolate bar. All our chocolate bars and the tea sold and served at room sessions with e-learning activities. IKEA shall be UTZ Certified by the end of FY15. IKEA is also part of the Salmon Dialogue, which is developing prin­ ciples and criteria for responsible salmon farming. The goal is that all IKEA salmon products are sourced according to the Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) standard by 2015. All other fish must be sourced according to the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) criteria or appear in the “WWF Seafood consumer guide” to species that come from healthy and well-managed populations that can sustain current fishing levels. Taking the next steps towards ensuring animal welfare Read more about the IKEA believes that good animal welfare is important and an essential Global Animal Partnership at www.global­ criteria for high-quality food and home furnishing products, and we animalpartnership.org do not accept cruelty to animals. IKEA has developed an Animal Welfare Policy containing basic requirements on animal rearing, transport and slaughter. It will be rolled out across our home furnishing and food supply chains in FY12. IKEA has decided not to develop further IKEA specific animal welfare 15 Customers IKEA products Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 KPI – Customers: More sustainable products For a product and its packaging to be classified as more sustainable, FY11 Goal FY15 it must score a certain number of points in the IKEA Sustainability IKEA home furnishing products classified as Product Score Card. It is a prerequisite that the product is produced more sustainable*, % sales value 2 90 by suppliers that meet the social and environmental requirements in Renewable, recyclable, recycled materials % 88 100 the IKEA supplier code of conduct IWAY. We started using the Score Improved efficiency, % Card following an intense training period in the first quarter of 2011. Improved efficiency of energy consuming At the end of FY11, products that account for around seven percent products (compared to the average installed of IKEA sales value had been evaluated, of which 21 percent were on the market 2008) 31 50 classified as more sustainable – equivalent to 2 percent of our total Improved efficiency water consuming prod­ sales value. Evaluations are moving forward and we believe 80 per­ ucts (compared to the average installed on the market 2008) n/a 50 cent of the sales value will be evaluated by the end of FY12. We want the entire IKEA range to be made out of renewable, recy­ *According to criteria in the IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card lable or recycled materials by the end of FY15, and the current 88 percent share of the total range indicates that developments are on track. We are well on our way to meet our efficiency goal for energy con­ suming products such as appliances and lights. However, we have not yet found a reliable solution for how to measure improvements in water efficiency compared to historic market averages. LED is by far the most energy efficient lighting technology on the market. The first separate IKEA LED bulb was introduced in FY11, and we expect the LED share of sales to increase over the next few years as we introduce a wider range of affordable bulbs with this technology. 16 Customers IKEA products Making a difference by Record high ambitions for the IKEA Soft Toys campaign During the holiday season at the end of each year, the IKEA Founda­ Read more about the Soft Toys campaign at engaging millions of tion donates one euro for every soft toy sold in IKEA stores world­ www.ikeafoundation.org wide, split between Save the Children and UNICEF projects, aiming IKEA customers at improving children’s education. Joining the campaign with a pur­ chase is an easy way for customers to engage in our fight to realise every child’s right to a quality education. The FY12 campaign, starting in November 2011, is expected to generate a record 12 million euro. The money will support projects in IKEA customers are encouraged to contribute to posi­ Read more in 16 countries; Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, China, Ethiopia, “The IKEA approach tive social and environmental development through Indonesia, Lithuania, Madagascar, Mali, Mozambique, Myanmar, Niger, to sustainability” campaigns and activities run by IKEA and our partners. Philippines, Romania, Russia and South Africa. Save the Children Customer engagement helps us raise awareness of projects focus mainly on Asia, while UNICEF projects focus on Africa. key issues and make a difference in many parts of the Customers purchased 8.6 million soft toys during the FY11 cam­ paign. In total, the IKEA Foundation donated 11.4 million euro world. We also want to inspire customers to adopt based on this and other campaign activities, enabling UNICEF and more sustainable behaviours in their everyday life and Save the Children to extend or start projects in 20 countries. Since thus reduce their environmental impact. the campaign began in 2003, the IKEA Foundation has donated 35.2 million euro and contributed to improved education for approxi­ mately eight million children in 45 countries. IKEA CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT 11.4 • There are two global customer engagement activities – the Soft 2010 Toys campaign and the sale of SUNNAN solar lamps. • The IKEA FAMILY customer club, with more than 45 million customers in 24 countries, is often used to engage customers in a variety of national and local activities related to social and environmental responsibility. IKEA Foundation • IKEA wants to help people live a more sustainable life at home Soft Toys campaign donations 7.2 2009 by creating awareness and promoting relevant and affordable (million euro) product solutions that reduce energy and water use as well as household waste. 5.4 2008 4.2 2007 2.9 2.2 2006 2003–2004 1.9 2005 17 Customers Customer engagement SUNNAN lamps light up children’s lives The study, using focus groups and quantitative surveys, explored For every SUNNAN solar-powered lamp sold in IKEA stores, the IKEA attitudes towards sustainability – what consumers expect from IKEA Foundation donates one SUNNAN lamp. The lamps are distributed by and what they will give us permission to do to help them live a more UNICEF and Save the Children to children in developing countries sustainable life at home. such as Ethiopia, Kenya and India to help them play, read, write and The results show that consumers welcome help from IKEA on inte­ study after dusk. Since the start of the project in June 2009, approxi­ grating sustainability into their lives at home. They also want IKEA to mately one million SUNNAN lamps have been sold, enabling the same take an active role beyond the company’s own operations. The study number of lamps to be donated. will provide valuable input to our sustainability strategy and internal and external communication over the coming years. IKEA FAMILY engages customers through local activities The IKEA FAMILY customer club helps us care for and reward our Encouraging people to live a more sustainable life at home most active customers, and the relationship provides opportunities to IKEA and WWF are working together in a climate-related project to engage them and capture their feedback on social and environmental promote a more sustainable life at home by inspiring IKEA customers issues. and co-workers to adopt sustainable behaviours. The focus is on General guidelines for member activities are developed centrally reducing energy and water consumption, minimising food and other and managed nationally or locally. IKEA markets are encouraged to household waste. The project, which started in FY10, has been engage members in charities and a variety of environmental events, extended to run throughout FY12. as well as in IKEA FAMILY-arranged seminars on living a more sustain­ IKEA created an internal educational film based on two small tests able life at home. involving customers and co-workers in China and Sweden. In FY12, the IKEA FAMILY has e-mail addresses to many of its 45 million mem­ project will further explore customer behaviour and needs further. A bers. This helps us engage them in specific activities. IKEA and UNICEF, number of households and one small business in Kalmar, Sweden, will for example, are working together on a trial in three IKEA markets to over a six-month period test IKEA products and solutions to live a more encourage IKEA FAMILY members to sign up for UNICEF’s Global Parents sustainable life and the results, including their environmental impact, campaign on national UNICEF web sites. will be measured and shared internally and externally. The households will evaluate the way IKEA communicates its sus­ Raising awareness of climate change through Earth Hour tainable solutions so that we can find more inspiring and effective Read more about In March 2011, IKEA units in 25 countries engaged co-workers and ways to engage the many customers. A strategy for communication Earth Hour at www.earthhour.org customers in the annual Earth Hour campaign, and 18 of these ran and store solutions will be developed based on the households’ input. national activities together with WWF. The project is also expected to provide valuable insights to range Earth Hour is an opportunity for us to pledge support of planet development at IKEA. Earth by turning off non-essential lighting, as well as to offer a range In addition to the project, an increasing number of IKEA stores are of climate-related activities for customers and co-workers. WWF runs using room settings to engage customers and promote sustain­able the annual Earth Hour campaign to make people more aware of cli­ solutions. In FY12, all stores will display three kitchens with products mate change and inspire them to take practical actions to reduce and communication aimed at raising awareness of how to minimise their own carbon footprint. waste and reduce energy and water use. Learning more about consumers’ views In FY11, IKEA commissioned a brand strategy consultant to better understand perceptions of IKEA and its sustainability efforts. The project captured insights from 8,500 consumers and 1,250 IKEA coworkers in eight countries on three continents. 18 Customers Customer engagement Share of more sustainable cotton used in IKEA products. 13.4 % Environment Reducing the carbon IKEA joins call for 30 percent emissions reduction IKEA supports the Joint Business Declaration, an EU business call for footprint throughout the 30 percent greenhouse gas emissions reduction by 2020 founded by The Climate Group, University of Cambridge Programme for Sustaina­ value chain bility and WWF Climate Savers. The decision to support this call signals our willingness to collabo­ rate with governments, NGOs and other companies to help achieve an exciting, affordable low carbon society. Climate change affects us all. It leads to more extreme Read more in Increased investments in renewable energy for IKEA buildings “The IKEA approach temperatures, new wind patterns, worsening drought IKEA has made major investments in renewable energy over the past to sustainability” in some regions, heavier rain in others, melting gla­ few years as we move towards our long-term goal of using ciers and rising global average sea levels. IKEA wants 100 percent renewable energy. The work to install photovoltaic (solar) panels on around 150 IKEA to take a leading role towards creating a low carbon stores and distribution centres is progressing at increasing speed. society and strives to reduce emissions throughout the Installations have been completed at 40 units in seven countries – value chain. Germany, Canada, Spain, US, Italy, UK and Belgium. Another 20 Tackling climate change requires a wide range of projects are on the way, and so far investment decisions have been actions beyond how our products are manufactured and taken for a total of 124 photovoltaic projects. IKEA also made large investments in wind farms in FY11. One transported, and how we heat, cool and light our build­ operating wind farm with seven turbines was purchased in Scotland, ings. This is why we have a holistic approach and take and IKEA is building a nine turbine wind farm in central Sweden. This part in climate-related initiatives all the way from raw wind farm, expected to be connected to the grid at the end of 2011, material extraction to the use of our products in cus­ will produce renewable electricity equivalent to 75 percent of the elec­ tricity consumption of the 17 IKEA stores in Sweden. tomers’ homes and at the end of a product’s life-cycle. In FY11, our 60 operational wind mills and 40 solar panel installa­ tions generated around 152 gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity, equivalent to around 12 percent of the electricity needed to run our stores and distribution centres. The amount of renewable energy gen­ Did you know • IKEA investments in renewable • We support IKEA suppliers to erated from our own sources is expected to increase significantly in energy have increased substantially reduce their energy consumption FY12. over the past few years. and increase the share of renewa­ • IKEA strives to use innovative and ble energy used for manufacturing and to heat and cool buildings. More energy efficient IKEA stores efficient transport solutions for our During FY11, energy efficiency across all IKEA stores improved by four products. Effective distribution in the entire goods flow from supplier percent compared to FY10, helping us save 6.2 million euro and dem­ to customer is an important aspect onstrating how sustainability improvements can deliver strong busi­ of achieving a low price and mini­ ness benefits. This was mainly achieved through improved energy mising climate impact. efficiency of store equipment, such as heating, ventilation, and air 20 Environment Climate conditioning (HVAC) systems and smarter use of commercial lighting. the new goods standards in a safe and effective manner. A simulation tool was used for all new store projects in FY11 to IKEA product developers and packaging specialists optimise help integrate more energy efficient methods before construction designs to fit modern trucks and containers rather than the fixed breaks ground. The tool helps calculate the consequences of archi­ wood pallet sizes. The compact, lightweight and recyclable paper pal­ tectural aspects, as well as various technological solutions for light­ lets and loading ledges allow more goods in each load. Paper pallets ing, heating and cooling while also comparing estimated pay-back are only five centimetres high, one third of wooden pallets. time. By simulating the consequences of different options before the Around 60 percent of product volumes going by sea are now trans­ final decisions are taken, IKEA can reduce the store’s energy con­ ported in High-Cube (HC) containers with a standard height of 2.7 sumption and operating costs for many years to come. metres. These are only 12 percent larger than traditional Dry-Van The current average energy consumption for existing stores is close (DV) containers with a height of 2.4 metres, but we can often load 25 to 67 kilowatt hours (kWh) per cubic metre of sold goods. New stores percent more as HC allows for an extra half-pallet layer of products in some locations – depending on the local climate and other factors – loaded on paper pallets and loading ledges. have the potential to limit the consumption to 25–30 kWh/m³. Similarly, we are shifting road transport from the standard 2.4 metre high trailers to the increasingly common 2.7 metre high trailers New IKEA national energy efficiency targets for stores in Europe. This is expected to have the same positive impact on We have set annual targets for energy efficiency improvements at reducing road transport as the HC containers have at sea. In turn, this national levels, based on local conditions and circumstances. Energy will contribute to keeping CO2 increases from transport lower than the efficiency in IKEA stores is expected to improve by 3 to 5 percent per overall IKEA sales growth. annum FY12–15, representing an overall improvement of 20 percent A third, half-pallet level is not always possible due to issues such compared to FY10. as weight limitations, but our tests show that if we use the higher trailers and containers globally where and when suitable, the saving New ambitious CO2 reduction target for transport of products can be 100,000 loads less per year, equivalent to 58,000 tonnes of IKEA has to set a more ambitious reduction target for CO2 emissions CO2 emission. from transport of products. The goal set in FY10 was to reduce emissions by 10 percent by the Increasing intermodal transportation to reduce road travel end of FY15, with FY10 as the base year and calculated as grams per IKEA strives to reduce road transportation to cut CO2 emissions, and cubic metre transported goods (CO2/m3). Having revised that target instead use more rail. While railway transport all the way from suppli­ we now aim to reduce emissions by 20 percent by the end of FY16. ers to stores or distribution centres is not always feasible, we are This new target reflects improving filling rates as well as efforts among increasing the use of intermodal transport. Goods are loaded onto transport service providers to reduce their fleet emissions. a container or trailer that can be transported by ship, rail or truck without handling the freight itself when changing modes. Continued efforts to reduce transport needs by In FY11, two new intermodal routes were introduced; one between optimising loads Romania via the Benelux countries to the UK, and one between Poland Ongoing efforts throughout the IKEA supply chain help us fit more and Italy. In total, around a dozen intermodal routes have been products into each truck and container, reducing the number of established in Europe. transports and thus reducing carbon emissions. The work to phase out wooden pallets is progressing well. Today Projects contribute to improved energy efficiency at suppliers 70 percent of shipments from suppliers to IKEA distribution centres and Successful energy projects with suppliers prove that relatively modest stores in Europe and all transport in Asia are made using paper pallets investments often lead to big improvements in energy efficiency. and recycled plastic loading ledges. Stores and distribution centres are Some 30 home furnishing suppliers in a number of industries have in the process of adapting their warehouse racking to accommodate collectively saved more than 370 gigawatt hours (GWh) and 80,000 21 Environment Climate tonnes of CO2 emissions with support from IKEA in FY11. Developing the IKEA Food range with climate considerations One textile supplier in Bangladesh has piloted the IKEA Supplier IKEA has started to adapt its food range to reduce CO2 emissions by Development Program (SDP) for energy in FY11. The supplier identi­ using a basic carbon calculator when developing new dishes. Next fied and implemented a number of efficiency measures that reduced year, the use of beef and pork will be reduced in favour of fish, poultry energy consumption by 29 percent and cut CO2 emissions by 25 per­ and vegetarian alternatives. A new chicken-based meatball recipe, cent. The annual savings represent 1.1 million euro, and 15,600 with a five times smaller carbon footprint than today’s meatballs made tonnes of CO2. In FY12, a number of suppliers will be eligible to take of beef and pork, will also be tested in selected IKEA restaurants in part in SDP energy projects with the goal of reducing consumption and five countries in FY12. carbon dioxide emissions, while also saving costs and increasing com­ petitiveness. Moving towards more sustainable people transport Many suppliers have also invested in renewable energy, for exam­ IKEA wants to help customers and co-workers use more sustainable ple, installing photovoltaic panels or biomass boilers. Today, the share modes of transport to travel to and from IKEA easily. A number of glo­ of renewable energy used at IKEA home furnishing suppliers is 12 per­ bal and local initiatives support this ambition, and a “toolbox” devel­ cent, excluding what is being purchased from electricity grids. oped together with WWF help spread ideas and solutions for more sustainable people transport. Joint WWF project to help suppliers reduce emissions Internally, an increasing number of co-workers use virtual meetings A joint IKEA and WWF project “Climate Positive Opportunities for Sup­ instead of travel. In FY11, meetings via the web and telephone pliers” is currently underway in Poland and China and will continue to increased by 27 percent to nearly 105,000. The number of hours of run until the end of 2011. The aim of the project is to encourage the video meetings tripled to 2,800 hours as a result of better service development of innovative solutions that will help suppliers reduce quality and more facilities – we now have 70 locations with video facil­ their carbon footprint. It will also help to identify and aid the removal ities compared to 33 one year ago. This trend is expected to continue of barriers preventing suppliers pursuing such projects. thanks to increased efforts to promote virtual meetings. As a result of the joint project, we know that awareness – what can be done and how and costs are two of the main barriers for our suppliers in Poland. This is why the project has produced a factsheet to help suppliers understand new government incentives available for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. By informing sup­ pliers and guiding them on how to apply for the incentives, we expect that they will be more likely to embark on energyand carbon-reduc­ tion projects. IKEA and WWF have also invited innovative companies to develop low carbon solutions for textile and plastic manufacturing processes with a view to improving the drying process for wet textiles and injection moulding in plastics, two potentially resource intensive methods. So far, more than 30 proposals have been submitted and are being evaluated in cooperation with suppliers. In addition, the project has organised workshops and participated in a number of energy forums in China and Poland, and had dialogues with politicians and authorities to support legislative changes that make investing in renewable energy more attractive. 22 Environment Climate Climate Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) Scope 1-2-3 CO2 emissions, tonnes IKEA wants to take a leading role towards a low carbon society, and significantly reduce the carbon footprint from all parts of our opera­ Scope 1 (Direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by IKEA) 122,000 tions, while also helping to reduce emissions in society. Scope 2 (Emissions generated from purchased Emissions in the value chain are based on the draft Corporate electricity consumed by IKEA buildings) 738,000 Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard developed Scope 3 (Estimate based on the draft GHG by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Protocol Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard) 30,932,000 Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Our calculations Total Scope 1-2-3 31,792,000 show that 84 percent of the carbon dioxide emissions related to IKEA and our products are attributed to material extraction, customer transportation, the use of products and their end-of-life. We measure energy consumption in IKEA buildings and CO2 emis­ Other figures sions are calculated based on this data. The total increase in absolute FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 terms corresponds with our overall growth, and total emissions per IKEA buildings CO2 emission, tonnes cubic metre sold goods are stable. Stores 314,744 326,700 435,344 428,997 Distribution 41,604 39,963 47,999 45,151 Other figures Swedwood 230,000 239,620 246,277 287,907 FY11 Swedspan – – 83,835 92,770 Offices 5,178 2,950 4,730 4,791 Estimated CO2 emissions, tonnes Total 586,348 609,233 818,185 859,616 Raw materials 15,960,000 Production and distribution 4,097,000 Total kg CO2/m3 sold IKEA products 25.7 26.4 34.3 34.4 – Suppliers 3,300,000 – Goods transport 750,000 – Business travel 47,000 IKEA 965,000 – Buildings 860,000 Estimated total CO2 emissions 2011 – Employee commuting 105,000 Customers 9,130,000 – Transportation to stores 2,170,000 – Product use 6,960,000 Products end-of-life 1,640,000 Total 31,792,000 50 % 13 % 3 % 29 % 5 % Raw materials Production and IKEA Customers Products distribution end-of-life 23 Environment Climate Renewable energy fed to the grid Climate: Comments on KPI and figures 2011 Energy use in IKEA has made major investments in wind and solar energy, and at IKEA buildings the end of FY11 the electricity generated from our own sources equalled around 12 percent of what is needed to run our stores and distribution centres. The share of renewable energy used in IKEA buildings increased and we hope to achieve 70-80 percent by FY15 if the current rate of progress is maintained. Overall, energy efficiency in our buildings improved during the year. Efficiency in Swedspan operations, however, decreased com­ pared to FY10 mainly due to the installation of new equipment for 40 IKEA buildings with 60 Number of 152 GWh Total renewable capacity increase in the Hultsfred factory in Sweden. During that solar panels installed wind turbines energy produced process, energy was still required for auxiliary processes but there was no production of particle board. KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Renewable energy Actual energy consumption in IKEA buildings (GWh) FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Direction Renewable energy IKEA buildings, % total consumption 3,600 Total Stores 37 38 34 40 100 Distribution 37 41 34 39 100 1,582 Swedwood 60 63 59 61 100 Swedspan – – 62 62 100 Stores Total 47 50 47 51 100 905 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Energy efficiency Swedwood FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Direction Improved energy efficiency, % compared to 2005, kWh/m3 sold goods Stores 7 5 7 10 25 916 Swedspan Distribution 21 21 22 33 25 Swedwood Swedspan 28 – 23 – 32 – 36 –5* 25 25 198 Distribution *Compared to FY10, which was Swedspan’s first year of operations. 24 Environment Climate Climate: Comments on KPI and figures 2011 Comments on KPI and figures 2011 Climate: Transport of IKEA has set a new, more ambitious reduction target for CO2 emis­ The number of web and video meetings increased substantially in Transport of products sions from transport of products. The previous goal was to reduce FY11. This reflects increasing internal awareness of the possibilities to people emissions by 10 percent compared to FY10 by the end of FY15, and conduct efficient virtual meetings, as well as improved availability of we now expect to reduce emissions by 20 percent by the end of FY16. high quality facilities. Filling rates measure to what extent trucks and containers are We strive to keep business travel to a minimum, and encourage cofilled with IKEA products. The aim is to fill each shipment as much as workers to make informed choices of local travel alternatives to and possible – considering weight restrictions, etc. – in order to reduce from IKEA units. When searching for information on the IKEA Intranet the overall number of shipments and thus minimise emissions from on how to get to a specific location, the CO2 footprints of the various transportation. However, this measurement does not fully reflect the alternatives such as cars, trains and buses are listed. benefits of the increased use of larger trucks and containers over the past few years – loads now often hold more goods even if the filling rate is somewhat lower, and emissions are reduced as the number of Other figures shipments is reduced. For example, containers shipped at sea from FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Asia transported around three percent more goods in terms of vol­ ume in FY11 compared to FY10 following the increased use of HighBusiness travel Cube containers. Business travel expenditure index, base year 2007 – 69 67 66 Number of web and video meetings – 52,000 82,434 104,920 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Transport of products FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY16 CO2 emissions reduction per cubic metre transported goods (% change CO2 gram/m , compared to FY10) 3 Compared to FY10 – – – –4.9 –20 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Transport of products FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 Filling rate, % Inbound (supplier to warehouse) 62 63 64 63 70 Outbound (warehouse to store) 58 60 60 61 70 Direct (supplier to store) 57 60 62 63 70 25 Environment Climate IKEA forestry New goal for the share of certified wood in the IKEA range IKEA has set a new goal for the share of wood used in the range that requirements influence meets our requirements for “preferred sources”. By the end of FY17, an estimated 10 million cubic metres, representing 50 percent, of the solid global timber trade wood and board materials used for IKEA products shall meet IKEA pre­ ferred wood requirements. Today, “preferred sources” means FSC-certi­ fied wood with a fully verified supply chain. As of FY12, we will also include recycled wood in our definition of “preferred sources” as we believe it is important to promote efficient material use. Wood has always been one of the most important raw Read more in IKEA is one of the world’s largest retailers in terms of FSC certified “The IKEA approach materials for IKEA. In FY11, we used 14.5 million wood volumes. In FY11, the share of FSC-certified wood used in the to sustainability” cubic metres of timber for products, printed matter IKEA range increased to 16.2 percent from 15.8 percent – this repre­ and packaging – equivalent to 362,500 fully loaded sents 2.2 million cubic metres, an increase of 225,000 cubic metres timber trucks. on the previous year During the year, our 15 forestry specialists worked closely with With the scale of our use comes responsibility and IKEA purchasers and suppliers to increase the number of certified opportunities to influence the global timber trade. suppliers, who now handle 63 percent of total wood volumes used in Our IWAY forestry requirements demand legality and IKEA products up from 73 suppliers and 47 percent of wood volumes known origin of the timber used in IKEA products, in FY10. We work actively to increase overall availability of FSC-certified which means that high standards are applied through­ wood in cooperation with WWF and others in important wood sourcing out the supply chain. regions such as Russia, China and Eastern Europe. For example, in FY11 we contributed to the opening of an FSC office in Siberia that will support certification locally, including IKEA sub-suppliers in China. Implementing IKEA forestry requirements for board materials Did you know • All wood used for IKEA products IKEA requirements. IKEA was one IKEA forestry requirements for responsible wood sourcing were must live up to our minimum of the companies that initiated and applied also to board materials in FY11 – more than doubling the vol­ requirements, which include not founded FSC in 1993 together with ume of wood-based products covered by our sustainability require­ using wood that has been illegally Greenpeace and WWF. ments. harvested. Suppliers must demon­ • IKEA and WWF have worked strate that they have systems to The roughly 100 board product suppliers were given four months together since 2002 on projects ensure that IKEA minimum require­ to adjust to the new requirements. Overall compliance on board mate­ aimed at combatting illegal logging, ments are met before they are rial wood sourced in Europe was high from the start, while suppliers in promoting responsible forest man­ allowed to start delivering to IKEA. agement and protecting high con­ some Asian countries had some difficulties meeting our tracing • Our long-term goal is that all wood servation value forests. Today, we requirements. We were aware of the potential risk of overall compli­ used in IKEA products is recycled have joint projects in 11 countries ance with our forestry requirements lowering as a result of including or comes from forests independ­ in Europe and Asia. board materials in our responsible sourcing scope. Instead, compli­ ently verified as responsibly man­ ance with IKEA forestry requirements improved during the year. aged. The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is currently the only certification standard that meets 26 Environment Forestry More than 80 percent of the wood used for IKEA board materials Requirements for wood used in comes from the EU, where suppliers generally have well-established systems for bookkeeping and certificates to show where the raw IKEA products material comes from. But board materials are made from a variety of species and come from many sources – such as branches and small The IKEA Forestry Standard is a material-specific supplement to the logs, cut-offs from other manufacturing, chips and saw dust – which IKEA supplier code of conduct IWAY. It contains basic requirements for makes tracing more challenging in countries where suppliers lack IKEA wood product suppliers. appropriate documentation routines. This is why IKEA conducts additional supply chain risk assess­ 1. Minimum criteria on wood for IKEA products ments and cooperates with the Rainforest Alliance, Forest Legality • Not from forests that have been illegally harvested Alliance, WWF and others to ensure that our control systems are effi­ • Not from forestry operations engaged in forest-related social con­ cient and that we benefit from their knowledge and expertise. flicts • Not harvested in Intact Natural Forests (INF) or other geographi­ Extending our forest partnership with WWF cally identified High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF), unless they Read more about the IKEA has agreed to extend its forest cooperation work with WWF are certified as responsibly managed IKEA and WWF partner­ ship at wwf.panda.org from seven to 13 projects in 11 countries over a three-year period. • Not harvested from natural forests in the tropical and sub-tropical New project countries are Indonesia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. regions being converted to plantations or non-forest use The new project in Bosnia-Herzegovina aims to improve the coun­ • Not from officially recognised and geographically identified commer­ try’s forest management through FSC certification and implementa­ cial Genetically Modified (GM) tree plantations tion of the High Conservation Value Forest concept. One new Indone­ sian project aims to set up a rattan production system that supports Suppliers must have procedures in place to secure this throughout their legality and sustainable sourcing, based on similar projects already supply chain. They must know the origin of their wood and accept running in Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia. audits at every link in the chain. They regularly report the wood origin, IKEA will also contribute funding to core WWF activities that are volume and species used in IKEA products via the IKEA Forest Tracing not tied to specific forest projects, including communication and System. organisational capacity building. Since the start in 2002, the IKEA and WWF partnership has con­ 2. Criteria for IKEA preferred wood sources* tributed to improved forest management over vast areas in Europe Wood certified according to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Forest and Asia. In Romania alone, some 80,000 hectares received FSC cer­ Management (FM) and Chain of Custody (CoC) standards meets the tification for the first time in FY11, and 600,000 hectares were reIKEA requirements for preferred sources. In order to count towards certified. IKEA support for WWF and the national FSC organisation in the preferred wood objective, suppliers must have a valid FSC CoC, Russia has helped to increase certified forest areas to around 30 mil­ covering in its scope the production for IKEA. lion hectares in 2011 from around 300,000 in 2002. *As of FY12, the definition of preferred wood sources will also include recycled wood. 27 Environment Forestry Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Forestry Our total wood consumption increased approximately 10 percent in FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY11, mainly as a result of the overall IKEA growth. Meanwhile, the use of wood from “preferred sources” increased by around 12 percent Responsible forest management, % in terms of volume and we remain determined to increase the overall Wood¹ used in IKEA prod­ share in the IKEA range from today’s 16.2 percent. ucts coming from preferred sources, % total 15.8² 16.2² FY17: 50%³ This is why we have set a new, ambitious goal to increase the Wood¹ used in IKEA prod­ share of preferred wood to 50 percent by the end of FY17, which rep­ ucts coming from preferred resents an estimated fivefold volume increase to 10 million cubic sources, m3 1,988,110² 2,230,625² 10,000,000³ metres. Today, “preferred sources” means FSC certified wood with a Solid wood used in IKEA products coming from pre­ fully verified supply chain. As of FY12, we will also include recycled ferred sources², % total 7% 16% 23.6% 22.9 FY12: 35% wood in our definition of preferred sources as we believe it is impor­ Audited wood volumes that tant to promote efficient material use. No historical data on recycled comply with IKEA minimum wood is available. Long-term, we want all wood used in the IKEA forestry requirements, % 80% 92% 97% 94% range to be recycled or come from forests verified as responsibly ¹Includes solid wood and board materials. ²FSC certified. ³FSC certified or recycled. managed. In FY11, external and internal auditing covered suppliers corre­ sponding to 74 percent of IKEA wood that was sourced for IKEA. Other figures Audit intensity increased compared to FY10. Compliance with IKEA FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 forestry requirements remains high. Total amount of wood used in IKEA products (m ) 3 Solid wood 7,223,000 5,686,000 5,320,000 5,924,300 Board material – – 7,000,000 7,855,500 Top 5 tree species used for solid wood in IKEA products Total – – 12,320,000 13,779,800 Number of IWAY and wood supply chain audits Performed by IKEA foresters 84 60 117 134 Performed by 3rd party 3 3 7 5 Pine Birch Beech Spruce Acacia Volumes audited by IKEA foresters in IWAY and wood supply chain audits Cubic metres 1,500,000 500,000 1,270,820 1,692,896 S  hare of total wood used in Top 5 sourcing countries for wood IKEA products, % – – 10.3 12.3 Externally verified 23.3 % 8.0 % 7.2 % 6.7 % 6.7% Share of IKEA suppliers that are FSC CoC certified, % 7.9 19.6 20.3 34.9 Share of total wood volume Poland Germany Russia Sweden China that comes from FSC CoC certified suppliers, % 23.9 35.3 47.0 62.0 28 Environment Forestry IKEA is determined to Nearly doubled share of more sustainable cotton in the range IKEA suppliers purchased 50,000 tonnes of more sustainable cotton make cotton production from project farmers in the 2010/11 season, about twice as much as the year before. As a result, the share of more sustainable cotton in more sustainable IKEA products increased from 13.4 percent to 23.8 percent of our total cotton use. The total harvest of more sustainable cotton reached 250,000 tonnes with more than 100,000 farmers using better management practices through IKEA supported projects. IKEA suppliers purchased Cotton is one of the most important raw materials for Read more in only 1/5 of the season’s total production from the projects in order to “The IKEA approach IKEA. It has excellent comfort qualities as it is soft and leave sufficient volumes available on the market to speed up the proc­ to sustainability” breathable – and it is a renewable resource. At the ess of making this cotton a tradable commodity available to all. same time, it is a material associated with major con­ Moving towards Better Cotton by incorporating cerns for both people and the environment. Read more about the Better “decent work” criteria This is why IKEA supports projects in major cotton The first certified Better Cotton, produced according to social and Cotton Initiative at www. bettercotton.org producing regions to help farmers make conventional environmental criteria developed by the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), Read more about the IKEA cotton production more sustainable, and the IKEA was harvested in October 2010 in Pakistan, and farmers here pro­ Foundation at Foundation supports projects to prevent child labour. duced almost 63,000 tonnes of Better Cotton over the past season. www.ikeafoundation.org IKEA aims for all cotton used for IKEA products to be Better Cotton By the end of FY15, all cotton in IKEA products should by the end of FY15. This means that farmers wanting to produce Bet­ be produced according to the social and environmental ter Cotton must incorporate not only the environmental criteria origi­ criteria set by the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI). nally developed by IKEA and WWF, but also the decent work criteria defined by the BCI. IKEA supported projects in several countries have already started training farmers so that they can meet all Better Cot­ ton requirements through continuous improvements. Did you know • In order to address the challenges FY15 is that all cotton used for Child labour and bonded labour is unacceptable but, unfortunately, associated with cotton, we must IKEA products is Better Cotton and not uncommon in rural Pakistan and India, and this represents a start at the farms. IKEA and WWF compliant with BCI’s social and major challenge to fulfilling BCI criteria on decent work. This is why started to support cotton farmers environmental criteria. IKEA and the IKEA Foundation fund projects run by partners such as by introducing more sustainable • The IKEA Foundation supports WWF, UNICEF and Save the Children to find ways to bring about last­ farming practices in 2005. Today, projects run by UNICEF and Save ing and large-scale improvements to these issues in India and Paki­ IKEA supports projects run by sev­ the Children in cotton farming stan – in the fields as well at strategic levels. eral organisations and we reach areas in India and Pakistan to Workshops based on the International Labour Organization (ILO) more than 100,000 farmers. improve children’s rights. Between programme “Decent Work” have been conducted in Lahore, Pakistan. • IKEA was a founding member of 2009 and 2015, around 10 million The aim was to find synergies between projects run in the same areas the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) children in more than 15,000 vil­ by several organisations, such as UNICEF, Save the Children, WWF and takes an active role in helping lages are expected to benefit from make Better Cotton a tradable the project. and the BCI. The organisations will continue to meet and develop col­ commodity. Our goal for the end of laborative plans. 29 Environment Cotton New cotton projects started in China and Turkey Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 Read more about the IKEA supports cotton projects run by a number of organisations in The share of more sustainable cotton used in IKEA products contin­ Better Cotton Fast Track Programme at order to reach a large number of farmers with more sustainable ued to increase significantly in FY11. Availability is improving rapidly, www.bettercotton.org farming practices. Some 100,000 farmers are now engaged in and the current rate or progress indicates that we are well on track projects in India and Pakistan, and new small-scale projects were ini­ to meet our goal for FY15. tiated in China and Turkey in FY11. Three projects in cooperation with the Better Cotton Fast Track Pro­ gramme have started in the Xinjiang province in China, where farms KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Cotton are often large and specialised cooperatives with big landholdings and FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 many employees. In Turkey, four farmer projects have been initiated Share of more sustain­ by IKEA textile suppliers. Cotton farms in Turkey are generally small by able cotton used in IKEA products, % – 6.2 13.4 23.8 100 Chinese standards, but still large compared to most farms in India and Pakistan. As there are no great commonalities between cotton farming in Other figures different countries, the projects in each country have to be locally FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 adapted to get the best possible results. Cotton used in IKEA products, tonnes – 185,000 190,000 210,000 More sustainable cotton used in IKEA products, tonnes – 11,470 25,500 50,000 Benefits of more sustainable cotton cultivation More sustainable cotton -50% –30% -50% Reduced use Reduced use of Reduced use of pesticides chemical fertilisers of water Many project farmers have halved their water consumption and chemical pesticide 6.2% 13.4% 23.8% use, and cut the use of chemical fertilisers by one third. This contributes to signifiFY09 FY10 FY11 cant cost reductions and better earnings for farmers. 30 Environment Cotton Reducing our water Getting a clearer picture of water consumption in manufacturing footprint throughout In FY11, IKEA collected water consumption data from around 300 suppliers, representing more than one quarter of our total home fur­ the value chain nishing supplier base, including all suppliers using wet manufacturing processes. This has enabled us to make a more reliable estimate of how much water is used to produce IKEA products. It will also help us set relevant reduction targets for our supply chain during FY12. We now estimate direct suppliers’ total water footprint for FY11 to Reducing the IKEA water footprint is one of the priorities Read more in be between 55 and 70 million cubic metres. The most water-intensive “The IKEA approach in the IKEA Sustainability Direction. We want to minimise product categories are textiles, rugs and carpets, appliances, glass, to sustainability” the water consumption throughout the value chain, from board materials and ceramics. Around 10 percent of suppliers with raw material sourcing all the way to customers’ homes. confirmed data use more than 100,000 m3 per year. These are prima­ While our overall footprint estimate is still very rough, rily textile suppliers in South Asia and South-East Europe. While global reduction targets are yet to be developed, IKEA South it is clear that the most significant footprint comes from Asia has taken the lead with the ambition to help its suppliers reduce cotton cultivation. This confirms the importance of our water use by 20 percent over the next few years. ongoing efforts to spread more sustainable water man­ agement practices in cotton farming. At the same time, Developing a water strategy for the IKEA supply chain A water strategy is being developed for the IKEA home furnishing sup­ we have mapped water use in manufacturing and work ply chain for roll-out in FY12. The strategy, supported by detailed with selected suppliers to help them reduce their water guidelines, aims to set the direction and priorities for how IKEA and consumption and improve water quality. its suppliers can work to reduce water use and improve waste water quality. It will also include goals for 2015 and 2020. Some regions currently have IKEA water specialists, notably in South Asia where water stress is an urgent challenge and where many Did you know • In 2009, a first estimate of our • IKEA does not allow direct dis­ IKEA suppliers have water-intensive production processes. To support water footprint indicated that charge of untreated waste water the implementation of the new water strategy, IKEA will develop more 2 billion cubic metres is used every from production processes, and competence and resources in the relevant regions. year for the production of raw suppliers must take precautions to materials, in manufacturing, in our avoid contamination of local water Projects to help IKEA suppliers improve water management buildings and by customers using supplies. A biological treatment A pilot project with 20 textile suppliers in six Asian countries and Tur­ IKEA products. Today, we believe plant is a business prerequisite for key has explored ways to reduce water use and improve water treat­ that the total footprint may actually textile suppliers in South Asia, ment. In FY12, we plan on engaging a greater number of suppliers in be significantly larger, and new cal­ where water stress is an urgent Supplier Development Programs, with a particular focus on better water culations will be made during 2012. challenge and where many IKEA suppliers have water-intensive pro­ management. duction processes. In the pilot project, suppliers, IKEA water experts and external consultants have identified a number of best practices to reduce the amount of wastewater, increase the amount of recycled water and introduce advanced water treatment. The next step will be to develop guidelines to help IKEA textile suppliers implement these practices. 31 Environment Water Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 We have reliable data on water consumption in our own units, and We want to turn waste into resources have started mapping consumption at IKEA suppliers. Estimates of the water required for raw material extraction are still rough, and we are yet to identify a reliable method to estimate the water foot­ print of customers’ use of IKEA products. Swedspan’s water consumption increased sharply in FY11 as cal­ Economising on resources is a crucial part of the IKEA culations this year include water used to clean industrial equipment Read more in culture, and we strive to minimise waste throughout “The IKEA approach in the factories. This data was not collected in FY10. our value chain. One of our goals for FY15 is that no to sustainability” waste from our own operations is sent to landfill. Other figures Already today, a high share of our waste is recycled, FY10 FY11 reclaimed or used for energy production. Water consumption IKEA units (m3) We believe that turning waste into resources is an Stores 3,927,551 4,438,075 important step towards a more sustainable society. We Distribution centres 265,524 228,772 sort large amounts of waste for recycling in our own Swedwood 483,096 510,742 units, and are committed to improving the recyclability Swedspan 283,277 1,392,882 of IKEA products as well as increasing the use of Total 4,959,448 6,570,471 recycled materials in our range. The aim is to reduce our overall environmental footprint, including CO2 emissions. Estimated water footprint, % • A  ll IKEA stores and distribution cen­ Production units at Swedwood and Did you know tres recycle large quantities of Swedspan – the industrial groups materials such as cardboard, paper, owned by IKEA – often use their plastic, wood, metal and glass. In own waste to produce energy some stores, as many as 15 catego­ instead of relying on oil and gas. ries of waste are sorted. Customers • I KEA has products and solutions Raw material Home furnishings IKEA stores & can return used batteries and lowthat help customers to conveniently extraction production distribution centres energy bulbs to most stores for safe sort and reduce household waste. 96.2% 3.6% 0.2% recycling. The range is continuously being • W  aste from production can be put developed following customer feed­ to good use, even if it is not suita­ back and research. ble for home furnishing products. 32 Environment Water – Waste Great potential for material recyclability Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 “Closing the loops” is a project that investigates aspects of full mate­ Our goal for FY15 is that no waste from our own operations is sent to rial recyclability with the aim to save natural resources, minimising landfill, and IKEA units already recycle large amounts of materials CO2 emissions and have a positive impact on the environment. The such as cardboard, paper, plastic, wood, metal and glass. The indus­ project, which started together with WWF in 2010 and will run until trial units run by Swedwood and Swedspan often use their own waste mid-2012, intends to find new and innovative ways to turn waste to produce energy instead of relying on oil and gas. into resources. Following the acquisition of a factory in Lure, France, Swedspan During FY11, small-scale tests on the opportunities and chal­ removed contaminated soil on the factory premises in order to pre­ lenges related to closing material loops were conducted, focusing on vent groundwater contamination on the site. This caused an increase plastic packaging materials and home furnishing products. The first of the total waste amount and a decrease in the share recycled for findings show great potential for recycling of materials that are cur­ FY11. rently prematurely incinerated for energy use many of these mate­ Stores’ consistent efforts to repair damaged goods to sell “as is” in rials could have been used again. The project has specifically focused their bargain corners are reflected in the improved Recovery Index. on up-cycling possibilities. As part of one test project, consumers were invited to return dis­ carded plastic furniture to two IKEA stores in Sweden. Two large con­ KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Waste tainers of unwanted plastic furniture were collected over a two-week FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 period, and analysis showed that a large share of the material could be used again. IKEA and WWF, together with other stakeholders, will Waste recycled or used in energy production, % continue to explore the opportunities to recycle more, and have Stores 85 86 84 86 100 started to develop guidelines to enable the use of more recycled and Distribution 90 90 91 90 100 recyclable materials to help turn waste into resources. Swedwood 72 74 95 98 100 Swedspan – – 86 64 100 Store project to help turn waste into resources We are committed to identifying ways to further improve waste man­ agement in our stores, in order to meet our goal of zero waste to landfill for store operations. Today, less than 15 percent of the waste generated in stores goes to landfill, and up to 15 different types of Other figures waste are sorted for recycling, where infrastructure and local facili­ FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 ties allow. ­During FY11, this helped us save around 6.7 million euro. An IKEA project being delivered in cooperation with waste man­ Amount of waste, tonnes agement companies in Sweden and Germany will explore if more Stores 276,173 285,156 279,778 307,877 types of waste could be separated and get a second life by being Distribution centres 33,952 38,929 34,369 41,758 recycled. The project, currently at pre-study level, will investigate Swedwood 17,864 29,956 31,176 26,177 how IKEA can encourage and enable customers to reuse and recycle Swedspan* – – 10,015 24,621 IKEA products. This may include organising second-hand events as well as providing opportunities for customers to bring back products Recovery Index, % such as sofas and mattresses, if they cannot be donated or re-sold IKEA stores 61 61 66 67 by the customer, so that IKEA can help with appropriate separation * FY10 was Swedspan’s first full year of operations. and recycling. 33 Environment Water – Waste IWAY approved home furnishing suppliers. 57 % Suppliers Our supplier code of Increased efforts to reach FY12 goal of full IWAY compliance IKEA aims to achieve full IWAY compliance among our home furnishing conduct contributes to suppliers by the end of FY12. This commitment is reflected in focused efforts throughout by IKEA purchasing teams to engage and support positive developments suppliers as we work towards this goal. We expect that some existing suppliers are unlikely to be fully IWAY-compliant by the end of FY12, and as a result, we are preparing to phase out those that are unwilling or unable to commit to our requirements. IKEA has decided to eliminate earlier IWAY exceptions relating to IKEA relies on good, long-term relationships with sup­ Read more in compensation and social insurances for some Asian countries. However, “The IKEA approach pliers who share our values and take social and envi­ there is a wide gap between the legislated working hours and reality in to sustainability” ronmental responsibility. We want to motivate and China. This is why we will accept that suppliers here secure a maximum support suppliers’ continuous efforts to improve. Our 60-hour total work week by the end of FY12 as a step-wise approach to supplier code of conduct IWAY plays an important role achieving the legal limit of 40 working hours per week plus a maximum of 36 overtime hours per month and three per day. in positive developments. Consistent and clear communication, workshops and training ses­ IKEA is a production-oriented company, and we are sions, together with IWAY-based capacity planning and order manage­ often on-site in the factories. This active presence and a ment have contributed to significant improvements and reduced the solid understanding of production give us the opportu­ number of working hours at key suppliers in China. At the end of FY11, all prioritised suppliers and the majority of our top-50 Chinese suppliers nity to take on an active role in supplier development. were compliant with a maximum 60-hour week. Local legislation restricts our suppliers from being fully compliant with the IKEA requirement on freedom of association in China and Vietnam. For this reason we register this point as not applicable on our audit reports in those countries. Fair Labor Association to help speed up developments in China If, by FY12, we are to achieve our aim of reducing maximum working Read more about the Did you know • IKEA strives to build close, long• Our supplier code of conduct, IWAY, Fair Labor Association at hours in factories we source from in China to 60 hours per week, www.fairlabor.org term relationships with suppliers was first introduced in 2000. So far including overtime, we recognise that making overall factory manage­ who are a good strategic fit – we it has contributed to more than ment improvements is crucial and that workers are fully engaged. want those who share our values 165,000 registered large and small and make high-quality, affordable improvements. Many suppliers have This is why we have partnered with the Fair Labor Association (FLA) products in a sustainable manner to experienced that investments in to further develop labour relations through a pilot project called “Build grow and develop with us. working conditions and environ­ Motivated Workforce”. The pilot project has carried out a series of base­ • We contribute to positive develop­ mentally adapted solutions often line assessments of management and workers and conducted training ments in our supply chain by setting lead to more orders, better produc­ for capacity building in selected factories in three strategic regions in clear standards, being on-site and tivity and improved profitability. North, Central and South China. conducting business responsibly. 35 Suppliers Home furnishing suppliers The IKEA supplier code of conduct – IWAY This initiative will help us identify the best way to build trusting and productive relationships between workers and managers in order Our IWAY supplier code of conduct outlines the requirements that we place on to create a motivated workforce. The project will develop a set of suppliers of products and services. Suppliers are responsible for communicating best practices and steps on how factory workers and managers the content of the IKEA code of conduct to their workers and sub-suppliers. across China can work together to reach full IWAY compliance Below is a summary of some of the key points of IWAY. through continuous improvements. 1. Legal compliance • Ensure that workers handling chem­ Introducing a sustainability index to measure The IKEA supplier shall always comply icals and hazardous waste have the supplier performance with the most demanding require­ right competence and are ade­ IKEA suppliers’ sustainability performance has previously only been ments whether they are relevant quately trained measured in terms of IWAY compliance. In FY11, a sustainability applicable laws or IKEA IWAY specific index was developed to measure their performance on three other requirements. important criteria that are part of the IKEA Sustainability Score Card 4. Social and working conditions for products – energy efficiency in production, use of renewable IKEA expects its suppliers to respect 2. Start-up requirements energy in production and raw material utilisation. fundamental human rights, and to (IWAY musts) Scores from evaluation of the three areas are translated into an treat their workers fairly and with The following criteria need to be ful­ overall index figure for each supplier. By using the index we can respect. Suppliers must: filled before starting up a business identify best practice suppliers as well as those that have room for • Provide a healthy and safe working relationship with IKEA: improvement and may benefit from IKEA support. environment • No child labour A supplier with low scores on energy efficiency may need to • Provide health and safety training improve factories’ energy management systems. Low scores on • No forced or bonded labour for workers renewable energy often reflect market conditions and infrastructure, • No severe environmental pollution • Ensure their buildings are safe, have and suppliers acting in countries with good availability of renewable • No severe safety hazards reasonable privacy, are quiet and energy can be expected to have higher scores. Measuring raw mate­ • A transparent and reliable system for have facilities for personal hygiene, rial utilisation gives us an understanding of efficiency and suppliers’ records of working hours and wages in those instances where housing contribution to our ambition to save on natural resources. • Insurance covering medical treat­ facilities are provided The first baseline indicates that there is room for improvements to ment for work-related accidents to • Pay at least the minimum legal wage be made at many supplier locations. At the end of FY11, around 75 all workers and compensate for overtime percent of all home furnishing suppliers had been evaluated. Targets • Base overtime on voluntary agree­ relevant for each material category will be developed during FY12. 3. Environmental standards ments, not exceeding legal limits Suppliers shall reduce the environ­ • Allow time off and regular breaks New business ethics training and global “trust line” mental impacts from their production • Not discriminate on any basis for suppliers and operations. Suppliers must: IKEA has zero tolerance towards unethical business practices, • Not prevent workers from exercising • Work to reduce energy consumption including corruption, and works proactively to prevent them. We collective bargaining activities nor • Prevent pollution to air, ground strive to foster an ethical business culture to minimise the risk of prevent from associating and water illegal behaviour, and our latest supplier survey shows that 97 per­ • Not accept corporal punishment, cent of IKEA home furnishing suppliers consider our rules and • Handle, store and dispose of chemi­ threats of violence or other forms of instructions on corruption to be clear. cals and hazardous waste in an mental or physical coercion environmentally safe manner 36 Suppliers Home furnishing suppliers To improve awareness and openness and to clarify our values and Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 rules, all co-workers in the IKEA purchasing teams received manda­ The share of IWAY approved home furnishing suppliers increased tory training in business ethics during FY11. A similar training pro­ significantly in FY11 following focused efforts supported by IKEA gram for our home furnishing suppliers will be rolled out in FY12. purchasing teams. We are determined to reach our goal for FY12, An ethics helpline for suppliers – a “trust line” – has been opera­ and suppliers that are unwilling or unable to commit to our require­ tional in some regions since 2009. A similar solution will be rolled ments will be phased out. out to all suppliers in FY12, so they can seek advice or report Today, many suppliers in China do not comply with requirements unethical behaviour in English and local languages. Sensitive infor­ relating to working hours, and it is not realistic to close the gap mation is treated confidentially and every precaution is taken to pro­ between the legislated working hours and reality in a short period of tect the information provider’s identity in the event of further inves­ time. Chinese suppliers have been granted one exception from full tigations. IWAY compliance by the end of FY12. We will accept that they secure a maximum 60-hour total work week by the end of FY12 as a step-wise approach to achieving the legal limit of 40 working hours per week plus a maximum of 36 overtime hours per month and Top 5 purchasing countries, % three per day. Also, local legislation restricts our suppliers from being fully compliant with the IKEA requirement on freedom of asso­ 22 % 18 % 8% 5% 4% ciation in China and Vietnam. For this reason we register this point as not applicable on our audit reports in those countries. China Poland Italy Sweden Germany KPI – SUPPLIERS: Home furnishing suppliers FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 Number of IKEA suppliers IWAY approved home furnishing suppliers, % 1,026 88 38 248 748 Europe Americas 80 91 79 83 89 85 90 94 100 100 IKEA Home IKEA Food IKEA Catalogue IKEA Transport serv­ Indirect materials & Asia, total 21 22 26 41 100 Furnishing suppliers suppliers ** suppliers ice providers * services ** China 7 7 7 11 (30*) 100* South Asia 34 41 62 65 100 South East Asia 63 65 68 65 100 All regions 54 52 57 60 (67*) 100 *Approved with maximum 60-hour working week. * Excluding Customer Delivery carriers ** Excluding suppliers managed nationally/locally 37 Suppliers Home furnishing suppliers Other figures Purchasing per region, % FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Number of Trading IWAY audits /of which were unannounced Europe 480/21 375/70 365/29 341/144 Americas 31/0 29/2 29/1 26/12 Asia 693/359 646/451 645/501 626/555 Total 1,204/380 1,049/523 1,039/531 993/711 Number of IKEA CMG calibration audits Europe 20 19 21 24 63 % 33 % 4 % Europe Asia North America Americas 2 2 2 3 Asia 24 22 32 25 Total 46 43 55 52 Average IWAY fulfilment rates FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Number of third party audits /of which were unannounced Europe 17/16 15/15 12/12 12/12 Americas 0 0 0 3/3 Asia 29/15 30/30 35/35 32/32 Total 46/31 45/45 47/47 47/47 99 99 95 98 Terminated business, number of suppliers Due to IWAY % % % % non-compliance only 20 10 10 8 Due to non-compliance Europe Americas Asia All regions and other reasons 28 43 17 11 Number of third party child labour audits Total 435 365 365 370 38 Suppliers Home furnishing suppliers Extending the Improved IWAY approval rate for central customer delivery carriers code of conduct IWAY In FY10, IWAY was introduced at centrally procured customer deliv­ ery carriers transporting goods from IKEA customer distribution cen­ to the wider range of tres directly to customers with the ambition to reach full compliance in FY12. The approval rate in this category improved substantially from 21 percent in FY10 to 53 percent in FY11, and we will continue IKEA suppliers to put high focus on central customer delivery carriers. However, it is unrealistic to believe we can reach full compliance within a year. The current goal is that 75 percent of these carriers, based on the total IKEA expenditure, comply with all IWAY require­ In addition to IKEA home furnishing suppliers, we Read more in ments in FY12. “The IKEA approach depend on thousands of suppliers to support IKEA IWAY approval rates for land and ocean carriers remain stable, to sustainability” operations around the world. and we continue to be committed to our goal of reaching full compli­ When our supplier code of conduct, IWAY, was first ance in these categories by the end of FY12. introduced, the main focus was on home furnishing IWAY audits to be conducted at national food suppliers suppliers. Over the past few years, IKEA has gradu­ Suppliers of food for our global range have shown a high level of ally increased its efforts to also support developments compliance with our social and environmental requirements since within the vast range of other suppliers and service IWAY audits were first introduced in this supplier category three years ago, and IKEA expects to reach full compliance by the end providers. of FY12. In FY10, we took the first step towards implementing the IKEA supplier code of conduct at more than 1,000 national food suppliers. The first IWAY audits will be conducted during 2012. Mixed results from the first audits at IKEA Catalogue Did you know • Our transport service providers are • The IKEA Catalogue 2011 was pro­ suppliers key to ensuring efficient and sus­ duced by 38 paper and print sup­ The first systematic sustainability audits of IKEA Catalogue paper tainable shipments from suppliers pliers. It was printed in more than and print suppliers were conducted in FY11. Five suppliers on two to IKEA distribution centres and 208 million copies in 31 languages stores. and is read by more than 400 mil­ continents were selected, based on volume, for announced audits lion people in 40 countries. and assessment of previous evaluations of their performance. • IKEA sources packaged food from Audit results confirm that our large, established Catalogue suppli­ 44 suppliers to sell in the Swedish • IKEA has around 40,000 global, Food Market in our stores. Food national and local suppliers of indi­ ers generally have well-developed routines and environmental man­ ingredients used in the IKEA store rect materials and services, provid­ agement systems, but only one supplier was fully compliant with our restaurants are produced by more ing everything from cleaning to requirements at the time of audit. The other four have now imple­ than 1,000 suppliers, globally and software and store equipment. mented correction plans and are fully compliant. nationally. 39 Suppliers Other IKEA suppliers Implementing IWAY at suppliers of indirect materials and Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 Suppliers: services The share of IWAY approved Land and Ocean carriers remained Transport service IKEA has a dedicated purchasing function for indirect materials and steady in FY11, and IKEA expects to reach full compliance by the providers services that are not used for IKEA products – such as IT systems end of FY12. support and cleaning services. IKEA Indirect Material & Services During the past year, much focus was placed on increased com­ (IKEA IMS) works with around 750 key suppliers and provides sup­ pliance among the centrally procured Customer Delivery carriers. port to the IKEA units that handle decentralised purchases made The share of fully compliant carriers jumped to 53 percent land and from many thousands of national and local suppliers. we believe it is realistic to increase this share to 75 percent over We have taken a stepped approach to implementing IWAY in this the next year. category due to the large number of suppliers and their diverse characteristics. Audits are based on risk assessment and focus mainly on companies that are unlikely to have their own well-func­ KPI – SUPPLIERS: Transport service providers tioning code of conducts and that operate in areas where challenges FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 related to working conditions or the environment are common, or whose products are sensitive from a health and safety perspective. IWAY approved transport service providers*, % Since the start of implementation in 2007, 133 IWAY audits have Land 48.0 81.7 83 82 100 been conducted at suppliers managed centrally by IKEA IMS, includ­ Ocean 38.0 41.8 96 95 100 ing several unannounced third-party audits. Audited suppliers that Customer Delivery** – – 21 53 75 are currently contracted by IKEA have an average fulfilment rate of * A  pproval rates are calculated on the total IKEA expenditure in each category, and carriers 94 percent. are rated as approved only if they fulfil both IWAY and industry specific requirements. In FY12, all IKEA retail countries will start to implement IWAY at ** Excludes locally and nationally procured Customer Delivery carriers. national and local providers of cleaning, waste management and security services used in IKEA stores and distribution centres. Local auditors are now being trained, and the first audits will be conducted in the beginning of 2012. Modes of transport (% goods volume) 74% 16% 2% 8% Road Ocean Rail Intermodal transport 40 Suppliers Other IKEA suppliers Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Suppliers: Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 Food suppliers All global food suppliers are now IWAY approved. IKEA expect to IKEA Catalogue Requirements approved suppliers, % introduce audits also at the many national food suppliers in FY12, IKEA Catalogue Sustainability with the aim to reach full compliance by the end of FY15. Requirements, approved suppliers 71 73 86 90 Industry-specific requirements, KPI – suppliers: Food suppliers approved suppliers 53 50 65 72 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 IWAY approved food suppliers, % Global food suppliers 13 41 67 100 100 Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 National food suppliers – – – – 100 Environmental key performance indicators, Catalogue totals Average IWAY fulfilment rate global suppliers >90 100 Printed number of Catalogues (millions) 198 198 197 208 ISO 14001 certified paper suppliers (%) 61 94 89 100 Suppliers: Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 Catalogue paper (tonnes) 113,099 103,784 102,476 108,450 IMS suppliers The share of IWAY approved suppliers of indirect materials and serv­ FSC Certified Chain-of-Custody ices increased in FY11. Available figures are based on a limited fibre (%) 5.0 19.0 21.0 30.0 number of audited suppliers, selected based on risk assessment. Recycled fibre content (%) 6.0 6.0 11.0 3.6 Other figures table Share of renewable energy (%) 40 51 50 48 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Environmental data per Catalogue copy IWAY approved IKEA Indirect Material & Services suppliers, % Water consumption (litres) 17.92 14.96 14.26 13.55 Indirekt Materials & Services Energy consumption (kWh) 3.11 3.04 2.96 2.72 suppliers* – – 20 27 Fossil carbon dioxide (kg CO2) 0.69 0.61 0.49 0.43 Average IWAY fulfilment rate* – – 91 94 Emissions to air (gr VOC, *F igures based on a limited number of audited suppliers, selected based on volatile organic compounds) 1.01 0.75 1.12 1.15 risk assessments. Emissions to wastewater (gr COD, Chemical Oxygen Demand) 3.88 3.83 3.49 3.47 Suppliers: Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 Catalogue The IKEA Catalogue 2012 (produced in FY11) involved a total of 38 suppliers paper and print suppliers. Approval rates reflect the share of suppli­ ers that comply with all the sustainability requirements according to self-assessments. Five Catalogue suppliers have been audited so far. Environmental data has been provided by all suppliers. The goal to have 30 percent FSC-certified virgin fibre used in the Catalogue was reached in FY11, while the share of recycled paper decreased for quality and availability reasons. Emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) increased some­ what while CO2 emissions continued to decrease. For the first time ever, all paper suppliers are certified against ISO14001. 41 Suppliers Other IKEA suppliers Share of men/women in management positions. 60/39 Co-workers IKEA co-workers are New global guidelines for compensation and benefits IKEA wants to be the employer of choice, and aims to offer compen­ our most valuable sation and benefits that ensure that we attract, motivate and retain co-workers that contribute to our ambition to become the leader in life resource at home and grow with sustained long-term profitability. In FY11, a set of key principles for compensation and benefits were developed for all of IKEA, along with detailed guidelines outlining areas such as salaries, job satisfaction and a healthy working environment. The principles will be implemented on all IKEA markets. IKEA co-workers are essential to our success. We want Read more in “The IKEA approach to be an attractive and competitive employer that offers Updated VOICE survey shows significant improvements to sustainability” equal treatment and opportunities for a fulfilling career An updated VOICE co-worker survey was introduced in February in a safe and healthy environment. We give down-to2011, and so far 33,500 co-workers in 13 retail countries have com­ pleted the new survey. earth, straightforward people the opportunity to grow The new VOICE survey has been updated to reflect our five-year with us, both professionally and personally. strategy, “Growing IKEA together”. It also contains more and refined A strong and living culture encourages co-workers questions relating to how co-workers rate IKEA managers’ leadership to question accepted solutions and test new ideas, and capabilities, which is translated into the Leadership Index, and has a to see mistakes as an opportunity to learn. Shared strong focus on IKEA values. Since many VOICE questions have been altered and only a minority values such as respect, simplicity and cost-conscious­ of co-workers have used the new version of the survey this year, the ness help us all develop together and contribute to a FY11 global average index result of 716 is not fully comparable with better everyday life for ourselves and our customers. previous years. However, we can see that results have improved. For example, questions relating to co-worker engagement have not been altered, and the share of positive replies increased from 58 percent in FY10 to 63 percent. The FY15 goal of a global average index figure of 700 out of a maximum possible 1,000 remains unchanged, while national and local Did you know • There are 131,000 IKEA co-work­ • IKEA embraces universal human goals may be higher. ers in 41 countries around the rights and respect for the individ­ world. We strive for diversity and ual. We support every co-worker’s recruit co-workers of different right to freedom of association and backgrounds and experiences. respect their right to join, form or • We continuously monitor how IKEA not to join a co-worker association co-workers perceive working at of their choice – the decision lies IKEA through a company-wide with the co-worker. survey called “VOICE”. As a com­ plement, the “IKEA Leadership Index” quantifies how co-workers view their managers. 43 Co-workers Our most valuable resource Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 KPI – CO-WORKERS: voice During the year we re-designed our co-worker survey VOICE in order FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 to make it more aligned with our long-term business directive, to make it simpler and at the same keep the strong focus on the IKEA VOICE and Leadership index (IKEA total) values. This means that the index figure for FY11 is not fully compa­ Overall rable with previous years. With global goals as a base, national and VOICE index 646 663 659 716 700 local improvement targets are developed from local survey results Leadership Index 72 73 73 74 75 and the priorities that are the most important for that particular organisation. KPI – CO-WORKERS: Male/female management There are more women than men working on the IKEA sales floors, and while the share of women is slowly increasing in some FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 management categories, the goal to reach full gender balance is still Management – share of male/female a challenge. When the percentage of male/female managers does not Stores 64/36 65/34 60/38 58/42 50/50 add up to 100, it is due to vacancies. Retail management 64/36 60/39 58/42 59/39 50/50 Distribution 67/33 69/31 58/40 57/43 50/50 Trading 64/36 65/35 61/39 59/41 50/50 Others 74/26 68/32 62/38 63/37 50/50 TOTAL management – – 60/39 59/40 50/50 Co-workers by region Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Staff turnover Part-time 32 22.4 20.5 22.3 Full-time 16 11.9 10.6 11.5 All 24 16.4 14.8 16.1 106,500 16,500 8,000 Europe North America Asia & Australia 44 Co-workers Our most valuable resource Donation to charity partners by the IKEA Foundation. 45 meur Communities Reaching out to Expanded scope for UNDP project to empower women in India The IKEA Foundation has increased funding and support for a wom­ Read more about the IKEA Foundation at developing countries and en’s empowerment project run by the United Nations Development www.ikeafoundation.org Programme (UNDP) in India since 2009. Initially aimed at reaching the local community 50,000 women in 500 villages in Uttar Pradesh, the programme is now expected to reach 2.2 million women and their families in 16,300 rural villages in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh by the end of FY15. Funding has increased from 5.5 million euro to 30 million. IKEA believes that home is the most important place in Read more in The programme initiates a variety of community activities to “The IKEA approach the world, and children are the most important people empower village women socially, economically and politically, so that to sustainability” in the world. The IKEA Foundation aims to improve they can create a better future for themselves, their communities and opportunities for children and youth in developing their children. countries by funding holistic, long-term programmes In 2005, only five women stood for local self-governance elections in the project villages in Uttar Pradesh. In 2010, 764 stood for elec­ that can create substantial, lasting change. tion and 278 elected women representatives are now bringing change We also want to be a good neighbour in our local to their communities. communities. This means that stores and other IKEA For the first time in this region, 35,000 women have been organ­ units engage in local social and environmental issues, ised and trained to establish and manage their own equity sharehold­ ing companies. and lend a helping hand in times of need. Major donation to support relief efforts in the Horn of Africa Drought in the Horn of Africa, coupled with conflicts in Somalia, has affected more than 13 million people in five African countries, forcing 250,000 children into refugee camps in the Dadaab region. This is why the IKEA Foundation committed 43.4 million euro to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) in 2011 – the largest corporate donation the UNHCR has ever received. The Did you know • The IKEA Foundation is a regis­ • Emergency relief in developing donation benefits about 120,000 refugee families in Dadaab Kambioos tered Dutch charity foundation. It countries is funded and organised refugee camp in Kenya that have fled from drought, famine and con­ aims to improve the opportunities by the IKEA Foundation, while flict. It also funds a three-year partnership aimed at creating and for children and youth in develop­ IKEA retail countries manage implementing innovative new ways to provide refugees with tempo­ ing countries by funding holistic, emergency support when needed long-term programmes that can in their countries and local commu­ rary accommodation, life skills and economic empowerment. create substantial, lasting change, nities. In addition, the IKEA Foundation has donated one million euro to and enable them to take charge of support UNICEF efforts to provide immediate therapeutic and supple­ • IKEA stores are actively involved in their own future. Total donations their local communities in partner­ mentary foods to 130,000 critically malnourished children in Somalia. reached 65 million euro in 2011, ship with carefully selected organi­ and currently funded programmes sations such as WWF, Save the Product donations benefit Libyan refugees in Tunisia benefit an estimated 100 million Children and UNICEF. Examples of The conflict in Libya has resulted in several hundred thousand people children. national and local activities can be fleeing their homes to bordering countries. To alleviate the situation in found on national IKEA websites. refugee camps, the IKEA Foundation donated 50,000 IKEA mattresses, 50,000 quilt covers and 50,000 quilts to UNHCR in Tunisia. 46 Communities Community involvement The donated products filled 28 containers transported by sea and tree species, and the area remains protected. Planting is expected to land, while UPS donated the airlift of 10,000 mattresses to save be completed in 2013, and funds have been set aside for maintenance essential time. until 2023. IKEA Japan supports earthquake victims The earthquake off the Pacific coast of Tohoku and the subsequent tsunami devastated large areas in Eastern Japan in March 2011, killing thousands of people and leaving around 125,000 buildings The IKEA Foundation damaged or destroyed. IKEA Japan provided immediate relief in the form of water and The IKEA Foundation works in four dimensions to turn the cycle of food as well as IKEA products such as blankets and soft toys, and poverty into a cycle of prosperity: later donated home furnishings for some 7,000 temporary houses. We also donated start-up sets containing a wide range of products needed to set up a new home, including furniture, kitchen utensils and bathroom products. IKEA has also opened up a 1,500 square metre mini-store in Sendai to bring affordable home furnishings to the people of Tohoku and help restart economic activity in the region by generating local employment. IKEA China helps children affected by earthquake IKEA China supports Save the Children relief efforts in villages in poor and remote parts of the Qinghai province following the earthquake in April 2010. IKEA China funds a three-year project run by Save the Children to improve the accessibility and quality of primary education for 24,000 children in the Yushu and Chengduo counties. In addition, a children’s centre run by Save the Children to provide children with psycho-social support through group activities has been equipped A place to call home – Where a better A healthy start in life – Helping chil­ with materials donated by IKEA. life begins. Shelter and safety, along dren get a good start, avert disease, with love and nutrition, all nurture survive illnesses and grow up stronger. New research centre opened to support Sow a Seed in Borneo children so they can not only survive, Clean water, a place to go to the bath­ IKEA supports the Sow a Seed foundation, which aims to reforest and but thrive. room, and simply learning to wash maintain 18,500 hectares of lowland forest in Sabah in Malaysian Bor­ hands, all help save lives. neo, and to protect the area from logging for a period of 50 years. The project has contributed to funding of research facilities in A quality education – When children A sustainable family income – Sabah, the Maliau Basin Study Centre, to enable scientists and go to school and stay there, they get a When parents have a regular income, researchers to study the rainforest’s biodiversity and ecosystem. huge step up in life and are much less their children can go to school instead The Sow a Seed foundation is a partnership between IKEA, the vulnerable to the dangers of child of to work. Helping mothers learn a Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, the Yayasan Sabah Group labour or falling prey to exploitation. skill or start a business can help break and the Malaysian forestry company, RbJ. Since the start in 1998, the cycle of poverty for them, their more than 10,000 hectares of forest have been replanted with native children, and for generations to come. 47 Communities Community involvement Renewable energy used to power IKEA buildings (% of total consumption). 47 % Metrics & References Measuring progress with Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Customers KPI – Customers: More sustainable products FY11 Goal FY15 IKEA home furnishing products classified as more sustainable*, % sales value 2 90 Renewable, recyclable, recycled materials % 88 100 Improved efficiency, % Improved efficiency of energy consuming products (compared to the average installed on the market 2008) 31 50 Improved efficiency water consuming prod­ ucts (compared to the average installed on the market 2008) n/a 50 *According to criteria in the IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card 49 Metrics & References KPIs Environment KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Renewable energy KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Forestry FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Direction FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 Renewable energy IKEA buildings, % total consumption Responsible forest management, % Stores 37 38 34 40 100 Wood¹ used in IKEA prod­ ucts coming from preferred Distribution 37 41 34 39 100 sources, % total 15.8² 16.2² FY17: 50%³ Swedwood 60 63 59 61 100 Wood¹ used in IKEA prod­ Swedspan – – 62 62 100 ucts coming from preferred sources, m3 1,988,110² 2,230,625² 10,000,000³ Total 47 50 47 51 100 Solid wood used in IKEA products coming from pre­ KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Energy efficiency ferred sources², % total 7% 16% 23.6% 22.9 FY12: 35% Audited wood volumes that FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Direction comply with IKEA minimum forestry requirements, % 80% 92% 97% 94% Improved energy efficiency, % compared to 2005, kWh/m3 sold goods Stores 7 5 7 10 25 ¹Includes solid wood and board materials. ²FSC certified. ³FSC certified or recycled. Distribution 21 21 22 33 25 Swedwood 28 23 32 36 25 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Cotton Swedspan – – – –5* 25 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 *Compared to FY10, which was Swedspan’s first year of operations. Share of more sustain­ able cotton used in IKEA products, % – 6.2 13.4 23.8 100 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Transport of products KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Waste FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY16 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 CO2 emissions reduction per cubic metre transported goods (% change compared to FY10) Waste recycled or used in energy production, % Compared to FY10 – – – –4.9 –20 Stores 85 86 84 86 100 Distribution 90 90 91 90 100 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Transport of products Swedwood 72 74 95 98 100 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal Swedspan – – 86 64 100 Filling rate, % Inbound (supplier to warehouse) 62 63 64 63 70 Outbound (warehouse to store) 58 60 60 61 70 Direct (supplier to store) 57 60 62 63 70 50 Metrics & References KPIs Suppliers Co-workers KPI – SUPPLIERS: Home furnishing suppliers KPI – CO-WORKERS: voice FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 IWAY approved home furnishing suppliers, % VOICE and Leadership index (IKEA total) Europe 80 79 89 90 100 Overall VOICE index 646 663 659 716 700 Americas 91 83 85 94 100 Leadership Index 72 73 73 74 75 Asia, total 21 22 26 41 100 China 7 7 7 11 (30*) 100* KPI – CO-WORKERS: Male/female management South Asia 34 41 62 65 100 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 South East Asia 63 65 68 65 100 All regions 54 52 57 60 (67*) 100 Management – share of male/female *Approved with maximum 60-hour working week. Stores 64/36 65/34 60/38 58/42 50/50 Retail management 64/36 60/39 58/42 59/39 50/50 Distribution 67/33 69/31 58/40 57/43 50/50 KPI – SUPPLIERS: Transport service providers Trading 64/36 65/35 61/39 59/41 50/50 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 Others 74/26 68/32 62/38 63/37 50/50 IWAY approved transport service providers*, % TOTAL management – – 60/39 59/40 50/50 Land 48.0 81.7 83 82 100 Ocean 38.0 41.8 96 95 100 Customer Delivery** – – 21 53 75 * A  pproval rates are calculated on the total IKEA expenditure in each category, and carriers are rated as approved only if they fulfil both IWAY and industry specific requirements. ** Excludes locally and nationally procured Customer Delivery carriers. KPI – suppliers: Food suppliers FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 IWAY approved food suppliers, % Global food suppliers 13 41 67 100 100 National food suppliers – – – – 100 Average IWAY fulfilment rate global suppliers >90 100 51 Metrics & References KPIs Communication on Cross-reference table (Global Compact) Page IKEA SR IKEA Approach UN Global Compact Human Rights progress Principle 1: B  usinesses should support and respect the protec­ tion of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 9–11, 35–41 12–19 Principle 2: m  ake sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 9–11, 35–41 12–19 Labour Standards IKEA is committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa­ Compact. As a signatory to the initiative, tion and the effective recognition of the right to we communicate how our work in the areas of collective bargaining; 35–41 13, 15, 17–18 Principle 4: t he elimination of all forms of forced and human rights, labour standards, environment and compulsory labour; 35–41 13–15 anti-corruption is progressing. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 34–41, 46–47 13–15 The table indicates where progress related Principle 6: t he elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 36, 43–44 13–15, 17–18 to the respective principles can be found in Environment the IKEA Sustainability Report 2011 and Principle 7: B usinesses should support a precautionary approach the report supplement The IKEA Group approach to environmental challenges; 20–33 4–12 to sustainability – How we manage sustainability Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environ­ mental responsibility; and 20–33 4–12 in our business. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of envi­ 13–15, ronmentally friendly technologies. 20–25, 31–33 4–8 Anti-corruption Principle 10: B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 11 15 IKEA SR = IKEA Sustainability Report 2011 IKEA Approach = The IKEA Group approach to sustainability 52 Metrics & References Cross reference table
