United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) June 2011 – June 2012 Company Name CESVA instruments, s.l.u. Address C/ Maracaibo, 6 08030 Barcelona Country Spain Contact name Joan Casamajó Monclús Contact Position General Manager Contact phone no. (+34) 934 335 240 Date 1 June 2012 Membership date 9 June 2008 Number of employees 24 Sector Metallurgical BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS We design and manufacture instruments for the measurement and control of noise and vibration. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2012 | page 3 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT CESVA instruments, s.l.u. has an ongoing commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We operate in a world of fierce competition, and at a time of economic crisis which has put pressure on many companies of all sizes to find ways of making savings, cutting costs and increasing profitability. These days have been especially hard in Spain and neighbouring countries such as Portugal or Italy. CESVA has suffered this climate of recession and lack of trust that has paralyzed our closest markets. Competition and price adjustments have been on every day agenda. But we keep committed to facing this without ever taking recourse to actions that would infringe on the 10 principles. We therefore remain firmly opposed to any form of corruption, supporting fair play in a competitive market and the protection of workers’ rights and conditions, not only in our own company, but also all those we deal with. We are equally committed in our support of environmental protection, especially in the field most closely connected with our line of business; noise pollution. We also have an active paper on the WEEE Directive for collecting, and recycling electrical and electronic equipment. We support the work of the United Nations Global Compact wholeheartedly, and without reservations, and we hope that by doing so we may be a positive role model for those in our spheres of influence. Signature Joan Casamajó Monclús, General Manager. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2012 | page 4 HUMAN RIGHTS The first two principles cover the area of Human Rights: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1: Businesses should human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights support and respect abuses. the protection of internationally proclaimed human Policy and Processes rights; and In order to ensure that CESVA is not complicit in human rights abuses, 2: make sure that they we have adopted a policy of not sourcing materials from countries with are not complicit in a systematically poor human rights record. human rights abuses. Results In 2011 CESVA did not import goods from, nor do business with any companies in countries with a systematically poor human rights record. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2012 | page 5 LABOUR The second area covered by principles 3 to 6 is that of Labour Rights: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 3: Businesses should recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all uphold the freedom of forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child association and the labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment effective recognition of the right to collective and occupation. bargaining; 4: The elimination of all Policy and Processes forms of forced and CESVA has a policy of recruitment based strictly on qualification and compulsory labour; ability. 5: The effective Factors such as sex, religion or sexual orientation play no part in the abolition of child recruitment process. Salary increases are in line with the collective labour; and agreement reached by the Unions and the Employers’ Association for the sector. 6: The elimination of discrimination in In addition, in line with the policy described in reference to Human respect of employment Rights, we ensure that our suppliers do not use child labour in their and occupation. production processes. Results In 2011 CESVA did not import parts from companies that use child labour in their production processes. Employees and Management have taken training courses to improve their knowledge and skills. All CESVA employees are paid according to their qualifications and the work that they carry out, independent of factors such as sex or religion, etc. New premises are already running at full performance, relaxation and dinning areas have been a success. And everybody is very happy with the working hours compression that allows being at home earlier. As a result of a close collaboration between CESVA and the Spanish National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health at Work (INSHT), the INSHT has published the Technical Guide for the evaluation and prevention of risks related with noise exposure, in the fields of music and entertainment. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2012 | page 6 The INSHT is the scientific-technical expert of the Spanish Government whose mission is the analysis and study of the safety and health at work and its promotion and support for improvement. This Code of Conduct sets out practical guidance for compliance with the provisions of Royal Decree 286/2006 (European Directive 2003/10/EC Minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents [Noise]) for the sectors of music and entertainment. It is a document that aims to help workers and employers in the fields of music and entertainment to understand the potential damage to health resulting from exposure to high noise levels inherent in the sector (music and entertainment) and reporting obligations that arise. The existence of high noise levels in discos, music bars, concert halls, outdoor concerts, music schools, etc. involves exposure of large numbers of different types of professionals (teachers, waiters, bar and lounge, security guards, DJs, sound engineers, musicians, etc..). The peculiarities and differences between this work and the fact that high levels of noise are considered normal mean that, in them, is apparently more difficult to apply the precautionary principle that establishes specific regulations. This is precisely the objective of this Code of Conduct, guide professionals in these sectors where the risk of hearing loss can be high, because of precisely what constitutes the essence of his work, music. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2012 | page 7 ENVIRONMENT Principles 7 to 9 pertain to the area of Environmental Protection: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to 7: Businesses are environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater asked to support a environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and precautionary diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. approach to environmental challenges; Policy and Processes 8: undertake initiatives CESVA has adopted a policy of “reduce, reuse and recycle” in the to promote greater factory. We have installed recipients for the recycling of paper, plastics environmental and other materials, and for the separate disposal of toxic materials responsibility; and such as paint, chemicals or batteries. 9: encourage the In addition we have placed boxes by the printers for paper which has development and been used on one side, with the idea of reusing this paper for printing diffusion of documents intended for internal use. environmentally friendly technologies. We have purchased new printers for several departments with automatic two-sided printing and instant-on features, this helps reducing paper and energy consumption. We have reduced the weight of the paper used in the company from 90 g/m² to 80 g/m². We are members of AMETIC and ECOTIC. AMETIC is a multisectoral association of companies in the electronics, information technologies and communications, telecommunications and digital content. We seat in the board for performance in the area of Environment and Sustainability. ECOTIC Foundation is a non-profit private organization that works towards environmental protection and sustainable development through the awareness and training of manufacturers, distributors and users of electrical and electronic devices. ECOTIC Foundation manages the WEEE (collection and recycling of electrical and electronic devices at the end of their lifespan) of its affiliated enterprises through its Integrated Management System (IMS). The mission of ECOTIC Foundation is not only to conveniently recycle the wastes that are generated by its affiliates after the use of these devices, but also to do it in the most efficient and economically feasible UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2012 | page 8 way, so that the system is environmentally and economically sustainable to guarantee its durability. Results The new premises will enables all the staff to work in natural light, thus reducing the company’s carbon footprint. Recyclable materials are not thrown away with organic and general waste. New printers help reducing paper and energy consumption. With the use of thinner paper we have obtained over a 5% reduction of the amount of paper used without sacrificing functionality. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2012 | page 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION The tenth principle deals with the problem of Corruption, and states simply that: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 10: Businesses should work against corruption including extortion and bribery. in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and Processes CESVA has always adhered to this principle. It may be that there are companies who resort to bribery to win contracts, but CESVA has never entertained the idea that this could, under any circumstances, be an acceptable business practice, even when it has cost us contracts or tenders. Results CESVA does not, and never has resorted to bribery or extortion. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2012 | page 10 Maracaibo, 6 • 08030 Barcelona (Spain) www.cesva.com
