Together We Can! Social Responsibility Report 2011 Social Responsibility Report 2011 2 Introduction Contents 1. Introduction ..................................................................................................................................................................... 4 Α. Social Responsibility Report Β. Contact Information C. Message from the CEO D. Message from the Social Responsibility Department 2. The Group .................................................................................................................................................................................. 8 Α. Introduction Β. The FOURLIS Group C. Our Financial Details D. Our Goals Ε. Our Involvement 3. Management and Corporate Governance 12 ...... Α. Introduction Β. Our Values C. Our Stakeholders D. Our Management Ε. Our Code of Conduct F. Our Internal Regulation Charter G. Our Activities over the Following Year 4. Human Resources .................................................................................................................................. 22 Α. Introduction Β. Employment C. Merit-based Recruitment and Advancement D. Employee Appraisals Ε. Employee Rewards and Recognition F. Ongoing Vocational Training G. Health and Safety H. Human Rights Ι. Two-Way Communication J. Our Activities Over the Following Year 5. Society .............................................................................................................................................................................................. 32 Α. Introduction Β. The Participation of Our Employees C. Our Social Actions D. Our Activities Over the Following Year 6. Environment ............................................................................................................................................................. 38 Α. Introduction Β. Analysis of the Results of Our Actions C. Management of our Materials D. The Energy We Consume Ε. Our Public and Employee Awareness-Building Activities F. Our Activities Over the Following Year 7. Global Compact Table ........................................................................................................... 48 Α. Introduction Β. Table of Global Compact Principles 8. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Table ..................... 50 Α. GRI Principles Table B. GRI Indicators Table Social Responsibility Report 2011 3 1. Introduction Α. Social Responsibility Report T he 2011 Social Responsibility Report is the third Report carried out by the FOURLIS Group, aiming to present the method of operation of the company and the Social Responsibility programs implemented in the year 2011. Data Focusing on the presentation of quantitative data for publication, the firm collected the data internally. The Report contains data derived from direct measurement (where estimates are made this is pointed out), and, as a rule, includes figures for the period 2009-2011. Report Scope The Report refers to figures formed over the period 1/1/2011-31/12/2011 and concerns all the activities of the Group in Greece, with specific reference to activities abroad. Report Principles The Report follows the United Nations' Global Compact principles for content and structure: ÒSustainability Reporting GuidelinesÓ (G3, 2006 Edition) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 4 Introduction Report Limitations Limitations exist in this Report relating to the diffusion of practices applied by the Group to its chain of stores and affiliates abroad, the presentation of further quantitative data, independent audits, and the presentation of targets for the following year. Report Evaluation The FOURLIS Group 2011 Report is at ÒCÓ level according to the ÒSustainability Reporting GuidelinesÓ (G3.1, 2011 Edition) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). ￼ Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: 3 Report on all criteria Same as requirement 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B G3 Profile 2.1 2.10 1.2 Disclosures 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Standart Disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not Required 3 Management Management Approach Disclosures Approach Disclosures G3 Management for each Indicator for each Indicator Approach Category Category Disclosures Report on 3 Report on a minimum Report on each core G3 G3 Performance a minimum of 10 of 20 Performance and Sector Supplement Indicators & Sector Performance Indicators, Indicators, at least one Indicator with due regard to Supplement including at least one from from each of Economic, the Materiality Principle by each of: Economic, Social Environmental, Human either: a) reporting on the Performance Indicators and Environmental. rights, Labor, Society, Indicator or b) explaining Product Responsibility. the reason for its omission. Report Development The development of the FOURLIS Group Social Responsibility Report 2011 took place in cooperation with the companies STREAM (www.stream-eu.com) and STOCHASIS (www.stochasis.gr). B. Contact Information For any suggestions, please contact: Mrs Lyda Fourlis Corporate Social Responsibility Director FOURLIS HOLDINGS SA 340 Kifissias Avenue, Neo Psychiko Tel: +30 210-6293000 Fax: +30 210-6293205 E-mail: csr@fourlis.gr Social Responsibility Report 2011 5 C. Message from the CEO ÒWe give priority to Responsible OperationÓ T he FOURLIS Group, is one of the largest trading To achieve this, we developed a set of principles that shape groups of durable consumer goods in Greece, the our corporate culture and guide our Human Resources in Balkans, Turkey and Cyprus, with the mission Òto cretheir daily activities, which are Integrity, Mutual Respect ate superior value for our Customers, People, Shareholders and Effectiveness. and the Society, by delivering goods and solutions for better livingÓ. To meet the needs and expectations of all those affected by our operations, we have to do even more. The challenges In a challenging global economic environment and an we face, or will face in the immediate future, do not allow even more difficult national one, we all have to set the complacency. Unstable economic environment, reduction foundations for a better future for ourselves and the future of operating costs, maintaining job positions, contribution generations, something completely aligned with the conon climate change and water scarcity, bigger diffusion of cept of responsible and sustainable operation. responsible practices in our sphere of influence, establishment of quantitative targets for the programs implementBy gradually incorporating the principles of sustainable ed, are indicative challenges we will face. development in the procedures we follow, we conduct our business in a way that reduces our environmental It is our commitment to conduct our business towards this impact. We develop a work environment that is safe, fair direction, also following the UN's Global Compact prinand focused on developing our employees. We invest in ciples for the wellbeing of our Group, our Employees, our improving quality of life, in creating working relationship Society, and our country's future generations. and in developing local communities. We provide high safety and excellent quality products to meet the needs Apostolos Petalas of our customers. CEO 6 Introduction D. Message from the Social Responsibility Department ÒGuided by our ValuesÓ T he year 2011 has been a challenging year for Greece. A groups. Our objective was, for as many people as possible, to year during which the Greek State and Society, as well as take benefit from our actions and support them in their effort Greek Citizens were extremely challenged. for a better life. Our Human Resources have once again shown sensitivity, by supporting our initiatives with enthusiasm and During these turbulent times, we all have to search for those sincerely striving to contribute, through their active participation. value-adding Principles, which can support and guide us in our lives and put them in practice. Last but not least, recognizing the increasing demand for environmental protection we intensified our initiatives to At the FOURLIS Group we have established the slogan ÒTogether better monitor and reduce our environmental footprint due to We Can!Ó since 2007. This slogan becomes more substantial, as our operations, expanding our energy reduction and material we believe that all together ÒWe CanÓ make our country better. management programs, as well as our recycling initiatives. In Having this in mind, we intensified our initiatives to improve order to sensitize and inform our employees and stakeholders quality of life for our Employees, to support the Society and to for the necessity to adopt more environmental friendly protect the Environment. practices, which aim to save resources and maintain our natural environment, we initiated a number of activities, inviting all parts Starting from our Employees, we maintained a workplace where involved to adopt a more environmental friendly way of living. facilitating creativity, meritocracy, fair practices, freedom of expression and action, engagement, recognition and rewarding, Being aware that our efforts must not only continue, but are integral parts of our daily activities. furthermore be strengthened, it is our commitment to continue with dedication towards our Vision for a Better Life. In parallel, in 2011, within challenging financial and social conditions, we significantly intensified our actions, helping Lyda Fourlis organizations and institutions which support sensitive social Corporate Social Responsibility Director Social Responsibility Report 2011 7 2. The Group Α. Introduction T he FOURLIS Group is one of the largest trading Groups of consumer goods in Greece, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Romania and Turkey. Main fields of the Group's business activities are: Retail sales of household goods, through IKEA stores in Greece, Cyprus and Bulgaria. Retail sales of athletic supplies, through INTERSPORT stores in Greece, Cyprus, Bulgaria, Romania, and Turkey. Retail sales of women's fashion-clothes and accessories, through NEW LOOK stores in Romania. Wholesale supply of electric appliances (GENERAL ELECTRIC, LIEBHERR & KORTING) in Greece. Β. The FOURLIS Group FOURLIS Holdings SA is the successor of A. FOURLIS AND CO, which was founded by Anastasios Fourlis in 1950 in Athens, in cooperation with his brothers Stelios, Ioannis and Ilias. 8 The Group The companies that constitute the FOURLIS Group are summarized below. FOURLIS Α.Ε. Συμμετοχών Greece Greece Romania Cyprus Cyprus Bulgaria Romania Bulgaria Turkey FOURLIS TRADE FOURLIS TRADE is one of the biggest Greek electric appliances supply companies in the Greek market, with exclusive representation of well-established foreign brands such as GENERAL ELECTRIC, KORTING & LIEBHERR. Furthermore, it provides modern kitchen absorbers under the FOURLIS brand name, being a leader in this category. INTERSPORT ATHLETICS INTERSPORT is the number one athletic goods' chain in the world, with over 5,200 stores in 39 countries. In Greece, it started its dynamic course in September 2000. Until 31 December 2011, 76 stores in Greece, Cyprus, Romania (GENCO TRADE), Bulgaria (GENCO BULGARIA) and Turkey (INTERSPORT ATHLETIK), were established. ΙΚΕΑ (HOUSEMARKET) With its arrival in Greece, IKEA brought to the Greek market a new philosophy based on the supply of a large range of well-designed, functional furniture and household goods at affordable prices, giving, as many people as possible, the opportunity of owning them. Nowadays, there are 5 stores operating in Greece (2 in Athens, 1 in Thessaloniki, 1 in Larisa, 1 in Ioannina), 1 store in Cyprus, as well as1 store in Sofia,Bulgaria. NEW LOOK ROMANIA (GENCO TRADE) In May 2011, the FOURLIS Group announced the agreement to take over franchise rights to develop NEW LOOK stores in Romania and Bulgaria. NEW LOOK has a leading position in the rapidly developing field of clothing and accessories, offering a unique combination of fashionable, affordable and up-to-date products. Renowned for its dynamic approach to fashion, NEW LOOK, has over 1,000 stores in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Europe, Middle East, Russia, Malta, Ukraine and Poland. Nowadays the FOURLIS Group operates 4 women's fashion and accessories stores in Romania, while in 2012 it plans to operate stores in Bulgaria. Social Responsibility Report 2011 9 SERVICE ONE SERVICE ONE is the biggest after sales service company in the field of repairs, maintenance and installation of household, electric and electronic appliances. Among others, it covers the biggest companies across the country including GENERAL ELECTRIC, KORTING, LIEBHERR, FOURLIS absorbers, SAMSUNG, PANASONIC air-conditioners, FRANKE and PYRAMIS. In 2010, it undertook the assembly of furniture and installation of IKEA kitchens. TRADE LOGISTICS TRADE LOGISTICS, based in Schimatari Viotia, began its activity in March 2008 as the first fully-automated warehouse in Greece. The aim of the company is provision of warehouse and delivery services for the IKEA stores in Greece and Cyprus. The company, with its specialized and experienced staff, its use of technology and application of logistics innovative methods, focuses on providing effective warehouse and delivery services, as well as on expanding its activities. HISTORY 1960 1981 Establishment of the 1970-1980 1950 FOURLIS Bros SA holds Thessaloniki branch Exclusive representation Founding of A. FOURLIS one of the top positions 1968 of GENERAL ELECTRIC and CO in the Greek electric The company is converted appliances appliances market to FOURLI Bros SA 1982 1988 1993 1994 Exclusive representation Listed on the Acquisition of 51% Supply of MOTOROLA of NEFF household Athens' Stock Exchange of P. KOTSOVOLOS SA mobile products appliances 2001 2000 1995 1999 First ΙΚΕΑ store in Greece Exclusive SAMSUNG Founding of GENCO Acquisition of IKEA and (Thessaloniki) supplier Founding of Romania and Bulgaria INTERSPORT Franchises The first 14 INTERSPORT FOURLIS TRADE SA stores open 2004 2008 First ΙΚΕΑ store in Athens 2006 2007 Founding of TRADE (Airport) First INTERSPORT First ΙΚΕΑ store LOGISTICS Second ΙΚΕΑ First INTERSPORT store in Bulgaria in Cyprus store in Athens (Kifisos) store in Romania 2009 2010 2011 ΙΚΕΑ store ΙΚΕΑ store – Acquisition of INTERSPORT branch network in Turkey in Larissa in Ioannina – Acquisition of NEW LOOK Franchise – 4 NEW LOOK stores open in Romania – IKEA store opens in Sofia, Bulgaria C. Our Financial Details In 2011, the FOURLIS Group realized sales in its continuing operations œ 436 m, increased by 0.24% in comparison to the previous year (œ 435 m). In total, 2011 sales reached œ 438.2 m. Net profits reached œ 2.3 m in comparison to œ 14.7 m in 2010, and the company's tax charges were decreased to œ 1.8 m in 2011. 10 The Group The table below presents a collective summary of the FOURLIS Group financial data for 2011 in comparison with the years 2010, 2009 and 2008. FOURLIS GROUP FINANCIAL DATA 2011 2010* 2009 2008 Turnover (million euros) 438,2 638,2 751,7 784,4 Net profit (million euros) 2,3 14,7 31,6 55,1 Tax payments (million euros) 1,8 13,1 21,1 20,6 * Revised data due to accounting procedure change (see note 29 in Annual Financial Report). D. Our Goals Driven by the well-being of the Group, including our employees and Stakeholders, we continue -and will continueto invest in new continuously developing and profitable areas like household equipment, athletic goods, as well as new retail sectors, such as youth fashion stores. OBJECTIVE 2011 OBJECTIVE 2012 To increase our adaptability to ever-evolving market Increase our market share, in a healthy and profitable conditions. way, in all sectors we operate. To focus on the development of trade Strengthen the Group's bond with consumers, and services to ensure the consistent strengthening maximizing before and after sales services provided and of the Group. ensure best quality of goods, in relation to the sale price. Complete our investment and expansion plans, through new IKEA, INTERSPORT and NEW LOOK stores. Maintain a healthy and positive balance sheet, enhance liquidity and free cash flow, in order for the Group to remain strong and meet challenges created by the Euro zone and Greece crisis. Ε. Our Involvement On November 26, 2008, when the FOURLIS Group became an official member of the UN's Global Compact, we agreed to adopt, support and promote the ten principles of the UN Global Compact through our commercial activities. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact promote a safe working environment, the sustainability of the company, the application of environmental friendly practices, respect of human rights and the combating of any practices that promote corruption. At the same time, we seek two-way interaction with our Stakeholders, in order to increase understanding of their expectations and needs. An example of such communication is the participation of our Corporate Governance Department in the Corporate Governance Code development for the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises and the participation in the Corporate Governance Committee for the American-Hellenic Chamber of Commerce. The recognition of our efforts strengthens our commitment to continuous improvement. In 2011, we received several awards including: HOUSEMARKET (ΙΚΕΑ): ÒRetailer of the DecadeÓ Retail Business Awards 2011 IKEA BULGARIA: ÒInvestment of the YearÓ Forbes Business Awards (Forbes Magazine) FOURLIS Holdings SA: 1st Award for Corporate Governance 2011 Business Awards ÒChrimaÓ George Ouzounis 2011 Social Responsibility Report 2011 11 3. Management and Corporate Governance Α. Introduction T he concept of responsible operation has been incorporated into our management practices and is an integral part of the governance applied in all of our Group's activities. We believe that responsible governance and effective responsible operation need to be incorporated in our daily management practices in order for us to achieve both quantitative and qualitative results. As a result, we do not regard Social Responsibility as a separate activity but rather as part of our management practices. The Group's Goals, Policy, Values, Code of Conduct, and Internal Operation prove, on a daily basis, that Social Responsibility is an integral part of our operation. Β. Our Values At the FOURLIS Group we want to support the Society through the application of programs that have a positive outcome on Society as a whole. Our goal is to develop our companies, while always serving our firm and inviolable principles for: Integrity Respect Efficiency 12 Management and Corporate Governance We continue to support our Stakeholders, as described in our Mission Statement: Passion for better living! To create superior value for our Customers, People, Shareholders and the Society by delivering goods and solutions for better living. Especially, since 2008, when we created the Group's Social Responsibility Department, our business goals do not deter us from our philosophy and values; rather, they aid us in expressing them more clearly and implementing them more effectively. C. Our Stakeholders The FOURLIS Group is active in both the retail and wholesale markets, therefore we have a range of Stakeholders. We define Stakeholders as all those who are impacted by our activities, like, for example, our Clients, our Suppliers, the Social Environment in which we are active etc. In the following table, we present a summary of our Stakeholders and the methods by which we assure constant contact and communication with them, thereby collecting information on their needs and opinions on all matters concerning the Group's actions. Stakeholders Means of Communication STAKEHOLDERS MEANS OF COMMUNICATION Satisfaction survey Employees Event organization Publishing of electronic and printed newsletters Bulletin boards Satisfaction surveys Customers Frequent visits Regular contact and communication Meetings Suppliers Participation in industry associations Conducting joint programs Local Societies Visits D  iscussions with the authorities' representatives on a Formal Authorities national and local level Participation in organizations and associations Citizens Regular contact Press conferences Media Informative brochures Meetings NonGovernmental Organizations (NGOs) Meetings The above-mentioned practices help in preserving healthy and mutual contact with every group of our Stakeholders individually. Through regular contact, we aim to preserve a constant flow of information to and from our company regarding requests, problems, and expectations of our Stakeholders, which will help us improve our products and minimize any negative impacts that may occur. Social Responsibility Report 2011 13 Furthermore, we conduct focused surveys, in order to understand public opinion on our responsible operation. Indicatively, in a survey conducted by IKEA, 53% of respondents considered that IKEA Òassumes its responsibilities related to the EnvironmentÓ and 43% said IKEA Òassumes its responsibilities related to the SocietyÓ. D. Our Management The Board With regards to our internal operations and the Principles of Corporate Governance, we have shaped our practices based on international standards:  oard members are selected after evaluation of their skills and abilities, their professional experience and their B resume. Out of the nine members of the Board, five are executive and four nonexecutive. The Chairman of the Board is a different person to the CEO. The managerial staff and the members of the Board are compensated based on the total performance of the company and their contribution to it. The Corporate Social Responsibility Director, and executive member of the Board is responsible for bringing up issues related to Social Responsibility to the Board. The members of the Board have a term of 5 years. The Shareholders of the company are responsible for evaluating the yearly performance and activity of the members of the Board at the Annual General Meeting. The following table presents the members of the Board of the FOURLIS Group and their responsibilities as registered on 31 December 2011. Name Position Vasileios Fourlis (Father's name: Stylianos) Chairman, executive member Dafni Fourlis (Father's name: Anastasios) ViceChairman, executive member Apostolos Petalas (Father's name: Dimitrios) Chief Executive Officer, executive member Ioannis Lioupis (Father's name: Panayiotis) Director, executive member Lyda Fourlis (Father's name: Stylianos) Director, executive member Ioannis Brebos (Father's name: Evaggelos) Director non-executive member Eftichios Vassilakis (Father's name: Theodore) Director independent non-executive member Ioannis Papaioannou (Father's name: Konstantinos) Director independent non-executive member Ioannis Costopoulos (Father's name: Athanasios) Director independent non-executive member 14 Management and Corporate Governance The Code of Corporate Governance Role and Responsibilities of the disclosed to the public. Board to the public. Board: members contribute their expertise The Board maintains a sound The Board provides effective and devote to their duties the system of internal control to leadership and directs the necessary time and attention. safeguard the company's assets company's affairs in the interest of and ensure that significant risks the company and all shareholders, Nomination of Board members: are identified and adequately ensuring that Management Nominations to the Board are made managed. properly implements the on merit, using objective criteria. company's strategy. The Board The Board ensures the orderly Remuneration: also ensures the fair and equitable succession of Board members and The level and structure of treatment of all shareholders, Senior Executives so as to ensure remuneration aim to attract, retain including minority and foreign the long-term success of the and motivate Board members, shareholders. company. Executives and employees who will add value to the company Size and composition of the Functioning of the Board: with their skills, knowledge and Board: The Board meets sufficiently experience. A company should The size and composition of regularly to discharge its duties avoid paying more than is the Board enables the effective effectively. necessary for this purpose. fulfillment of its responsibilities and reflects the size, activities Internal control: Relations with shareholders: and ownership of the company. The Board presents a balanced and The Board maintains a continuous Board composition is driven by the clear assessment of the company's and constructive dialogue with fair and equitable treatment of all position and prospects and ensures the company's shareholders in shareholders and demonstrates a the integrity of financial statements order to achieve transparency and high level of integrity. Moreover it and disclosures to shareholders and information. includes a diversity of knowledge, qualifications and experience relevant to the business objectives of the company. Role and profile of the Chairman of the Board: The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, setting its agenda and ensuring that the work of the Board is well organized and meetings conducted efficiently. The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that Board members receive accurate and timely information. The Chairman ensures effective communication with all shareholders as well as the fair and equitable treatment of their interests. Duties and conduct of Board members: Each member has a duty of loyalty to the company. Board members act with integrity and in the best interest of the company, as well as protect the confidentiality of information that has not been Social Responsibility Report 2011 15 The Organizational Chart A presentation of the line of communication and interaction of the Board members with the Committees and the Divisions of the Group is presented below. Board of Directors Audit Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committee Internal Audit Group Chief Executive Officer Legal Human Resources Information Technology Finance Social Responsibility Treasury and Investors Financial Controlling Relations and Planning Social Responsibility Department At the FOURLIS Group we have ensured the existence of a Department for the cultivation of the company's responsible behavior. For this purpose, in 2008, we created the Social Responsibility Department which ensures the company's progress in matters related to responsible practices, which raise awareness of voluntary work among the staff. Furthermore, the Social Responsibility Department ensures that relevant policies are promoted and that social policy plans are implemented on a local, national and international level, always in collaboration with the Group's operating divisions. For this reason, it organizes regular meetings with Social Responsibility coordinators in the countries where the Group operates. The following chart depicts the organizational structure created by the Group for the effective management of Social Responsibility issues and the collection of data for the annual Social Responsibility review. FOURLIS Group Social Responsibility Organizational chart Level FOURLIS GROUP Subsidiary Companies Corporate Social Board of Directors Responsibility Director Social Responsibility Social Responsibility Management Department Coordinators 16 Management and Corporate Governance Ε. Our Code of Conduct￼ We have developed an extensive Code of Conduct which is applicable to all the Group's companies in the Group, without exception, and which describes in detail the rules of conduct that our workforce has to follow in carrying out its professional activities. Our goal is that through the Code of Conduct, we set standards that facilitate ethical and professional behavior and ensure the commitment and cooperation of all our employees to this effect. Our employees recognize that they are obliged to adopt the Code of Conduct upon employment in the Group. To ensure the above, the summarized Code of Conduct was distributed to all employees in Greece in 2011, besides managers who receive the Code annually since 2008. The Code of Conduct includes the following standarts: 1. O bligation of adherence compliance with the valid of our own position within the to business ethics and legislation. FOURLIS Group. compliance with legislation The access to the Code of The staff of the FOURLIS Group Conduct Line of the Group may 4. B usiness gifts, payments and behaves ethically and lawful, be obtained by phone, landline fair transactions irrespective of their position or cell, at (+30) 210 6293010. The FOURLIS Group staff shall within the company or the There is also an e-mail available: never offer/ receive (directly or place they are working at. Our codeofconduct@fourlis.gr. indirectly) any object of value to assurance includes conformity or from any client nor influence with ALL laws that regulate or 3. Conflicts  of Interests or reward any action, violating are valid for the operation of The FOURLIS Group staff as a result the FOURLIS Group the Group's companies as well does not allow any business or the client's policy. as the conformity with business transactions to be influenced ethics standards. or seemingly influenced by 5. I nternational business their own personal or family behavior 2. Communication of cases interests. The FOURLIS Group, as where non-ethical or nonA conflict of interest may an international Group of lawful behavior is observed arise in case that us or any Companies, recognizes its The Code of Conduct Line family member of ours acts responsibility towards the of the Group is available 24 or has any interest that countries within it conducts hours a day and anyone may makes the execution of our business. The FOURLIS Group call the Line in order to report duties objectively difficult or complies with all laws and any concerns related to Code in case that we accept any regulations, respects any of Conduct violations or noninappropriate benefit as a result legal fees applicable in the countries where the Group's activities take place and does not participate in any action of commercial blockade. The FOURLIS Group staff shall never make any payment or offer nor give anything valuable to any foreign officer (or candidate for a political position) or consultant or representative, unless they are absolutely certain that this payment is intended for actual business services and that it is legitimate according to the applicable local legislation and the Code of Conduct of the FOURLIS Group. Social Responsibility Report 2011 17 6. P  recision and preservation authorized by the FOURLIS laws aim in establishing of company archives and Group BoD may communicate the existence of a balanced documents with public bodies and business environment where The FOURLIS Group companies Media in order to announce enterprises have a fair keep records of financial data relating to activities competition in terms of prices, documents that precisely and and financial results of any quality and service. accurately reflect the company FOURLIS Group companies. The FOURLIS Group staff transactions. In addition, they always, without any do have an internal audit 8. W  orking Environment at exemption, comply with the system. the FOURLIS Group rules and the spirit of Antitrust It lays in the FOURLIS Group The primary operational and competition laws and do responsibility to maintain principle at the FOURLIS adopt this policy. correct and accurate archives Group is the respect of other Every agreement or ownership of all the FOURLIS Group human beings. The companies (official or unofficial, expressed activities. The business files of the FOURLIS Group express or implied) among competitors shall be kept according to their respect to all their in order to raise, reduce or the internal procedures of the employed staff by providing a stabilize rates is illegal and Group's companies and the positive, productive and safe strictly prohibited. applicable laws. The FOURLIS working environment. Group staff shall in no event 10. M erchandise quality document inaccurately or The policies: and natural environment falsify data. e qual professional protection opportunities, The FOURLIS Group 7. C  ompany announcements b anning of sexual harassment, staff should inform their FOURLIS HOLDINGS SA a nti-violence policy within the supervisor immediately provides accurate and working area, in case they receive any timely communication to a working environment free of information concerning shareholders and bodies drugs/alcohol problems with the quality of through its Investors Relations w ithin the FOURLIS Group, the merchandise. Department in order to supply prohibit discrimination and The FOURLIS Group is bound shareholders and bodies with harassment and ensure a to maintain a responsible full and accurate information safe and healthy working attitude towards the on any subject that concerns environment. environment and comply the financial status of the with all environmental Group's companies as 9. T  rade and competition laws and regulations. well as the results of their practices The FOURLIS Group staff actions. Only natural persons Antitrust and competition minimizes the companies' impact on the environment through methods that are socially responsible, that are based on science and that are financially acceptable (recycling and energy consumption programs etc). 11. U se of the Group's assets (equipment and services) The FOURLIS Group's assets, its installations and its resources (human and material), are used by the staff only for the Group's purposes and not for any personal purposes. 12. C onfidentiality The FOURLIS Group staff, that has access to confidential 18 Management and Corporate Governance or privileged information sites that are not related their own families. concerning business activities with aims of the FOURLIS 15. P  articipation in of the Group, must never Group companies is strictly Community Activities and disclose them to anyone nor prohibited. Politics be used for personal benefit The FOURLIS Group staff, or benefit of others. 14. U  sage restriction of through their voluntarily privileged information for participation in community 13. U se of electronic mail transaction purposes activities and politics, does (e-mail) and Internet The FOURLIS Group staff not only improve the social within the working does not perform any environment but contribute environment transactions with FOURLIS in the enhancement of the The FOURLIS Group staff HOLDINGS SA based on consumer credit and the must use the electronic mail their access to privileged good reputation of FOURLIS (e-mail) and the company's information. They shall Group of Companies. Internet at work exclusively not disclose any privileged for company purposes. information about FOURLIS 16. S  ocial Media Networks The access to Internet Group to anyone, not even to Usage It is essential that all FOURLIS Group staff is aware of the principles that govern their participation in Social Media (Facebook, blogs, Twitter etc.) when they refer directly or indirectly to the Group / the Group's Companies as well as any brands that those companies represent. The FOURLIS Group staff must use the Social Media based on the Principals of Transparency, Accountability & Conformity with the applicable international Internet use rules and Group policies. F. Our Internal Regulation Charter We have developed and apply standardized Internal Regulation Charter which has been approved by the Board of Directors of the Group in order to ensure that employees respect the rules and regulations. In particular, the Internal Regulation Charter addresses the company's operational ethics, commitment to implementation of the local labor legislation, the organizational structure and composition of the Group, basic company practices, the duties of the Audit Committee, the responsibilities of management, the imposition of disciplinary measures, and the duties of the Internal Audit Department. Furthermore, annual review is foreseen, so that and the Internal Regulation Charter always confers with company practices and the existing regulations and laws. Social Responsibility Report 2011 19 Audit Committee The Board of Directors maintains an effective internal audit system, with a view to safeguarding the company's assets, detecting and troubleshooting major risks. It monitors company strategy and reexamines it regularly. It reviews the main risks faced by the company as well as the effectiveness of the internal audit system regarding the management of the said risks. The review covers all essential audits, including financial and operational compliance and risk management system audits. The Board of Directors, by means of the Audit Committee, is in immediate and regular contact with the auditors so as to be regularly updated on the correct functioning of the audit system. Department of Internal Audit The Department of Internal Audit is an independent and objective advisory service designed to add value and improve company procedures. It aids the company in achieving its goals through offering a systematic and structured approach to evaluation and improvement of the audit system, risk management and corporate governance. The Department of Internal Audit reports the results of its tasks to the Audit Committee which is the internal audit's supervisory body (N. 3693/2008). Every quarter, the Board of Directors is informed in writing by the Audit Committee on work carried out on behalf of Management (Ν. 3016/2002). The internal auditors carry out their duties in compliance with the Code of Conduct, therefore applying the principles of independence, objectivity and confidentiality. Furthermore, they act in complete compliance with International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, as well as the policies and the company procedures. 20 Management and Corporate Governance G. Our Activities Over the Following Year Below are presented the last year's goals and the new targets for 2012. The company's goal is to continue implementation of policies and actions already applied, and also to: OBJECTIVE 2011 ACHIEVEMENT OBJECTIVE 2012 Translate and distribute the Code Communicate the summarized Code of of Conduct to the local languages of the Conduct to all new employees. countries of the Group's activities (Romania, Bulgaria & Turkey). Evaluate the process for expansion of the Evaluate the process for expansion of the implementation of the Code to suppliers. implementation of the Code to suppliers. Conduct an opinion survey among its Conduct an opinion survey among its stakeholders. stakeholders (Customers & Employees). Further expand the system for collecting and analyzing data included in the Social Responsibility Report. Publish a 2011 Social Responsibility Report, at ÒBÓ level, on the basis of GRI-G3.1. Social Responsibility Report 2011 21 4. Human Resources Α. Introduction A t the FOURLIS Group, we are aware of the fact that if we want to achieve our strategic goals and strengthen our competitiveness in a volatile market, we need to invest in the People who support the Group's operation on a daily basis. For this reason, we cultivate an environment of respect, freedom, meritocracy and safety for all our employees, through provision of training opportunities, advancement, appraisal, rewards, and of course, through maintaining and creating employment. Β. Employment We employ about 3,500 employees in total, out of which about 2,600 work in our companies in Greece and Cyprus. Despite the volatile economic conditions over the last few years, we try to maintain the number of employees at a stable rate, and if any of our companies require new staff, we cover these needs immediately, either internally, or through new hirings. The Group, through the activities development in Greece and abroad creates new workplaces, supporting local communities by recruiting employees. In 2011, the percentage of employees who left the company decreased to 12.6%, while in 2010 the corresponding percentage was 18.9%. The following table shows the breakdown of employees by company in the FOURLIS Group for the year 2011, compared to existing figures for 2010. 22 Human Resources FOURLIS Group Employee Breakdown Employees Employees Company 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 Fourlis Holdings 3 3 Fourlis Trade 75 86 Service One 109 111 Trade Logistics 55 53 IKEA Greece and Cyprus 1.878 1.968 IKEA Bulgaria 329 16 INTERSPORT Greece and 487 441 Cyprus INTERSPORT 358 354 & NEW LOOK Romania INTERSPORT Bulgaria 66 63 INTERSPORT Turkey 150 Total Employees 3.510 3.095 The following table shows in total the profile of the FOURLIS Group employees for the year 2011. FOURLIS Group Human Resources Profile* MANAGERS/ POSITION EMPLOYEES FOREIGNERS SUPERVISORS Employees (%) 16 84 5 AGE 18-25 26-40 41-50 >50 Employees (%) 17 57 18 8 JUNIOR HIGHLEVEL OF EDUCATION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL UNIVERSITY LEVEL SENIOR HIGH Employees (%) 15 56 29 SEX WOMEN MEN Employees (%) 54 46 WORKPLACE STORES OFFICES Employees (%) 88 12 * Statistics as of 31/12/2011 Social Responsibility Report 2011 23 C. Merit-based Recruitment and Advancement The basic axes of our policy both at company level and This is especially visible when regarding staff recruitment and at Group level apply for all looking at the total number of the the advancement of our Human employees. female employees in the Group, Resources are: which is at 54%, while the number Similarly, it is very important of women in managerial positions R  ecruitment is based on specific that, as far as possible, a balance reaches the particularly high standardized evaluation criteria between the sexes is maintained percentage of 35%. across all companies of the and we are especially careful not Group, so there is no room for to apply different employment Furthermore, it is notable that in discrimination. practices for our female 2011, 312 internal movementsemployees. promotions took place within the D  iscrimination in the workplace Group, out of which 113 were due to employee diversity is not For this reason, we have ensured related to internal promotions, allowed. equal advancement opportunities compared to 159 internal for both men and women to promotions-movements in 2010. E qual opportunities for internal Director's positions. advancement and promotions Furthermore, in 2011, 982 new recruits were made, compared to Ratio of Women in the Group 711 new recruits made in 2010, mainly due to our expansion in Percentage of women in total workforce (%) Turkey (INTERSPORT), Bulgaria Percentage of women in managerial/ supervisory positions (%) (IKEA) and our NEW LOOK stores in Romania. 54 2011 35 54 2010 40,32 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 * The data pertain to 31/12/2011 New recruits/ internal promotions New recruits (number) Internal promotions (number) 982 2011 312 711 2010 159 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 24 Human Resources D. Employee Appraisals In order to ensure that employee appraisal is and remains transparent, we have adopted a single Performance Appraisal System for the Group, which is implemented twice a year (June and December) since 2008 and is obligatory for all the Group's employees. The Performance Appraisal System of the FOURLIS Group was created to ensure a fair working environment and to create a functional management succession plan for senior positions. The characteristics that make this appraisal system objective are: It was created by the employees themselves, in order to assess their progress in relation to the requirements of the job and in relation to the values that govern the Group. Employees have free access to their appraisal forms. Employees are given the opportunity to object if they disagree with any parts of the appraisal. Ε. Employee Rewards and Recognition At the FOURLIS Group, we believe we are obliged to recognize and reward our Human Resources for their contribution. For this reason, we introduced the reward program presented below, aimed at recognizing the importance of their contribution towards the progress of the Group. The reward program is summarized as follows:  ong term Employment Award L Employees who have contributed to the company for a number of years (10, 20 & 30 years of recognized contribution) are rewarded. In 2011, 128 employees of the Group were rewarded for long-term employment compared to 51 employees in 2010. Ò  Highlight those that Stand Out We Live by our ValuesÓ Through this program, which has become an institution, employees whose professional behavior is in line with and reflect the Values of the Group, are rewarded. The number of employees who are rewarded every year is decided by the Board of Directors and is relative to the total number of employees of each company. In 2011, 20 employees were rewarded, compared to 17 employees in 2010. F. Ongoing Vocational Training At the FOURLIS Group, we believe that there is a permanent need for ongoing vocational training which is completely dependent on the increased demands of a competitive market. For this reason, the training of each employee of the Group begins upon their employment. The first training session for each FOURLIS Group employee is an Induction Program through which we ensure that all new recruits are informed about the Structure of the Group, the Values, the Code of Conduct and the Internal Regulation Charter of each company. In 2011, at the FOURLIS Group, we created an educational academy, Learning Institute ÒSharing the knowledgeÓ, providing the opportunity to all the Group companies' employees, to participate in leadership programs (management, coaching, constructive feedback etc.), as well as in product trainings. The Group and / or each company ensures that the specialized training programs are realized, either internally with the aid of its own executives' know-how and that of internal trainers, or externally in collaboration with external organizations and training centers. Social Responsibility Report 2011 25 To ensure the effectiveness of the training programs for each individual employee, the following parameters are examined: The company goal to be achieved through the specific training The specifications of the employee's position The demands of the employee's position The employee's skills level The employee's knowledge level Examples of educational programs conducted in 2011 are: FOURLIS Group Examples of Educational Programs MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PRODUCT Performance Appraisal Income Tax First Aid Seminar New products presentation Train the trainer Labor Law Training Health and Safety Sales Department Tax Tips Training Coaching Skills Accounting Training Training in IKEA iving Constructive G INTERSPORT products Feedback N  ew Rules-changes of VAT, Code of Book and Customer service Data L eading with Emotional Intelligence SAP System Language skills The following table analytically presents employee trainings undertaken by the FOURLIS Group in 2011. FOURLIS Group Employee Training 2011 2010 Total Man-hours of training 68.307 87.434 Average training hours / employee 19,0 27,03 Amount spent on training (euros)* 98.350 142.008 Number of participants in training 5.204 8.800 programs * The amount concerns only educational programmes conducted by external agencies. 26 Human Resources G. Health and Safety At the FOURLIS Group we are well aware that provision of a safe and healthy work environment is our obligation. For this reason, on an annual basis, we make sure that we follow the provisions of Greek legislation laid out in the labor laws, evaluate the possible risks we may face over the following year, and implement the appropriate measures to ensure prevention of accidents as far as possible. The main measures the Group has taken to achieve the above-mentioned goals are:  ap the regions of candidate risks and take measures according to the degree of risk. M Periodic inspections are carried out on all the premises by the Safety Technicians. A Professional Risk Assessment Study is drawn up by the Occupational Health and Safety Technician. Training programs on health and safety are implemented. First aid and fire protecting training is provided for specific groups. The following table presents, by case, accidents in the workplace, safety training and absences due to illness recorded during 2010 and 2011. Accidents Illness 2011 2010 Number of workplace accidents* 151 272 Number of workplace accidents resulting in 27 30 more than 3 days' absence Total man-hours devoted to safety training 4.191 14.079 Days of absence due to sick-leave 5.948 4.772 (over 3 days) Days of absence due to sick-leave 4.292 3.873 (under 3 days) * Refers, mainly, to minor injuries Overall, the number of workplace accidents in 2011 significantly decreased to 151, compared to 2010, during which the number of accidents was 272. Also, in 2011 the number of accidents with over 3 days absence reduced to 27, compared to 30 accidents in 2010. ÒWELL BEING (EF ZIN) Love YourselfÓ Program In 2010 a new program, ÒWELL BEING (EF ZIN) Love yourselfÓ, was implemented. The aim was to inform employees about health and wellbeing issues and at the same time to motivate them to adopt a healthier lifestyle. Employees are continuously informed about the main pillars of the program prevention, balanced diet, and regular exercise and the activities related to them, aiming to motivate them to make the first step towards a more balanced and healthier life. Social Responsibility Report 2011 27 Through the ÒWELL BEING (EF ZIN) Love yourselfÓ program, employees have the opportunity to benefit from free medical check-ups, to receive discount packages from health club chains, outdoor activity groups and nutritional advice centers, and to take part in sports tournaments and informative seminars provided by specialists. In addition, the ÒEF ZINÓ Newsletter (ÒWELL BEINGÓ Newsletter) is distributed electronically and placed on the Social Responsibility announcement boards on a regular basis. EXAMPLES OF THE ÒWELL BEINGÓ GROUP'S ACTIVITIES: Free Medical Checkups for all employees ΔΩΡΕΑΝ Free Cholesterol Tests εξέταση In March 2011, as part of our ÒWELL BEINGÓ program, free instant Μετράμε δωρεάν τη χοληστερίνη μας, σε συνεργασία με το ΕΡΡΙΚΟΣ ΝΤΥΝΑΝ και τη EUROMEDICA. cholesterol examinations were carried out for all employees , in ΗΜΕΡΟΜΗΝΙΑ ΤΟΠΟΘΕΣΙΑ ΩΡΕΣ Δευτέρα, 28 Φεβρουαρίου collaboration with ERRIKOS DUNANT and EUROMEDICA, with the FOURLIS Ν. Ψυχικό 09:00 13:00 Τρίτη, 1 Μαρτίου TRADE LOGISTICS Σχηματάρι 08:00 12:00 INTERSPORT Βάρη 09:00 13:00 participation of 718 persons, compared to 732 persons in 2010. Τετάρτη, 2 Μαρτίου ΙΚΕΑ Θεσσαλονίκη ΙΚΕΑ Κηφισός 10:00 18:00 10:00 18:30 Πέμπτη, 3 Μαρτίου ΙΚΕΑ Λάρισα 10:00 18:00 ΙΚΕΑ Αεροδρόμιο 10:00 16:00 Παρασκευή, 4 Μαρτίου Employees, who took part in the cholesterol examinations, were provided Τρίτη, 8 Μαρτίου ΙΚΕΑ Ιωάννινα SERVICE ONE Κρυονέρι 10:00 18:00 08:00 12:00 INTERSPORT Πάτρα 16:00 19:00 with an individual examination card, with the date and the results of their Τετάρτη, 9 Μαρτίου INTERSPORT Λαμία 15:00 19:00 examination. This examination also took place in the FOURLIS Group Συμβουλές προς όσους ενδιαφέρονται να εξεταστούν: companies in Romania and Bulgaria. Απαιτείται 12ωρη νηστεία πριν από τη στιγμή της μέτρησης. Προτείνεται ένα 24ωρο πριν, ο εξεταζόμενος να μη φάει κρέας ή και παράγωγό του, καθώς και οτιδήποτε έχει αρκετό λίπος. Τα αποτελέσματα των μετρήσεων αποτελούν ένδειξη και μόνο και δεν υποκαθιστούν την ανάγκη της πληρέστερης ενημέρωσης και καθοδήγησης από το γιατρό σας. It's worth mentioning that, throughout the year many programs were offered by BIOATRIKI and YGEIA medical centers, such as thyroid check, complete eye examinations, preventive cardiac evaluation, screening for prostate cancer, complete checkup (etc), offered at special prices for all employees and their families. Furthermore, in cooperation with the National Association of Women with breast cancer ÒAlma ZoisÓ free screening tests were offered to the Group's female employees. EXAMPLE OF IKEA ACTIVITY: Στα πλαίσια του προγράμματος «ΕΥ ΖΗΝ – Αγάπα τον Εαυτό σου», η Διεύθυνση Κοινωνικής Υπευθυνότητας του Ομίλου FOURLIS, ξεκινάει το πρόγραμμα «ΕΥ ΖΗΝ ΔΙΑΤΡΟΦΗ» το οποίο θα πραγματοποιείται στο εξής σε όλα τα εστιατόρια των εργαζομένων στα καταστήματα ΙΚΕΑ, σε Ελλάδα και Κύπρο. ÒWELL BEING Love yourselfÓ program Σε συνεργασία με την έμπειρη κλινική διατροφολόγο διαιτολόγο, Κα Μαρία Τουμπή, MSc, μέλος της επιστημονικής ομάδας “Διατροφή (www.diatrofi.gr) και με βάση το μενού που διατίθεται από το εστιατόριο της ΙΚΕΑ, κάθε εβδομάδα θα μπορείτε να βρίσκετε αναρτημένη στο εστιατόριο την εβδομαδιαία διατροφική πρόταση που μπορείτε να ακολουθείτε προκειμένου να απολαμβάνετε τα οφέλη μίας πλήρους ισορροπημένης διατροφής. Το μενού θα πλαισιώνουν διατροφικές συμβουλές και μυστικά για καλύτερο αποτέλεσμα. ΤΟ ΜΕΝΟΥ ΠΟΥ ΣΑΣ ΠΡΟΤΕΙΝΟΥΜΕ ΓΙ’ ΑΥΤΗ ΤΗΝ ΕΒΔΟΜΑΔΑ ΕΙΝΑΙ: The ÒWELL BEING Love yourselfÓ program continued in 2011 with new ΔΕΥΤΕΡΑ 31 ΟΚΤΩΒΡΙΟΥ ΤΡΙΤΗ 1 ΝΟΕΜΒΡΙΟΥ ΤΕΤΑΡΤΗ 2 ΝΟΕΜΒΡΙΟΥ ΑΡΑΚΑΣ ΜΕ ΠΑΤΑΤΕΣ, ΜΙΑ initiatives aiming at informing and urging employees towards a better ΜΙΑ ΜΕΡΙΔΑ ΜΟΣΧΑΡΙ 2 ΜΕΤΡΙΑ ΓΕΜΙΣΤΑ ΣΕ ΜΕΡΙΔΑ ΤΥΡΙ ΚΑΙ ΠΑΤΑΤΕΣ ‘Η ΜΙΑ ΣΥΝΔΥΑΣΜΟ ΜΕ ΜΙΑ ΜΕΡΙΔΑ ΚΟΚΚΙΝΙΣΤΟ ΜΕ ΕΝΑ ΦΛΙΤΖΑΝΙ ΛΕΠΤΗ ΦΕΤΑ ΨΩΜΙ ΤΥΡΙ ΤΗΣ ΕΠΙΛΟΓΗΣ ΣΑΣ ΚΑΙ ΡΥΖΙ ΚΑΙ ΚΑΡΟΤΑ ΒΡΑΣΤΑ Ο αρακάς είναι πολύ καλή πηγή ΜΠΡΟΚΟΛΟ ΑΤΜΟΥ life style. The Social Responsibility Department, in collaboration with an Η βιταμίνη C που περιέχουν τα υδατανθράκων που δίνουν ενέργεια καρότα, ενισχύει την απορρόφηση Το ρύζι αποτελεί μια από τις στον οργανισμό. Περιέχει πολλές τύπου σιδήρου που περιέχεται στο πλουσιότερες φυσικές πηγές μετάλλων, φυτικές ίνες που συμβάλλουν στην μοσχάρι. Ο σίδηρος είναι απαραίτητος φυτικών ινών και σύνθετων καλή λειτουργία του εντέρου. Σε experienced nutritionist-dietician, created a balanced diet weekly menu για την αιμοποίηση, αλλά και για την υδατανθράκων, οι οποίοι εκτός από συνδυασμό με τις πατάτες αλλά και μια άμυνα του οργανισμού. ενέργεια, παρέχουν και κορεσμό λόγω μερίδα τυρί, αποτελεί ένα πλήρες της αργής τους απορρόφησης. γεύμα ιδανικό ακόμα και για Συνδυάστε τα γεμιστά σας με μια χορτοφάγους. Να αποφεύγεται από for IKEA employees. μερίδα τυρί και ίσως λίγο επιπλέον άτομα που πάσχουν από διαταραχές σαλάτα για ένα πλήρες γεύμα. του εντέρου. ΠΕΜΠΤΗ 3 ΝΟΕΜΒΡΙΟΥ ΠΑΡΑΣΚΕΥΗ 4 ΝΟΕΜΒΡΙΟΥ ΣΑΒΒΑΤΟ 5 ΝΟΕΜΒΡΙΟΥ The menu included dietary recommendations based on already available ΡΕΒΙΘΙΑ ΣΟΥΠΑ ΣΕ ΣΥΝΔΥΑΣΜΟ ΜΙΑ ΜΕΡΙΔΑ ΣΟΛΩΜΟΥ ΠΟΣΕ ΣΕ ΜΑΝΙΤΑΡΟΣΟΥΠΑ ΣΕ ΜΕ ΜΙΑ ΜΕΡΙΔΑ ΤΥΡΙ ΚΑΙ ΜΙΑ ΣΥΝΔΥΑΣΜΟ ΜΕ ΜΕΝΤΑΓΙΟΝ ΣΥΝΔΥΑΣΜΟ ΜΕ ΜΙΑ ΜΕΡΙΔΑ ΜΕΡΙΔΑ ΜΠΡΟΚΟΛΟ ΒΡΑΣΤΟ ΛΑΧΑΝΙΚΩΝ ΚΑΙ ΕΝΑ ΣΤΡΟΓΓΥΛΟ ΤΥΡΙ ΚΑΙ ΕΝΑ ΣΤΡΟΓΓΥΛΟ ΨΩΜΑΚΙ ΟΛΙΚΗΣ ΑΛΕΣΗΣ ΨΩΜΑΚΙ ΟΛΙΚΗΣ ΑΛΕΣΗΣ IKEA restaurant weekly menus for IKEA employees, in order to offer them Τα ρεβίθια, είναι ένα παρεξηγημένο όσπριο, εξαιρετικά εύγεστο και φοβερά Ο σολωμός ανήκει στα λιπαρά ψάρια. Το Προετοιμαστείτε για μια έξοδο το θρεπτικό. Σε συνδυασμό με μια μερίδα λίπος όμως που προέρχεται από τα Σαββατόβραδο, καταναλώνοντας ένα τυρί, αποτελεί ένα πλήρες γεύμα ψάρια, είναι απαραίτητο για τον ελαφρύ μεσημεριανό. Ένα ελαφρύ απαραίτητων αμινοξέων. Το μπρόκολο the best possible selection of dishes, which will contribute to an overall οργανισμό, γι’ αυτό η συχνή κατανάλωσή γεύμα την ημέρα, είτε μεσημέρι είτε προσφέρει βιταμίνη C αλλά και φυτικές τους, βοηθά στην ομαλή λειτουργία του βράδυ, βοηθά στην διατήρηση ή ακόμα ίνες που συμβάλλουν στον κορεσμό και οργανισμού. και στην μείωση του σωματικού ουσιαστικά η απουσία του (ή άλλης βάρους. σαλάτας) είναι υπεύθυνη για την balanced diet. σύντομη επανεμφάνιση συναισθήματος πείνας μετά την κατανάλωση οσπρίων. του Ο Μaster IKEA Chef συμβουλεύει: “Απολαύστε το υγιεινό φαγητό! Δεν υπάρχει καμία αντίθεση μεταξύ υγιεινού και νόστιμου. Μην αφήνετε τη μοντέρνα βιομηχανία τροφίμων να σας παραμυθιάζει”. W. Willet Πρόεδρος της Σχολής Δημόσιας υγείας του Harvard 28 Human Resources EXAMPLE OF GROUP ACTION: Life Without Tobacco On ÒWorld No Tobacco DayÓ May 31, 2011, the FOURLIS Group started a campaign on the effects of smoking on health and the benefits which can be gained from quitting smoking. All employees had the opportunity to find a short, concise and informative guide available in Intranet, including information on smoking and how it affects different areas of our everyday lives, as well as the benefits from reducing or stopping this harmful habit. The guide included a full list of smoking cessation clinics in Public and Private Hospitals, for all those who decided to make a new and healthier start, cutting off smoking from their lives. Employees who quitted smoking had also the opportunity to participate in a competition to win a weekend trip for two. Sporting Activities The Group's employees, who are sports enthusiasts, had the opportunity to show, for the second consecutive year, their talents in soccer, basketball and tennis in ÒThe F1 Team 2011Ó tournament organized by the Social Responsibility Department in May 2011, at athletic centers in Athens and Thessaloniki and in June in Cyprus. Many of the Group's employees , but also their families, had the opportunity to attend the athletic tournament. Student awards for employees' children At the FOURLIS Group, we aim to function as a family and this is why each employee's family is important to us. It was this that we put into effect in 2011, through the following actions:  oral and material rewards for 29 junior high school students and 6 senior high school students, children of M employees who showed outstanding school performance over the previous year. Moral and material rewards for 30 students, children of employees, who succeeded in gaining entrance to higher education institutions. EXAMPLE OF INTERSPORT ACTIVITY: Tennis Tournament INTERSPORT organized, for the third consecutive year, a large athletic event. An open tennis tournament, the ÒINTERSPORT Tennis OpenÓ, took place in Athens in March, in Larisa in June and in Thessaloniki in October 2011. The tournaments lasted 10 to 19 days, and all the Group's employees could participate, provided they followed the order of priority of the applications list. Social Responsibility Report 2011 29 H. Human Rights At the FOURLIS Group, we follow the internationally recognized principles of human rights, as set out in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN's Global Compact Principles, which we subscribed to in 2008. In this context: W  e do not employ children under the legal age limit We do not apply forced labor practices We have adopted high standards of professional ethics, which are outlined in detail in our Code of Conduct, and include the following: – We provide a safe, stable and healthy working environment for our employees. – We respect the right of our employees to join workers' unions. – We deter any cases of violence, sexual harassment, drug and alcohol use in the workplace. – We provide equal employment opportunities. – We aim for balance between the two genders in our Human Resources. – We apply a liberal policy on sex, age, origin and religion. I. Two-Way Communication At the FOURLIS Group, we believe that we have to keep our Γνωρίζω People informed about the actions of the Group and also enable ΗΛΕΚΤΡΟΝΙΚΗ ΠΕΡΙΟΔΙΚΗ ΕΚΔΟΣΗ ΤΟΥ ΟΜΙΛΟΥ FOURLIS ΙΟΥΝΙΟΣ 2011 them to communicate with the rest of the employees, regardless » Ο Όμιλος FOURLIS δίπλα στη «ΦΛΟΓΑ» of level of seniority. Στον Όμιλο FOURLIS κάθε χρόνο επιλέγουμε να στηρίζουμε, μέσω του προγράμματος Κοινωνικής Υπευθυνότητας, Ιδρύματα ή Οργανισμούς με επίκεντρο παιδιά τρικές συσκευές, προκειμένου να δημιουργηθεί ένας χώρος λειτουργικός για τους εθελοντές εργαζόμενους. που βρίσκονται σε ανάγκη. 2η φάση: Θα εξοπλιστεί ο ξενώνας φιλοξενίας των οικογενειών των παιδιών και Για το 2011, αποφασίσαμε να στηρίξουμε τον εφήβων που βρίσκονται στην Αθήνα προΣύλλογο Γονιών Παιδιών με Νεοπλασματική κειμένου να υποβληθούν σε θεραπεία. In 2011, we provided the following information Ασθένεια «ΦΛΟΓΑ». Ένα σύλλογο μη κερδοσκοπικού χαρακτήρα που ιδρύθηκε με Για την επιτυχή ολοκλήρωση της πρώτης σκοπό να προσφέρει υποστήριξη, ενημέφάσης του έργου, εργάστηκαν εθελοντικά οι ρωση και συμπαράσταση σε χιλιάδες οικοπαρακάτω συνάδελφοι: Ελένη Κλιαμενάκη, dissemination opportunities: γένειες σε όλη την Ελλάδα με παιδιά που έτυχε να Ασπρομάτης Κώστας, Δελαβόγιας Νίκος, αρρωστήσουν από καρκίνο. Διακόβ Ηλίας, Τακουλίδης Παναγιώτης, Αποστολόπουλος Γιώργος, Παπαδάκης Το έργο στήριξης της «ΦΛΟΓΑΣ», αποτεΜανώλης, Δημητρακόπουλος Παντελής, λείται από δύο φάσεις. Νοταρής Δημήτρης, Καλαϊντζής Γιώργος και Κατσικέας Βασίλης. Θα θέλαμε να τους 1η φάση: Eξοπλισμός των γραφείων του ευχαριστήσουμε όλους για την ανιδιοτελή Συλλόγου. Οι εταιρίες ΙΚΕΑ και FOURLIS συμβολή και προσφορά τους! TRADE προσέφεραν επίπλωση και ηλεκInformation on the Group's Social Responsibility issues through the electronic newsletters ÒLive to LearnÓ and ÒWell Η ζωή χωρίς καπνό BeingÓ (ÒEF ZINÓ). Στις 31 Μαΐου, με αφορμή την Παγκόσμια Ημέρα κατά του Καπνίσματος, η Διεύθυνση Κοινωνικής Υπευθυνότητας ξεκίνησε μία εκστρατεία ενημέρωσης για τις επιπτώσεις του καπνίσματος στην υγεία μας και τα Circular Communication among all levels of employees οφέλη που μπορεί κανείς να αποκομίσει με τη διακοπή του. Όλοι οι εργαζόμενοι του Ομίλου έχουν την ευκαιρία να βρουν στο Intranet ένα σύντομο και περιεκτικό ενημερωτικό οδηγό και να ανατρέξουν τις σελίδες του προκειμένου να ενημερωθούν αναφορικά με το κάπνισμα και τους τρόπους με τους οποίους επηρεάζει διάφορους τομείς της ζωής και της καθημερινότητάς through the internal intranet. μας, καθώς και για εκείνα που μπορεί κάποιος να κερδίσει, μειώνοντας ή διακόπτοντας τη βλαβερή αυτή συνήθεια. Τέλος, ο οδηγός αυτός περιλαμβάνει πλήρη λίστα με ιατρεία διακοπής καπνίσματος σε Δημόσια και Ιδιωτικά Information and news regarding the Group's activities Νοσοκομεία, για όλους εκείνους οι οποίοι θα αποφασίσουν να κάνουν ένα νέο και πιο υγιεινό ξεκίνημα, βγάζοντας το κάπνισμα από τη ζωή τους! through ÒSharing our News.Ó Με ιδιαίτερη χαρά παρουσιάστηκε ο 2ος Απολογισμός Κοινωνικής ΥπευInformation regarding the activities of INTERSPORT ATHLETICS θυνότητας του Ομίλου FOURLIS, στη Γενική Συνέλευση στις 10 Ιουνίου. Ο Απολογισμός αφορά σε όλες τις δράσεις Κοινωνικής Υπευθυνότητας που πραγματοποιήθηκαν το 2010 από τον Όμιλο και κάθε του εταιρία και βασίζονται στους τρεις άξονες Κοινωνικής Υπευθυνότητας του Ομίλου: τον Άνθρωπο, την and its new products through a monthly newspaper 2ος Κοινωνικός Κοινωνία και το Περιβάλλον. Στα πλαίσια αυτά, γίνονται αναφορές σε ενέργειες που πραγματοποιήθηκαν με γνώμονα το σεβασμό στον Άνθρωπο, την προσφορά στην Κοινωνία και την published by the employees themselves and distributed to all Απολογισμός προστασία του Περιβάλλοντος, ενώ ο αναγνώστης θα βρει και πληροφορίες για τη δομή, τη διοίκηση και την Εταιρική Διακυβέρνηση του Ομίλου. Ομίλου FOURLIS Ο Απολογισμός αυτός είναι ο 2ος που εκδίδει η Διεύθυνση Κοινωνικής INTERSPORT stores. Υπευθυνότητας του Ομίλου, είναι εμπλουτισμένος με συγκριτικά στοιχεία του 2010 σε σχέση με το 2009, καθώς και με στόχους για το τρέχον έτος 2011. Ο Κοινωνικός Απολογισμός 2010 είναι διαθέσιμος στη Διεύθυνση Κοινωνικής Υπευθυνότητας του Ομίλου, στις Διευθύνσεις Ανθρώπινου Δυναμικού των εταιριών του Ομίλου, ενώ έχει αναρτηθεί στα εσωτερικά διαδίκτυα (intranets) των εταιριών καθώς και στην ιστοσελίδα του Ομίλου www.fourlis.gr 30 Human Resources J. Our Activities Over the Following Year Over the following year, the Group aims to continue implementing the already existing policies and actions, while at the same time it aims to: OBJECTIVE 2011 ACHIEVEMENT OBJECTIVE 2012 Continue the plan for implementation Translate the career website in local of Human Resource Information Systems languages (Bulgarian, Romanian and (HRIS) abroad specifically in Bulgaria, Turkish), to attract more candidates. Romania and Turkey. Begin the process for the development of an educational academy in the Group Initiate procedures for creating (FOURLIS Learning Institute an e-learning platform. ÒSharing the KnowledgeÓ). Provide even more opportunities for vocational training for all our employees. Social Responsibility Report 2011 31 5. Society Α. Introduction I n 2008 we adopted the central motto ÒTogether we can!Ó for our Social Responsibility Program, thereby entering a new era in Social Responsibility. We believe that the company, as a Responsible Citizen, ÒCanÓ-and is obliged tocreate the best possible value for its shareholders as for its stakeholders, including the Society. Especially for the Society, we ensured that we met its needs through: T he annual blood drive we organized once again. The donation of food provisions and other essential products from the Group's employees to charities and organizations in Greece and Cyprus. The aid provided to Institutions, non-governmental Organizations and public schools. Β. The Participation of our Employees Annual Blood Drive The FOURLIS Group employees take part in the Voluntary Blood Drive, organized twice a year since 1985, in collaboration with ÒSt SofiaÓ children's hospital. For 2011, the number of volunteer blood donors was reduced to 409 employees, compared to 439 participants in 2010. In total, 409 blood bottles were collected, out of which 80 have been already used for the employees' needs, while the rest will be used to cover hospital needs. ￼ 32 Society Annual Blood Drive Donors (numbers) 2011 409 2010 439 2009 209 0 100 200 300 400 500 Voluntary Offer of Food Provisions and Other Essential Products to Charity Institutions The FOURLIS Group employees responded to the Social Responsibility Department's call to collect and donate food and other essential products to charity institutions, just before the Christmas holidays in 2011. The abovementioned products were donated to the following charities in Greece and Cyprus:  oarding House-Orphanage for People with B Autism ÒAgios NikolaosÓ (Athens) Foundation for the child ÒPammakaristosÓ (Athens) ARSIS (Thessaloniki) School for the Blind (Thessaloniki) Greek Children's Village in Filiro (Thessaloniki) ÒSocial GroceryÓ of the City (Larissa) Boarding House-Orphanage of the Monastery of ÒPanagia DourachaniÓ (Ioannina) Red Cross (Cyprus) In total, about 200 boxes of food provisions and other essential products were collected and distributed, demonstrating, once again, that employees have social sensitivity and willingness to selflessly support our fellow human beings, who lack even basic goods. C. Our Social Actions The social activities of the FOURLIS Group, like the donations to non-profit organizations, financial and material support to needy societal groups, and the informational programs of the Group, characterize its social policy. The actions of the FOURLIS Group contribute both materialistically and morally to the community for the improvement of the life of our Stakeholders. Social Responsibility Report 2011 33 EXAMPLE OF IKEA-SERVICE ONE ACTION: Designing and Equipping an Association's Hostel and Offices Wishing to support the long-lasting contribution of the Association of Parents of Children with Neoplastic Disease ÒFLOGAÓ, for children who suffer of cancer and their families, we designed, furnished and renovated the Associations offices, the hostel which accommodates families from the province, as well as the hostel's playground. Both the office and the guesthouse, as well as the playground of the Association ÒFLOGAÓ, were equipped, designed and completely renovated with equipment donated by IKEA, while SERVICE ONE undertook the assembly of furniture. In parallel, FOURLIS Group employees contributed voluntarily to complete the project. The following table presents some of the institutions and organizations that were benefited by the FOURLIS Group's social actions during 2011. ÒFlogaÓ Association of Parents of Children with ÒMake a WishÓ non-profit organization Neoplastic Disease ÒArodafnousaÓ Anti-Cancer Society Cyprus ÒSmile of the ChildÓ Foundation Boarding House-Orphanage of People with Autism ÒARSISÓ Social organization supporting Young People ÒAgios NikolaosÓ Nikaia Municipality Larissa Prefecture Kindergarten Foundation for the child ÒPammakaristosÓ ÒSchool for the BlindÓ Thessaloniki ÒSocial GroceryÓ Larissa Boarding House-Orphanage of the Monastery ÒRed CrossÓ Cyprus ÒPanagia DourachaniÓ Ioannina Protection of Child and Adolescent Girls NGOs ÒAPOSTOLIÓ ÒMelissaÓ Thessaloniki 34 Society Despite adverse economic conditions, in 2011, the total amount contributed to social actions by the FOURLIS Group increased and came to œ 177,825 compared to œ 169,240 in 2010, for similar actions. FOURLIS Group Annual Social Contributions Financial Support (euros) 2011 177.825 2010 169.240 2009 103.000 0 50.000 100.000 150.000 200.000 EXAMPLE OF INTERSPORT ACTION: Fit For Life Within the project ÒFit For LifeÓ in 2011, INTERSPORT chose remote Primary Schools in Greece, to offer free sport equipment, through the ÒWe reach the edgesÓ program. The initiative took place in 26 primary schools of 3 prefectures: Kozani, Florina and Kastoria, where accessories and gymnastics equipment were offered, to help conduct team or individual trainings, included in the physical education lesson. Local Clubs athletes participated in this activity, and talked to students about the benefits of sports and of a healthy diet for their lives. In total, in 2011 more than 2,400 children took part in the program, compared to 1,500 children in 2010. EXAMPLE OF IKEA ACTION: UNICEF IKEA contributed œ 1 to UNICEF Greece, from each sale of stuffed toys and children's meals, that took place in its stores, between 1 November and 31 December 2011. The amount collected for the support of UNICEF Greece exceeded œ 100,000 and was offered to support educational programs for children around the world, supported by UNICEF. Social Responsibility Report 2011 35 EXAMPLE OF INTERSPORT ACTION: INTERSPORT Camps In 2011, INTERSPORT continued the INTERSPORT Camps, a model athletic Academy, aiming to familiarize children with the values of sport. The INTERSPORT Camps consist of a series of coaching camps, including specialized training in sports such as football, basketball and swimming for children aged 6 to 15 years old. The aim is to offer unique sports experiences that make children involved to love sports and make them a part of their lives. EXAMPLE OF GROUP ACTION: Equipping and Decorating a new home Responding to a request from the ÒSmile of the ChildÓ to assist its broad support to children, the FOURLIS Group supported the Organization through donating equipment and decorating a new home, for hosting children in Moschato. FOURLIS TRADE supplied electric equipment, IKEA provided furniture and designed, equipped and decorated children's rooms and other areas, while SERVICE ONE undertook the assembly of the furniture. EXAMPLE OF GROUP ACTION: Equipping and Decorating Children's Rooms The ÒMake-A-WishÓ Foundation (Greece) fulfils wishes of children who suffer from life threatening diseases, by supporting their struggle for life. Wishing to assist the work carried out from ÒMake-A-WishÓ, IKEA offered products necessary for the equipment of children's rooms, in order to acquire a new, warm, beautiful place to live, but also to play with their friends. 36 Society EXAMPLE OF GROUP AND IKEA THESSALY ACTION: Renovation of an Association's Lending Library IKEA Thessaly and the FOURLIS Group, wishing to support the Cultural Association of the municipality of Platanoulia Tirnavos for its multilateral initiatives, proceeded to the renewal of the Association's lending library. IKEA Thessaly store offered a brand new library, to meet the needs of the lending library of the Association, while shaped and decorated the space with functional furniture. Both customers of the IKEA Thessaly store and all the Group's employees, had the opportunity to participate in this action, by offering books they no longer needed, to cover the needs of the new lending library. The result was that 1,500 books were gathered and delivered to the new library of the Platanoulia Cultural Association. D. Our Activities Over the Following Year The company aims to continue the implementation of the existing policies and actions, while at the same time it aims to: OBJECTIVE 2011 ACHIEVEMENT OBJECTIVE 2012 Increase the number of voluntary blood Increase the number of voluntary blood donors in the annual blood drive. donors in the annual blood drive. Increase the number of employees Increase the number of employees participating in company volunteer actions. participating in company volunteer actions. Social Responsibility Report 2011 37 6. Environment Α. Introduction E veryone in the FOURLIS Group knows that our company, just like any other humanistic and business activity, needs natural resources. We are also aware that we need to take into consideration the activities of the Group and the way in which they influence the environment so as to reduce, as far as possible, our negative impact on the environment. Our aim is to increasingly systemize our practices each year in order to minimize any negative impact on the environment. The first step in minimizing our impact is to recognize which activities affect the environment, like for example, the way in which we consume natural resources, the quantities of liquid and solid waste we produce, the amount of energy we consume, etc. Β. Analysis of the Results of Our Actions Being aware of the global environmental problems, such as the shortage of water and raw materials, as well as of our impact on the environment, we implement a structured Impact Analysis, that we have been applying during the last few years, to become aware of our basic impact on the environment. Furthermore, we try to directly manage any impact we may have on the environment by adopting environmental friendly technologies, but also indirectly by cultivating environmental awareness within and outside the Group. We believe that our actions will be more effective if they are combined with information dissemination on the practices we adopt and the reasons for applying them. For this reason, we regularly set up information dissemination and awareness campaigns for the public and our workforce. 38 Environment C. Management of our Materials We ensure the responsible management of consumables used in an ongoing effort to reduce related impact. Use of paper Through a series of practices we manage consumables starting with the use of recycled, recyclable and chlorine-free paper, the minimization of the use of paper and the final recycling of waste materials. FOURLIS Group Paper Management Practices Paper recycling (tons) Fax server use (%) Duplex printing (thousands) Purchase of recycled paper (tons) 1.173,6 2011 732,1 12 35,5 1.540,3 2010 279,5 7 26,7 1.541 2009 131,6 29,4 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 ￼ Recycled Paper Over the last two years, we have implemented the exclusive use of recycled, recyclable and chlorine-free paper. In total, the percentage of the paper bought by the Group for office use in 2011, increased to 35,545 kilos, in comparison to 26,727 kilos in 2010, due to an increase in the number of the stores. Paper saving Our goal is to minimize, as far as possible, the use of paper for printing. For this reason, we avoid printing and we prefer the use of the internal electronic network and the use of document sharing within the network. In particular, we apply the following:  se of fax servers: We have installed fax servers in 12% of our premises. Through this practice we are able to U control faxes, so that only absolutely necessary ones are printed and paper is saved.  uplex printing: This practice has helped us reduce paper use for printing by half. The total number of pages D printed in duplex printing in 2011 came to 732,117, in comparison to 279,467 pages in 2010. The number of employees who are able to use duplex printing is 629, in comparison to 377 employees in 2010. Social Responsibility Report 2011 39  reation of an internal Intranet network: With the implementation of an internal network we are able to C minimize unnecessary printing, since all information regarding the Group is electronically available and there is no need for printing. A  pplication of Human Resources electronic tools: We noticed that a significant amount of paper was being used by the Human Resources Department, which handles all CVs sent to the Group, employee payment receipts and vacation applications. All these are now handled through an electronic system which helps us successfully reduce the use of paper in this particular Department. E  lectronic Submission and Approval / Rejection of Purchasing Applications (PRs / POs Workflow): In implementing the new SAP ERP system in our subsidiary IKEA in 2011, we also implemented a full circuit Electronic Submission Application System for Supplies. Through this system, all requests for procurement (equipment, services and supplies) are submitted and managed electronically. After approval, requests are sent electronically to relevant vendors as purchase orders. During 2012, the implementation of this system will be extended to other subsidiaries, in which SAP ERP system is installed, correspondingly reducing the consumption of paper and ink. A  bility to document scanning and electronic storage: In all central facilities of the Group the option to scan various documents is provided to users, thus, avoiding paper or ink consumption. E  lectronic Filing and Monitoring Procurement System (e-Doc): In 2011, all Group companies in Greece and abroad initiated the System of Electronic Archiving and Monitoring Contracts. The Group has about 2,500 active contracts, while annually, about 1,000 contracts are updated or added. This way, information to stakeholders for contractual issues has been improved and the need for photo-copying contract (and thus consumption of paper / ink)as well as keeping multiple physical files, has been reduced. Paper recycling At the FOURLIS Group, we have adopted paper recycling in all our companies. Especially at IKEA, we have installed recycling bins at all our stores over the past two years, aiming to encourage clients as well as our workforce to use the recycling bins, hoping this will become a habit. It's worth mentioning that through this practice, in 2011, IKEA managed to recycle 1,149 tons of paper, compared to 2010, when 1,495 tons of papers were recycled. In total, FOURLIS Group recycled 1,173.6 tons of paper in 2011 compared to 2010, when 1,540.1 tons of papers were recycled. 40 Environment Use of Ink As far as the use of ink is concerned, the company's impact on the environment was significantly reduced with the application of the above for the minimization of printing. Ink saving In 2008, we adopted new technology practices, such as laser printers, which contributed significantly to the protection of the environment, since less ink is required for their use. Laser printers make up 93% of the total number of printers at the FOURLIS Group, from 84% in 2010. In 2011, we decreased the amount of ink purchased at the IKEA and INTERSPORT stores to 2,557 units, compared to 4,317 units in 2010. In addition, out of the total amount of ink we bought, we finally recycled 1,313 units, while in 2009 we recycled 547 units. Recycling of Other Waste Materials Regarding environmental protection, a priority of the Social Responsibility program applied by the FOURLIS Group involves the recycling of all recyclable materials used by the company for its operations. For this reason, we continue to focus on the benefits of recycling, investing in improving infrastructure and informing our employees and clients. The table below presents the total recycling of the FOURLIS Group in 2011, compared to the amounts for the same materials recycled in 2010 and 2009 FOURLIS Group Total Recycling* MATERIALS 2011 2010 2009 Paper ** (kilos) 1.173.575 1.540.095 1.541.070 Ink cartridges Toners (units) 1.313 547 2.072 Batteries (kilos) 12.706 7.019 2.266 Cooking fat*** (liters) 10.707 13.980 30.743 Aluminum (kilos) 479 648 1.613 Glass (kilos) 9.820 6.840 4.268 Fluorescent lamps (kilos) 1.506 800 284 Plastic (kilos) 83.666 103.660 16.120 Metals (kilos) 16.710 22.610 19.590 Wood (kilos) 152.980 260.900 * The recycling statistics pertain to the FOURLIS Group companies in Greece and Cyprus ** T he paper recycling statistics pertain to amounts collected from all uses, like wrapping paper, carbon boxes, office paper, etc. *** The cooking fat is collected from the restaurants in the IKEA stores Social Responsibility Report 2011 41 Use of water Due to our daily needs for store hygiene, and the sheer number of employees, our company consumes a significant amount of water, and therefore considers water an environmental action item. In 2011, IKEA, INTERSPORT and TRADE LOGISTICS have achieved a significant reduction of water consumption which reached 77,408,351 liters, compared to 32,949,981 liters in 2010 (expect the consumption of Athens). The following chart presents the water consumption for IKEA (except Athens), INTERSPORT and TRADE LOGISTICS of the FOURLIS Group for 2011 in comparison to consumption of water in 2010, 2009 and 2008. Consumption of Water for IKEA, INTERSPORT & TRADE LOGISTICS 2011 2010* 2009 2008 ΙΚΕΑ water consumption 34.113.000 29.879.000 22.496.000 25.418.000 (except Athens) (liters) ΙΚΕΑ water consumption 41.218.000 (Athens) (liters) INTERSPORT water consumption 1.667.351 1.891.000 1.335.000 896.000 (liters) Trade Logistics water 410.000 1.179.981 544.435 320.734 consumption (liters) Total water consumption (liters) 77.408.351 32.949.981 24.375.435 26.634.734 * Data of previous years were modified, due to incorrect recording of measurement units. EXAMPLE OF IKEA THESSALONIKI ACTION: Reduction in water consumption IKEA, recognizes that, due to its operations and employees, it has a significant impact on the environment and tries to minimize its environmental impact in every possible way. Based on the above principle, the Thessaloniki store reduced its total water consumption by 5.1% in comparison to 2010, while the store's specific water consumption per employee increased by 4%. The following table represents the total and specific consumption of the IKEA store in Thessaloniki in 2011, compared to 2010, 2009 and 2008. 2011 2010* 2009 2008 Total water consumption 14.562.000 15.348.000 16.115.000 17.726.000 (liters) Specific water consumption 52.000 50.000 51.000 52.000 (liters/employee) * Data of previous years were modified, due to incorrect recording of measurement units. 42 Environment D. The Energy we Consume The Energy Conservation program is one of the main environmental protection programs we apply. We systematically monitor the consumption of energy in Group companies, through various sources, in order to implement actions that will reduce it. Electrical Energy Conservation Given the fact that the company is active in various sectors, our facilities are not uniformly structured throughout and therefore display significant differences, as far as energy consumption is concerned. Therefore, we have taken note of differences in the premises so we can intervene effectively to reduce electricity consumption. Typical company practices, which contributed to our effort to reduce electricity consumption in 2011 were:  areful use of lighting C Replacement of conventional lamps with energy saving lamps, throughout our premises Replacement of information systems with corresponding low energy consumption systems Completion of replacing ÒCRTÓ screens with new technology ones in 100% of all screens within the Group Use of blade servers in 44.75% of all servers of the Group The chart below presents the total energy consumption (electrical energy, natural gas and oil) in all the Group premises in Greece and Cyprus in 2011 and 2010. FOURLIS Group Energy Consumption 2011 2010 Total consumption of electricity (KWh) 34.262.823 32.298.646 Total consumption of heating oil (liters) 175.703 54.607 Total consumption of natural gas (m3) 186.300 105.754 Due to electricity, oil and gas consumption, the Group's total carbon emissions were 25,924 tons, compared to 23,991 tons in 2010, the vast majority of which (96.6%) is due to indirect emissions from electricity use. Carbon Emissions from energy consumption Oil (CO2 Tons) Electrical Energy (CO2 Tons) Natural gas (CO2 Tons) 2011 471 25.053,00 399 2010 146,4 23.617,70 227 0 5.000 10.000 15.000 20.000 25.000 30.000 * Conversion factors: Electrical Energy 0.7312tn CO2e / MWh, Heating oil 0.002681 tn CO2e / lt, Natural Gas 0.2025 tn CO2e / MWh. Social Responsibility Report 2011 43 Ε. O  ur Public and Employee Awareness-Building Activities At the FOURLIS Group, we believe that in addition to the actions we take to reduce our impact on the environment, we can also play an important role in indirectly protecting it through regularly informing our customers and employees. Information Campaigns Information campaigns addressed to our customers and employees have been implemented since 2008, and aim to cultivate interest for environmental issues through the use of posters, leaflets and symbolic gifts. In particular, in 2011, through our actions we promoted the following practices: in environmental conservation programs Participation in the company's environmental conservation programs paper lighting Rational Use of energy in the workplace water paper Recycling of batteries toners-cartridges recycled paper Preference for recyclable environment friendly bags EXAMPLE OF FOURLIS TRADE & SERVICE ONE ACTION: Environmental Information Action This year, we continued our environmental awareness campaigns through FOURLIS TRADE and SERVICE ONE. In 2010, our clients were given the opportunity to change incorrect practices regarding choice, use and conservation of electric and electronic appliances, but also respective recycling thereof (when their lifespan is up) directly by taking into account the advice given by SERVICE ONE technicians, and also indirectly through informational leaflets, with environmental messages, which were distributed to customers' homes. It is estimated that, in 2010, more than 10,500 customers were informed about the correct use of electrical appliances, compared to 800 people informed in 2009, while these action continued until mid-February in 2011. 44 Environment Environment Friendly Bags INTERSPORT and SERVICE ONE are the first companies in the Group that, in 2008 fully endorsed the use of biodegradable and paper bags, while, since2010, 100% of our companies no longer use plastic bags (including IKEA that provides only paper and re-usable bags). Earth Hour This year, IKEA in Greece and Cyprus and INTERSPORT in Greece, took part in the well established, symbolic action known as ÒEarth HourÓ, which mobilizes millions of people worldwide who remind everyone that the planet requires the participation and compliance of all inhabitants on Earth. EXAMPLE OF INTERSPORT ACTION: Equipment Recycling INTERSPORT proceeded with the recycling of non-functional P/C equipment, in cooperation with a company for recycling electrical and electronic devices. The successful program started in 2009 and was completed in 2011, recycling 316 pieces of equipment within 2011. EXAMPLE OF IKEA ACTION: Electricity Savings IKEA Òturned offÓ incandescent bulbs and became the first retail chain which stopped selling incandescent lights. Within this framework, IKEA promotes a wide range of energy saving lamps branded ÒSPARSAMÓ, with ten time's longer life cycle. IKEA also offers halogen bulbs, which consume 30% less energy than traditional incandescent bulbs, while provides the desktop lamp ÒSUNNANÓ which ÒchargesÓ using solar energy. Social Responsibility Report 2011 45 EXAMPLE OF FOURLIS TRADE ACTION: Participation in ECOLIFE FOURLIS TRADE participated in the ECOLIFE exhibition, offering environmental friendly household appliances, to equip an ÒEco HouseÓ. The aim was not only to display to the general public, hightechnology products, but also to communicate the ÒgreenÓ capabilities as well as sensitizing visitors about the benefits of using these appliances, which combine lower energy consumption, economy and respect for the environment. EXAMPLE OF IKEA ACTION: IKEA Recycling Centers In 2011, IKEA maintained the two integrated recycling centers, in Egaleo and Ioannina, while in March 2011, placed two new centers in Sintagma and Piraeus, which operate 24 hours a day and can be used by both children and adults. Through these Recycling Centers, anyone who wishes can recycle plastic bottles, metal tins, glass containers, plastic bags, batteries and other packaging. Participants receive discount coupons for free shopping in participating stores, or, if they wish, they can donate the corresponding amount to charities. In the period up to 31/12/2011, the 4 Integrated Recycling Centers recovered 5,657,306 of packages and 342,361 kilos of packaging, in comparison to 1,579,581 packages and 92,678 kilos of packaging recovered in 2010. 46 Environment F. Our Activities Over the Following Year The goal of the company over the following year is to continue the implementation of policies and actions it already applies, and also to: OBJECTIVE 2011 ACHIEVEMENT OBJECTIVE 2012 Increase the amount of paper recycled Increase the amount of paper recycled Reduce the amount of electrical energy, Reduce the amount of electrical energy, natural natural gas and oil consumed gas and oil consumed Increase recycling of ink Increase recycling of ink Reduce consumption of water Reduce consumption of water Inform and sensitize the public and employees on recycling issues Social Responsibility Report 2011 47 7. Global Compact Table Α. Introduction T he Greek Global Compact network was founded in May 2008. The determination of the ten principles of the Global Compact was based on internationally accepted standards, as developed by the Member States and the United Nations and are based on four pillars: Human Rights Working conditions Environment The fight against corruption The aim for the creation of the Global Compact was the monitoring of corporate responsibility and to prove, as much to the employees as to the rest of the stakeholders, that a company's commitment to responsible behavior and action is a strategic and operational priority. Over 4,700 businesses and 1,300 non-profit organizations active in over 130 countries participate in the Global Compact. This large participation of companies and organizations places the UN Global Compact as the biggest global voluntary initiative. Every member of the UN Global Compact is obliged to: publicly announce the progress of the company on the application of the principles of the Global Compact for dissemination to all the stakeholders (consumers, employees, society, investors, media, government agencies) put into effect changes in methods of operation to incorporate the ten principles in their strategy, culture and daily tasks widely disseminate the Global Compact and its principles by means of the communication channels at their disposal 48 Global Compact Table Β. Table of Global Compact Principles The following table presents the correlation of the content of the FOURLIS Group Social Responsibility 2011 Review with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Principle Unit Coverage Human Rights 1. 3H-F, 4C, 6H F 2. 3Ε-F, 4C, 6H F Labor 3. 4H P/R 4. 3Ε-F, 4H F 5. 3Ε-F, 4H F 6. 3Ε-F, 4C-D, 4H F Environment 7. 6Α-F F 8. 6C-E F 9. 6Β-Ε F Anti-Corruption 10. 3Ε-F, 4C-D F Social Responsibility Report 2011 49 8. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Table T he following table presents the correlation of the FOURLIS Group Social Responsibility 2011 Report Content, with the principles and indexes of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3). Α. GRI Principles Table GRI paragraph Unit Coverage Strategy and Analysis 1.1 1C-D F 1.2 1D, 2Α P/R Organizational Profile 2.1 1Α, 2Β F 2.2 2Α-Β F 2.3 2Α-Β, 3D F 2.4 1Β, 2Β F 2.5 2Α-Β F 2.6 2Β F 2.7 2Β F 2.8 2Α-Β F 50 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Table 2.9 N/A N/A 2.10 2Α-Β F Report Parameters 3.1 1Α F 3.2 N/A N/A 3.3 1Α F 3.4 1Β F 3.5 1Α, 3Α F 3.6 1Α F 3.7 1Α F 3.8 2Β F 3.9 N/M N/M 3.10 N/A N/A 3.11 N/A N/A 3.12 8Α F 3.13 N/M N/M Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 3D-Ε F 4.2 3D-Ε F 4.3 3D F 4.4 3D F 4.5 N/M N/M 4.6 N/M N/M 4.7 3D P/R 4.8 3Α-Β, 3Ε F 4.9 3D F 4.10 N/M N/M 4.11 N/M N/M 4.12 2F F 4.13 2F F 4.14 3C F 4.15 3C F 4.16 3C P/R 4.17 N/M N/M 51 Β. GRI Indicators Table GRI Indicator Unit Coverage ECONOMIC Economic performance EC1 2C F EC2 6D P/R ENVIRONMENT Materials EN1 6C P/R Energy EN3 6D F EN4 6D P/R EN5 6D P/R Water EN8 6C F EN9 6C P/R Emissions, effluents, and waste EN16 6D F EN17 6D P/R EN22 6C P/R Transports EN29 6D P/R LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment LA1 4Β F LA2 4Β-C F LA3 4Ε-G F Occupational Health and Safety LA6 4G P/R LA7 4G F LA8 4F P/R LA9 4Η P/R 52 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Table Training and Education LA10 4F F LA11 4C-D LA12 4D, 3F F LA13 4Β-C F LA14 4C P/R HUMAN RIGHTS NonDiscrimination HR4 4C-Ε F Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 3Ε-F P/R Child Labor HR6 4H, 3F F Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 3Ε-F,4H P/R SOCIETY Local Community SO1 5Β-C F Corruption SO2 3Ε-F F SO3 3Ε-F P/R SO4 3Ε-F F Public Policy SO5 2F P/R PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Product and Service Labeling PR3 6C P/R Marketing Communications PR6 3Ε-F F PR7 3Ε-F P/R 53 FOURLIS HOLDINGS SA 340 KIFISIAS AV. GR 15451 NEO PSYCHICO Tel: +30 210 62 93 000 Fax: +30 210 62 93 205 E-mail: csr@fourlis.gr www.fourlis.gr
