2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENABLING A MORE CONNECTED WORLD 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 01 TE CONNECTIVITY: ENABLING A MORE CONNECTED WORLD At TE Connectivity, we design and manufacture highly engineered solutions that connect and protect data and power inside millions of products that touch every aspect of our lives. In a world where everything is connected, we believe… Every Connection Counts. 3.12 1.4 1.4 14.3 2.54 1.2 12.1 10.3 .81 FREE CASH NET SALES ADJUSTED FLOW Billions of US EARNINGS Billions of US Dollars, ‘09–’11 PER SHARE Dollars, ‘09–’11 Billions of US Dollars, ‘09–’11 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE Our employees design, manufacture, and market our products in more than 50 countries around the world. 01 Introduction SERVING ATTRACTIVE MARKETS 31% 26% 29% 14% AUTOMOTIVE BROADBAND ENERGY AND CONSUMER TE products are in virtually CONNECTIVITY INDUSTRIAL TE’s continuous drive for every vehicle on the road As the leader in broadband TE supplies over 90% of miniaturization and speed today. With advanced connectivity, we make the world’s largest industrial helps manufacturers create technologies that are lighter it possible for massive manufacturers and energy smaller, lighter, thinner, and and more efficient, we volumes of data to move utilities with connectivity more exciting products, connect critical electronic efficiently and reliably, so a products that are reliable, including smartphones, functions in the car, from whole world of information trusted, and stand the test gaming devices, computers, navigation and advanced can move seamlessly from of time, even in the harshest and tablets. safety systems to highly origination to destination— environments and the world’s integrated engine controls from the data center, to the most remote locations. and power management desktop, the chip, and right systems. to the device in the palm of your hand—and back. Figures shown are a percentage of fiscal year 2011 revenue. 02 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT This is TE Connectivity’s second annual corporate responsibility report. The report was published in March 2012 and covers our corporate responsibility performance for the Fiscal Year 2011, ending on September 30, 2011. All mentions of 2011 in this report refer to Fiscal Year 2011. We used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines—the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. GRI’s Reporting Principles of materiality, sustainability context, stakeholder inclusiveness, and completeness helped us select and organize the content for the report. We are self-declaring this report at a GRI Application Level B. All data in this report cover our global operations, unless stated otherwise. We are utilizing our Corporate Responsibility Report and website to communicate the progress on maintaining our promise to the Global Compact. This report was also reviewed by an external group of stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, and corporate responsibility executives from other industries to provide insight on our key opportunities for growth. More details about our corporate responsibility policies, activities, and performance are available www.te.com/responsibility. We did not use an external agency to audit the content of this report; however, the data contained in this report was generated by our internal management systems. 03 Introduction TE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our business strategy is built on three ideas: 1. Being a premium partner for our customers 2. Delivering superior returns to our shareholders 3. Attracting and retaining highly engaged employees We believe corporate responsibility is a critical part of A materiality assessment is a rigorous process that helps the foundation for our strategy. us prioritize sustainability issues and opportunities. It takes internal, external, and industry issues into account and With products and customers in nearly every industry, draws an explicit link to our business goals. The results of TE touches the lives of millions around the globe. To help this assessment are reflected in the contents covered in this us map the corporate responsibility issues most significant report and include: to our business and stakeholders—and where we can have the greatest impact—we worked with BSR, a leading ¡¡ Community Engagement ¡¡ Labor Practices mission-driven sustainability organization, to conduct a materiality assessment. ¡¡ Corporate Governance ¡¡ Legal Compliance ¡¡ Employee Health and ¡¡ Philanthropy Wellness ¡¡ Product Stewardship ¡¡ Energy Conservation ¡¡ Supplier Diversity ¡¡ Enterprise Risk ¡¡ Supply Chain Management Management ¡¡ Environmental ¡¡ Talent Acquisition Compliance and Retention ¡¡ Injury-Free & Healthy ¡¡ Talent Diversity Workplace ¡¡ Water, Wastewater, ¡¡ Innovation Leadership and Waste Reduction 04 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT IN THIS REPORT 6 Message from our CEO 27 Responsibility with Our Suppliers How we ensure our suppliers share our core values 8 Responsibility in Governance and corporate responsibility commitments How we maintain the highest standards of ethics and corporate governance wherever we operate 32 Responsibility in the Workplace How we make TE a great place to work by creating 15 Responsibility in the Environment a safe environment, emphasizing development and How we manage key environmental impacts, including training, and embracing diversity. greenhouse gas emissions, energy use, waste, water use, and wastewater 41 Responsibility in Our Communities How we contribute to and engage with the 20 Responsibility in Our Products communities in which we do business How we develop innovative products that help our customers address the world’s greatest challenges 46 Key Performance Indicators 05 Introduction MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO The past 12 months have been a remarkable time our Employee Assistance Program to cover all of change and growth for TE Connectivity: We countries where we operate, in order to support acquired new businesses, entered new markets, the well-being of our employees. and exceeded $14 billion in revenue. Our focus for TERA for the coming year includes Our growth is supported by our core values meeting our goal of a 10% reduction of our of accountability, integrity, teamwork, and environmental impacts in greenhouse gas innovation, and our commitment to TE emissions, energy, water, wastewater, and waste Responsible Advantage (TERA)—the program by 2012. Additionally, we are expanding our that supports and expands our environmental, diversity and inclusion efforts to better reflect social, and governance efforts. and engage the vibrant cultures and communities where we work. As a company that enables connectivity, we understand the importance of our links to the These are just some of the significant environment, our people, and the places where accomplishments at TE Connectivity, and we are we do business. Now in its second year, TERA is excited to offer you a deeper look at our global an important part of our strategy to deliver the efforts in this report. We welcome your feedback best results to all our stakeholders: our employees, on our progress and your ideas for how we can shareholders, customers, and communities. improve our performance, as we continue to make Every Connection Count. In 2011, we became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, further reinforcing our dedication to corporate responsibility and ethical business practices. We updated and expanded our values-based, anti-corruption policy to ensure our adherence to the highest standards of Tom Lynch ethics and integrity. We also rolled out a global Chief Executive Officer health and wellness campaign and expanded 06 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MESSAGE FROM OUR GENERAL COUNSEL We made big strides in 2011, and as the customer companies, as well as leading executive sponsor of TERA, I’m proud to share global companies for their review and insights. them with you in our second annual corporate We strive to be transparent and to encourage responsibility report. constructive feedback. This year was about expanding our TERA As a signatory to the United Nations Global program within TE. When we launched TERA last Compact, an initiative to encourage businesses year, our focus was on a broad range of corporate worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsibility issues impacting our employees, responsible policies, TE supports the 10 principles customers, shareholders, and communities. of the Global Compact with respect to human Over the past year, I have been impressed by rights, labor, environmental protection, and the commitment of all our stakeholders to the anti-corruption. Our commitment to these advancement of these issues. We are clearly principles is consistent with our foundation of operating in a world where our impact on labor uncompromising values. conditions, ethical behavior, and the environment Around the world, TERA is making progress, are mainstream business concerns, receiving the whether it is improving labor standards or using attention they deserve. innovative ideas to reduce energy consumption TE Connectivity is increasingly focused on and greenhouse gas emissions. We not only these areas because we understand that they employ nearly 95,000 people worldwide, we give are important both to our stakeholders and to back to the communities in which they live—an our long-term vitality as a business leader. We important goal for TE. I am pleased that we are striving to better align ourselves with our are focused on improving the environment and customers and their social and environmental society for our business and for our future. responsibility goals. In turn, we are working with our supply chain partners to ensure we all comply with the same set of principles and behavior. In accordance with our goal of continuous improvement, we have assembled a panel of Robert Scott, corporate social responsibility experts from our Executive Vice President and General Counsel 07 01. 01. Responsibility in Governance RESPONSIBILITY IN Unwavering commitment to our core values GOVERNANCE wherever we operate We believe that promoting high-integrity standards and good corporate citizenship across our global enterprise is critical to our growth and the continued success for all stakeholders, including our employees and shareholders. We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of ethics and corporate governance wherever we operate in the world, and we diligently work to comply with local, national, and international regulations and laws. 41 % UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT This year, we joined more than 7,700 other companies and stakeholders in more than 130 countries in supporting the 10 principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. In 2011, the Ombudsman Office received 685 reports. In 41% of the cases, we took corrective actions or otherwise made improvements to benefit the company and our employees. 08 09 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 01. Responsibility in Governance AN ETHICAL FOUNDATION At TE, we understand that in order to be a great company, we need a strong foundation of ethical behavior. Our foundation is built on our core values of integrity, accountability, teamwork, and innovation. From these values, we demand the highest ethical standards of individual corporate integrity from both ourselves and each other. OUR VALUES OUR GUIDE TO ETHICAL CONDUCT At TE Connectivity, we believe that it takes more than strong Our Guide to Ethical Conduct is the cornerstone of our performance to build a great company. It also requires an compliance program. As a multinational company, our unwavering commitment to our core values and the highest employees have different backgrounds, life experiences, standards of ethics and integrity. training, and perspectives. Our Guide sets forth TE’s values and promotes a common understanding among Integrity Teamwork all employees of how our core values relate to their jobs. We must demand of ourselves We foster an environment Localization is important to promote awareness and and of each other the highest that encourages innovation, compliance, so the Guide is available in 17 languages, and our standards of individual and creativity, excellence, and quarterly ethics newsletter is translated into eight languages. corporate integrity. We results through teamwork. All employees and onsite contractors are trained annually safeguard company assets. We practice leadership on the Guide and are asked to certify on an annual basis We comply with all laws and that teaches, inspires, and their compliance with our policies and principles. This company policies. We are promotes full participation year, 99% of employees and contractors and 100% of senior dedicated to diversity, fair and career development. management certified their compliance with the Guide. treatment, mutual respect, We encourage open and Our certification rate has increased from 94% in FY2010 and and trust. effective communication from 88% in FY2009. and interaction. Accountability TRAINING OUR PEOPLE We honor the commitments Innovation We promote training as core to TE’s value of innovation. we make, and we take We recognize that For existing employees, we have a robust training program personal responsibility for all innovation is the focused on job-related responsibilities, as well as additional actions and results. We create foundation of our business. elective courses. We also conducted more than 15,720 an operating discipline of We challenge ourselves to live trainings and over 125,000 online trainings on topics conscious improvement that is develop new and improved including ethics and compliance-related issues. an integral part of our culture. ideas for all that we do. We encourage, expect, and As we continue to grow around the world, we continue value creativity, openness to increase our focus on providing localized trainings in to change, and fresh native languages. approaches. 10 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT I appreciate the opportunity to comment on TE Connectivity’s 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report. TE has done a good job canvassing the important areas of its governance structure and impacts. I particularly like hearing directly from TE’s CEO, General Counsel, and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer FOCUS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION in the “My Perspective” areas. This year, TE released a revised anti-corruption policy, which Going forward, I would like to formally denounced bribery in all forms, in both the public hear from even more voices throughout the company and and private sectors. In step with our worldwide presence, from outside stakeholders. In the policy also reinforced the company’s expectation of addition, I would encourage TE compliance with all applicable global anti-bribery and to go into even further detail anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act and the about the challenges it is facing Criminal Code of the People’s Republic of China. Annually, and the specific ways they are we also ask our third-party representatives to support our being addressed. commitment against corruption by certifying compliance CECILY JOSEPH with all applicable anti-corruption laws. This annual process Senior Director, Corporate is just one way we promote integrity in our company and Responsibility & Compliance business relationships. Symantec Corporation, Stakeholder Panelist BOARD OF DIRECTORS Our commitment to the highest standards of integrity and ethics starts at the top. Our Board of Directors, led by a non-executive chairman and nine independent directors, provides our senior management with direction and oversight in adopting and implementing policies that promote legal compliance and integrity. MANAGING RISKS Our approach to risk management is based on a rigorous assessment process that addresses a broad range of issues, from production and operations to sales and supply chain. This comprehensive approach enables us to make better decisions when considering the impacts on our company, stakeholders, and communities. 11 01. Responsibility in Governance EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES TO ADDRESS NON-COMPLIANCE Employees are the safe keepers of our values, so we want them to ask questions about compliance issues, especially when an answer may not be clear. We also support timely reporting of non-compliance with our Guide or policies. Employees are strongly encouraged to report issues to their supervisor, human resources, law department, or the Office of the Ombudsman. OFFICE OF THE OMBUDSMAN All reports of possible violations are taken seriously and investigated with the oversight of the Office of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman is a TE employee who acts OMBUDS REPORTS INDIVIDUAL as an independent, impartial, and confidential resource with ACTIONS TAKEN whom employees, suppliers, investors, customers, and other By Region, FY2011 third parties can ask questions or address concerns about By Type, FY2011 potential violations of the Guide, laws, policies, regulations, safety, or ethics. Reporting directly to the Board of Director’s Audit 21% Committee, the Ombudsman ensures that all reported issues are thoroughly investigated and resolved. In addition, 32% the Ombudsman and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 38% regularly meet with the Compliance Committee, which includes members from TE’s Senior Management team, to 59% review relevant issues and trends. 9% 26% We encourage concerned people or groups to contact the 15% Office of the Ombudsman by telephone, via the toll-free global ConcernLINE, or through theConcernNET website. Reports can also be made anonymously. Americas Action Plans In FY2011, the Office of the Ombudsman received 685 Asia Pacific Counseling reports—the majority of which dealt with company policies, Europe, Termination conflicts of interest, and general employment questions. In Middle East, Africa Disciplinary 41% of the cases, we took corrective actions or otherwise Warnings made improvements to benefit the company and our employees. Even when cases are unsubstantiated, the reporting process provides us with valuable insights and opportunities to innovate. 12 LOOKING FORWARD 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In 2012, we will continue to drive our commitment to governance, ethics, and compliance by: ¡¡ Releasing a new values-based guide to ethical conduct and refreshing our annual training ¡¡ Increasing the use of social media to reinforce values in everyday decision making ¡¡ Creating a new Ombudsman and compliance website to clearly communicate with our stakeholders our values and ethical standards DISCOVER MORE www.te.com/governance MY PERSPECTIVE At TE, we are proud that we compete }} How TERA Works fairly to win and retain business and CHRISTINE STICKLER Assistant that we conduct business with other }} Board of Directors General Counsel and Chief Ethics and companies and individuals who also Compliance Officer stand against corruption. Releasing our }} Guide to Ethical Conduct revised anti-corruption policy this year In today’s interconnected world, }} ConcernNet Website corruption is a global issue and a was an important step in our efforts to serious threat to free markets, fair empower our employees to make the }} Ombudsman Office competition, and, in some instances, right decision in difficult situations. our own workplace. As we strive to I believe that by taking ethics and be better, smarter, and faster, our integrity out of the abstract and global footprint and overall business bringing them into everyday teachable presence is also expanding in emerging moments, we can solidify our foundation markets. As a company, we must have for success. Over the next year, the a comprehensive governance structure Ethics and Compliance team will focus in place to support our employees and its efforts on expanding the use of social growth around the world. media to further reinforce our values and commitment to integrity. 13 14 02. Responsibility in the Environment 02. 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY IN THE ENVIRONMENT Managing Our Environmental Impacts for a Greener TE and World TE is committed to protecting the environment by reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, energy usage, and other resources used across the entire company. Our efforts to reduce our environmental impact reflect our core values of taking responsibility and doing the right thing, which underscores our commitment to the communities where we do business. TE ENVIRONMENTAL 8% 5% 7% 6% 21% ACCOMPLISHMENTS ENERGY WASTEWATER GREENHOUSE WATER We are on track to meet most of our 2012 WASTE goals. Compared to our baseline year of GASES 2010, we achieved reductions (per unit of production) in 2011 in five key areas. improvement over 2010 15 02. Responsibility in the Environment ENVIRONMENTAL GREENHOUSE MANAGEMENT GAS EMISSIONS AND In all of the countries where we operate, ENERGY USE we hold ourselves to a high standard— TE is committed to addressing the often above local requirements and global challenge of climate change by practice—and we are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions continuous improvement. (GHG) and energy consumption in our To meet our goal of reducing our operations. Our absolute greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 6% environmental impacts by 10% by in 2011, and on a normalized basis (per unit of production) 2012 we will: our emissions decreased by 8%. We reduced our absolute and normalized energy consumption by 5%. ¡¡ Measure and report our progress as part of our regular monthly review of operational performance To support continued improvement and progress toward our 2012 goal, we: ¡¡ Use operational improvement tools and programs to reduce the amount of resources we use and the amount ¡¡ Continued to conduct energy audits at our sites to help of waste we generate us identify and implement changes that yield electricity and fuel savings ¡¡ Identify and apply best practices for reducing 14 environmental impacts in common processes at TE ¡¡ Formed a company-wide, cross-functional energy steering committee IN ACTION ¡¡ Added an energy focus to teams responsible for each of our major processes, such as plating, electron beams, Certified Environmental Management molding, stamping, and assembly More than 60 of TE’s sites have their environmental Going forward, we are planning to utilize a new energy About one in four of plating management systems (EMS) certified to ISO 14001 conservation website in order to better deploy tools, facilities incorporate zeroby third parties. To achieve certification, a facility resources, and best practices across all of TE, and we will wastewater technology. must demonstrate that it has an EMS in place that enhance our energy audit process. With all of these efforts, identifies significant environmental impacts, sets we expect to gain additional momentum in our energy and goals and targets, and has a robust system for GHG reduction efforts and progress. evaluating performance, taking corrective actions where needed, checking statuses on an ongoing basis, and continually improving performance. 16 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT IN ACTION Reducing SF6 Releases LED and encouraging employees to use the elevator less—the center has seen an 11% energy savings from the Most of TE’s greenhouse gas emissions result from our First, let me compliment TE for same time last year. purchase of electricity and, to a lesser extent, our use of delivering another strong corporate fuel. We also generate GHG emissions in connection with By Sea Rather Than Air responsibility report this year on our use of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) in our electron beams. the heels of a solid first effort in Ocean freight significantly reduces fuel use and resulting 2010. Reporting is a significant SF6 is a very effective electrical insulator that is also a GHG and other emissions from air transportation. Since undertaking, and TE offers potent greenhouse gas. To reduce our SF6 emissions, our the launch of our freight-savings program in October substantive content around the Electron-Beam Center of Excellence is focusing on ways 2010 covering the Southeast Asia region, our Automotive opportunities and challenges they to reduce release of SF6, such as reducing the leakage team succeeded in shipping more than 80% of its face. They have impressive goals that can occur during beam maintenance. With TE’s focus around zero waste and have made product, in terms of weight, by sea rather than by air. The on GHG reduction and the team’s focused measurement significant progress in reducing their group is exploring a similar approach to transport product and management of our electronic beam processes, we greenhouse gas emissions. It is also from Europe to Singapore. reduced our SF6-related GHG emissions in 2011 by about great to see that they are looking at 26,500 metric tons (MT) CO2, compared to 2010. product innovation to help address Carbon Disclosure Project global sustainability issues. Using Nature to Save Energy We report our progress through the Carbon Disclosure Overall, I would like to see Project (CDP), the most widely used and recognized greater context around impacts At our engineering center in Kawasaki, Japan, we installed global database for corporate GHG reporting. By joining and comparability. For example, rooftop plots of Sunagoke moss, a plant that tolerates more than 3,000 organizations in 60 countries that it would be useful to have a heat, drought, strong winds, and humidity; it also does not measure and disclose their greenhouse gas emissions comprehensive data table that require soil or maintenance. The moss protects the facility’s shows trends against stated goals. strategies and performance through CDP, we can better rooftop from the sun’s heat and ultraviolet rays, keeping I’d also like to understand more set our own reduction targets, make performance the rooms below cooler in the summer and requiring less about TE’s long-term vision for improvements, and encourage comparability between air conditioning. Combined with other energy efficiency product innovation as it relates to companies at a global level. TE’s report in the CDP can be initiatives—including removing or replacing lighting with sustainability. Greater insight into found at www.te.com/CDP. TE’s potential role as an enabler of a sustainable future would augment the impact of this report. BRUCE KLAFTER Managing Director, Corporate GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ENERGY CONSUMPTION Responsibility and Sustainability Metric tons CO2 equivalent Electricity, heat, steam, cooling in Mwh at Applied Materials, Stakeholder Panelist 2009 777,427 2009 1,729,985 2010 778,857 2010 1,681,098 2011 729,597 2011 1,590,518 17 02. Responsibility in the Environment WATER, WASTEWATER, AND WASTE TE is constantly seeking ways to reduce our water usage and the amount of wastewater and waste generated from our operations. Doing so benefits the environment, simplifies our processes, and reduces our materials usage and costs. Our plants around the world are regularly finding innovative ways to use less water and create less waste. HAZARDOUS WASTE MATERIALS WATER USAGE GENERATED RECYCLED/REUSED Millions of gallons Metric tons Metric tons 2009 1,212 2009 5,293 2009 55,187 2010 1,258 2010 7,252 2010 69,206 2011 1,220 2011 4,691 2011 64,294 WATER AND WASTEWATER Reducing Water, Wastewater, TE uses water for our manufacturing processes and sanitary and Waste in Plating uses; we have wastewater discharge associated with both One of TE’s core manufacturing processes is plating of types of usage. Our operations used approximately 1.2 metal, which improves corrosion resistance or imparts billion gallons of water and discharged 1.0 billion gallons of other critical performance properties. Plating historically wastewater in 2011. This is a 3% decrease for both measures has involved large quantities of water and the subsequent over 2010, and when we adjust for increased production discharge of wastewater. TE has been working for more volume, we saw a 7% decrease in water use and a 6% than 20 years to reduce the environmental impacts from decrease in wastewater discharge. plating, and our teams and plants have developed systems About one quarter of our 26 plating facilities incorporate a that completely eliminate plating process wastewater zero wastewater technology, and in those that do not, we discharge. These “zero process wastewater discharge” use wastewater treatment systems. All wastewater is treated plants use advanced rinsing and recycling processes to to meet applicable discharge limits, and we often go beyond reduce the amount of water used and the amount of process regulatory requirements. In particular, we have modified wastewater discharged. Additionally, these processes plating equipment to significantly reduce wastewater enhance recycling and reclamation of the plating process volume, chemical usage, and hazardous waste generation. metals, thereby reducing hazardous waste. 18 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MY PERSPECTIVE Our environmental goals are an important part of our business CARL SCHULTZ Senior Director, strategy, and the reverse is true Environment, Health & Safety as well. Our business goals and I’m proud to lead TE’s environment, environmental goals are one and the health, and safety program because same—using less material, creating we hold ourselves to a high standard less waste, consuming less energy, everywhere we operate around the and being a good neighbor—it’s a world. In many of our locations, perfect fit. our standards go beyond local It’s great to be able to support TE’s requirements and practices. Around commitment to the environment the world, TE is helping to lead the and to help TE be a good corporate way in places where environmental citizen, and it’s a great place to work. performance expectations are still in development. DISCOVER MORE WASTE LOOKING FORWARD www.te.com/environment Our long-term goal is zero waste, and we are constantly We will continue to build on the programs and successes seeking to re-engineer our products and production }} Our Environmental Policy we’ve had over the past few years. We’ll do this by: processes to become waste-free. In 2011, we reduced the ¡¡ Continuing our work toward our 2012 goal of reducing }} The Carbon Disclosure Project absolute amount of waste generated by 16% and by 21% when adjusted for increased volume. We also reduced our environmental impacts by 10% }} WEEE Compliance absolute and normalized hazardous waste by 35% and 38%, ¡¡ Establishing new and more aggressive reduction goals respectively. A significant portion of this reduction resulted in addition to the progress we’ve already made }} Awards from an upgrade to our wastewater treatment system at ¡¡ Staying focused on innovation in our core processes— }} ISO 14001 Sites our plant in Qingdao, China, which allowed us to treat to continue to reduce water use and wastewater wastewater on-site. discharge from plating and to innovate to reduce energy use in all our manufacturing processes ¡¡ Engaging teams at TE sites around the globe to participate in our energy reduction and other environmental initiatives ¡¡ Enhancing our energy auditing program and improving the tools and resources available to all of our sites 19 03. 03. Responsibility in Our Products RESPONSIBILITY IN A typical American home has 40 products constantly drawing power. Together, these amount to almost 10% of residential electricity use, according to the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. TE’s AXICOM relays are being used in zero-watt chargers that save energy by not consuming power when not OUR PRODUCTS actively powering a device. + 40 From protecting the environment to aiding in the transition to a low-carbon economy to increasing access to technology, we face unprecedented challenges on a global scale. TE is committed to working with our customers to create products and solutions that enable a sustainable future. 20 21 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 03. Responsibility in Our Products PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT We understand that the design and manufacturing choices we make for each product have a lasting impact long beyond life of their use, which is why the use of hazardous materials and how they impact the environment are an integrated part of our design reviews. These are considered when we select new materials. In 2011, we continued to broaden and strengthen our activities and performance in product stewardship. IN ACTION Developing Sustainable Products Working to Set Global Standards Nearly all of our global product lines are compliant to TE actively participates in industry associations and the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous standards organizations around the world, such as Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment iNEMI, TechAmerica, and China RoHS Standard Working Directive (RoHS). The remainder products are in industry Groups, to provide input to the development of segments such as military and aerospace where RoHS standards and regulations which address management compliant products are currently neither required and control of hazardous substances. TE also nor, in most cases, accepted. We are also focused on supports initiatives to develop an industry standard Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction data exchange format and platform for product of Chemicals (REACH with dedicated programs environmental compliance information. By adopting and resources to deal with the increasing legislative standards, we believe that industry can significantly requirements as well as business continuity concerns. lower the administrative burden of the multiple data Currently, less than 1% of our products contain any of exchanges needed throughout the supply chain. REACH’s 53 Substances of Very High Concern published through June 2011, and we continue to work with our Understanding the Lifecycle customers to develop substitutions to ensure that those TE has integrated its worldwide processes and activities substances will be removed from TE products well to reduce environmental impacts through the lifecycle before their respective sunset dates. of our products in a Product Environmental Compliance Management System (PEC-MS). The management system is based on the IEC QC080000 industrial standard and integrated with key TE business processes. This system is a supplement to the TE Global Quality Management System framework, and it supports the TE Global Product Environmental Compliance Policy. 22 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT REDUCING ENERGY ENABLING THE TRANSITION CONSUMPTION TO LOW-CARBON ECONOMY Climate change and its impacts are being felt around Most electrical grid power comes from non-renewable the world. Our customers intend to minimize their sources. While the use of renewable energy is on the rise, contribution to climate change by reducing their own the cost, output efficiency, and lack of grid infrastructure energy consumption and look to us to partner in this effort. hamper mass adoption. TE enables the shift to sustainable By developing lighter, more efficient products, we help our resources through products that support the renewable customers in a variety of industries to reduce emissions energy industry and alternative energy products. and to save energy. IN ACTION IN ACTION Making Measurement Smarter Next Generation Wind Energy Solutions Our intelligent meters and sensors promote energy Wind is a clean energy solution that produces less conservation through a system that enables a more emissions than fossil fuels, but the wind industry detailed view of energy consumption at multiple sites, faces challenges on quality and system availability. within a site, or down to a process. We are enabling efficient growth through a full suite of products from blade to grid, including system Aircraft Efficiency through Lightweight monitoring, motion and drive solutions, and power Innovations and control interconnectivity. Working with the entire airline supply chain, we Hybrid Ready to Accelerate created weight-saving interconnection technologies for lighter aircraft. Our connector designs replace While hybrid and electric vehicles (EVs) are presently traditional heavy metal shells with lightweight just a small part of the automotive market, there is composite materials, yielding a weight savings of no question that they are driving the development of 20% to 30%, which creates more efficient aircraft and new component technologies and are poised for huge brings down fuel consumption and emissions. growth potential. TE supports the EV industry by providing specialized relays and connectors that link TE Relays Save Power battery packs with the high-voltage modules to vehicles. TE’s AXICOM relays are used in zero-watt chargers, which save energy by not consuming power when the charger is plugged into a wall outlet but is not actively charging a device. Our relay isolates the electricity supply from the charger until a discharged device is connected. The amount of power wasted by a single charger might seem very small, but when one considers the billions of chargers used globally, the total is significant. 23 03. Responsibility in Our Products REDUCING THE USE OF CONNECTING THE MATERIAL GOODS DEVELOPING WORLD Emerging markets depend on reliable electricity supply and TE Operations Launches Material Usage access to today’s wired world to foster growth and to attract Productivity Challenge foreign investment; yet, lack of infrastructure and prohibitive While TE cannot control the price of copper, gold, silver or costs can restrict business development. Our products resin, we can to some degree control the amount of these help emerging regions gain access to markets and develop commodities we use in our products and operations. To reliable infrastructure. help combat higher raw commodity costs, TE Operations has launched a challenge to our 90+ plants in an attempt to IN ACTION generate $25 million in incremental material productivity. As part of the Productivity Challenge, plants will strive to: Wiring for Access ¡¡ Minimize the amount of scrap generated in our operations TE SubCom laid more than 6,800 kilometers of cable between Portugal and the west coast of Africa ¡¡ Utilize the maximum amount of resin re-grind approved and 10,700 kilometers of cable connecting eight by customers countries and territories in Southeast Asia. Both ¡¡ Minimize the amount of precious metals in our plating projects delivered much-needed, high-capacity processes broadband connectivity, increased Internet access, and significantly reduced costs for individuals and ¡¡ Maximize the value of the scrap we sell businesses alike. ¡¡ Optimize balance between minimum order quantity and inventory costs Lighter, Stronger Products to Connect For every quarter in 2012, the best performing plant will be Two Cities in China recognized in three categories: To support a new ultra high-voltage power ¡¡ Most material usage productivity in the quarter in transmission line being built to connect the Chinese terms of dollars cities of Nanyang and Jingmen, TE Energy designed and manufactured special high-strength operating ¡¡ Most material usage productivity in the quarter in rods needed to activate the system’s bypass circuit terms of percentage breakers. The new line will carry 1,100 kilovolts—the ¡¡ Most new incremental annualized dollars implemented highest voltage ever transmitted by a commercial in the quarter power system. Due to this extreme voltage, the Global plant leaders were provided details on the Challenge operating rod had to be very long in order to and plant nomination forms. Given the talent and creativity in prevent short-circuiting, so our engineers in Wohlen, our plants, we are sure to see some extraordinary results. Switzerland developed a 9.9-meter rod—the longest we’ve ever built. 24 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT A Global Innovator We believe that the relentless pursuit of new products and solutions that improve our own and our customers’ impact on the world are critical to our long-term success. As a result, we are proud to be named one of Thomson Reuters’ 2011 Top 100 Global Innovators. This honor recognizes companies that are working on developments that are acknowledged as innovative by patent offices across the world—and by their peers—and whose inventions are so important that they seek global protection for them. DISCOVER MORE MY PERSPECTIVE Our customers are also demanding more efficient products. To meet ROB SHADDOCK Executive Vice their demands, TE’s businesses are www.te.com/products President & Chief Technology Officer developing smaller, lighter-weight }} Research and Development Our engineers can be found in places products and products with higher all around the globe, including Silicon recyclable content and energy saving }} TE Wind Valley, China, Germany, and India solutions. Our 7,500 engineers are to best meet our global customers’ working on breakthroughs which will }} Electric Vehicles benefit our customers as they strive needs. With more than 20,000 patents }} RoHS pending or granted, innovation is truly to bring environmentally friendly a part of our core values. This year, products to market. }} Innovation Awards we made substantial progress in our In our world today, sustainability research and development in fiber and innovation can no longer be optics, electrification of vehicles, and an afterthought; it is critical to our various energy reduction measures. business and a part of who we are. It feels good to see TE grow and Whether we’re making data centers create products that are good for our more efficient or reducing the weight business and have a positive impact of the cabling in an airplane—we’re on our society. motivated to help make our customers smarter, faster, and better. 25 26 04. Responsibility with Our Suppliers 04. 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 350% Conducted more than 140 audits in Ensuring high more than 21 countries, a greater than 350% increase from 2008-2010 levels. standards of corporate responsibility throughout our supply chain With an annual spend of approximately $7 billion and more than 30,000 direct and indirect suppliers worldwide, we have a responsibility to ensure our suppliers share our core values and corporate responsibility commitments. We work closely with our suppliers to assure they sustain a business environment that promotes ethical behavior, enables fair competition, and protects intellectual property. 27 04. Responsibility with Our Suppliers GUIDE TO SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The foundation of our supplier relationship program is our Guide to Supplier Social Responsibility (SSR), which outlines our objectives on: ¡¡ Rejecting corruption and unfair business practices ¡¡ Promoting environmental sustainability and a healthy work environment TRACKING COMPLIANCE AND ¡¡ Improving working conditions by prohibiting forced, BUILDING CAPABILITIES harsh, or inhumane treatment and discrimination of We ensure compliance with our SSR guide through a supplier employees variety of initiatives and programs. ¡¡ Encouraging diversity through programs that enable socially and economically disadvantaged groups to become part of our supply chain SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE We ask our suppliers to acknowledge compliance with our social responsibility policies through an online survey. A FRESH TAKE In 2011, we surveyed 623 suppliers who represent the top In 2011, we significantly updated the SSR guidelines to 80% of direct material spend, achieving an 87% response better align with the TERA program and our commitment rate to the survey. Of our suppliers, 80% acknowledged to the UN Global Compact. In particular, we shifted toward compliance with our SSR Guide, and 7% requested that we an SSR approach that requires suppliers to confirm strict consider their SSR program as a response rather than an compliance with TE principles. We also expanded our acknowledgement of compliance. We are in the process expectations for labor based on escalating global concerns, of reviewing these requests, and we will work with our and we added new information on our efforts to address suppliers to achieve consensus on the intentions of both conflict minerals. programs. We will also continue pursuing a response for To support the roll out of the new guidelines, we the remaining 13% who have not yet completed our SSR reinvigorated our SSR program internally, including Compliance survey. establishing metrics to measure our performance, updating In the upcoming years, we plan to extend this survey our audit processes, and selecting an external auditing further into our supply base for both direct and indirect firm to support our auditing objectives. We also provided goods and services. a series of global communications on TERA, goals and objectives for SSR, and plans to survey and audit our supply base, among other activities. 28 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT AUDITING FOR ASSURANCE REMEDIATION AND DEVELOPMENT We conduct audits of selected suppliers on issues of social Our supply chain sustainability is maturing, so it is critical responsibility. This year, we updated our audit program to we take an approach that defines and incentivizes align with the TERA program and selected a third-party continuous improvement. We believe it is important to work audit firm that specializes in supplier social responsibility. in partnership with our suppliers to find solutions, including the remediation of instances of non-compliance as well as In 2011, we conducted more than 140 audits, 20 of which investment in suppliers’ management capabilities. were through our third-party audit firm. Our audits covered both direct and indirect suppliers providing a diverse range Remediation can include, among other activities: of products and services in more than 21 countries. This is ¡¡ TE and suppliers working together to create a corrective a 365% increase in auditing activity from our 2008 to 2010 action plan activities combined. ¡¡ Monitoring progress toward an implementation plan HOW WE AUDIT ¡¡ Termination of relationship when serious compliance issues are not remedied Our audit process incorporates a screening audit and a more extensive workplace conditions assessment (WCA). The screening audit is a short audit, performed by TE personnel, to verify the supplier’s SSR compliance and WHAT WE FOUND maturity. The audit is intended to identify potential areas of TE’s auditing program began in earnest in July 2011, so our analysis of data, concern that may require further investigation. This year, we trends, and remediation activities are in their early stages. However, initial trained more than 50% of TE procurement professionals on findings show that of the 20 WCAs performed, half of our suppliers rated “above average.” We are currently pursuing follow-up activities with the other how to conduct an SSR screening audit. 10 poor-performing suppliers to collaborate on corrective action plans. The WCA is performed through a third-party firm by professional auditors, and it assesses a supplier’s SSR comABOVE AVERAGE 10 pliance through a detailed, intensive onsite audit process. BELOW AVERAGE 9 VERY LOW 1 29 04. Responsibility with Our Suppliers CONFLICT MINERALS TE takes very seriously the possibility that conflict minerals DRC and surrounding region. In order to avoid an may find their way into our supply chain. Conflict minerals adverse impact to African economies, we are encouraging or conflict metals are defined as gold (Au), tantalum (Ta), the SEC to adopt transition rules that will allow for tungsten (W), and tin (Sn) sourced from mines in conflict construction of the proper infrastructure within the DRC areas controlled by armed groups, including but not limited region to trace conflict minerals back to the mines. We are to the Eastern region of Democratic Republic of Congo also asking U.S. government officials to help identify the (DRC). We understand that the minerals trade has a role in conflict mines, which would then allow certain mines to financing the ongoing conflict in the DRC and the associated be certified as conflict-free. atrocities and human rights abuses. Accordingly, we support We are also in active dialogue with our suppliers on Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and what can reasonably be done to increase supply chain Consumer Protection Act to discourage companies from transparency despite these challenges. As information in using conflict minerals. the industry becomes more freely available and mine origin more discernible, we will expand our due diligence and SUPPORTING TRACEABILITY tighten our compliance requirements accordingly. As with all products we source, TE holds its suppliers to the company’s high standards of integrity and responsibility. LOCALIZATION Once the mines associated with armed groups have We believe we can have a positive impact on the been identified, suppliers can have a part in stopping the environment and local communities in which we do devastating humanitarian crisis by choosing to source from business by buying materials close to the facilities where the conflict-free mines. they will be consumed. Localization shortens transportation As such, we ask that suppliers identify the source of their distances, which in turn reduces fuel consumption and gold, tantalum, tungsten, and tin to the greatest extent other transportation costs. It also bolsters the economic possible and use reasonable efforts to supply commodity development in the local community. metals to TE that are conflict-free. We also ask our suppliers Our goal is to achieve localized spending between 85% and to certify to such a designation if possible. 95% of our total direct material and to maintain that status as we grow our production and expand into new regions. In BEYOND EMBARGO 2011, we achieved 89% localized spending. Avoidance of sourcing from conflict mines is a very serious issue, but the pressure on smelters and suppliers to certify minerals as DRC conflict-free is creating a de facto embargo on all tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold exported from the 30 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LOOKING FORWARD Over the next five years, our goal is to: ¡¡ Extend our compliance survey to the remainder of our supply base as defined by spending and supplier classification ¡¡ Track results of our audit program in validating performance and sustaining accountability, as well as examine trends in remediation to yield successful compliance progress ¡¡ Continue to consolidate our supplier base to migrate our spending to our key suppliers, which will include those that align with our goals of localization, diversity, and social responsibility MY PERSPECTIVE also to cut down on environmental impacts in transportation emissions. KAREN LEGGIO Chief Procurement Officer I am very excited about the direction our SSR program has taken in support We have more than 30,000 suppliers of our TERA goals. The foundation we DISCOVER MORE worldwide, so we have a tremendous created in 2010 will enable thoughtful opportunity to deliver positive global www.te.com/suppliers expansion of our SSR program impact through the extension of TE’s throughout our supply base in the }} Supplier Portal core values to our supplier base. years to come. We will continue to The procurement of goods and improve our SSR program with a goal }} TE Guide to Supplier Responsibility services impacts not only suppliers, of maximizing our impact on supply chain sustainability to ensure that }} TE Guide to Supplier Responsibility Survey but our customers, employees, and the communities where we do business. working conditions in our supply base }} Supplier Diversity We seek to make these impacts are safe, workers are treated with positive ones through our commitment respect and dignity, and manufacturing to localization, which allows us to not processes are environmentally only develop the local economies, but responsible. 31 05. 05. Responsibility in the Workplace RESPONSIBILITY IN THE WORKPLACE Attracting, developing, protecting, & retaining our most valuable resource At TE, our most important advantage is our people. Nearly 95,000 TE employees design, manufacture, and market our products in more than 50 countries around the world. We understand that our success as a business is directly linked to theirs. We are committed to supporting our employees—and making TE a great place to work—by emphasizing development and training, creating a safe work environment, and embracing diversity and inclusion. 75 $ MILLION TE invested $75 million in facility upgrades to improve work environments and morale. 32 33 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 05. Responsibility in the Workplace ENGAGING OUR EMPLOYEES At TE, we believe employee engagement is critical to our long-term success. We see engagement as our ability to: ¡¡ Support professional and career development ¡¡ Effectively communicate with people at all levels in the company ¡¡ Create an environment that is safe and inclusive In 2008, 2010, and January of 2012, we measured our employee engagement through a company-wide survey and follow-up pulse survey. Findings showed that employees wanted more opportunities for growth and development, increased communication from business leaders, and increased transparency. Results from the surveys have been shared with each business unit, and action-planning teams continue to address their respective areas of focus. IN ACTION Revitalizing Our Workplace: This year, we invested $75 million in facility upgrades to improve work environment and boost morale and engagement. We redesigned work stations and interior walls to allow in as much natural light as possible throughout each floor. We also used sustainable materials and design in many of these upgrades, including carpeting, countertops, and furniture from recycled materials, solar-powered faucets and flush values in bathrooms, LED lighting, low-VOC paints and adhesives, and native drought-tolerant plants to reduce landscaping water usage. 34 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HEALTH, WELLNESS, HEALTH AND WELLNESS AND BENEFITS TE is committed to helping our employees and their families evaluate, maintain, and improve their physical, mental, and financial health through a wide variety of programs INJURY-FREE AND HEALTHY everywhere we operate. WORKPLACE Employee Assistance Program (EAP): One of the fundamental building blocks of TE’s strategy is EAP is a resource that provides professional, confidential It is great to see TE’s continued our commitment to safety. Simply put, we must provide an commitment to corporate injury-free workplace. assistance for all employees and their family members responsibility in their second to deal with mental health issues, family and parenting We ensure the safety of our employees by: annual report. In particular, I am concerns, and financial needs. In 2011, we expanded EAP to encouraged that their engagement ¡¡ Adhering to TE’s own stringent safety rules and practices all countries where we operate. We also extended our EAP in sustainability starts at the top with at all our facilities in China to include employees (and their family members) leadership from CEO Tom Lynch. directly hired by TE, as well as through our agents, to ensure In addition, having their efforts ¡¡ Requiring each location to use TE’s safety management the program reaches our entire workforce. unified under the TE Responsible system, which involves all levels of the organization Advantage (TERA) program and a ¡¡ Requiring each facility to comply with all applicable Global Wellness Campaign: global environment, health and safety regulations program shows a strong global focus Our diverse employees can have very different health and and management system. Using the Safety performance is a key operational indicator and is wellness needs. By examining and understanding their Global Reporting Index and United regularly reviewed at the company, business unit, and plant needs at the local level and developing networks of peer Nations Global Compact as guiding level. A network of trained safety personnel and third-party volunteer Wellness Champions, we are able to offer more principles for their reporting also audits ensures compliance with our high safety standards. focused programs and inspire and empower our employees aligns them with best practices. In 2011, we made progress toward our goal of zero to lead healthier lives. Going forward, TE’s programs and injuries. Our total recordable incident rate across all TE report could be strengthened by manufacturing plants was 0.47 incidents per 100 employees, Educational Support: greater depth in reporting on their employee engagement. For example, a 13% decrease over our rate in 2010 of 0.54. A benefit we offer to employees is education reimbursement. how specifically is TE addressing the We spent more than $2 million annually to support findings from their 2008 and 2010 employees in achieving educational degrees or certifications. engagement surveys? How does their health and safety compare to industry INCIDENT RATE average and are there goals beyond Per 100 employess being injury free? It would also be good to have more information on their diversity data and efforts. 2010 .54 TIM MOHIN Director of Corporate 2011 .47 Responsibility, Advanced Micro Devices, Stakeholder Panelist 35 05. Responsibility in the Workplace DEVELOPING TALENT Over the past four years, we have expanded our talent development and training programs beyond basic on-the-job skill training, and we included careerbuilding programs in the areas of operations, engineering, and leadership. We are also expanding our internal development opportunities, such as rotational and short-term assignments. IN ACTION WORKFORCE Leadership Development: Lean Operations: Fiscal Year 2011 was a significant year in our history as we completed the acquisition of ADC, and successfully In 2011, we extended our leadership Through our TE Operating integrated 9,000 ADC employees into TE. development in various ways Advantage program (TEOA)—a around the world, including company-wide effort to improve We had roughly the same number of new employee hires as supervisor training to more productivity, reduce costs, deliver departures in the fiscal year. We added thousands of jobs than 1,600 individuals across 18 greater satisfaction to our customers, to better meet the growing demand of certain industries facilities in China, and training to and value to our shareholders— and countries. Excluding China, India, and Mexico, we had a more than 1,000 leaders through we provide various levels of Lean positive net hire rate of 2%. our cornerstone program, “TE training at all of our manufacturing Our overall turnover rate was 13% (voluntary turnover was Leadership Way”. The Leadership sites. In the past three years, more 8%), excluding China, India, and Mexico where our workforce Way program develops the skills than 4,000 employees have been is mainly in manufacturing. In China, India, and Mexico, the needed for leadership at TE and trained in Lean principles and over combined turnover rate was 50% due to the competitive focuses on strategy, execution, and 1,500 employees have completed labor market conditions in China and the high-turnover talent development. It is open to advanced training and are certified nature of manufacturing jobs. all existing and newly appointed as Lean practitioners. Turnovers Hires leaders in every region. Online Trainings: TE China, India, and Mexico 16,559 15,009 Talent Mobility: We offer more than 12,500 TE (w/o) China, India, and Mexico 5,039 5,674 We encourage employees to take professional classes covering a new positions in other departments wide variety of topics; many are TE Total: 21,598 20,683 across the company to share available in up to 19 languages. This expertise across functions, roles, year more than 16,000 employees *Does not include agency and temporary employees and geographies. In 2011, we participated in 187,000 hours of increased the number of employees classes worldwide. in long-term international assignments by 18%. 36 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION GLOBAL GENDER DIVERSITY 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT By reporting category We value our rich diversity and inclusion of cultures, experiences, and perspectives at TE. We adopt work practices that create an inclusive environment and employ WORKFORCE TOTAL MANAGEMENT TOTAL methods to recruit a diverse workforce. We are committed to providing opportunities for everyone to contribute to Male their fullest potential. 11% Female We see diversity and inclusion as a key opportunity for TE and have identified two areas of focus moving forward: 41% GENDER: Our global workforce is 41% female, and women fill 11% 59% 89% of leadership positions worldwide. Understanding that gender diversity is an industry-wide challenge, we launched the TE Women’s Network last year to support the development, retention, and recruitment of women in support of gender diversity at TE. By creating a network where women can collaborate, we hope to encourage ETHNIC DIVERSITY IN THE UNITED STATES professional growth and exchange of best practices that By reporting category make women successful in the workplace. To date, the network has more than 540 members. WORKFORCE TOTAL MANAGEMENT TOTAL 1% GLOBAL DIVERSITY: 6% Caucasian 10% As a multinational company, it is crucial to have global 7% 2 % 8 % Other leadership. Currently, 40% of our top managers are from Asian countries outside of the United States. 6% African American 7% Hispanic 70% 83% 37 05. Responsibility in the Workplace SPOTLIGHT: TE IN CHINA At TE, we are not just a multinational company doing business in China; we are invested here. Our employees in China represent more than one third of our workforce, and we demonstrate our commitment to them by providing an environment that supports their health, wellness, and ongoing development. THE CHINESE CONTEXT There are complexities and opportunities that come with need to be effective leaders, we trained over 1,600 the unique employment landscape in China. Our 37,000 individuals across our 18 facilities in China. The training employees work—and many live—at our 18 sites around focused on the three key elements:: the country. For most, this means working and living away ¡¡ Engaging supervisors in building a common corporate from their hometown and local support networks. Under culture and set of expectations and standards these circumstances, and due to other factors such as age and life experience, some may face difficulties adapting ¡¡ Ensuring supervisors have a deep understanding of EAP to work and dormitory life. and crisis awareness skills to identify the problems and issues and to respond quickly and appropriately Our goal is to create a supportive and responsive culture. This year, we rebuilt our Chinese human resources ¡¡ Making supervisors stronger and more effective leaders management systems from the ground up. Here are a through training on how to coach and give feedback, few of our new initiatives: motivate employees, and communicate effectively WORKING WITH AGENCIES BIG BROTHER, BIG SISTER PROGRAM Like many companies with manufacturing sites in China, Our Big Brother, Big Sister program selects employee we use agencies to help us recruit new members of volunteers to provide an additional layer of care and support our workforce. It is our responsibility to ensure that, as to new employees, particularly those living in dormitories. representatives of TE, they operate in a transparent and The “brothers” and “sisters” listen to their coworkers and ethical manner on our behalf. We do this by having clear bring any potential concerns to management’s attention. hiring policies and guidelines that are available to both So far, this program has been piloted at two sites, and we agencies and prospective employees and by encouraging plan to expand it to all sites in 2012. parties to report their concerns to our Ombudsman’s Office. GREAT PLACE TO WORK SUPERVISORS’ SKILLS TRAINING We implemented the Great Place to Work initiative at every Supervisors and line leaders play a critical role in managing site to improve our employees’ overall work environment, the efforts of our operators who manufacture TE products. particularly the site canteens and dormitories. At many sites, To equip our supervisors and line leaders with the skills they we offer wireless access and internet cafés, and at all sites, we offer after-hours recreation programs. 38 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT KUNSHAN CONTINUOUS EDUCATION PROGRAM The Kunshan Continuous Education Program offers high-performing employees the opportunity to “go back to school” and learn management and technical skills to help accelerate their career. Production line workers and line leaders can study diploma programs in enterprise management and mechanical and electrical integration, while technicians can work toward degrees in industrial engineering, mechanical engineering, and automation. In 2011, we sponsored 18 employees, and we intend to extend this further in 2012. We are proud to have local universities, including Nanjing Agricultural University, Jiangsu University, Yangzhou University, and Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, partnering with us in this initiative. LOOKING FORWARD A positive employee experience is important to us, and we will continue our efforts to make TE a great place to work by: ¡¡ Expanding our programs and initiatives to support our diversity efforts ¡¡ Investing in facility upgrades and initiative expansion in China and worldwide MY PERSPECTIVE advances we made in elevating the importance of an integrated HR ¡¡ Continuing to train leaders at all levels in our sites JANE LEIPOLD Senior Vice approach, which focuses on enabling to ensure they create a positive and motivating President, Global Human Resources employees to realize their potential work environment TE is at the forefront of technology, by embracing ideas, providing and our people are at the center opportunities, and rewarding results. of creating a more connected Going forward, we will continue to DISCOVER MORE world. Challenging work, amazing increase our training, development, people, and a chance to engage in a and career opportunities for our www.te.com/employees dynamic global organization, inspire employees, advance country specific people to choose and stay with TE health and well-being programs, }} Environment, Health, & Safety Policy every day. To that end, this was a provide a safe and engaging work significant year as we successfully environment, and develop and }} TE Employee Handbook integrated ADC and made important initiate an enterprise-wide inclusion }} Careers at TE Connectivity progress toward making TE a great and diversity program. place to work. I am proud of the 39 40 06. Responsibility in Our Communities 06. 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY Supporting and developing the communities where we do business IN OUR COMMUNITIES A strong community provides the foundation for business to grow and prosper. By supporting community projects and interests through charitable grants, volunteering, and donations, TE is building stronger local and global communities and creating a positive work environment for our employees. + 32 As part of a six-week walking challenge, employees walked more than 430 million steps combined, or 346,009 kilometers (215,000 miles). That’s 32 round trips from Miami to Seattle. 41 06. Responsibility in Our Communities GLOBAL GIVING At TE we believe strong communities bring about expanded benefits for every person and business located within them. We support our communities and employees through our global giving program and employee volunteerism. In 2011, more than $4 million was donated by TE, TE employees, and the TE Foundation to more than 1,400 organizations worldwide. CORPORATE GIVING Corporate giving is primarily focused in areas with the largest number of TE employees, as well as where our financial TE CONNECTIVITY GLOBAL support can have the greatest impact. Our corporate giving GIVING CORPORATE GIVING is based on our Global Philanthropy Guidelines, which align By region with our core values: ¡¡ Driving the highest standards of integrity through investMatched Americas employee giving ments supporting ethical business practices and conduct 19% 17 % Asia Global ¡¡ Increasing accountability through investments in energy corporate giving 32% Cross Region 7% and the environment TE Connectivity Europe, 51% Foundation Middle East, ¡¡ Creating a sense of teamwork through investments in giving Africa community development 30% ¡¡ Fostering innovation through investments in education, 44% with emphasis on math, science, and engineering MATCHED EMPLOYEE GIVING MATCHED For U.S. employees, TE matches dollar for dollar what EMPLOYEE GIVING an employee gives to approved 501(c)(3) nonprofit 4% organizations. In 2011, we matched over $900,000 of 1,400 employee’s gifts to 1,360 organizations. Education Health & Human 29% Services IN ACTION 30% Arts & Culture Environment Global Disaster Relief: 2% Civic We provided more than $260,000 in direct relief donations to employees and the Red Cross, and employees gave their time to support communities 35% recovering from catastrophic disasters in Japan and New Zealand. 42 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TE CONNECTIVITY FOUNDATION The TE Connectivity Foundation is dedicated to fostering a society that enhances the quality of life, in which all people can participate. The Foundation does this in three ways: our Dollars for Doers program, Team Volunteer Projects, and direct grants. DOLLARS FOR DOERS The Dollars for Doers program was created to help support our communities and to recognize employee volunteers. Under the program, funds are distributed to the eligible nonprofit organization where a TE employee volunteers in AMERICAN HEART his/her spare time. ASSOCIATION HEART WALK At TE, we are committed to helping our employees and their TEAM VOLUNTEER PROJECTS families evaluate, maintain, and improve their physical and Team Volunteer Projects are grants of up to $5,000 to mental health through a wide variety of wellness programs 501(c)(3) nonprofit organizations to support special projects at TE sites around the world. Our goal is to educate involving a group of three or more TE employees. employees on how to lead healthy lives, so they can avoid more serious health problems. DIRECT GRANTS As an extension of our wellness programs, we partnered with the American Heart Association (AHA) to help The Foundation provides charitable grants to U.S. nonprofit raise awareness about heart disease and to motivate our organizations. In 2011, the Foundation funded over employees to make healthy choices. Our goal this year was $500,000 in grants to more than 34 organizations including: to have TE employees engage in healthy behaviors and ¡¡ Junior Engineering Technical Society provides high support the AHA by registering a walking team, tracking school students an opportunity to discover real-world their steps, raising money for the AHA, and walking in a applications of science, technology, engineering, and local Heart Walk. mathematics (STEM). ¡¡ The MATHCOUNTS Foundation combines the efforts of OUR IMPACT volunteers, educators, industry partners, government, In 2011, we had more than 1,200 employees come together and the technology community to promote mathematics to participate in fifteen AHA walks around the country. We excellence among middle school students. contributed more than $380,000 through sponsorship, ¡¡ California-based JobTrain helps people launch new careers employee fundraising, and company matches. and break out of the cycle of poverty, low-levels of education, homelessness, drugs, crime, and incarceration. 43 06. Responsibility in Our Communities Clearly, TE and TE employees are doing a lot of good CONNECTING WITH OUR COMMUNITIES community work around the world. From participating in All around the world, TE employees positively impact a charity mountain climb to building a community hall to countless lives, businesses, and communities. donating backpacks to children in need, there is commitment United States Czech Republic Taiwan from TE and its employees TE sponsored and donated products to TE Kurim hosted over 5,500 visitors In November 2010, employees raised to support communities and eight teams of high school students in at TE Day and raised $1,500 for the more than NT$246,000 to provide causes. I’m also encouraged to four states across the U.S. to compete Children’s Care Home in Tisnov and for new reading corners, a science lab, see TE’s forward-looking goal of in-country councils which in the FIRST® Robotics Competition. the Kurim Volunteer Firefighters Corps. and soccer equipment to Ci-Sian will help them localize decision Elementary School in Yilan County, making and foster regional Belgium China which was severely affected by a ownership. typhoon. TE sponsored the Umicore Solar Through TE China’s backpacks However, with all of these Team, a team of 15 students from the donation project, TE donated 900 activities, there doesn’t appear Groep T engineering school in Leuven, backpacks with school supplies to Malaysia to be an overarching strategy as they designed, developed, built, elementary school children in need in Three employees waved the TE or defined mission for why and raced a solar car 3,000 kilometers China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Connectivity flag at the summit of TE is undertaking this work. (1,864 miles) from Darwin to Adelaide, Mount Kinabalu after climbing 4,095 Most large organizations have community engagement and Australia with the sun as their sole India meters (13,435 feet) above sea level philanthropy goals, which are source of energy. to support the children’s organization TE donated $8,800 to help finish clearly articulated to address Persatuan Kanak-Kanak Istimewa, construction on a community hall in a particular issue or objective. Portugal Shirwal Village. The hall will provide which helps children who are mentally Funding of their projects— and physically challenged. Over 250 global TE senior leaders much-needed space for town particularly on a corporate took part in a bike build-a-thon meetings, education programs, and level—is focused on supporting and donated the 45 bikes to local other community programs. Australia organizations that can help them achieve those goals. In underprivileged children in Lisbon. TE provided products and support the absence of identified (and Japan to the Swinburne University racing measurable) goals, it is hard Brazil Employees took five days of paid team in Melbourne to develop a pure to gauge the impact of TE’s electric, formula-spec race vehicle TE Brazil donated 103 computers leave to assist with cleaning up and efforts. Going forward, I would to compete in the first-ever Electric to a Penha and Toró community rebuilding areas devastated by the encourage TE to channel the Formula Society of Automotive obvious enthusiasm of the project, which offers education March 2011 tsunami, including a local Engineers competition. company and its employees opportunities to children between science museum and many houses. into a defined strategy that the ages of 3 and 17. measures outcomes and impact. AKHTAR BADSHAH Senior Director, Citizenship and Public Affairs, Microsoft Corporation 44 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MY PERSPECTIVE I know colleagues who spent their own vacation and money to travel KENZIE FERGUSON Director, to Guatemala to build a medical Corporate Responsibility clinic that services local villages. Everywhere I turn, I am amazed at Another TE employee was so driven the great things my colleagues are to help the people of Japan after doing around the world to improve the earthquake and tsunami, he their communities. collected donations and supplies from friends and family, took a week’s worth of vacation, and traveled 9,000 miles to volunteer at the TE CONNECTIVITY Iwanuma City Volunteer Center in WALKING CHALLENGE Sendai, Japan. Our facility in Shunde, China has been honored by the As part of our health and wellness program, we held local government for employeea six-week walking challenge with employees in the coordinated blood drives for the past United States. 2,700 employees walked more than 10 years. These are the stories that 430 million steps, or 215,000 miles—that is 90% of inspire me and others at TE. That’s the way to the moon or nine times around the globe! why it’s so important as a company that we support and encourage our LOOKING FORWARD employees’ enthusiasm to volunteer and to continue doing what they are Over the next five years, our goal is to: passionate about. ¡¡ Develop global programs that focus on strategic I am proud of the significant issues facing TE and TE’s stakeholders impact we’ve had on our local ¡¡ Encourage volunteerism and employee giving communities this year, but there is by tracking and matching time and money still much more we can accomplish. donated by employees During the next year, we will work to develop programs to reach more ¡¡ Expand and develop in-country councils to better TE employees to encourage them to serve the needs of our local communities volunteer and give to organizations close to their hearts. To take our corporate giving program to the next level and make an even larger impact, we will progress toward DISCOVER MORE creating a signature global program that aligns with our core values and www.te.com/communities corporate strategy. }} TE Foundation I’m inspired by what we are doing today, but I’m most excited about }} Community Case Studies what we will do in the future. 45 GRI Index GRI INDEX CONTENTS PAGE(S) GRI/UNGC REFERENCE REMARKS/ADDITIONAL INFORMATION About TE Connectivity 2.1, 2.4-2.9, EC1 2.5-Please refer to our Annual Report 2011 at: http://www.te.com/annual report 2.6-Please refer to our Annual Report 2011 at: http://www.te.com/annual report 2.7-Our significant markets include: 2.8-Please refer to our Annual Report 2011 at: http://www.te.com/annual report 2.9-In 2011, TE Connectivity changed its name from Tyco Electronics and acquired ADC and XOL Technologies. 2.10-Awards received for the environmental section can be found at http://www.te.com/environment Serving Attractive Markets 2 2.2-2.3 About the Corporate 3 1.2, 2.5, 3.1-3.11,4.13-4.17, LA1 1.2-Key impacts, risks, and opportunities are in their respective sections Responsibility Report 3.2 Our previous report was published in January 2011. It can be accessed at: http://www.te.com/responsibility/pdfs/TERA-Report.pdf 3.3-Reporting cycle is annual 3.4-Overview 3.5-3.6-Overview:Report 3.7-Limitations of particular performance indicators have been reported in detail in their sections 3.8-We have reported on the manufacturing facilities where we have 100% control over operations 3.9-Explanations have been provided in the individual section 3.11-This report covers both TE and recently aquired ADC unless stated otherwise. Message from Our CEO 6 1.1 Governance, Compliance, and 8 to 13 4.1-4.12, HR 3-4, SO2-SO5 4.1-Please refer to our Annual Report 2011 at: http://www.te.com/annual report Ethics 4.2-The Chairman of the TE Board in non-executive. For more information, see Governance: Corporate Governance UNGC: 4.3-The majority of Directors are independent. For more information, see Governance: Corporate Governance Principle 10 4.4-Governance: Corporate Governance 4.5-Governance: Corporate Governance 4.6-Governance: Corporate Governance 4.7-Governance: Corporate Governance 4.8-Additional information on values, codes, and principles can be found at Governance: Values; Environment: Policy; Supplier Relationships; Community 4.9-Additional information of governance body can be found at http://www.te.com/aboutus/boardofdirectors.asp 4.10-Additional information of governance body can be found at http://www.te.com/aboutus/boardofdirectors.asp 4.13-TE is a member of a number of trade and industry associations around the world, and the company's employees are actively engaged as members of the boards or as chairs of committees relevant to TE. Memberships include but are not limited to: National Association of Manufacturers, Business Roundtable, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, U.S.-China Business Council, U.S.-India Business Council, U.S.-ASEAN Business Council, Council of the Americas, The American Chamber of Commerce Beijing, The American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce, The American Chamber of Commerce in Singapore, The American Chamber of Commerce in Germany, U.S. Information Technology Office (USITO), Telecommunications Industry Association, Organization for International Investment, National Foreign Trade Council, Public Affairs Council, European-American Business Council, and BSR SO7-8-Please refer to our Annual Report 2011 at: http://www.te.com/annual report 46 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTENTS PAGE(S) GRI/UNGC REFERENCE REMARKS/ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Environment 14 to 19 EN3-8, EN16-18, EN21-22, EN27 Additional information can be found at http://www.te.com/responsibility/environment.asp EN3-Environment: Energy Use, which links to our Carbon Disclosure Project submission EN4-Environment: Energy Use EN5-Environment: Energy Use EN6-Environment: Energy Use; Products EN7-Environment: Energy Use EN8-Environment: Water Use EN16-Environment: Data; Environment: Climate, which links to our Carbon Disclosure Project submission EN17-Environment: Data; Environment: Climate, which links to our Carbon Disclosure Project submission EN18-Environment: Climate EN21-Environment: Water Use EN22-Environment: Waste EN27-Environment: Waste UNGC: Principle 7 Principle 8 Products EC9, EN26 Additional information can be found at http://www.te.com/responsibility/products.aspx UNGC: Principle 9 Supply Chain EC6, HR2, HR6-7, HR10 Additional information can be found at http://www.te.com/responsibility/workplace.aspx EC7-Workplace LA1-Workplace LA2-Workplace LA4-5-Workplace: Engagement LA6-9-Workplace: Injury-free workplace Workforce EC7, LA1,LA2,LA4-13, HR1, HR5 EC7-Workplace LA1-Workplace LA2-Workplace LA4-5-Workplace: Engagement LA6-9-Workplace: Injury-free workplace UNGC: Principle 1 Principle 2 Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Communities EC8 Additional information can be found at http://www.te.com/responsibility/community.aspx GRI Index 3.12 47 Key Performance Indicators KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FINANCIAL Net sales (in US Millions) $10,256 $12,070 $14,312 Adjusted operating income (in US Millions) $598 $1,651 $1,950 Free cash flow (in US Millions) $1,226 $1,404 $1,392 GOVERNANCE Percentage of employees certifying compliance with the TE Guide to Ethical Conduct 88% 94% 99% Total number of ethics and compliance training sessions completed 89,542 100,818 144,537 Total number of matters reported to the Ombudsman Office 538 588 685 Total number of matters closed by the Ombudsman Office 566 515 669 Individual corrective remedial actions and improvements 308 231 380 ENVIRONMENT Greenhouse gas emissions (metric tons CO2 equivalent)1 777,427 778,857 729,597 Greenhouse gas intensity (metric tons of CO2/net sales in millions) 76 65 51 Energy consumption (electricity, heat, steam, cooling in Mwh) 1,729,985 1,681,098 1,590,518 Energy usage intensity (Mwh/net sales in millions) 169 139 111 Water usage (millions of gallons) 1,212 1,258 1,220 Hazardous waste generated (metric tons) 5,293 7,252 4,691 Materials recycled/reused (metric tons) 55,187 69,206 64,294 Other waste disposed (metric tons) 11,109 12,874 12,226 SUPPLY CHAIN Total direct & indirect suppliers 36,428 34,242 31,438 Total direct material suppliers 11,645 10,946 9,485 Total indirect suppliers 24,783 23,296 21,953 Number of supplier audits undertaken 14 9 143 Employees at year end 78,000 89,000 94,199 WORKPLACE Employees who participate in development training 6,611 11,180 16,323 Employee safety: Total recordable incident rate (per 100 employees)2 0.72 0.54 0.47 Employee safety: Lost time recordable incident rate (per 100 employees)3 0.39 0.26 0.24 Women in the US Workforce see note4 see note4 3,804 Women in leadership positions worldwide see note4 see note4 64 Employee turnover see note4 see note4 29% COMMUNITY/ Corporate charitable giving (in USD)5 $1,153,107 $1,427,332 $2,200,045 PHILANTHROPY Employee donations (in USD) $896,446 $942,179 $986,007 Employee donations to the United Way Foundation (in USD)6 $206,045 $305,862 $484,329 Total amount of grants made by the TE Foundation (in USD)6 $638,822 $604,534 $529,046 1. The environmental performance indicators for 2009 and 2010 have been re-stated in comparison with our 2010 report. This has been done to incorporate revisions made by individual TE sites to improve data accuracy. Impacts arising from our recently acquired ADC operations will be included in our environmental performance data from FY2012 onward. 2. Work-related injuries or illnesses involving more than first aid per 100 employees per year. 3. Work-related injuries or illnesses involving lost time per 100 employees per year. 4. This data was not collected in 2009 and 2010. 5. Corporate charitable giving now includes product donations and donations directly from TE business units. 6. This data has been revised to be reported on our fiscal year rather than calendar year. The data does not include ADC contributions, which will be added for FY2012 onward. n/a = not available 48 Key Performance Indicators TE Connectivity Ltd. TE (logo) and TE Connectivity Rheinstrasse 20 are trademarks. CH-8200 Schaffhausen Rev. 3-12 Switzerland +41.0.52.633.66.61 www.te.com 50
