RESPONSIBILITY 2011 Reporting on progress – GRI and UN Global Compact Preface from the CEO Responsibility 2011 | 2 The challenges facing the energy sector are wellWind energy and biotechnologies are two examples of how DONG designed to contribute to increased knowledge sharing and skills known. Global demand for energy is constantly Energy works on the basis of the conviction that we can turn development in this area. Our most important resource in the growing and needs to be met at the same time as challenges into opportunities which, while they create value for transition to more green energy is our employees. Every day, they CO2 emissions need to be reduced dramatically. DONG Energy and our shareholders, also make a positive help DONG Energy grow as a company and make a positive The challenges facing the energy sector are part of contribution to the societies of which we are part. contribution to the societies of which we are part. a wider challenge concerning how we, as modern societies, use our resources. While we expand with renewable energy, we will still need oil and Enjoy! natural gas. However, DONG Energy has set a clear course. In Anders Eldrup We use resources everywhere in a modern society. In energy, 2040, 85 percent of our electricity and heat generation will come transport, food, homes and industry. But when these products are from renewable energy. Compared with 2006, we now use half as produced, harmful substances are created, for example CO2. And much coal, and, in 2015, we expect to use a third of the volume of when we no longer need the products, we take them to the tip or coal we used in 2006. We are ahead of our target to halve CO2 incinerate them. The consequence is that the valuable resources, emissions by 2020. which are often not renewable, disappear. On the journey towards more clean and reliable energy, we must The way in which we manage resources constitutes an unsustainfind answers to a number of questions. We must continue to able drain on global resources. It damages both the environment ensure that the drilling for oil and gas that we undertake is safe and the economy. The prices of raw materials have skyrocketed and has no negative environmental impact. We must ensure that since 2000. A substance such as phosphorus is essential to the the biomass that, for a number of years, will be the only alternaproduction of food, but researchers are warning us that we may tive to coal at power stations, is sustainable. These are just a few run out of it. examples of how DONG Energy continues to support and be guided by the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. We need greater resource efficiency. In 2011, via its climate partnerships, DONG Energy achieved an energy saving equivalent We also continue to seek dialogue with our stakeholders to find to the energy consumption of a city the size of Aalborg. At the the answers. One result of our stakeholder dialogue has been joint same time, DONG Energy is at the forefront of developments in environmental and safety emergency plans with local fisheries offshore wind. It is renewable, emits no CO2 and the wind is a free organisations and public authorities in the Barents Sea, Norway, resource. in connection with seismic test drilling. We have also developed a first draft of sustainability criteria for wood pellets in partnership However, we must also get better at recycling the resources in with other European energy companies. products that are not renewable. While DONG Energy’s biotechnologies Inbicon and REnescience produce renewable energy, In the area of safety, we achieved a record low injury frequency in they extract the phosphorus that is bound up in organic waste 2011. Unfortunately, there were three unacceptable deaths at our such as potato peel or paper, so that it can be returned to the soil. partners. DONG Energy has implemented a number of measures We must start to see waste as a resource. Progress on targets Responsibility 2011 | 3 DONG Energy joined the UN Global Compact’s in 2006 and is committed to continuous implementation of the ten principles covering the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The table below presents actions and progress on Group CSR targets in 2011. UN Global Compact In line with the Actions and Targets Status 2011 Related Principle Responsibility policy, DONG implementation 2011 GRI indicators Energy are committed to: Climate and Reduce emissions DONG Energy is committed to reducing its CO2 emissions from electricity and heat ›› 320g/kWh in 2020 ›› 486g CO2 /kWh EN16 Environment of greenhouse gases generation. Key initiatives include: ›› 100g/kWh in 2040 (Principle 7-9) ›› New investments in offshore wind farms ›› Increased use of biomass in energy production ›› Continued phasing-out of coal-fired units DONG Energy continuously aims to increase energy efficiency, partly through 10 % improvement in energy Target is new for 2011. Status will EN5 optimisation of production processes. efficiency by 2015 (compared be presented in Annual Report EN18 with 2010). 2012. Minimise local DONG Energy strives to limit local air pollution from SO2 and NOx emissions from By 2020 compared with 1990: ›› SO2 99 % EN20 environmental impacts electricity and heat generation by, among other things, installing environmental ›› 95 % reduction of SO2 ›› NOx 89 % facilities for flue gas treatment and taking the most obsolete power station units out ›› 90 % reduction of NOx of service. DONG Energy increased its recycling of waste from facilities and administration in 65 % of waste from facilities 59% of waste from facilities EN22 2011 still further through continuous improvement and monitoring of waste handling. and 50 % of waste from and 48% of waste from administration must be recycled administration recycled by 2012. in 2011. Labour rights Ensuring the safety of Safety is the top priority in DONG Energy. In 2011, the Group continued its efforts to No fatalities and LTIF of 5.2 in 3 fatalities and LTIF of 4.1. LA7 (Principle 3-6) employees and contractors develop a strong safety culture focusing on risk assessment and proactive prevention 2011. The LTIF target for 2012 as well as followup on all incidents. is 4.1 Ensure the long-term DONG Energy has a strategic focus on recruitment and retention of skilled employees Image and leadership are focus According to ‘People Matter’ availability of sufficient and long-term development of talent. Initiatives in 2011 included: areas for 2011/2012. 2011, the following aspects have numbers of qualified ›› Implementation of a diversity policy improved compared with 2010: personnel ›› Follow-up on the results of the employee survey ‘People Matter’ 2010 ›› Satisfaction and motivation ›› Perception of image ›› Employment security Human rights Ensure responsible supply DONG Energy is committed to countering any abuse of human rights from the Updated supply chain audit Follow-up audit in Colombia HR1 (Principle 1-2) chain management Group’s as well as its suppliers’ activities. In 2011, the Group became a founding strategy to be implemented in completed in December 2011. HR2 member of ‘Better Coal’, which aims to advance CSR issues in the coal supply chain. 2012. Anti-corruption Prevent fraud and corruption In 2011, DONG Energy conducted a comprehensive analysis of selected management Continue raising awareness No data for 2011 as improved HR3 (Principle 10) systems and business practices, which will help support the Group’s future efforts to of good business conduct and methodology for collecting data SO3 prevent corruption. whistle-blower system. on training is in progress. GRI Overview Responsibility 2011 | 4 DONG Energy’s reporting is in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) sustainSpecial statement on compliance with GRI framework ability reporting guidelines (GRI3) and GRI’s draft Electric Utility Sector Supplement. The Since joining Global Compact in 2006, DONG Energy has been reporting on its corporate supplement includes 29 indicators (called ‘EU’) particularly fomulated for electric utilities. responsibility performance in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). DONG Energy has been reporting in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) DONG Energy has followed the GRI3 guidelines for reporting on profile, management stratReporting Guidelines G3 annually, application level B+, including GRI's Electric Utility egies and indicators. Sector Supplement (EUSS) for the financial year 2011. The following symbols indicate the extent to which the reporting complies with the GRI3 The assurance engagement primarily comprised a review of the documentation presented, guidelines, including the indicator protocols. including chosen inquiries and judgemental sample tests of data. The review was performed in order to determine whether the documentation complies with the requirements in the GRI-G3 reporting framework. full reporting GRI G3 B+ statement of PwC REPORT APPLICATION LEVEL C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement 1.1 listed for level C plus: for level B 2.1 2.10 1.2 OUTPUT Partial reporting G3 Profile Disclosures 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 3.9, 3.13 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED STANDARD DISCLOSURES Not Required › Management › Management Approach Approach › Disclosures for each › Disclosures for each G3 OUTPUT Indicator Category Indicator Category Management No reporting Approach Disclosures Report on a minimum Report on a minimum Report on each core of 10 Performance of 20 Performance G3 and Sector G3 Indicators, including Indicators, including Supplement• Indicator OUTPUT at least one from at least one from with due regard to the Performance each of: Economic, each of: Economic, Materiality Principle Indicators & Sector Social and Environmental, by either: a) reporting Supplement Environment. Human Rights, Labor, on the Indicator or Performance Indicators Society, Product b) explaining the reaResponsibility. son for its omission. DONG Energy A/S | Kraftværksvej 53 | DK-7000 Fredericia | Tel +45 99 55 11 11 | info@dongenergy.com • Sector supplement in ﬁnal version Global Reporting Initiative index Responsibility 2011 | 5 Indicator Page level of reporting Indicator Page level of reporting PROFILE INDICATOR 9 GRI: › Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 3.9/3.10 › Explanation of any re-statements of information in earlier GRI:1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 3.11 reports See Group annual report (Management’s review) › Significant changes from previous reporting periods See Annual report ‘Accounting policies for non-financial data’ GRI:2.1 Name of the organisation 75 as well as ‘Compilation method overview’ in this report. GRI:2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services GRI:3.12 GRI content index See Group annual report (Management’s review) Shown in this table GRI:2.3 Operational structure of the organisation GRI:3.13 Assurance 70 See Annual report GRI:EU1 Capacity 14 GRI:2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters 75 GRI:EU2 Net energy output GRI:2.5 Countries in which the organisation operates See 2.8 See Group annual report (Management’s review) GRI:EU3 Number of residential, industrial/commercial 15 GRI:2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form customer accounts See Annual report (Corporate governance) GRI:EU4 Length of transmission and distribution lines by voltage GRI:2.7 Markets served See Group annual report (Management’s review) GRI:EU5 Allocation of CO2 allowances or equivalent 16 GRI:2.8/EU2 Scale of the reporting organisation 10 GRI:4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 17 GRI:2.9 Changes during the reporting period regarding size, GRI:4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body 18 structure or ownership is also an executive officer See Group annual report (‘Selected events’) and ‘accounting policies for non-financial data’ GRI:4.3 Members of the highest governance body that are 18 independent and nonexecutive members GRI:2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 11 GRI:4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations or direction 18 GRI: › Reporting period 12 to the highest governance body 3.1/3.2 › Date of the most recent report 3.3/3.4 › Reporting cycle GRI:4.5 Linkage between compensation and performance › Contact point for questions regarding See Annual report (Internal control and risk management) the report and its content GRI:4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to 19 GRI: › Process for defining report content 12 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 3.5/3.6 › Boundary of the report 3.7/3.8 › Specific limitations on the scope GRI:4.7 Process for determining the qualifications of the member 19 or boundary of the report of the highest governance body › Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries etc. GRI:4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, 20 principles etc. Global Reporting Initiative index Responsibility 2011 | 6 Indicator Page level of reporting Indicator Page level of reporting GRI:4.9 The supervision by the highest governance body with the GRI:EN9 Affected water sources management of results, for example within finance/economy See Annual report (‘Internal control and risk management’) GRI:EN10 Amount of water recycled and reused GRI:4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s 20 GRI:EN11 Locations managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas own performance GRI:EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas 33 GRI:4.11 Use of the precautionary approach or principle 21 in the organisation GRI:EN13 Habitats protected or restored GRI:4.12 Externally developed initiatives to which 21 GRI:EN14 Managing of impacts on biodiversity the organisation endorses GRI:EN15 Number of IUCN Red list species and national GRI:4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations conversation list species See SO5 GRI: › Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 33 GRI:4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 21 EN16/EN20 › NOx SOx and other significant air emissions GRI:4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 22 GRI:EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions with whom to engage GRI:EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances GRI:4.16 Approaches to stakeholder dialogue 22 GRI: › Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 37 GRI:4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 22 EN22/EN24 › Weight of waste deemed hazardous and percentage stakeholder dialogue of waste shipped internationally Management approach – environment 24 GRI:EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 39 GRI: › Materials used by weight or volume 28 GRI:EN25 Water bodies affected by discharges of water EN1/EN2 › Percentage of materials used that are recycled EN3/EN4 › Direct energy consumption by primary energy source GRI:EN26 Mitigation of environmental impact of products › Indirect energy consumption by primary source GRI:EN27 Percentage of products that are reclaimed GRI: › Energy saved due to conversation and efficiency 30 EN5/EN18 improvements GRI:EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with 40 › Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions environmental laws and regulations GRI:EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products 31 GRI:EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transportation and services GRI:EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures GRI:EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and investments GRI: › Total water withdrawal by source 31 GRI:EU13 Change in biodiversity EN8/EN21 › Total water discharge by quality and destination Global Reporting Initiative index Responsibility 2011 | 7 Indicator Page level of reporting Indicator Page level of reporting Management approach – Labour practices 41 Management approach – Human rights 54 GRI:LA1 Workforce by employment type, employment contract, 43 GRI:HR1 Investment agreement that include human rights 55 and region GRI:HR2 Contractors that have undergone screening 55 GRI:LA2 Employee turnover by age group, gender and region 44 on human rights GRI:LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees by major operations GRI:HR3 Training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights GRI:LA4 Employees covered by collective agreements 45 GRI:HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination 55 GRI:LA5 Minimum notice periods(s) regarding significant 45 and actions taken operational changes GRI:HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI:LA6 Workforce that help on occupational health and safety programs GRI:HR6 Risk for incidents of child labour, and initiatives to the eliminate these GRI:LA7 Rates of occupational disease, absenteeism and fatalities 49 GRI:HR7 Risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and GRI:LA8 Programmes in place to assist regarding serious diseases 50 initiatives to eliminate this GRI:LA9 Health and safety topics covered in agreements GRI:HR8 Security personnel trained in aspects of human rights with trade unions GRI:HR9 Violation of the rights of indigenious people GRI:LA10 Average hous of training per year per employee Management approach – Society 56 GRI:LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning GRI:SO1 Impacts of operations on communities 57 GRI:LA12 Employees receiving performance and career 51 development reviews GRI:SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 57 GRI:LA13 Composition of governance bodies and employees 51 GRI:SO3 Training in anti-corruption policies and procedures 57 GRI:LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women GRI:SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 58 GRI:EU14 Programs to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce 52 GRI:SO5 Public policy positions and participation in 58 public policy development GRI:EU15 Employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years 53 GRI:SO6 Value of financial and in-kind contributions to 59 GRI:EU16 Policies regarding health and safety 53 political parties of the like GRI:EU17 Total subcontracted workforce GRI:SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour or the like 59 GRI:EU18 Contractors that have undergone health and safety training 53 GRI:SO8 Fines and sanctions for noncompliance with 60 laws and regulations Global Reporting Initiative index Responsibility 2011 | 8 Indicator Page level of reporting Indicator Page level of reporting GRI:EU19 Participation of stakeholders in the decision making process GRI:EU27 Residential disconnections for non-payment 63 GRI:EU20 Management of the impacts of displacement GRI: › Power outage frequency 64 EU28/EU29 › Average power outage duration GRI:EU21 Disaster/emergency management plan and training 60 programs, and recovery/restoration plans GRI:EU30 Average plant availability factor 65 GRI:EU22 People physically or economically displaced Management approach – Economics 66 and compensation GRI:EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Management approach – Products 61 See Group annual report (financial key performance indicators) GRI:PR1 Life cycle assessment of health and safety impacts of GRI:EC2 Risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities 67 products and services due to climate change GRI:PR2 Non-compliance with regulations concerning health and GRI:EC3 Coverage of obligations safety impacts from productss and services GRI:EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government GRI:PR3 Information about products and services required by See Annual report procedures GRI:EC5 Standard entry level wage GRI:PR4 Non-compliance with regulations concerning product and service information and labelling GRI:EC6 Purchasing from locally-based suppliers GRI:PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction 62 GRI:EC7 Local hiring GRI:PR6 Compliance with laws etc. related to marketing 63 GRI:EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments communications and service GRI:PR7 Non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing 63 GRI:EC9 Indirect economic impacts communications GRI:EU6 Planning to ensure electricity availability and reliability 67 GRI:PR8 Protection of customers privacy and losses of customer data GRI:EU7 Demand-side management programs for electricity GRI:PR9 Fines concerning the provision and use of products and services GRI:EU8 Development activities aimed on providing electricity 68 and promoting sustainability GRI:EU23 Improvement or maintain access to electricity and customer support GRI:EU9 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites GRI:EU24 Barriers to accessing and safely using electricity GRI:EU10 Planned capacity against projected demand and customer support services GRI:EU11 Average generation efficiency 68 GRI:EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities involving company assets GRI:EU12 Transmission and distribution efficiency 69 GRI:EU26 Unserved part of population Profile indicators Responsibility 2011 | 9 DONG Energy’s business is based on activities Action throughout the energy value chain – exploraDONG Energy aims to contribute to continuous improvement. tion, extraction, production, distribution and To that end, we establish policies and action plans for each trade. For this reason, our responsibility work action area in our responsibility work that are embedded in is wide-ranging and involves numerous acthe organisation to ensure continuous progress and results. tivities and stakeholders. Overall, our efforts are governed by four principles, which can be Transparency explored further in our responsibility policy: DONG Energy aims to ensure that its operations are reliable and transparent and regularly reports on its targets, action, DONG Energy’s work on responsibility is governed by four performance, challenges and future plans. Such reporting principles: stakeholder engagement, materiality, action and includes the company’s annual report and ongoing dialogue transparency. with stakeholders. Stakeholder engagement At DONG Energy, we aim to engage in ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders to align our requirements and expectations with those of our stakeholders. We are open to new ways of approaching things and prepared to act accordingly. Our dialogue with national and international stakeholders must be engaging, continuous and transparent and produce tangible results. Materiality DONG Energy aims to focus on the issues that are material to our stakeholders and to the Group. Through stakeholder dialogue and a subsequent systematic materiality analysis of challenges and opportunities, we can prioritise and focus our action in relation to economic, social, ethical and environmental issues and respond to any risks or opportunities for the Group, for our stakeholders and for society. Responsibility 2011 | 10 Indicator Profile indicators GRI:2.8/EU2 Scale of the reporting organisation These data can be found on pages 4-5 of the Group The scale of the organisation and production includes the annual report. For details on financial parameters, following non-financial data: see page 6 of the Group annual report. › Produced volumes of oil, natural gas, heat and electricity. Reported energy output by country is shown below, › Distributed and sold volumes of natural gas providing an overview of DONG Energy’s production and electricity. activities. › Number of employees. Data for production Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Energy production (Electricity and heat) TJ Production 80,000 Electricity generation GWh m 20,167 20,142 18,074 18,536 20,534 60,000 Denmark GWh m 14,560 17,140 16,587 40,000 Norway GWh m 7 14 17 20,000 Sweden GWh m 903 1,049 893 0 UK GWh m 4,408 1,715 475 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Poland GWh m 267 203 80 Electricity generation Heat generation France GWh m 23 21 22 Heat generation (Denmark) TJ m 42,572 53,245 46,686 46,380 47,257 Energy production (Natural gas and oil) Natural gas production mio. BOE m 17.1 15.4 15.5 8.5 2.2 Million boe Oil production mio. BOE m 9.3 9.0 8.5 10.0 9.1 20 15 Green share of electricity % c 29 30 27 25 24 10 and heat generation 5 A line in the table indicates that comparable data are not available due to missing or incomplete data or different compilation methods M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Natural gas production Oil production Continues on page 11 ›› Responsibility 2011 | 11 Indicator Profile indicators GRI:2.8/EU2 DONG Energy aims to reduce its use of fossil energy and output was up significantly due to the high electricity Production of residual products 2011 increase its use of renewable energy to meet the climate price. The increase in generation in the UK primarily challenge. The target is to increase the proportion of reflected the fact that the Severn power station was in Tonnes green electricity and heat generation to at least 50 operation throughout 2011 unlike in 2010. Likewise, the 400,000 percent by 2020. This will be achieved through expansion higher output in Poland was due to the fact that 2011 was of wind and conversion of power stations to green the first full year of operation for the Karcino wind farm. 300,000 generation based on biomass. 200,000 Natural gas production was also increased, predominantIn 2011, the proportion of green energy generation was ly due to the new subsea production platform Trym, as 100,000 29 percent compared with 30 percent in 2010. This was also illustrated in the graph on the previous page. 0 due to the fact that Severn and Mongstad, which are both TA yp l m co as as h as h was tio n ash SP su a s te m fr bi m om ra aa gas-fired power stations, produced substantially more Besides the primary types of generation, the power G om o to tt A ne re n h fr ot bo RG ci G as om lb o in Co te energy than in 2010 as 2011 was the first full year of stations also produce a large volume of residual fly h Bi as a as ed fly w ris from production. products. A large proportion of these is reused, for lv ed e ris ag Pu lv Sl e example in cement and road materials, while a small Pu The lower output from Norway reflected the divestment proportion is taken to landfill. The diagram on the right Recycled Landfill of the Nygårdsfjellet wind farm. In Sweden, output from gives a breakdown of residual materials for recycling and hydro generation was lower in 2011 than in 2010, when landfilling in 2011. GRI:2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ›F  or the second consecutive year, an employee from › DONG Energy’s office in Gunfleet Sands (UK) won first In 2011, DONG Energy/DONG Energy employees won the DONG Energy won the talent award of the Danish Wind prize in the local ‘Tendering Design Awards 2011’ for following awards: Industry Association. The winner was 32-year-old best commercial property. The DONG Energy office and Christian LeBlanc Thilsted, who is head of research and two other candidates were selected for their three grand › The DONG Energy subsidiary Inbicon was awarded the development of foundations for offshore wind turbines designs for 2011 in the Tendering Area. Due to the ‘Bioethanol Corporation of the Year’ prize at the in Wind Power. excellent standard, the judges decided that there should Biofuels 2011 Conference. The nominated corporations ›C  hristian LeBlanc Thilsted also won the ‘TK Hsieh be three winners rather than one. are leading within bioethanol and the winner is chosen Award 2011’. This award is issued by the Institution of through election among experts and people in the Civil Engineers for best scientific paper in the field of industry. structural and soil vibration caused by mechanical › DONG Energy won the Euroweek magazine’s award for plant, waves or seismic effects. the ‘Best Nordic Borrowing team’. Group Funding, which ›S  tina Romslo Kommedal was awarded the ‘Student of is part of Group Treasury & Risk Management, won the the year’ prize by Econa (Norwegian Association for award. Group Funding is responsible for all DONG “Siviløkonomer” and other personnel with a Masters Energy’s external borrowing activities, among other degree related to Management, Finance & Economics things. and Business Administration). Responsibility 2011 | 12 Indicator Profile indicators GRI: Contact point for questions regarding the In 2010, the GRI reporting consisted of the Group’s Contact point for this report is Christina Foss, Senior 3.1/3.2 report and its content annual report and a presentation of the various indicators Advisor, cjaco@dongenergy.dk 3.3/3.4 at http://grida.dongenergy.com/. For 2011 results, GRI DONG Energy publishes an annual CSR report in indicators and management approaches will be accordance with GRI. The report will be published on 9 presented in this GRI report, the Group’s annual report March 2012 and includes data for the period 1.1.2011and the statutory financial statements, which can be 31.12.2011. The previous report was published on 8 March found at www.dongenergy.com. 2011. GRI:3.5 Process for defining report content In 2011, we changed the issue ‘Biofuel’ to ‘Development The table on the next page categorises issues according of new bio solutions’, as DONG Energy is involved in a to their materiality to stakeholders and their current or For 2011, the materiality assessment for the CSR reportrange of activities focusing on the advancement of green potential impact on the company. ing is based on the results from 2010, where we identified technologies, and the human rights category is covered more than 30 issues related to corporate responsibility by ‘Responsible supply chain management’. Furthermore, In terms of the GRI performance indicators included in and sustainability. The list takes its starting point in the ‘Customer perception’ has been identified as having key this report, we assessed each indicator in terms of the GRI aspects and is based on the principles of inclusiveimpact on the realisation of our business strategy. ‘Sponavailability of information for the period 1 January 2011 ness and mutual exclusiveness. sorship policy’ has been taken out as it is less important to 31 December 2011 as well as its presumed importance to stakeholders. In 2012, we aim to further refine our for stakeholders and its impact on business bottom line. materiality methodology. Indicators on which the relevant information was available have been reported on, ensuring that DONG Energy achieves a B+ application level. See figure on page 13 ›› Materiality matrix Responsibility 2011 | 13 The table categorises issues according to their materiality to stakeholders and their current or potential impact on the company. MEDIUM IMPACT / HIGH CONCERN HIGH IMPACT / HIGH CONCERN ›› Smart grid and smart meters development ›› Investments in and expansion of wind energy activities ›› Oil discharged to sea from production platforms ›› Transition from coal to biomass and natural gas incineration ›› Development of new bio solutions ›› Security of energy supply/access to energy ›› Development of flexible (smart) energy solutions ›› Expansion of geographical footprint ›› GHG emissions and climate change ›› Safety ›› Responsible supply chain management Increasing concern to DONG Energy’s stakeholders ›› Stakeholder dialogue and engagement ›› Good corporate governance ›› Sustainable biomass production ›› Attract, select and develop talent ›› Customer satisfaction MEDIUM IMPACT / MEDIUM CONCERN HIGH IMPACT / MEDIUM CONCERN ›› Anti-corruption ›› Energy efficiency in power and heat generation ›› Flaring of natural gas ›› Increased production of natural gas ›› Emissions of SO2 and NOx ›› Diversity ›› Water use and wastewater management ›› Optimisation of energy portfolio ›› Job security and conditions of employment ›› Skills development ›› Work-life balance ›› Management and leadership skills ›› Direct and indirect economic impact Increasing current or potential impact on DONG Energy’s business Responsibility 2011 | 14 Indicator Profile indicators GRI:EU1 Capacity with a consolidation for accounting purposes. Therefore, However, Asnæs power station’s unit 5 and Studstrup capacities for associates’ facilities are not included. power station’s unit 4 may also be started up by DONG This indicator provides information about the scale of Furthermore, capacities for facilities that have been taken Energy itself in case of the failure of other units at these DONG Energy’s operations in terms of heat and out of service have not been included. facilities. Both of these units were in operation in 2011, electricity-generating capacity for both thermal and but their capacity is not reported. renewable energy facilities. When a facility is taken out of service, its capacity is registered with the Danish Energy Authority but is not As this compilation method differs significantly from that This indicator has been compiled on a proportionate used by DONG Energy in production, unless Energinet.dk used in previous years, the comparative figures for basis for all facilities that are recognised in accordance requests that the capacity be brought back into service. previous years have also been restated. As seen in the table, both thermal electricity and heat Capacity capacity were lower in 2011 than in 2010. This was mainly a reflection of the divestment of Frederikshavn CHP plant Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 and that Odense CHP plant and Vejen CHP plant were Installed electricity capacity taken out of service. Thermal MW m/c 4,990 5,064 5,262 5,219 The higher offshore wind capacity was due to the start-up Offshore wind MW m/c 693 683 730 342 of operation at the Walney offshore wind farm in the UK. Onshore wind MW m/c 333 337 349 245 At the same time, the ownership interest in Gunfleet Sands was reduced, and the change in total capacity was Hydro MW m/c 205 205 205 205 therefore not particularly significant. Geothermal heat capacity was nil in 2011, as DONG Energy has sold the Installed heat capacity Thisted geothermal plant. Thermal MJ/s m/c 3,440 3,503 4,081 3,944 Geothermal MJ/s m/c 0 7 7 7 M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated Responsibility 2011 | 15 Indicator Profile indicators GRI:EU3 Number of residential, industrial/ Customers commercial customer accounts Unit 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 This indicator provides information about the scale of our Customers sales activities in gas and electricity in different countries Electricity as it shows the number of customers in each country. Customers are also broken down by type: residential, Denmark number 890,887 924,914 907,631 942,704 901,014 industrial and commercial. residential customers number 773,189 834,518 785,377 814,225 777,329 industral and commercial customers number 117,698 90,396 122,254 128,479 123,685 The Netherlands (residential customers) number 46,791 38,840 39,000 38,647 41,000 The Netherlands (commercial customers) number 13,549 19,318 5,000 Germany (residential customers) number 0 0 140,000 Natural gas Denmark number 121,199 124,845 122,487 124,209 120,896 residential customers number 105,888 109,439 109,103 108,141 105,892 industrial and commercial customers number 15,311 15,406 13,384 16,068 15,004 The Netherlands (residential customers) number 94,188 94,713 101,000 108,533 125,000 The Netherlands (industrial and commercial customers) number 20,549 18,034 10,000 6,429 Germany (residential customers) number 0 0 60,000 Sweden (wholesale and industrial customers) number 593 615 426 515 262 A line in the table indicates that comparable data are not available due to missing or incomplete data or different compilation methods Responsibility 2011 | 16 Indicator Profile indicators GRI:EU5 Allocation of CO2 allowances and equivalent have no reduction obligations under the Kyoto Protocol, DONG Energy and EU ETS 2008-2012 i.e. developing countries, and JI projects are conducted in In connection with the Kyoto Protocol and the EU’s CO2 countries committed to reduction obligations under the Million tonnes reduction targets, the Danish State has permitted DONG Kyoto Protocol, primarily Eastern Europe. DONG Energy 14 Energy and other energy producers to emit 57 percent of has the option to use carbon credits corresponding to on their 1990 CO2 emissions in 2012. If a larger quantity is average 2.3 million tonnes of CO2 annually for the period 12 emitted, the energy producers must finance correspond2008-2012. 10 ing CO2 reductions elsewhere. For this reason, DONG 8 Energy is making dedicated efforts to reduce its CO2 With respect to heating allowances, customers decide emissions per kWh generated and also purchases EU whether they want to handle the allowance reconciliation 6 allowances and carbon credits from CO2 reduction and any purchases of allowances or credits themselves or 4 projects in developing countries and Eastern Europe. whether they want DONG Energy to do this for them. 2 Most heat customers manage the allowance reconciliaFor the period 2008-2012, DONG Energy has been tion themselves. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 granted allowances for some of the plants operated by DONG Energy that are subject to the EU Emissions Each year, external assurance providers verify emissions. Allocated emissions allowances (free allowances) Trading System (EU ETS). For DONG Energy, the Siri Based on actual emissions for Danish plants, a correMaximum permitted use of JI/CDM (flexible mechanisms) offshore platform, Nybro gas treatment plant and 19 sponding number of allowances and/or credits is Actual CO2 emission from facilities subject to EU ETS power stations are subject to this legislation. All are returned to the Danish Energy Authority in March of the located in Denmark except for Severn power station in following year. Allowances are allocated each year in the UK. The allowances are distributed to the individual February for that year. plants and totalled 10.6 million tonnes of CO2 in 2011 for DONG Energy-operated plants. Of this amount, heating DONG Energy sells and purchases allowances and credits allowances accounted for 2.2 million tonnes. The heating on an ongoing basis. The actual distribution between allowances are not owned by DONG Energy, but are allocated free allowances and purchased allowances/ managed by DONG Energy for the heat customers. credits to match actual emissions is determined by a number of factors, including market conditions. However, To ensure that actual CO2 emissions correspond to the the use of credits is limited. For DONG Energy, actual EU allowances available, expected generation and resulting ETS CO2 emissions were 10.8 million tonnes in 2011, emissions are calculated on a monthly basis. If expected which means that allocated allowances potentially constiemissions exceed the allowances available, DONG Energy tuted 98 percent and purchased allowances and credits 2 purchases CO2 allowances on international exchanges or percent. uses the flexible mechanisms available to purchase carbon credits from CO2 reduction projects in developing The chart shows the correlation between allocated countries and Eastern Europe, so-called Clean Developallowances and the maximum number of flexible ment Mechanisms (CDM) and Joint Implementation (JI) mechanisms that may be used. Actual emissions for projects. CDM projects are conducted in countries that 2008 to 2011 are also shown. Responsibility 2011 | 17 Indicator Profile indicators GRI:4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Born Members Remuneration Committee members: › Fritz H. Schur (Chairman) Under the Danish Companies Act, the management of a 1935-1940 1 › Lars Nørby Johansen public limited company may, inter alia, be made up of a 1940-1945 1 › Jens Kampmann two-tier management: a Board of Directors appointed by 1945-1950 3 the shareholders and an Executive Board appointed by The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee the Board of Directors. The two-tier system has been 1950-1955 3 are available at www.dongenergy.com: incorporated in DONG Energy A/S. http://www.dongenergy.com/SiteCollectionDocuments/ 1960-1965 2 about_us/Corporate%20governance/Terms_of_ In DONG Energy A/S, the Board of Directors (“besty1965-1970 2 reference_for_the_remuneration_committee.pdf relsen”) is the highest governance body. The Board consists of 12 members. Eight members are appointed by Further information on the individual members is Furthermore, a Nomination Committee has been the shareholders at the general meeting and four by the available at http://www.dongenergy.com/en/about%20 established in accordance with the Articles of employees pursuant to the Danish Companies Act. us/management/pages/board_of_directors.aspx Association. The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Board and All board members elected by the shareholders are The Board has established two committees: the Audit representatives from the four major shareholders in independent in accordance with the corporate govern& Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee. DONG Energy: ance recommendations issued by the Danish Corporate Governance Committee (latest version 16 August 2011), Audit & Risk Committee members: › Fritz H. Schur (Chairman) except for one member, who does not satisfy the › Lars Nørby Johansen (Chairman) › Lars Nørby Johansen corporate governance recommendations, having been on › Jens Kampmann › Peter Brixen (appointed by the Danish Ministry the board for more than 12 years. › Jakob Brogaard of Finance) › Jørn P. Jensen › Jesper Hjulmand (appointed by SEAS-NVE) All members appointed by the shareholders are males. › Jens Bahne Jørgensen (appointed by Syd Energi) Two of the four members elected by the employees are The terms of reference of the Audit & Risk Committee are › Ulrik Kragh (appointed by Energi Horsens) females. Breakdown of Board by age group: available at http://www.dongenergy.com/ SiteCollectionDocuments/about_us/Corporate%20 The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee governance/Terms-of-reference-for-the-risk-committee. are available at http://www.dongenergy.com/ pdf SiteCollectionDocuments/investor/Annual_General_ Meeting/2010/Rules_of_Procedure_Nomination_ Committee_19-April-2010.pdf Responsibility 2011 | 18 Indicator Profile indicators GRI:4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer No members of the Board of Directors of DONG Energy A/S hold executive management positions in the DONG Energy Group. See also management information in the Group annual report. GRI:4.3 Members of the highest governance body None of the eight members of the Board of Directors that are independent and nonexecutive elected by the shareholders is employed by the DONG members Energy Group in other positions, including management positions. The four members appointed by the employees All Board members elected by the shareholders are are – as required by the Danish Companies Act – independent in accordance with the corporate employed by DONG Energy. However, none of these governance recommendations issued by the Danish members is part of the Group Executive Management Corporate Governance Committee (latest version 16 of DONG Energy. August 2011), except for one member (a male), who does not satisfy the corporate governance recommendations, having been on the Board for more than 12 years. GRI:4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations or The Group also complies with the rules in the Danish of provisions regulating shareholders’ opportunities to direction to the highest governance body Companies Act relating to employee-elected Board speak at general meetings and thus to the Board of members. The Board of Directors has four representatives Directors. DONG Energy also holds information meetings DONG Energy aims to be an open, credible and elected by the Danish employees. If an employee wishes for the shareholders once a year at which the Chairman transparent company and has formulated a whistleblower to raise a matter with the Board of Directors, it will be and the CEO raise important issues and provide procedure. With this procedure, DONG Energy has made natural to take it up with one of the four elected employee information on the results for the first half of the year. it easier for employees and others associated with the representatives. Employees who are not members of the This is outlined in our annual report. Finally, the Articles DONG Energy Group to flag up circumstances that could Board of Directors are not permitted to attend Board of Association state that the Chairman may inform the be a breach of the law. Reports from the whistleblower meetings, even in one-off cases, unless the Board of principal shareholder, the Danish State, of major issues procedure go directly to the Deputy Chairman of the Directors specifically consents to such attendance. concerning the company. Board of Directors. If an employee wants to flag up circumstances to the Board of Directors, this procedure Shareholders attend general meetings, but not Board can be used. meetings. The Danish Companies Act contains a number Responsibility 2011 | 19 Indicator Profile indicators GRI:4.6 Processes in place for the highest In connection with the preparation of Board meetings in governance body to ensure conflicts of DONG Energy A/S, the Chairman, the CEO and the interest are avoided Secretary of the Board consider whether the agenda includes any items that may give raise to potential DONG Energy maintains a list of other external positions conflicts of interests for any members of the Board. held by Board members. The list is available at To the extent that a potential conflict of interest exists, http://www.dongenergy.com/en/about%20us/ a case-by-case approach is applied. management/pages/board_of_directors.aspx GRI:4.7 Process for determining the qualifications Board members. However, the age of potential candidates composition complies with the recommendations on of the members of the highest governance forms part of the overall assessment of the Board’s Corporate Governance, including, to the extent possible, body composition. the wish for diversity. DONG Energy attaches great importance to Board DONG Energy is working actively to increase the The Committee’s rules of procedure can be found on members possessing extensive knowledge and proportion of female members on its Board and this also DONG Energy’s website. The Nomination Committee experience from managerial posts with large Danish and forms part of the Nomination Committee’s assessment of consists of six members. Each of the four largest foreign companies with a broad range of areas of activity, the Board’s composition in the lead-up to the annual registered shareholders is entitled to elect one member. including in areas directly related to DONG Energy’s general meeting. The other two members are the Chairman of the Board of business areas. Directors, who also chairs the Committee, and the A Nomination Committee is appointed after the annual Deputy Chairman. In the assessment of the composition of the Board, the general meeting each year and by 30 September of the candidates’ skills and background are considered, but following year. Its main role is to review the Board’s See also Group annual report (Management information). also the wish for diversity and an appropriate balance. composition and to recommend suitable candidates for DONG Energy has decided not to set an age limit for election at the AGM. It must also ensure that the Board’s Responsibility 2011 | 20 Indicator Profile indicators GRI:4.8 Internally developed statements of mission In January 2011, the Group’s Board of Directors adopted or values, principles etc. an overall responsibility policy that forms the framework and sets out the overall objectives for DONG Energy’s Based on our core values – results-oriented, responsible work on responsibility. This helps ensure that and responsive – DONG Energy endeavours to act deliberations and assessments relating to responsibility responsibly and to live up to society’s expectations every are evaluated and integrated as a natural element of all single day. DONG Energy’s long-term vision is to provide DONG Energy’s activities and decision-making clean and reliable energy. This is the objective we are processes. aiming towards by means of new investments and continuous development of our operations. DONG Energy’s work on responsibility is governed by four principles: stakeholder engagement, materiality, DONG Energy joined the UN Global Compact in 2006. action and transparency. Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour practices, environment and anti-corruption form the Read more at http://www.dongenergy.com/ basis for DONG Energy’s responsibility work. SiteCollectionDocuments/CSR/Documents/ en_corporate_responsibility_policy.pdf GRI:4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance The Board undertook a structured self-assessment in 2011 based on assessment forms distributed to each board member and subsequent discussion of the responses by the full Board. See also the Group annual report (Management information). Responsibility 2011 | 21 Indicator Profile indicators GRI:4.11 Use of the precautionary approach or through risk management. The main purpose of risk principle in the organisation management at DONG Energy is to identify, manage and control risks to which the Group is exposed in a way that The precautionary principle is designed to provide is in line with the strategic, environmental and financial guidance when there is a lack of knowledge about the targets. harmful effects that a particular activity may have. In DONG Energy, the precautionary principle is formalised See also the Group annual report (‘Risk and risk management’). GRI:4.12 Externally developed initiatives to which the In 2010, DONG Energy co-founded the Green Growth In 2011, DONG Energy became a partner in the State of organisation endorses Leaders (GGL) initiative, which aims to encourage green Green initiative. State of Green is the official green brand growth. Amongst the GGL initiatives is Project Green for Denmark. The brand and its supporting activities will In 2006, DONG Energy joined the UN Global Compact. Light, which focuses on developing a new approach to the strengthen international awareness of the solutions and DONG Energy has committed to promoting ten universal way companies and NGOs communicate about climate capabilities of Danish business and industry within principles in the areas of human rights, labour, change and sustainability. energy, climate and environment. environment and anti-corruption, and the company’s work with responsibility is guided by its principles. GRI:4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the In 2011, DONG Energy engaged in dialogue centrally as organisation well as locally with the external community on a whole range of issues. The expectations and demands from the One of DONG Energy’s core values is responsiveness and company’s stakeholders are important in the continuous it is important for the company to discuss and reconcile CSR work and DONG Energy therefore engages in expectations and demands with stakeholders. Being continuous dialogue. See mapping of and dialogue with present in the entire energy value chain, DONG Energy DONG Energy’s stakeholders in the figure ‘Meeting has a diverse range of stakeholders and the company stakeholder relations’. strives to be open and constructive in dealing with them – whatever their focus. DONG Energy is in dialogue with See figure on page 23 ›› its surroundings and continuously seeks to identify challenges and expectations in the public debate. Responsibility 2011 | 22 Indicator Profile indicators GRI:4.15 Basis for identification and selection of In recent years, DONG Energy’s growth has mainly taken process. Both in the construction and operation phases, stakeholders with whom to engage place outside of Denmark and the same will be the case DONG Energy upholds a dialogue with the stakeholders for DONG Energy’s future growth. When DONG Energy and the local community so as to be able to address Generally, DONG Energy has a good overview of the engages in a new activity in a country, such as oil and gas issues that may arise. organisation’s principal stakeholders in Denmark. DONG exploration, a new power station or an offshore wind Energy considers employees, customers, government and farm, we map the stakeholders that have an interest in We acknowledge that we cannot meet all stakeholder regulators, suppliers, investors and local communities to the activity or that may be affected by our activities. expectations, but we are committed to continuous be stakeholders. In general, DONG Energy considers dialogue and are working hard to solve the challenges in those who are taking a proactive approach to the We then conduct an open consultation process where all our value chain. Please see SO1 for further information. business or who – to a significant extent – are affected by interested stakeholders can make their voice heard, and the company’s activities to be stakeholders. we engage with stakeholders on the issues raised in the GRI:4.16 Approaches to stakeholder dialogue Relations was set up. The purpose of the team is, among other things, to develop a more coordinated and The figure ‘Stakeholder Dialouge’ shows some of the key streamlined approach to stakeholder dialogue at both issues that our stakeholders are interested in and the national and international level and support individual outcome of the interaction. Stakeholder engagement business areas in their engagement activities at project takes place every day at all levels of our company and is level. issue-based. In 2011, a Group function called Stakeholder See figure on page 23 ›› GRI:4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder dialogue See figure on page 23 ›› Stakeholder dialogue Responsibility 2011 | 23 Stakeholders Top 3 issues in 2011 Key tools and processes Outcome of interaction ›› Billing and consumption of electricity, including correct ›› Customer ambassador Customer feedback enables us to identify areas for improveCustomers measurement on time ›› Monitoring of customer satisfaction ment and address our customers’ needs and priorities. It also ›› Correct master data on our customers ›› Mechanism for handling complaints and claims enables us to identify customer interests and market trends. ›› Focus on excellent customer service through individual ›› Climate partnerships For more information on our efforts to provide good service ›› Online energy forum for residential customers customer service, please see our website dongenergy.dk ›› Health and safety ›› Personal career plan Open and reliable channels of communication across the Employees ›› Personal development ›› Workplace health and safety committee entire organisation. The dialogue also provides a sense of ›› Competent leadership ›› Employee survey (People Matter) shared perspective on the company with multiple points of ›› Daily intranet news alignment. For more information please read ‘Disclosure on ›› Introduction courses management approach – Labour’ and LA indicators. ›› Diversity policy ›› Leadership training ›› Value creation from transition to a greener future ›› Continuous dialogue and meetings with investors on Feedback from investors enables us to identify both their Investors ›› Maintaining an adequate capital structure strategy, results and risk management concerns and areas for improvement. ›› Risk management ›› Dedicated website for investors ›› Surveys on sustainability performance by investors ›› Sustainable and transparent specifications in procure›› Code of Conduct Setting consistent expectations for our suppliers reduces risk Suppliers ment policies ›› Visits and meetings and improves efficiency across our supply chain. ›› Product quality and safety ›› Audits and self-assessment surveys ›› Minimize risk in the supply chain ›› Innovation activities ›› Energy expertise and information sharing Our proactive interaction with regulators contributes to Regulators ›› CO2 reduction ›› Active and transparent engagement in policy and legislative improving quality and innovation in the development of new ›› Energy market efficiency efforts regulations, and ensures that we are geared for changing ›› Individual discussions and exchanges with joint industry regulations. and government committees ›› Direct engagement on issues relevant to DONG Energy’s business and the energy industry ›› Local needs and preferences with regard to installation of ›› Direct, on-the-ground relationships Maintaining an open dialogue with the communities in which Communities power stations and wind turbines ›› Interaction with local media we operate allows us to build constructive relationships at ›› Energy partnerships with municipalities ›› Information and site specific websites the local level. For further information on how we respond to ›› Moving operations to or from local areas ›› Exhibitions about different projects in local areas community concerns, please read ‘Disclosure on manage›› Dialogue and community meetings ment approach society’ and GRI indicators SO1 and SO2. ›› Fuel sourcing and usage ›› Issue and round-table meetings NGO concerns form part of DONG Energy’s risk assessments NGOs ›› Supply chain requirements ›› Cooperation with consumer associations when planning new projects. Sustainable fuel sourcing and ›› Climate change and exploration activities ›› Partnerships usage are integral parts of our business strategy. For more in environmentally sensitive areas ›› Donations information please read DONG Energy’s Group annual report. ›› Networks and meetings Management approach – Environment Responsibility 2011 | 24 As with all other forms of industrial activities, the exploration, production, transportation and distribution of energy have environmental impacts, which can be mitigated but not fully prevented. In DONG Energy, we have identified seven environmental focus areas and set initiatives or targets for each of these. Targets can be at group or business area level, depending on the ambition level and impact in the various business areas. Focus areas and ambition levels are not stationary and will be adjusted according to society’s expectations. Our focus areas include: › Climate › Emissions to air › Waste › Water › Biodiversity › Resource consumption › Transport Each focus area is given a different priority in each business area and therefore has a different impact on each business area’s business strategy and activities. The performance in each area is described under the relevant indicators. Responsibility 2011 | 25 Environmental impacts from oil and gas › Energy optimisation through 10 percent improvement in energy › All central power stations must set up plant-specific environexploration and production efficiency by 2015 mental targets for emissions to air water consumption, chemi›O  ffloading of oil shall primarily be with tankers fitted with VOCcals, etc., in accordance with their ISO 14001 certification Whether oil and gas exploration or platform construction and reducing equipment (kVOC) › Min. 65 pct. of waste from production must be recovered in 2012 operation, the activities of our Exploration & Production (E&P) › Energy optimisation through 10 percent improvement in energy business area have an impact on the environment. These impacts Environmental impacts from heat and electricity efficiency by 2015 may arise because of emissions, discharges, waste generation, generation threats to biodiversity, noise and the use of resources. The type Environmental impacts from wind power and magnitude of the environmental impact are determined by At corporate level, our largest environmental footprint comes the type of activity, the technology applied, operational standards from the emission of gases from heat and electricity generation The continuous growth of DONG Energy’s wind capacity is an and the condition of the area affected. at our power stations. Emissions of greenhouse gases contribute important feature of DONG Energy’s efforts to realise its strategy, to global warming. CO2 emissions make up the highest proportion the aim of which is for wind power and biomass to replace coal, E&P’s focus areas include emissions from flaring and energy of DONG Energy’s greenhouse gas emissions. Besides CO2, other thus reducing DONG Energy’s environmental impacts. generation and discharges of produced water to sea. The main gases are emitted such as NOx and SO2. Both NOx and SO2 have a emissions from flaring and energy generation are CO2 and NOx. more local impact than CO2. We are aware that establishment of new off shore wind parks can Gas is flared, for safety reasons, during start-up of production potentially effect biodiversity. We do, however, always carry out and under unusual operating conditions. We continuously work to Generation at power stations produces waste, including waste impact assessments before going ahead with the construction of improve the energy efficiency of our operations and thereby also water. Waste water is treated, either on site or at municipal waste a wind farm to mitigate such effects. Furthermore, we are aware of reduce our emissions. water treatment plants. Fly ash and gypsum, two significant waste future potential impacts, when the individual mills are taken down fractions from generation, are often of sufficiently high quality and explore among others the possibilities of recycling fibre glass. In recent years, E&P has succeeded in considerably reducing its to allow them to be sold for production of cement, concrete or discharges of oil with produced water to sea from the Siri platplasterboard rather than be taken to landfill. Selected targets and focus areas: form by implementing a series of technical improvements. The › Monitor environmental impacts on species once a year for three improvements mean that almost all produced water is reinjected Water is also used in the generation process. The largest amount years after the establishment of new off shore wind parks into the reservoir, while the small amount of produced water that of water usage is for cooling. Our power stations are located near › Reduce CO2 emission by 85 percent per kWh generated by using is discharged to sea is cleaned ahead of reinjection. the sea, and sea water is therefore used for cooling. The remaining renewable energy instead of fossil fuels by 2040 water usage is in the generation process, e.g. generating steam, › Have a total renewable capacity of 3,000 MW by 2020 Selected targets and focus areas: but this water volume is insignificant compared with the volume › Energy optimisation through 10 percent improvement in energy › Gas-flaring must not exceed 6.2 mill. Sm3 a year used for cooling. We often use surface water for this purpose, efficiency by 2015 ›R  einjection into the reservoir must be optimised to limit emisreducing our groundwater consumption and water footprint. sions of CO2, SO2 and NOx Environmental impacts from sales › Reinjection of produced water containing oil shall exceed Selected targets and focus areas: 90 percent › The use of biomass and waste as fuel must be optimised to In the business areas ‘Sales’ no direct environmental impacts are › Oil-containing water discharged to sea must not exceed 30 mg reduce CO2 emissions along with focus at new bio solutions identified. However, the business area is engaged in a number of of oil/l on average measured over a month › NOx emissions per kWh power must be reduced by 90 pct. in business activities that aim to reduce energy consumption and/or › Chemicals deemed to have a high or medium environmental 2020 compared with 1990 increase energy efficiency. impact must be replaced by less environmentally harmful › SO2 emissions per kWh power must be reduced by 95 pct. in chemicals 2020 compared with 1990 Responsibility 2011 | 26 Selected targets and focus areas: Policies › The principle of environmental responsibility is incorporated › Commit climate partners to cut energy consumption and build broadly in our activities. For example, energy efficiency is a cora more environmentally friendly profile through energy consulDONG Energy has a Group-wide quality, health, safety and envinerstone in our consumption and we have signed the WBCSD’s tancy ronment (QHSE) policy that covers all of its activities. The policy Manifesto for Energy Efficiency in Buildings and are working › Lower energy production emissions by moving flexible consumpstates that DONG Energy will continuously minimise its environinternally to improve energy efficiency in both our buildings and tion, in the public and private sector, to periods with higher mental impact and reduce its resource consumption. process facilities. share of renewable power production › Development and dissemination of environmentally friendly › Enable lower carbon emissions in the transportation sector This is primarily achieved by setting an ambition level for each technologies are an integral part of a number of our activities. through the proliferation of electrical vehicles, which are more focus area, setting targets or initiating activities and evaluating The most well-known are our climate partnerships with organienergy efficient and can be charged when the share of Wind the results and improvements achieved as appropriate. The policy sations, municipalities and companies. Our partnership platform Power is as high as possible is set out in our QHSE guidelines, which are implemented in the focus is based on customised solutions based on our expertise business areas. The guidelines are aligned with international with energy consulting with regard to both energy efficiency and Environmental impacts from distribution and standards, such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. the use of renewable energy. storage DONG Energy also has certified environmental management sysGovernance During energy distribution, an unavoidable loss of energy octems in the parts of the company that have the greatest environcurs. However, we also consider issues such as oil spillage from mental impact. Our power stations, distribution and production The QHSE Committee is the company’s highest authority with cables and gas leaks to be significant environmental issues. Gas platforms therefore all have environmental certification in accordregard to environmental and health and safety issues. The Comtreatment and storage are defined as a major hazard under the ance with the international ISO 14001 standard. The Exploration mittee works on behalf of the Group Executive Management to Seveso Directive, and an approved safety management system is & Production business area has furthermore introduced an energy ensure that DONG Energy’s interests and needs regarding QHSE in place to prevent unwanted health and safety and environmental management system to increase its energy efficiency. issues are met, and that all parts of the business comply with incidents. DONG Energy’s values (including via internal audits). We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact, and our commitSelected targets and focus areas: ment to follow its three principles in this area is embedded in Each business area in DONG Energy has units charged with › Energy optimisation through 10 percent improvement in energy our environmental activities: ensuring that QHSE issues are handled in accordance with efficiency by 2015 legislation and DONG Energy’s corporate policies, guidelines › Improvement of energy transportation in the distribution net› With our ambitious climate strategy, 85/15, we are following the and goals. The business areas cooperate through networks and work precautionary principle. We are aware that DONG Energy cannot cross-organisational projects to transfer knowledge and optimise › Non-mandatory clean up of old soil contamination on sites with singlehandedly ensure that the global energy supply undergoes actions and management systems. outdoor transformer stations the necessary change in the years ahead, but we believe that change is needed and that we can help show the way. Responsibility 2011 | 27 Implementation of policies Environmental management and risk management Responsible environmental action is embedded in management and demands commitment at all levels of the company. DONG Energy strives to be among the best in the industry and to continuously reduce its environmental impacts and minimise its resource consumption. To this end, environmental management is an important tool. Risk management is an integral part of our environmental management system. We aim to minimise harmful impacts from our activities throughout their life cycle, from initial project planning to operations and decommissioning. We apply the precautionary principle in our risk assessment, continuously monitor performance, and follow up with measures when necessary. Implementation of EIAs Identifying and reducing potential environmental and social risks are legal requirements in an environmental impact assessment (EIA). It also requires transparency towards the public. These assessments are therefore used for large-scale projects, such as offshore wind farms, power stations and exploration and production activities. In an EIA, we map and minimise harmful impacts from our activities to a level that is technically and financially feasible. Projects are assessed throughout their life cycles. Screening of suppliers When initiating a project, we often use products and services from suppliers. We have developed a tool for screening each new procurement for QHSE risks. Depending on the risk profile, we will set requirements for both products and services to continually improve our environmental performance. Responsibility 2011 | 28 Indicator Environment indicators GRI: Materials and energy consumption Raw materials and energy consumption EN1/EN2/ Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 EN3/EN4 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Consumption of raw materials EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Coal tonnes m 3,432,594 3,767,001 4,018,880 4,388,756 4,912,195 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source Oil tonnes m 70,511 174,654 232,040 209,215 239,014 For an energy company such as DONG Energy, reporting Natural gas 1,000 Nm3 m 1,224,955 1,058,448 845,863 864,951 809,478 of materials used (EN1) will correspond, to some extent, of which flaring 1,000 Nm3 m 9,004 33,035 7,335 8,623 9,681 to the reporting of direct energy consumption (EN3), as of which venting 1,000 Nm3 m 67 62 36 47 the materials used for generating energy are commodiBiomass incl. bio oil and wood tonnes m 1,675,280 1,826,726 1,279,272 1,249,306 1,535,986 ties such as coal, oil, biomass, waste and gas. There Waste tonnes m 252,938 582,323 638,481 635,477 678,150 will consequently be a natural overlapping between the replies to EN1 and EN3. The table to the rights shows the Energy consumption (electricity and heat) use of raw materials as well as energy consumption. Electricity consumption power stations MWh m 9,678 32,775 23,728 34,224 1,193,092 Heat consumption power stations GJ m 59,461 65,091 53,868 50,409 224,590 According to GRI, direct energy consumption (EN3) Electricity consumption MWh m 73,987 102,976 109,354 98,627 143,870 should be reported as two parameters: the amount of fosHeat consumption GJ m 47,014 124,773 109,241 119,113 36,324 sil energy sources and the amount of renewable energy Heat from external sources GJ m 644,382 644,685 644,685 sources. As there is also some natural overlapping with A line in the table indicates that comparable data are not available due to missing or incomplete data or different compilation methods the indicators relating to recycled materials (EN2) and M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated indirect energy consumption (EN4), these four indicators are reported collectively. Consumption of propellants for transportation is not included. been sold, as the strategy entails focusing the power staThe fall in oil consumption is primarily due to a fall in tion activities on the central power stations. consumption at Stigsnæs power station, plus a fall in Consumption of raw materials and consumption of enconsumption at Avedøre power station and Asnæs power ergy are shown in the table to the right, along with stateNatural gas consumption at power stations has instation, where fuel consumption has been aligned to ments of electricity and heat broken down by source. creased. This is mainly due to Severn, which was the current operating situation. There has also been a On the next page, figures show the consumption of raw operational for the whole of 2011 and therefore had a dramatic fall in consumption at Oil Terminals, which is materials and recycled raw materials in relation to the significantly higher consumption than in 2010. Furtherdue to the fact that the consumption of oil was wrongly total weight of raw materials. more, electricity consumption fell markedly. The reasons reported too high in 2010. for this were partly the divestment of Frederikshavn CHP Explanation of development plant, and partly an error in the statement for 2010 from Flaring of natural gas has decreased dramatically as Haderslev CHP plant, which reported 5,278 MWh incorthere were extremely high emissions in 2010 as a conDONG Energy’s strategy for its thermal power plants rectly. Electricity consumption from Køge and Masnedø sequence of problems handling the lighter gas from the entails an increase in biomass and natural gas usage and CHP plants also decreased, which is due to reporting new production platform Nini Øst. The compressors were at the same time lower coal usage. In addition, a number flaws in 2010, where electricity consumption for processadjusted in 2011, resulting in a smaller flare. of the small-scale CHP plants are either for sale or have ing was included. Continues on page 29 ›› Responsibility 2011 | 29 Indicator Environment indicators GRI: The use of waste as fuel has decreased considerably. This Waste incineration is not considered to be recycling acoil and gas. The percentage of recycled raw materials (i.e. EN1/EN2/ is associated with the general strategy to sell waste-fired cording to the Danish Executive Order on Waste Managewaste) can be seen in the figure to the right below, which EN3/EN4 facilities such as Odense and Frederikshavn and the fact ment. However, as waste incineration generates energy also shows the ratio of CO2-neutral fuels to total fuel that Vejen CHP plant has been taken out of service. that has first priority in the grid, it replaces potential consumption. consumption of other sources of energy, such as coal, Electricity consumption for administration and other facilities fell considerably. This was due to lower consumpBreakdown of indirect energy consumption Consumption of raw materials tion at Filsø pumping station, where the pumps were shut by primary fuels (2010) down in 2011. There was also a decrease in consumption TJ 1% at Stenlille gas storage facility, the reason being that it 17% 200,000 was colder in 2010 than in 2011. 25% 150,000 The decrease in heat consumption by administration Wind, hydro and solar and other facilities was due to lower consumption at Oil 100,000 Nuclear power 2% Terminals, where isolation of the tanks has taken place, 16% Coal which in turn has resulted in a saving in the use of heat Oil 50,000 of around 66 percent. Natural gas 2% Waste and biomass 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Other sources The figures to the right shows the distribution of electric37% ity and heat consumption at DONG Energy's facilities and Fossil fuels in administration. Only the consumption at facilities that CO2-neutral fuels do not generate electricity and/or heat is broken down by source. This is because sources of consumption at faciliBreakdown of indirect energy consumption Recycling and CO2-neutral fuels ties that generate electricity and heat are included in the by primary fuels (2011) direct consumption of raw materials, which is shown in 0% % the table above. 16% 20 21% From an environmental perspective, an interesting aspect 15 is the ratio of renewable to fossil energy sources and 1% Wind, hydro and solar therefore also whether DONG Energy is focusing on makNuclear power 10 ing its energy consumption more sustainable. 22% Coal Oil 5 Fossil fuels are calculated as the sum of coal, oil and natNatural gas ural gas consumption, while CO2-neutral fuels are made Waste and biomass 2% 0 Other sources up of waste and biomass used at the power stations. This 38% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 is illustrated in the graph to the left below. % CO2-neutral fuels (by energy content) % Recycled raw materials (by weight) Responsibility 2011 | 30 Indicator Environment indicators GRI:EN5/EN18 Energy savings and reductions in ment of boilers at 16 meter and regulator stations in greenhouse gas emissions the gas distribution network in Southern Jutland, plus a number of replacements of UPS systems and lighting Energy savings has been one of DONG Energy’s focus control in administration buildings. The energy savings areas since 2007, with a target of one tonne less CO2 on heating in 2011 were due to the renovation of heating emission per employee by 2012. This target was met systems in warehouses and additional insulation of pipes already in 2010. DONG Energy therefore set a new target in administration. in 2011: improving energy efficiency by 10 percent by the end of 2015 compared with 2010. Also the ambition is to Data from different years are not directly comparable as achieve a 20 percent improvement in energy efficiency by they relate to projects that vary from year to year. Howthe end of 2020. ever, it should be noted that the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions was significantly lower in 2011 than in The table below shows data for energy savings and 2010 despite the energy savings in 2011 being almost reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for the period equal to 2010. This is because, in 2010, a number of 2009-2011. projects were implemented at facilities with a resulting higher reduction in greenhouse gas emissions than at the The largest electricity savings in 2011 were due to the facilities at which projects were implemented in 2011. replacement of all employee computers and the replaceData for energy savings and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 Energy savings from energy efficiency projects GJ m 4,784 7,975 31,243 of which savings in electricity consumption MWh m 942 1,882 4,338 of which savings in heat consumption GJ m 1,392 1,201 15,412 of which savings in natural gas consumption Nm3 m 0 0 5,471 Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from tonnes of CO2 saved m 520 4,443 2,895 energy efficiency projects M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated Responsibility 2011 | 31 Indicator Environment indicators GRI:EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy-based ing green electricity sold, solar cell power sold, CO2 The increase in the number of eliminated CO2 allowances products and services emissions eliminated, and upgrading of biogas for the reflected an increase in total sales of CO2 allowances. natural gas network. These are not reported under the soLikewise, the decrease in sales of green electricity reDONG Energy has an extensive investment programme to called Demand Side Management (DSM) energy savings flected an overall fall in this activity. increase its renewable energy percentage, and electricity agreement. The savings achieved for each initiative are from renewable sources has been sold to customers in shown in the table. Energy efficienct products all DONG Energy’s principal markets. At the same time, Unit 2011 2010 2009 DONG Energy helps industrial and residential customers Energy savings outside DONG Energy’s organisation, achieve improvements in energy efficiency through our as a result of DONG Energy initiatives, are determined Green electricity sold GWh 646,519 735,177 418,396 climate partnerships. Lastly, DONG Energy supports rein GWh. Solar cell power sold MWh 0 14 430 search and development into the energy-saving products Eliminated CO2 of the future to encourage society to make further energy In 2011, the focus was not on sales of solar cell power but number 2,193 1,819 3,054 allowances savings. on activities related to energy savings at DONG Energy’s Biogas sold Nm3 0 0 0 customers. No solar cell power was therefore sold in The figure to the right shows examples of the savings 2011. The strategy for 2012 focuses on this product again. achieved by the Group for a number of products, includGRI:EN8/EN21 Water consumption and water discharges Oil and gas production does not involve the consumption DONG Energy discharges water at many locations and of water in the same way as at the remaining facilities. subject to many different requirements for measurement EN8 Total water withdrawal by source However, when oil is extracted on offshore production of wastewater parameters. For this reason, it is not posEN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination platforms, significant volumes of water are produced sible to provide a meaningful mapping of water disalong with the oil. This so-called produced water is not charges at group level. Instead, we report our wastewater Most of DONG Energy’s water consumption goes to the consumed, but, after cleaning, is discharged to sea or discharges by destination from when the water leaves our power stations, which use the water for cooling water, reinjected into the reservoir. Produced water is therefore premises. among other things. The cooling water is ‘borrowed’ from not included in water consumption, but is calculated as lakes, streams or the sea and circulated through closed wastewater discharge. Reinjection safeguards the marine Waste water from DONG Energy’s administration systems at power stations, after which it is discharged. environment, as it minimises the discharge of produced buildings in Denmark is of a quality similar to ordinary DONG Energy’s power stations are located near the sea, water and, consequently, oil to sea. domestic waste water and is received by public treatwhich means that most of them can use saltwater for ment plants. No overall figure for this is available, but cooling. Therefore, our water consumption is relatively Oil discharged with produced water is calculated for the volume can be presumed to be similar to the water small compared to thermal power stations, which use DONG Energy-operated installations on the basis of consumption in administration buildings. cooling towers. Furthermore, we have optimised water three daily random samples that are analysed for oil usage at our plants by using a minimum amount of highcontent and one sample every 24 hours based on ballast Data for water consumption and discharge is shown in quality water. water. The oil content of produced water containing oil the table next page. residues discharged to sea does not exceed 30 mg oil/ litre on average per month. Continues on page 32 ›› Responsibility 2011 | 32 Indicator Environment indicators GRI:EN8/EN21 Explanation of development The increase in wastewater discharges to recipient after having been discharged after treatment by DONG Energy. treatment by DONG Energy reflected increases at two This also affects the figure in the following section. Lower Groundwater consumption from own source has fallen power stations. For Severn, the increase reflected the discharges have been reported for Ensted power station significantly since 2010, mainly due to Stigsnæs power fact that, in 2010, the plant was only operational for two due to a lower level of activity at this plant in 2011. In station, which had a lower level of activity in 2011. A months. Discharges from Esbjerg power station also addition, Odense CHP plant has been sold, resulting in minor contributor to the reduction was a fall in consumpmade a significant contribution as this parameter was not lower discharges, while Inbicon Kalundborg experienced tion at Nybro gas treatment plant, due partly to lower computed in 2010. a higher level of activity and therefore higher discharges. production, and partly to optimisation of water consumption in operations. Wastewater discharges to treatment plant without Wastewater discharges to treatment plant after treatment treatment by DONG Energy have decreased since 2010, by DONG Energy have increased since 2010, primarily Groundwater consumption from waterworks water has reflecting changes at several plants. The most significant due to the incorrect reporting referred to in the foregoing. also fallen significantly since 2010, mainly reflecting the change was a fall in discharges from Fredericia crude Produced water to sea and oil to sea from platforms fact that groundwater consumption for Studstrup power oil terminal because of a lower water content in the oil increased significantly. This was due to the Gyda and Ula station for 2010 included data for fresh surface water, received from the North Sea. Furthermore, the reportfields, which are older fields where fluctuations in the levwhich was not included in 2011. ing for Asnæs power station for 2010 was incorrect, as els of operational activities have led to higher discharges. approx. 60,000 m3 of water should have been reported as Data for water consumption and discharge Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Water consumption Groundwater from own source m3 m 167,709 229,594 163,827 75,364 Waterworks water m3 m 1,172,273 1,375,764 1,450,195 1,751,151 103,935 Discharges to water Wastewater to recipient without own treatment m3 m 599,878 561,198 564,036 715,836 Wastewater to recipient after own treatment m3 m 274,766 92,572 78,183 13,697 Wastewater to treatment plant without own treatment m3 m/e 677,565 852,876 811,181 734,857 422,223 Wastewater to treatment plant after own treatment m3 m/e 104,478 34,914 Produced water to sea from offshore production m3 m/c 1,022,515 639,342 1,548,105 1,685,520 1,435,562 Oil to sea from offshore production tonnes m/c 16 8 18 24 23 Reinjection, offshore production Reinjection of produced water m3 m/c 2,175,489 2,202,593 1,470,238 1,774,842 1,807,757 Reinjection of natural gas Nm3 m/c 106,831,956 71,475,572 91,583,834 52,581,228 39,881,970 A line in the table indicates that comparable data are not available due to missing or incomplete data or different compilation methods M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated Responsibility 2011 | 33 Indicator Environment indicators GRI:EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity in consequences of the activities. This applies to impacts protected areas during the planning and operating phases of an activity, for example the operation of our wind farms. Operational Increased biodiversity focus in operations and on impacts on the environment are also handled through projects in the EU is driven by legislation. Most of DONG environmental approvals issued in compliance with curEnergy’s activities are in the EU and are therefore subject rent legislation. to European directives such as the EIA Directive, the Habitat Directive and the Bird Protection Directive. For our biomass purchases, it is our vision to endeavour to meet DONG Energy’s requirements for CO2-neutral The directives define the framework for the assessment biomass that is both financially attractive and environand handling of impacts of, among other things, biodimentally sustainable. versity, in the planning management to minimise the GRI:EN16/EN20 Air emissions EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions EN20 NOx SOx and other significant air emissions DONG Energy’s most significant emissions to air come from the generation of electricity and heat, while emissions from other combustion processes, such as flaring, physical and chemical processes, venting and fugitive emissions, are also a focus. Emissions from transportation of products, materials, employees and waste are not reported. Responsibility 2011 | 34 Indicator Environment indicators GRI:EN16 Greenhouse gasses At DONG Energy, we have set ourselves two ambitious In addition, DONG Energy has increased its renewable targets that we are working towards: energy generation from wind, partly with the start-up of As an energy company, emissions of greenhouse gases › By 2020, we will halve our CO2 emissions per MWh operation of the Walney offshore wind farm in the UK. are an important focus area for DONG Energy. The figure generated compared with 2006. Efficient utilisation of DONG Energy's unique capabilibelow shows that direct CO2 emissions constitute the › By 2040, we will reduce our CO2 emissions by ties in the area of offshore wind has made DONG Energy largest percentage of DONG Energy’s greenhouse gas 85 percent compared with 2006. the global market leader in the design, construction and emissions by far. Direct CO2 emissions are made up of operation of offshore wind farms. both CO2 emissions from facilities that are subject to the These ambitious targets will be achieved by radical European CO2 emissions trading scheme (EU ETS) and conversion of DONG Energy’s electricity generation from CO2 emissions from other process facilities, of which EU fossil to renewable energy. In 2011, the specific CO2 ETS CO2 emissions represent 99 percent. emission was 486 g/kWh compared with 524 g/kWh in 2010. The significant reduction reflected the conversion Indirect CO2 emissions only include CO2 emissions from from coal-fired to natural gas-fired power station generaelectricity and heat consumption. Indirect emissions do tion, among other things. Natural gas emits significantly not include emissions from electricity and heat consumpless CO2 than coal and is the best alternative fossil fuel tion at the electricity and heat-generating plants, as to secure reliable energy supply. DONG Energy operates these emissions are considered to be direct emissions. natural gas-fired power stations in Denmark, the UK, Norway and the Netherlands. Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes (2011) Target for CO2 reduction 10.9 mio. g CO2 per kWh 700 3,256 600 30,179 638 27,708 613 500 590 574 524 486 400 300 180 320 6,049 200 31,470 100 0 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 Carbon dioxide (CO2), Carbon dioxide (CO2), Realised Target direct emission indirect emission Nitrous oxide (N2O) NMVOC Carbon monoxide (CO) Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) Methane (CH4) Responsibility 2011 | 35 Indicator Environment indicators GRI:EN20 NOx og SO2 DONG Energy has a target of reducing the NOx and SO2 met, as emissions have been reduced to 0.06 g/kWh, emissions from its power stations by 90 percent and 95 equivalent to a 99 percent reduction compared with Combustion of fossil fuels and biomass produces other percent respectively by 2020 compared with 1990. For 1990. For NOx, there is still some way to go, as emissions gases besides greenhouse gases, including nitrogen NOx, this means that emissions must have fallen to 0.33 are currently 0.36 g/kWh, equivalent to a reduction of 89 oxides (NOx) and sulphur dioxides (SO2), which also have g/kWh by 2020, as emissions from power stations were percent compared with 1990. significant environmental impacts. NOx contributes to 3.30 g/kWh in 1990. photochemical smog, which is harmful to human health, It should be noted that the comparative figures for total while SO2 reacts in the atmosphere to become sulphuric For SO2, the target for 2020 is 0.24 g/kWh, as emissions NOx and SO2 emissions in 2010 have been restated acid and contributes to acidification. The effects of NOx from power stations were 4.80 g/kWh in 1990. The table compared with previous reporting. The reason for this is and SO2 are primarily regional, while CO2 is a global on the next page shows that the target for SO2 has been incorrect reporting of oil consumption for the Danish oil issue. terminals, where too high a figure had been reported. Emissions to air The table shows that all emissions were reduced in 2011. Direct CO2 emissions fell due to the reduction in EU Tonnes ETS CO2 emissions. This predominantly reflected lower 18,000 output from the power stations in 2011, but also the fact 16,000 that coal consumption at the power stations was reduced 14,000 in favour of natural gas. 12,000 10,000 Indirect CO2 emissions also fell, partly due to a reduc8,000 tion in electricity consumption at Filsø pumping station. 6,000 This was due to lower oil production and therefore lower 4,000 oil transportation to shore, allowing the pumps at Filsø 2,000 to be turned off from April 2011 onwards. Furthermore, 0 electricity consumption at Stenlille gas storage facility 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 was down, as 2011 was warmer than 2010, resulting in CO2 eqvt in 1,000 tonnes NOX SO2 Trace elements etc. from power stations lower demand and a lower level of activity. Continues on page 36 ›› Responsibility 2011 | 36 Indicator Environment indicators GRI:EN20 Emissions of methane and NMVOC fell, partly due to lowalso decreased. This reflected the fact that the National Lastly, the comparative figures for nitrous oxides have er emissions from Fredericia crude oil terminal. This was Environmental Research Institute in Denmark (DMU) has been restated for 2010 and 2009 because emissions of a direct consequence of the lower oil transportation from changed the emissions factors for power stations to more nitrous oxides were reported incorrectly for Esbjerg power the North Sea. Emissions of methane and nitrous oxides recent factors from the IPCC. station’s unit 3 in both years. The reported volumes were significantly lower than actual emissions from the unit. Data for emissions to air Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Greenhouse gas emissions Carbon dioxide (CO2), direct emission million tonnes of CO2 eqvt. m/c 10.9 11.9 12.0 12.7 14.0 of EU ETS CO2 emissions million tonnes of CO2 eqvt. m/c 10.8 11.8 11.9 12.6 13.8 Carbon dioxide (CO2), indirect emission by purchase tonnes of CO2 eqvt. c 31,470 47,072 48,412 54,923 77,670 of electricity and heat Methane (CH4) tonnes of CO2 eqvt. c 27,708 39,905 50,059 61,796 68,718 Non methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOC) tonnes of CO2 eqvt. c 3,256 3,749 8,270 26,469 19,388 Nitrous oxide (N2O) tonnes of CO2 eqvt. c 30,179 48,156 50,045 73,262 54,359 Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) tonnes of CO2 eqvt. c 180 217 160 616 1,465 Carbon monoxide (CO) tonnes of CO2 eqvt. c 6,049 7,184 5,810 5,664 4,630 Key performance indicator (KPI) for 85/15 strategy Specific emission of CO2 for DONG Energy excl. E&P g CO2/kWh m/c 486 524 574 590 613 Other significant emissions and specific emission KPIs Nitrogen oxides (NOx) tonnes m/c 7,253 7,853 9,304 11,650 17,006 Specific emission of NOx from DONG Energy’s power stations g NOx/kWh m/c 0.36 0.38 0.50 0,50 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) tonnes m/c 1,172 1,268 2,425 3,507 4,199 Specific emission of SO2 from DONG Energy’s power stations g SO2/kWh m/c 0.06 0.07 0.14 0.19 A line in the table indicates that comparable data are not available due to missing or incomplete data or different compilation methods M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated Responsibility 2011 | 37 Indicator Environment indicators GRI:EN22/EN24 Waste Waste treatment – Facilities (2010) Waste treatment – Facilities (2011) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 5% 7% EN24 W  eight of waste deemed hazardous and percentage of weight shipped internationally DONG Energy aims to increase waste recycling from both 38% 34% facilities and administration. By 2012, we will increase 57% 59% our recycling rates to 65 percent for facilities and 50 percent in administration. In that connection, we have Waste for recycling Waste for recycling mapped our waste production and identified measures Waste for incineration Waste for incineration Waste for disposal Waste for disposal to increase our recycling rates. by landfill by landfill We aim to improve our waste management by, among other things: Waste treatment – Administration (2010) Waste treatment – Administration (2011) › substituting the products used to reduce the volume 3% 1% of waste and increase waste recycling › continuously developing sorting into waste fractions in order to increase waste recycling 32% We also focus on the optimisation of residual products 48% from energy generation for reuse in other industries. 51% Read more about residual products under 2.8/EU2 ‘Scale of organisation’. Waste for recycling Waste for recycling 65% Waste for incineration Waste for incineration Waste for disposal Waste for disposal In 2011, recycling rates for both facilities and administraby landfill by landfill tion buildings were increased further. The recycling rate for administration buildings, in particular, is close to reaching the target, having now reached 48 percent. For Waste, defined in accordance with the Danish Executhe company’s waste in Denmark. The mapping showed facilities, the recycling rate is being constrained by large tive Order on Waste Management, is calculated based that all hazardous waste produced by DONG Energy is volumes of oil waste from the North Sea oil pipeline, on method of disposal as either recycling, incineration transported to the first treatment facility in Denmark. which accounts for 22 percent of total waste volumes or landfill. Waste is also classified as either hazardous from DONG Energy’s facilities, and is incinerated. No or non-hazardous. The volume of waste is calculated for DONG Energy also receives hazardous waste for treatworkable recycling method has as yet been identified facilities and administration buildings. ment at waste incineration plants. The hazardous waste for this waste fraction that is better than incineration. includes clinical high-risk waste, creosote-treated wood, Excluding this waste fraction, the recycling rate for waste DONG Energy has mapped handling of hazardous waste, ethanol solution and paint dust. from facilities is 75 percent. including transportation, import, export and treatment of Continues on page 38 ›› Responsibility 2011 | 38 Indicator Environment indicators GRI:EN22/EN24 DONG Energy does not import hazardous waste, but The volume of hazardous waste fell, mainly due to the exports residual products from electricity and heat fact that 370 tonnes of glycol-containing waste water generation, such as ash, slag and gypsum. These residual from Stenlille gas storage facility was incorrectly clasproducts are not reported as waste, and data on these sified as hazardous waste in 2010, and that this fraction products are reported separately. Read more in the chaphas been correctly classified as non-hazardous in 2011. ter GRI:EN2.8/EU2. The significantly lower volumes of treated hazardous waste and hazardous residual products exported in 2011 According to the table below, waste volumes increased by were due to the divestment of Frederikshavn CHP plant approx. 900 tonnes, overall, in 2011 compared with 2010, and Odense CHP plant and the fact that thet Vejen CHP reflecting a higher level of construction activity at plant has been taken out of service. DONG Energy’s facilities in 2011. Data for waste Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Waste Waste for recycling tonnes m 6,842 6,044 5,801 5,302 8,901 Waste for incineration tonnes m 4,190 4,414 4,106 5,001 5,606 Waste for disposal by landfill tonnes m 820 524 750 615 5,079 Total hazardous waste tonnes m 2,439 2,882 1,979 1,562 792 Hazardous waste treated on site tonnes m 275 5,206 797 1,056 4,850 Hazardous residuals exported tonnes m 5,693 12,912 12,183 12,358 11,121 M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated Responsibility 2011 | 39 Indicator Environment indicators GRI:EN23 Total number and volume of significant Besides significant environmental incidents, gas leaks increased release of nitrogen after operating problems spills due to excavation damage to natural gas distribution in the wastewater treatment plant. This resulted in the pipes are also calculated. Such gas leaks are accidents sewage effluent standard being exceeded. There was DONG Energy records environmental incidents for locacaused by third parties and can therefore only be presubsequently an increased focus on critical operating tions it owns and operates, using a model to determine vented by DONG Energy to a limited degree. Such gas parameters at the treatment plant. the severity of environmental incidents based on volume, leaks are therefore reported separately from other envidispersion and effect. The model is also used to deterronmental incidents. Where such a gas leak is serious, The other incident was at Stigsnæs power station, where mine the potential of the incident, in other words, the imit is recorded in the same way as other environmental there was a spill of 8 m3 of fuel oil. The spill was partly pact the incident could have had. Based on the potential incidents. Gas leaks due to excavation damage are calonto soil and partly into a tank yard with a concrete base. of the environmental incident and how often the incident culated based on pressure and dimension of the process The spill was collected and transferred to Kommunekemi. could happen, a risk value for the incident is determined. equipment affected, and the duration of the leak. The spill was caused by a burst pipe. Special inspection DONG Energy classifies incidents into three risk catrounds were subsequently implemented to check for oil egories: blue, yellow and red. Red is considered severe, Incidents with environmental impacts and excavation spills. yellow requires attention, and blue is less significant. damage to gas pipes are reported in the internal incident reporting system, Synergi. There were two significant environmental incidents at Oil DONG Energy systematically records, manages and Terminals in Skælskør in 2011. These involved spills of follows up on unwanted incidents. We work on the basis Explanation of development oil onto soil. In one case, 109 m3 of biodiesel was spilled of the principle that the potential severity of an incident from a defective drain hose into a tank area that is proshould determine the degree of action. The categorisaThere were five significant environmental incidents at tected against seepage by a natural clay membrane. The tion referred to above must be used to determine the DONG Energy in 2011. This is the same level as in 2010. oil was sucked up and the top soil layer was excavated. scope of corrective and preventive action in connecTwo incidents occurred in Thermal Power. One inciMonitoring of drainage activities was subsequently introtion with an incident. There is scope for improving our dent was at Kyndby power station, where there was an duced to detect any spills as quickly as possible. In the systematised action on environmental incidents further, but the model provides a good overview of the company’s most significant environmental incidents. Environmental incidents Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 DONG Energy considers significant environmental inciSignificant environmental incidents number m 5 6 5 1 2 dents as unwanted incidents with actual environmental impact. Excavation damage to gas pipes number m 79 70 79 107 118 Methane discharge due to excavation For external reporting purposes, significant incidents are Nm3 c 42,620 14,904 33,844 25,490 63,647 damage actual incidents that are defined as severe or alarming based on an impact value of 25 or higher according to M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated the model, equivalent to a categorisation as alarming or Continues on page 40 ›› severe. Responsibility 2011 | 40 Indicator Environment indicators GRI:EN23 second case, there was a spill of approximately 3m3 of oil This volume is considerably higher than in previous for the year from excavation damage to gas pipes. After during loading as a safety valve was defective. Contamiyears. This is primarily attributable to one incident in the fracture, the gas supply was shut off immediately to nated soil was excavated and a drain pipe was installed. which there was a serious leak. The incident is therefore prevent a major gas leak. The fracture meant that gas Areas in which there have been oil spills are monitored included in the total number of significant environmental supplies to several heating plants were stopped. Howperiodically via drain pipes. In both cases, the areas were incidents indicated above. ever, this did not affect consumers. Internal and external cleaned up following acceptance by the environmental emergency plans functioned as planned and the damage authorities. The incident occurred in connection with the construcwas rapidly repaired. The remaining volume of gas leaks tion of a motorway. A gas pipe suffered excavation from excavation damage was due to a number of minor Total leaks of 42,620 m3 of methane were registered damage by a contractor, resulting in a leak of 36,042 m3 incidents. in Distribution in connection with excavation damage. of methane, equivalent to 85 percent of the total leaks GRI:EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with The table below shows the number of complaints about Two police reports were registered in 2011. One conenvironmental laws and regulations our activities that have been upheld and is an indicator of cerned violation of the Danish Soil Contamination Act, how we comply with the Danish Environmental Protection where an area mapped as being contaminated was Environmental incidents and the management of fines Act. Information is also reported from 2009 onwards on excavated. The other concerned violation of the Danish are regulated by DONG Energy’s policy for quality, health, enforcement notices/prohibition notices, injunctions, poMarine Environment Protection Act, where the conditions safety and the environment, which means that we must lice reports and court cases relating to compliance with for dropping seabed sediment were not complied with. comply with existing laws and licences and take prevenenvironmental legislation and rules. A substantial fine Dropping means taking sediment from a dock and droptive and/or remedial action to reduce our environmental is defined as being over DKK 50,000. A case has to have ping it elsewhere. impact. been concluded to be included in the report. The number of complaints reported fell by 82 percent Data for compliance with environmental laws and regulations compared with 2010. This was mainly because the Distribution business area tightened up its procedure for reUnit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 porting complaints in 2011 to cover only complaints that Complaints number m 61 334 186 265 were upheld. This is also what the reporting comprises. Police reports number m 2 0 0 Enforcement notices/prohibition notices number m 14 6 5 and injunctions A line in the table indicates that comparable data are not available due to missing or incomplete data or different compilation methods M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated Management approach – Labour practices Responsibility 2011 | 41 During the coming decade, demographic changes will lead to increased competition for potential employees. In combination with plans for growth and large investments, this is leading to significant recruitment needs and is making the ability to attract, retain and develop the right skills a critical success factor for DONG Energy. At DONG Energy, we want to create an inclusive environment in which everyone can contribute their best at both individual and team level. It is important to us that our workplace offers exciting tasks and high professional standards. Also, it is important that our working environment supports the modern way of life, which involves a need for great flexibility and individual solutions. We always strive to develop our workplace to offer our employees the best conditions, regardless of gender, ethnicity, skin colour, religion or faith, political beliefs, sexual orientation, age, disability, nationality, educational background or situation in life. Responsibility 2011 | 42 Policies Goals and performance Governance DONG Energy is a workplace built on mutual respect. Dialogue DONG Energy wants to be the preferred employer in our critical People & Development supports and assists management teams and targeted policies will ensure a good working climate and job segments in order to attract and retain competent and ambitious at group and business area level in the management of DONG satisfaction for the individual employee in DONG Energy. employees. Energy. In order to deliver good results, it is important that we all accept DONG Energy has an ‘employer brand’ called ‘Ambitious people’. People & Development has three cornerstones: a partner orresponsibility for ensuring a good working environment and a We devised this based on input from focus group and interviews ganisation, centres of excellence and Shared Services. People high degree of job satisfaction. We apply our values and policies and online surveys with existing employees, management and & Development has functional responsibility for HR issues and to promote a safe, healthy and tolerant working environment. external candidates. provides expert advice on matters of importance to the company. People & Development reports directly to the CEO. We have formulated employee policies on selected issues, includThe results of the work have been used in several ways. These ining diversity, women in management, bullying and harassment clude targeting recruitment initiatives internationally. The results and stress. also form the basis for new measures aimed at employees such as the Group’s diversity policy. DONG Energy is also a signatory to the UN Global Compact and is therefore committed to complying with the Global Compact’s Surveys have shown that more than two-thirds of our employees principles regarding responsible labour practices. The principles will actively recommend DONG Energy as a workplace to their are based on the ILO conventions and the OECD Guidelines for family, friends and networks. This result is supported by external Multinational Enterprises. surveys that show that DONG Energy is among the Top 10 preferred employers in Denmark. At the same time, DONG Energy was ranked third in a survey conducted among 111 Danish companies in 2011 to identify the best workplaces for engineers in Denmark. In 2010, DONG Energy was ranked tenth. Our main focus in 2012 is to maintain this position in Denmark while at the same time establishing a strong position internationally. Responsibility 2011 | 43 Indicator Labour practices indicators GRI:LA1 Workforce by employment type, Total workforce by employment type, contract type, and region employment contract, and region 2011 2010 2009 2008 The total number of employees in DONG Energy at the Total workforce 6098 5874 5865 5644 end of 2011 was 6,098 full-time equivalents (FTE). This Full time and part time employees was an increase of 224 FTEs on 2010. The growth primarily occurred abroad, specifically in the UK. The number Full time employees 5703 5534 5453 5396 of employees abroad rose by 95 persons. In 2010, 9 Part time employees 395 340 412 248 percent of DONG Energy’s employees worked abroad. In 2011, the proportion rose to 10 percent. Contract types Covered by collective agreements 5037 4731 4228 4184 Salaried employees 1010 1091 1169 1153 Individual contracts 51 52 54 307 Permanent and fixed term contract Permanent contract Full time 5521 5352 5348 5396 Permanent contract Part time 386 321 391 248 Fixed term contract 191 201 118 Employees in Denmark and abroad Employees in Denmark 90 % 91 % 93 % 95 % Employees abroad 10 % 9% 7% 5% Responsibility 2011 | 44 Indicator Labour practices indicators GRI:LA2 Employee turnover by age group, gender, Employee turnover by age group, gender, and region and region 2011 2010 2009 2008 Employee turnover was 12 percent in 2011, in line with Employee turnover• 12 % 12 % 11 % 12 % 2010. Number of employees who have left the company Total 705 795 615 655 Male 508 560 421 417 Female 197 235 194 238 Breakdown by cause Voluntary resignation 385 263 210 518 Dismissal 251 299 184 116 Retirement 47 76 3 13 End of fixed term post 17 40 Death 5 5 13 8 Other 0 112 Breakdown by age group Under 18 1 2 15 17 18-25 24 38 102 77 26-35 180 183 173 196 36-45 250 232 147 174 46-55 118 163 82 89 56-70 132 177 96 102 Breakdown by region • Employee turnover has been calculated as the number of permanent Employees in Denmark 607 738 employees that have left DONG Energy divided by the average number of permanent employees. The average number of permanent employees is the Employees abroad 98 57 sum of 12 monthly head count figures divided by 12. Responsibility 2011 | 45 Indicator Labour practices indicators GRI:LA4 Employees covered by collective Number of employees (FTE) covered by agreements collective agreements In 2011, 2,034 employees, expressed as full-time equiva2011 2010 2009 2008 lents (FTE), were comprised by collective agreements, 2034 2132 2344 3485 equivalent to 33 percent of all employees. GRI:LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes DONG Energy complies with Danish and EU law, including the cooperation agreement between the Confederation of Danish Employers (DA) and the Danish Confederation of Trade Unions (LO) and the Danish Collective Redundancy Act. In addition, DONG Energy has drafted a standard severance agreement. Responsibility 2011 | 46 Management approach – Safety Policies Goals Since 2006, DONG Energy has worked hard to establish a strong DONG Energy’s QHSE management system sets out the fundaDONG Energy is a company with a wide range of activities providsafety culture and continually improve our safety performance. mental requirements that must be followed in each of our busiing an equally wide range of challenges. Each year, we set a target We have reviewed and challenged existing processes and conness areas to keep people safe and to minimise impacts on the for lost time injuries (LTIF) per one million hours worked. The ducted safety training and courses. This has resulted in a marked local environment. overall target is an aggregated figure made up of the individual decline in our injury frequency rate. targets set by the business areas. The target includes both our It consists of: own and contractor injuries. While we have reduced our injury frequency rate significantly in › an overall Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental (QHSE) recent years, we did not meet our ambition of zero fatalities in policy The overall target for 2011 was 5.2, and with 4.1 we were able to 2011, when we experienced two accidents that resulted in three › a statement of organisational responsibilities that reinforces the reach our goal with a comfortable margin. For 2012, we have set fatalities. All accidents involved contractor or partner employees. principle of line responsibility for QHSE performance and identia target of 4.1. As a company, we have an ambition of zero fatal This is clearly not acceptable, and DONG Energy is highly comfies specific accountabilities for every member of the organisaaccidents. With two fatal accidents within our operation during mitted to ensuring that the lessons learned from each investigation 2011, we were not able to achieve this ambition. See LA7 for more tion are addressed in such a way as to avoid recurrence. In addi› general QHSE guidelines that delineate a broad range of requireinformation. tion, top management has requested renewed focus on safety. ments that are seen as essential for safety across our businesses › function-specific standards, which are critical to maintaining Governance Historically, our strategy has focused on thermal power gensafe operations, designed to be managed by the Group’s operaeration and oil and gas exploration and production in Danish tional business functions and promoting line management acOur Quality, Health, Safety and Environment (QHSE) Committee territory. Our current rapid international expansion introduces countability for and ownership of safety systems and processes. is a management forum led by a member of our Group Executive further levels of complexity and challenges to our company and Management and with participation by a QHSE management our safety goals. DONG Energy is committed to ensuring a safe DONG Energy’s Health and Safety Standards are informed by a representative from each business area. working environment for all employees working for and within variety of sources, including regulatory bodies and cooperation DONG Energy. with peer group companies, analysis of key findings from industry The QHSE Committee maintains the strategic QHSE work with incidents and local legislative requirements. As a result, the regard to the implementation of the corporate vision, values, Key risk areas for DONG Energy: Group’s approach to the management of health and safety risks policy, strategy and goals, and acts as the highest authority with › Rapid international expansion challenges our ability to ensure is consistent with internationally accepted standards for safety regard to QHSE. that our safety management system and safety culture are folmanagement systems. lowing suit. The Committee advises the Group Executive Management › Exploration and production activities are often conducted in See DONG Energy’s policy for quality, health, safety and environon QHSE issues such as: demanding and remote environments. ment on http://www.dongenergy.com/SiteCollectionDocuments/ › policy and strategy development › Offshore wind farms have yet to mature as an industry and CSR/Documents/politikker_eng_LOW%5b1%5d.pdf › setting of general corporate goals and reporting of results safety aspects therefore present new challenges. › setting of general corporate standards and acceptance criteria. › Extensive use of contractors will add complexity to our operations. › Transparency in HSE responsibility in the various ownership schemes and partnerships in which we engage. Responsibility 2011 | 47 The Committee approves terms of reference for the cross-organiness area functions and form the basis for the conclusions and Contractor management sational QHSE Managers Group and reviews its recommendations summaries given to management at both Group and business In line with the rest of our industry we rely on contractors for cerand ensures the realisation of cross-organisational synergies in area level. tain operational activities to ensure that our business needs are the QHSE area. addressed in both a timely and safe manner. In that connection, We evaluate incidents and accidents not only from within our very clear roles and responsibilities are needed. The business area representatives on the QHSE Committee are company, but from within our industry as well to harvest imporresponsible for summarising the various decisions taken within tant lessons learned. This will help us prepare even better as our Ensuring that our contractors are familiar with our QHSE requiretheir own organisation. A central Group QHSE function will supcompany expands in remote and demanding offshore areas. ments is an important part of our contractor management. QHSE port the Committee and support – but also audit – the business requirements are an integral part of our procurement processes, areas in their efforts to comply with requirements. Safety plans and when choosing contractors we take into account whether they We require all our business areas to develop safety plans that meet our QHSE requirements. Focus areas identify and evaluate the risks that each business area faces. The recent fatal accidents have put even more focus on our ability to QHSE roles and responsibilities in partnerships Our approach to safety is based on the following priority areas: develop proactive and forward-looking safety plans. When DONG Energy is the sole owner of an operation or the designated operator, the QHSE responsibilities are clear. Quite Management systems We require that the full range of safety risks is identified and often, however, we engage in various ownership and partnership Our rapid international expansion challenges our ability to ensure addressed by our business areas and that they demonstrate schemes, and stakes are bought and sold and new partnership that our safety management system and safety culture follow that all major residual risks have been reduced to the ‘As Low As agreements signed as the business evolves. We are highly comsuit. It is essential to our safety ambitions that our operation is Reasonably Possible’ (ALARP) level. Achieving ALARP requires a mitted to ensuring that clarity exists regarding HSE accountabilsupported by a management system that evolves in step with the high degree of asset integrity to be factors into both the design ity between the various stakeholders in an operation, and have various activities and internal and external requirements, includand maintenance of our facilities, particularly in terms of safety thus put extra focus on the issue. ing legal requirements. A well-functioning management system management systems. will ensure a foundation for continuous improvement of both In addition, we are reviewing our due diligence process to ensure safety and other services. Some of the accidents occurred within our offshore wind farm that HSE requirements are adequately addressed. projects. Offshore wind farms have yet to mature as an industry, Within DONG Energy, a wide range of management systems are and our rapid international expansion will put added pressure on Information and training activities in place to support various certifications. resources and training. DONG Energy engages in a wide range of communications, awareness-raising and shared learning activities. These activities Evaluating accidents and incidents The formation of DONG Energy Wind Power as an independent are aimed at ensuring that our people can identify health, safety When something goes wrong, we need to learn why and what business area has enabled more focus to be put on the challenges and security risks and understand the behaviours required to needs to be done in future to prevent a recurrence. We encourage identified and meeting our responsibility as an industry leader keep themselves and others free from harm at all times. all employees to record unsafe and potentially unsafe situations. in offshore wind farms. In 2011, the business area entered into cooperation with the nine largest wind generation companies in Our accidents and incidents, both those with actual and with Europe with the aim of promoting safety and raising safety levels potential consequences, are analysed and shared between the in offshore wind generation. business areas. The data are available to both Group and busiResponsibility 2011 | 48 Security plan and security training Through risk management DONG Energy is committed to creating, maintaining and continuously developing a professional and trustworthy security environment in order to protect people, environment and assets, within the context of best practice and national and international legal and technical frameworks, while securing a reliable energy supply. In DONG Energy, we see security as the sum and degree of protection against threats, danger, damage, loss and crime. Focusing on loss prevention by proactively balancing probability and impact to determine and implement measures to minimise or eliminate losses is essential in our work. Security requirements within DONG Energy are developed in collaboration with our internal and external customers and stakeholders. Our security plans encompass emergency response and business continuity capabilities focusing on the resilience of DONG Energy by having security measures in place to secure the integrity and smooth running of operations. Responsibility 2011 | 49 Indicator Labour practices indicators GRI:LA7 Rates of occupational injuries and Fatal accidents Occupational diseases absenteeism In 2011, there were unfortunately two tragic incidents In 2011, 18 cases of occupational disease (also called in which three persons lost their lives. Onboard a coal work-related illness) were reported to the National Board Occupational injuries tanker, two persons died when they entered an area of Industrial Injuries in Denmark. This corresponds to an The total recordable injury rate (TRIR) was 10.1 per one below deck where there was no oxygen. At a construction occupational disease rate (ODR) of 2.0 per one million million hours worked in 2011, an improvement of 4 persite, a person (a man) from a demolition firm working as hours worked. The corresponding figure for 2010 was 1.6. cent on 2010. This frequency rate comprises all injuries a subcontractor to DONG Energy died during a fire in a with the exception of first-aid cases. tower. DONG Energy takes these accidents very seriously In 2011, the National Board of Industrial Injuries issued and has stepped up preventive action. orders in 18 cases, nine of which were rejected and nine Lost time injuries acknowledged. Most of the acknowledged cases of occuThe lost time injury frequency (LTIF) was 4.1 in 2011 per In 2011, the Group continued its efforts to develop a pational diseases related to hearing damage. The remainone million hours worked – an improvement of 12 percent strong safety culture focusing on risk assessment and der of the reported cases of work-related illness related on 2010. This frequency comprises fatalities and lost proactive prevention as well as follow-up on all incidents to lung diseases and eczema respectively. workday cases, i.e. injuries with absence of one or more to continuously improve safety performance at both days after the occurrence of the injury. DONG Energy and its contractors and partners. Decisions regarding remedial and preventive action are made in each business area. Examples of action taken in In 2011, the lost day rate (LDR) was 74, i.e. the number Sickness absence 2011 include investment in low-noise machinery (Therof lost days per one million hours worked due to occupaSickness absence was 2.6 percent in 2011 compared with mal Power), courses in correct lifting (Sales & Distributional injuries, down from 81 in 2010. 2.4 percent in 2010. tion) and courses and seminars in stress prevention and stress management (Exploration & Production and Group Days lost per occupational injury rose from 18 in 2010 Functions). to 19 in 2011. The statement of occupational diseases does not include employees abroad, corresponding to 601 full-time Total recordable injury rate Lost time injury frequency equivalents (FTE), as we do not yet have systems for calculating these. Number of injuries per one million hours worked, excluding first-aid cases. Number of lost time injuries per one million hours worked. 60 20 45 15 30 10 15 5 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total Total Own employees Own employees Contractor employees Contract employees Responsibility 2011 | 50 Indicator Labour practices indicators GRI:LA8 Programmes in place to assist regarding Pension and insurance Healthy eating policy serious diseases All employees in DONG Energy, in Denmark and abroad, In autumn 2011, the Corporate Liaison Committee apare comprised by a pension scheme from their first day of proved a new healthy eating policy drafted by a working Our commitment to our employees goes beyond safety. employment. group under the Committee. The healthy eating policy We also aim to ensure that our employees stay healthy. follows the eight healthy eating rules and must be This helps to reduce absenteeism, increase productivity In Denmark, all employees are comprised by critical complied with by all DONG Energy-operated canteens in and promote DONG Energy as a great place to work. illness insurance, group life insurance and medical insurDenmark. Canteens operated by external suppliers are ance. For employees abroad, similar insurance cover has also being urged to follow the healthy eating policy, and Health check been taken out with due consideration for the offers/posterms of reference for externally operated canteens will In 2011, 5,275 employees in Denmark were offered a sibilities in each country, including state social security. therefore be prepared in 2012. health check. At the end of 2011, 61 percent of employees had taken up the offer. As the health check has proved In 2011, there were 43 cases of payouts under critical extremely popular, the last health checks will not be illness insurance compared with 17 in 2010. The increase performed until January 2012. Once the results from the presumably reflects the increase in the number of emhealth checks are available, People & Development will ployees and other random fluctuations. review them jointly with the Corporate Liaison Committee and pinpoint specific and targeted initiatives to be Under the medical insurance scheme, employees have put in place in 2012 to improve employee health. the option of taking out cover for spouses/cohabitees. Children under the age of 21 are automatically covered, The health checks do not include the compulsory health regardless of whether they live at home or not. The checks some employees must undergo at regular intermedical insurance scheme was used 1,701 times in 2011 vals as part of their contract of employment. A significant compared with 1,790 in 2010. The three most frequently proportion of employees abroad are offered a health used types of treatment were physiotherapy, chiropractic check at the time of their employment. treatment and orthopaedic surgery. Responsibility 2011 | 51 Indicator Labour practices indicators GRI:LA12 Employees receiving performance and career development services DONG Energy conducts an annual employee survey that focuses on issues such as job satisfaction. In 2011, employees were asked whether they had had a performance review in the past 12 months. A total of 5,454 employees participated in the People Matter survey in 2011. Of these, 5,013 responded. Only 6 percent responded that they had not had a performance review. GRI:LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Males Females employees Breakdown of male and female employees by management level DONG Energy has set up a cooperative structure that covers Group Executive Management 6 0 all employees in Denmark and is divided into three overall levels. These are: the Corporate Liaison Committee, the Executives (Strategic Forum) 44 5 Main Liaison Committee and the Liaison Committee. All Senior managers and above (Leadership forum) 244 42 committees consist of management and employee representatives, and topics such as financial matters, operations Managers and above 517 152 and staff issues are discussed at the meetings. The purpose Breakdown of male and female employees by age group is to improve cooperation between management and employees through dialogue and information to create good Under 18 1 1 working conditions and increase understanding of DONG 18-25 123 98 Energy’s situation and development. 26-35 1046 535 At the end of 2011, the average age of employees in DONG 36-45 1271 684 Energy was 42.2 years. 46-55 1136 401 With regard to the proportion of women in DONG Energy, the 56-70 663 139 figures below show that 30 percent of employees are women, 23 percent of managers are women, 10 percent of executives are women and, finally, that there are no women in the Group Executive Management. These percentages have not changed since 2010. Responsibility 2011 | 52 Indicator Labour practices indicators GRI:EU14 Programmes to ensure the availability of which are supported by extensive development proa skilled workforce grammes. In our organisation, employees are not bound by one path, but can choose a cross-organisational DONG Energy wants to be a world leader when it comes career path. to knowledge about energy, especially the ability to convert knowledge into specific solutions. A high level Leadership is a strategic focus area for our organisation of knowledge requires constant and consistent developand a prerequisite to retaining our people and achieving ment of our employees. We therefore offer our employees our goals. By linking financial performance with leaderprofessional and personal development programmes. ship behaviour, we believe that results will be not only sustainable but also value-creating. The DONG Energy Academy is the platform for our training programmes for employees and managers across the Our Performance and Development Dialogue (PDD) tool Group. The programmes focus on supporting employees establishes a link between DONG Energy’s business in their personal and professional development and givstrategy and the objectives, work effort, career and develing them skills they can use throughout their careers. opment of the individual employee. In order to support our performance-based culture, all employees in DONG DONG Energy offers three overall career paths: general Energy must have a PDD session with their immediate management, project management and specialist, all of superior. Responsibility 2011 | 53 Indicator Labour practices indicators GRI:EU15 Employees eligible to retire in the next in 2010 to 22 percent in 2011. For Sales & Distribution, 5 and 10 years the figure remained unchanged at 16 percent. 13 percent of the workforce in DONG Energy is aged 56 or A senior policy has been prepared for employees in Denover and can therefore be expected to retire in the not too mark. One of the aims is to make employees feel secure distant future. The percentage has fallen since last year, in and satisfied with their jobs in the years leading up to when 14 percent of the workforce was aged 56 or over. their retirement and for employees to plan a knowledge For Thermal Power, the percentage rose from 16 percent transfer together with their superior. GRI:EU16 Policies regarding health and safety External contractors and business partners are introduced to DONG Energy’s policy and positions on quality DONG Energy’s employees are trained in health and and health and safety. In addition, agreements are safety work of relevance to the performance of their entered into on follow-up on conduct, performance and work. For example, all employees complete compulsory reporting. Contractors and business partners therefore courses. In addition, further specific training is provided record observations and incidents. Both incidents and when considered relevant. near-misses are investigated together with contractors and partners with the aim of improving health and safety in the various workplaces. GRI:EU18 Contractors that have undergone health and In the Sales & Distribution (S&D) business area, the safety training number of contractors was 32. S&D offers safety induction to contractor employees that are to be provided with DONG Energy uses external contractors and subcontrackeys for main transformer stations. In 2011, 926 contractors. In the Thermal Power business area there were tor employees were provided with a key. 1,298 contractors and 6,126 contractor employees. All contractor employees are given a safety induction that is valid for one year at a time. The figures include figures for the Wind Power business area. Management approach – Human rights Responsibility 2011 | 54 DONG Energy respects human rights in all its Training and awareness operations and works towards eliminating any DONG Energy’s employees are expected to be familiar with human rights violations from the Group’s as and act in accordance with the Group’s ethical Code of well its subcontractors’ and suppliers’ operatConduct, which contains essential information about human ing procedures. DONG Energy is committed to rights. Employees can download the Code of Conduct from the principles of the UN Declaration of Human the Group’s intranet. Rights (UDHR) as well as ILO agreements, and expects the same from its partners. Organisational responsibility The corporate function Stakeholder Relations has the overall Already in 2007, DONG Energy took significant steps to responsibility for strategy and policies on human rights, promote good business conduct by our suppliers by adopting including in relation to the supply chain. Group People and a new Code of Conduct for suppliers. The Code is based on Development has the responsibility for HR issues. the principles of the UN Global Compact and describes our expectations of our suppliers in the areas of human rights, Goals and performance labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. In 2011, DONG Energy began a revision of its strategy for DONG Energy is, of course, also committed to meeting these responsible supplier management. In 2012, it is our aim to requirements itself. complete this work, partly by implementing more systematised training in and awareness of the Code of Conduct for Policies suppliers. In January 2011, DONG Energy's Board of Directors adopted the Group’s overall responsibility policy, which forms the overall framework and sets out the overall objectives for DONG Energy’s work on responsibility. Furthermore, DONG Energy’s position on human rights issues is set out in the Group’s Code of Conduct for suppliers, and in our commitments under the UN Global Compact, to which DONG Energy became a signatory in 2007. Responsibility 2011 | 55 Indicator Human rights indicators GRI:HR1 Investment agreements that include human is secured through legislation and enforced through reguhuman rights clauses are not specifically addressed in rights clauses latory bodies. We therefore do not believe that systematic investment agreements. procedures for this type of screening are required. DONG Energy’s significant investment projects are located in Northern Europe, where human rights compliance DONG Energy addresses human rights issues related to its operations, including its supply chain. However, GRI:HR2 Contractors that have undergone screening DONG Energy conducts independent third-party audits at This strategy has led to the establishment of two initiaon human rights selected suppliers to assess their performance and comtives in 2011: pliance with the Group’s Code of Conduct for suppliers. › Better Coal: Better Coal is a global not-for-profit DONG Energy’s position on human rights issues is membership initiative set up to advance continuous embodied in the Group’s ethical Code of Conduct for Furthermore, DONG Energy has initiated a strategy on a improvement of responsibility in the coal supply chain. suppliers and in our commitments under the UN Global proactive approach to the establishment of international The seven founder members include DONG Energy, Compact. collaboration concerning difficult, high-risk areas in the E.ON, GDF SUEZ and RWE. supply chain. The reason for this strategy is that, in some › Initiative Wood Pellet Buyers framework: This initiative With its ethical Code of Conduct for suppliers, the Group key strategic areas, DONG Energy is a small player with outlines sustainability criteria for buying wood pellets. wants, among other things, to promote dialogue with limited impact. If several companies join forces to pursue Partnering companies are DONG Energy, DRAX, RWE/ its suppliers in order to promote their commitment to the same goal, they will be in a stronger negotiating posiEssent, Electrabel (GDF Suez), Laborelec (GDF Suez), improving their sustainability performance. To ensure tion in their dealings with suppliers. EON UK and DELTA. that suppliers are complying with the Code of Conduct, GRI:HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination recruitment, pay, employee benefits, health and safety, efforts have resulted in an increase in the number of and actions taken training and leadership. women among our Top 200 management from 8 percent to 22 percent in just three years. DONG Energy strongly condemns all forms of discriminaDiversity will play a significant role in DONG Energy’s tion, including harassment or insulting conduct in the growth in future. We are of the opinion that different In 2011, we prepared a diversity policy in collaboration workplace. This applies not only to employees, but to any types of skills and ways of viewing and tackling problem with our Liaison Committee and put in place a number of person who has dealings with the Group, including cusareas will strengthen our possibilities to meet our stratinitiatives in the areas age, gender, nationality and distomers and potential employees. No cases of discriminaegy and vision. ability. It is important to us that our culture makes room tion were recorded in 2011. for all types of competent individuals. We are signatories to the Danish Ministry of Equality’s DONG Energy wants to offer all potential and existing ‘More Women in Management’ charter. This has led to We have also initiated partnerships with, among others, employees equal opportunities, regardless of ethnic specific initiatives across our organisation to ensure, Foreningen Nydansker on mentoring young people and background, gender, religion, political beliefs, nationalamong other things, that we spot and develop more with Disabled Peoples Organisations Denmark on an ity or social origin. This applies to all areas, including women demonstrating management potential. Our increased number of flex workers and recruitment of disabled people in DONG Energy. Management approach – Society Responsibility 2011 | 56 DONG Energy has its roots in Danish society and is one of the leading energy groups in Northern Europe. As energy supply is part of the lifeblood of modern society, our activities are essential to and have a great impact on the societies of which our group is a part. Through our business activities we help ensure our customers a reliable energy supply. Being responsive is one of DONG Energy’s core values. The dialogue with our stakeholders – the people and groups who influence or are influenced by our business – must help ensure that we operate in accordance with and with respect for our surroundings. We cannot meet everyone’s requirements but we believe that openness and constructive dialogue are the right approach to good relations. Policies DONG Energy’s approach to community engagement is based on a number of policies and tools, including: ‘Good business conduct’, ethical Code of Conduct for Suppliers and the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. Goals and performance DONG Energy is interested in how society perceives the company and in people’s opinions about the company, and strives to continuously improve stakeholder relationships. Governance Organisational responsibility for managing the impact of operations is handled by the respective business area and/ or staff function. In addition, the Group function Stakeholder Relations takes care of dialogue with key stakeholders. Responsibility 2011 | 57 Indicator Society indicators GRI:SO1 Impacts of operations on communities These often involve large infrastructure projects with about new measures that may affect the area. More long construction periods in which inconvenience can be sporadically, we occasionally hold open house events It is important for DONG Energy to listen to all relevant minimised but often not completely avoided. At the same at which a location invites everyone in the local area to stakeholders in connection with our activities. We often time, the meetings and exhibitions allow us to hold a come in and take a look. hold voluntary information meetings and exhibitions dialogue with local industry, educational institutions and in connection with the start-up and implementation of other stakeholders. In spring 2011, more than 4,000 people took the oppornew energy projects such as our offshore wind turbine tunity to visit Skærbæk power station at an open house projects. We want to ensure that the local population is A number of DONG Energy’s locations also hold regular event. There was also a large number of visitors to the well informed about our activities. meetings with neighbours to maintain good relations open house event at the Severn power station in Wales with them and ensure that the local area is well informed in the summer of 2011. GRI:SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to The policy for good business conduct catalogues the In 2011, DONG Energy and PwC prepared an extensive corruption Group’s positions on fraud, bribery, corruption and other analysis of the risk of corruption in all business areas. inappropriate business practices and provides guidance The analysis was based on interviews with key persons DONG Energy increasingly trades in new markets in for the individual employee. It outlines a number of scein the business and reviews of relevant policies and which we may face problems in relation to corruption, narios and grey areas that employees may be faced with procedures. Recommendations from the risk analysis are bribery and other inappropriate business practices. Such in their day-to-day work. being reviewed and will subsequently be implemented as practices are incompatible with the operation of a healthy appropriate. business, and damaging to society. The policy is supported by the Business Ethics Committee. This Committee is chaired by DONG Energy’s CEO, In 2008, DONG Energy’s Board of Directors adopted a Anders Eldrup. The Committee is responsible for continupolicy for good business conduct. One of its important ously evaluating the need for further guidelines and messages is that everyone is responsible for raising isimplementing controls as appropriate. The Committee is sues or pointing out observations that may be an indicaalso responsible for investigating and handling any cases. tion of inappropriate business conduct. GRI:SO3 Training in anti-corruption policies and procedures In January 2012, the Board of Directors adopted a revised policy for good business conduct that will be implemented by the Group in 2012. In 2012, a new e-learning programme will also be rolled out internally to underpin the policy. For this reason, no data were compiled for 2011. Responsibility 2011 | 58 Indicator Society indicators GRI:SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents In 2011, we had no legal fraud and corruption incidents We define an action as any step taken in reaction to a of corruption (defined as any legal action brought against DONG Enfraud or corruption incident, including: ergy or DONG Energy employees regarding fraudulent or › dismissal or disciplining of or entering into a terminaIn 2011, three incidents involving fraud by DONG Energy corruption practices). tion agreement with an employee in reaction to a fraud employees were reported to the Business Ethics Commitor corruption incident tee. We define an internally reported fraud and corruption However, in reaction to the three fraud incidents reported › terminating or not renewing a contract with a business incident as any situation which has been reported: to the Business Ethics Committee, three employees were partner in reaction to a fraud or corruption incident. › to the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board of Direcdismissed – two employees without notice and one with tors through the whistleblower channel, or notice. To DONG Energy’s knowledge, there were no cases of › to the Business Ethics Committee through a formally contracts not being renewed in 2011 due to corruption appointed contact person or any other internal channel, risks. and which has been judged by either of these to be a case of fraud and/or corruption. GRI:SO5 Public policy positions and participation in DONG Energy is a member of a number of forums and › Danish Wind Turbine Owners’ Association public policy development organisations that seek to provide input to the devel› The Confederation of Danish Industry, Danish Energy opment of new public policies. These include industry Industry Federation DONG Energy’s position on public policies of relevance organisations such as the Danish Energy Association, › The Confederation of Danish Industry, Danish Offshore to the energy sector is based on the need to identify Waste Denmark, the Confederation of Danish Industry Industry market-based solutions to societal challenges such as (DI) and the European wind energy network European › The Danish Energy Association climate change and security of supply. For this reason, we Wind Energy Association (EWEA). › Waste Denmark support, among other things, efforts to further liberalise the European energy sector. DONG Energy's work on the Below is a list of our key memberships of organisations, Germany framework conditions for the energy sector is also rooted etc., that indirectly assist in the development of public › BDEW (Bundesverband der Energieund in our general ambition to change from fossil fuels to policies. DONG Energy frequently participates in various Wasserwirtschaft e.V.) renewable energy. energy and climate-related conferences and forums in › bne (Bundesverband neuer Energieanbieter e.V.) Denmark and abroad. › Stiftung Offshore Wind In addition, DONG Energy engages in dialogue with relevant national regulators to ensure security of supply, Denmark The Netherlands e.g. development of smart grid solutions and a continued › Danish District Heating Association › Energiened (Nederlandse Energiebranche) strong focus on diversified gas sourcing, including oil › Danish Gas Association and gas exploration. Group Regulatory Affairs and the ›D anish Operators – Offshore oil and gas operators Continues on page 59 ›› regulatory affairs units in each business area have the in Denmark day-to-day responsibility for this work. › Danish Wind Industry Federation Responsibility 2011 | 59 Indicator Society indicators GRI:SO5 Norway UK Internationally/EU › Norwegian Clean Seas Association for Operating Com› AEP (Association of Electricity Producers) › Business Social Responsibility panies (NOFO) › Energy Futures Group › EFET (European Federation of Energy Traders) › Oil Industry Association (OLF) – Operations Forum, › IGG (Independent Generators’ Group) › Eurelectric HSE Manager Forum, Legal Forum, Drilling Forum etc. ›P RASEG (Parliamentary Renewable and Sustainable › Eurogas › Petro Arctic – Network of suppliers for petroleum Energy Group) › Green Growth Leaders projects in the Nordic countries › RUK (Renewable UK) › The European Wind Energy Association (EWEA) › SOL network – HSE network for oil companies with a › UK Oil and Gas › UN Global Compact small organisation in Norway › WEF (Westminster Energy Forum) › Global Reporting Initiative Sweden › Svenska Gasförening (the Swedish gas association) GRI:SO6 Value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties or the like It is DONG Energy’s policy not to make any financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, trade unions or candidates. Employees must report all in-kind contributions, etc. We are not aware of any financial or other inkind contributions having been made to political parties, politicians or organisations. GRI:SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour purchase of natural gas from the Syd Arne field. The other DONG Energy against the Danish Competition Council, or the like party has lodged an appeal against the award with the as DONG Energy disputes the Council’s ruling that the Maritime and Commercial Court in Copenhagen. former electricity company Elsam violated the competiIn 2011, four cases involving competition law aspects tion legislation during the last six months of 2003 up to were pending – one arbitration case and three legal acThe other legal proceedings concern the issue of the and including the first six months of 2006. The last legal tions. former Elsam’s alleged abuse of its dominant position action has been brought by DONG Energy and relates in the wholesale electricity market in West Denmark. to a claim for compensation resulting from the alleged In 2011, the award was made in the arbitration relating Two of the three legal actions before the Maritime and abuse of a dominant position in the period referred to to DONG Energy’s gas purchase contract concerning the Commercial Court in Copenhagen have been brought by above. The three cases are still pending. Responsibility 2011 | 60 Indicator Society indicators GRI:SO8 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations In 2011, DONG Energy Power A/S was fined DKK 150,000 for violation of Sections 82(1)(i), see Section 86, see Section 38(1) of the Danish Working Environment Act and Section 30(1), see Section 13(2), of the Danish Executive Order on the Performance of Work. Also in 2011, DONG E&P A/S was fined DKK 50,000 for violation of the Danish Offshore Safety Act. No other non-monetary criminal law sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations were imposed on the DONG Energy Group. GRI:EU21 Disaster/emergency management plan and ›P revention – reduces the risk of accidents and other Crisis management and ensuring the continued operatraining programs, and recovery/restoration crises or mitigates their impact. tion of critical tasks and functions depend on the plans ›T raining – makes security participants better equipped employees’ skills. to perform their tasks. Through risk management DONG Energy is committed ›E xercises – strengthen the organisation’s ability to Training and training exercises are carried out at all to creating, maintaining and continuously developing a handle accidents and crises. levels in DONG Energy’s 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th lines, from professional and reliable security environment in order ›E valuation – promotes understanding of tasks to avoid fire drills in administration buildings, through evacuation to underpin and coordinate the efforts of DONG Energy's recurrence of previous mistakes/errors. exercises from an oil-producing platform in the North various business areas to proactively handle emergen›P lans – describes to everyone involved what they need Sea, to exercises in which a power station is occupied cies and incidents that may affect critical functions and to do in a crisis, making sure everyone is in agreement. by demonstrators. DONG Energy’s assets, which must values such as lives, environment, wellbeing, property comply with specific legislation, are regularly audited by and reputation. Together with the business areas’ local emergency the authorities, e.g. Energinet.dk and the Danish Energy response organisations, the Group emergency response Agency, which also inspect the plans. The DONG Energy Group has adopted a holistic organisation is responsible for maintaining and impleapproach to security, which is divided into seven menting – through Best Practices and in compliance with overall areas: current legislation plans, procedure and manuals that › Management – ensures implementation of the activities jointly constitute DONG Energy’s emergency response in our security planning. strategy. › Planning – makes planning better informed. Management approach – Products Responsibility 2011 | 61 DONG Energy’s main products are electricity Furthermore, a Smart Energy programme will optimise existand heat. The nature of these products implies ing grids by turning local assets and active customer particithat when used correctly, they have little direct pation into subsidiary system devices. Within the realm of adverse impact on the environment, public smart buildings, new solutions are planned, based on green, health or safety. DONG Energy works actively efficient energy technologies. with energy efficiency in its own operations as well as by providing customers with advice and The determined effort to improve customer satisfaction levsupport on improving their energy efficiency. els is monitored by surveys. The so-called Ennova scale is used, and the ultimate goal is to reach a customer satisDONG Energy’s business area Sales & Distribution continufaction and loyalty of 75 by 2015. In 2011, the score was 68 ally strives to increase customer satisfaction. The ambition (see also PR6). is to establish DONG Energy as the Danes’ preferred energy supplier and to pave the way for a leadership position as the Organisational responsibility best energy company in Northern Europe. DONG Energy provides information on the safe use of electricity to customers via different communication channels. Goals and performance Responsibility for communication with customers lies with Extensive research has shown that a large percentage of the business area Sales. Customers are also continuously DONG Energy’s customers are ready to switch to another informed through DONG Energy’s website, for instance supplier. Initiatives across S&D aim at correcting selected with regard to power interruptions. weaknesses. Working procedures have been changed at our customer centre, resulting in more efficient switchboard procedures and shorter waiting time. Letters and other communications are prepared thoroughly, and a new more serviceminded culture is evident. In addition, a Customer College is in the pipeline, focusing on how to anchor a more service-oriented culture. It has also been decided to launch a new customer IT platform and to change the layout of online bills. In order to give customers an internal spokesperson, DONG Energy has created a Customer Ambassador job function. Responsibility 2011 | 62 Indicator Product indicators GRI:PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction Customers rate their level of satisfaction on a scale of 1-10 and the results are then converted to index numbers Once a year, DONG Energy carries out an extensive on a scale of 0-100. To determine whether a specific customer satisfaction survey among its residential result is good or poor, it is necessary to know the typical customers. The latest survey was completed in December levels in satisfaction surveys. 2011. It was based on representative samples from three customer segments (Nord-el, City-el and Natural gas The figure below is based on Ennova’s experience from customers), and data were collected via email or postal previous satisfaction surveys and shows how the results forms according to the respondent’s own choice. should be interpreted. In the report, the colour scale is shown next to the prioritised areas to make it easier to The latest survey shows that customer satisfaction and determine whether the scores for an area are at a satisloyalty among residential customers remain unchanged, factory level. statistically, from the 2010 survey. See the table below: SATISFACTION INDEX 2011 2010 2009 2008 Change (%) from 2010 to 2011 SATISFACTION INDEX Natural gas customers 73 73 77 77 0% % 100 City-el customers 60 59 63 57 2% 80 Nord-el customers 67 68 68 69 -1 % 60 Top performance (80-100) Fibernet-customers Not measured Not measured Not measured 66 Very good (75-79) 40 Good (70-74) Medium (60-69) Bad (50-59) 20 LOYALTY INDEX 2011 2010 2009 2008 Change (%) from 2010 to 2011 Very bad (0-49) 0 Natural gas customers 74 73 77 79 1% City-el customers 55 56 62 53 -2 % Nord-el customers 67 66 68 70 2% Fibernet-customers Not measured Not measured Not measured 69 Responsibility 2011 | 63 Indicator Product indicators GRI:PR6 Compliance with laws etc. related to In 2008, DONG Energy prepared compliance proThe issue of sponsorship is described in a policy for good marketing communications grammes that are designed to ensure that Danish rules business conduct (‘Acting responsibly – how we ensure on marketing and handling of customers’ personal data good business conduct’) adopted by DONG Energy’s DONG Energy focuses strongly on compliance with are complied with. The compliance programmes have Board of Directors in 2008. The policy can be downcurrent legislation in the areas of marketing, communibeen issued in the form of leaflets that can be downloadloaded from DONG Energy’s intranet under the ‘Sensible cations, sponsorship and other promotional activities. ed from the DONG Energy’s Intranet under ‘Appropriate business conduct’ tab and has also been distributed to Legislation of particular relevance in this context is business conduct’. Furthermore, relevant departments in all the Group’s employees. In January 2012, the Board of the Danish Marketing Practices Act, the Danish Act on the Sales & Distribution business area have been trained Directors adopted an updated version of the policy. The Processing of Personal Data and the Danish Consumer in the Danish Act on Processing of Personal Data and the updated policy will be implemented in spring 2012. Agreements Act and similar acts in the Netherlands, Danish Marketing Practices Act to ensure that they are Germany and Sweden. familiar with the compliance programmes. New employDONG Energy does not sell any products that are subject ees are also offered training in these programmes, and to prohibitions. training is provided as appropriate. GRI:PR7 Non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing communications So far as DONG Energy is aware, no cases of violation of laws or non-compliance with own policies relating to marketing were reported in 2011. GRI:EU27 Residential disconnections for non-payment It is not possible for DONG Energy to record the duration of the period from non-payment to disconnection or from DONG Energy calculates the number of Danish electricity settlement to reconnection. A combined figure is calcucustomers (residential customers and small businesses) lated for residential customers and small businesses. that have not paid their electricity bills based on the Data on disconnections for non-payment for customers number of first payment reminders sent. In 2011, a first abroad are not available in consolidated form. payment reminder was sent in 538,836 cases. If a bill remains unpaid after the third reminder, the customer will be disconnected by one of DONG Energy’s service engineers. This led to 4,546 disconnections in 2011. Responsibility 2011 | 64 Indicator Product indicators GRI:EU28/EU29 Power outage frequency and duration Explanation of development The differences in SAIFI and SAIDI from 2010 to 2011 EU28 Power outage frequency primarily reflected the fact that the data compilation defiEU29 Average power outage duration nition has been extended. Previously, it only included unplanned outages. Now all outages are included, planned Power outage frequency and duration at customers is a as well as unplanned. We have to chosen to change the key parameter for electricity distribution. method applied, as it represents the customers’ experience more fairly. Power outage frequency experienced by customers is expressed in SAIFI, which stands for System Average InterTo allow comparison with historical figures, we have also ruptions Frequency Index. The index reflects the average compiled data using the previously applied method in power outage frequency per customer per year. 2011. This also led to a change compared with 2010, but a less significant change only. The change mainly reflected: Power outage duration experienced by customers is ›a cloudburst in Copenhagen in July, which had a marked expressed in the form of SAIDI (System Average Interimpact on duration. ruption Duration Index), which reflects the average power ›a significant increase in the number of faults at the high outage duration per customer per year. voltage levels, which affected many customers. Frequency and duration are reported as a total figure for It should also be noted that natural variation will always DONG Energy’s distribution networks. occur. Interruptions Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) number m/c 0.51 0.38 0.34 0.45 System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) minutes m/c 35.6 19.3 17.0 26.2 A line in the table indicates that comparable data are not available due to missing or incomplete data or different compilation methods. M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated Responsibility 2011 | 65 Indicator Product indicators GRI:EU30 Average plant availability factor DONG Energy calculates energy availability as the period of time during which a plant delivers its nominal capacity. It is important that the power stations are available when The remainder of the time is spent on either planned or their capacity is required to ensure the necessary energy unplanned shutdowns: audits or breakdowns respectively. supply and avoid fluctuations between energy supply Availability is only calculated for central power stations and demand, as this may lead to power failure. Likewise, and wind farms. it is important to maximise utilisation of wind turbine electricity generation capacity by ensuring a high turbine availability rate. Availability factor Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 Average availability factor (central power stations) % m/c 93 95 93 96 Energy availability for wind turbines % m/c 95 97 94 93 M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated Management approach – Economics Responsibility 2011 | 66 Modern society is using more and more energy. At the same time, we want to slow down the impact on the environment to which traditional energy production contributes. This is the dual challenge that we are facing. DONG Energy sees it as its task to work concertedly on both fronts. On a sound business basis, of course. We are producing more energy by increasing our production of oil and gas, which will remain necessary sources of energy for many years to come. At the same time, DONG Energy is a world leader in wind energy, and we are currently bringing row after row of new offshore wind turbines on stream. At the same time, we are planning to convert our Danish power stations to more green generation. Consumption of coal is being reduced markedly while consumption of various forms of biofuel will be increased. Pollution with CO2 and other harmful substances is being reduced, and we are thus producing the necessary energy more responsibly. The aim is to deliver reliable and clean energy that meets the requirements of modern society. The ability to achieve satisfactory financial results at the same time is reflected in DONG Energy’s financial statements. We are thus well on the way towards our business target to double operating income in 2015 compared with 2009. In the context of the global challenge, DONG Energy’s initiatives may seem modest. But every effort counts. And our rapid transition is equipping us well for the future while also demonstrating that it is possible to deliver more energy and more green energy on a sound commercial basis. Responsibility 2011 | 67 Indicator Economic indicators GRI:EC2 Risks and opportunities for the organisaClimate change in Denmark and Northern Europe will installations appropriately in relation to flood-prone tion’s activities due to climate change potentially lead to milder winters and hotter summers, areas in the metropolitan area. The tool can also be used higher sea levels and more extreme weather in the form to determine which of our existing installations are in Climate change and the secondary focus on clean energy of stronger winds and more extreme storms. This will indanger of being flooded. and green jobs create many opportunities to develop crease the risk of physical effects on buildings, structures new technologies, products and services. DONG Energy and port installations. The financial implications of climate change are difficult is working concertedly to exploit these opportunities. At to quantify as they depend on a number of uncertain the same time, our strong focus on increasing the use of At DONG Energy, we have carried out a risk analysis of factors, including geographical consequences, political renewable energy still sets us apart from other energy potential climate-related impacts. As a consequence of reactions and the development of new technology. companies, giving us a competitive edge in this market. this analysis, we have tightened our focus on these in our safety planning. Our security plans encompass business Climate change may affect DONG Energy’s financial For DONG Energy, our action to combat climate change continuity and emergency response capabilities. The position indirectly, as it may affect the energy market, esis, to a great extent, part of our business strategy, and top plans focus on securing employees and environmental pecially the markets for trading in CO2 emissions allowmanagement is therefore also deeply involved. Demand and physical assets. The security plans are designed to ances, green certificates and other subsidy schemes. The for clean energy will only grow in the years to come as ensure that the company is prepared for and can handle conditions for pricing of the latter markets are decided population growth accelerates and oil prices rise, and potential adverse events. Making our assets secure by policy makers. DONG Energy continuously analyses only a few energy companies will be at the forefront of decontributes to securing a reliable energy supply for our the price of CO2 emissions allowances, partly to evaluate velopments to the same extent as DONG Energy. Lastly, customers and minimises our environmental impact from market risks. our knowledge and expertise when it comes to reduction incidents. of CO2 emissions and energy efficiency form the basis for the Group’s climate partnerships with municipalities, For example, DONG Energy has had a digital GIS tool organisations and companies. developed that can help position future electricity supply GRI:EU6 Planning to ensure electricity availability In order to meet regulatory requirements on improveimplementation of Wind Power and the development of and reliability ment of the security of supply, all interruptions are new ways to reduce energy consumption such as electric recorded and the different types of interruptions evaluvehicles and heat pumps. To ensure stability during exDONG Energy wants to contribute to the maintenance of ated. Based on these evaluations, specific steps are taken treme conditions, the grid features automatic and manual a high level of security of supply in a cost-effective way. to enhance future security of supply. For example, DONG load shedding in the event of a power failure causing a In Denmark, we therefore continuously analyse trends in Energy is in the process of replacing all low-voltage overdrop in frequency. operating and maintenance costs for our asset group as head lines with cables buried underground to protect the well as the level of security of supply. power supply against weather damage and improve the electricity distribution network. In addition, the Danish regulator benchmarks DONG Energy’s operating costs to ensure that all Danish distriFurthermore, DONG Energy continuously monitors bution companies maintain a reasonable level over time. changes in customer needs and considers future grid The benchmark includes security of supply. structures for co-generation of heat and electricity, Responsibility 2011 | 68 Indicator Economic indicators GRI:EU8 Development activities aimed at providing Research and development costs electricity and promoting sustainability DKK million 2011 2010 Innovation is one of the key parameters when DONG Research and development costs incurred during the year (669) (821) Energy competes with other large European energy Amortisation and impairment losses on development costs recognised in intangible assets (105) 897) companies. Through research and development, DONG Development costs recognised in intangible assets 48 137 Energy will offer new, renewable and reliable energy solutions with minimum environmental impact to the benefit Research and development costs recognised in profit for the year (726) (781) of society and our customers. Research and development costs incurred in 2011 comprised primarily primarily included development of wind farms in Denmark, development development of wind farms in Denmark, the UK, Germany and Poland, of thermal power generation, bioethanol technology and IT systems. development of bioethanol technology, biogas technology and biomass conversion as well as IT systems. In 2010, research and development costs Source: Group annual report (Consolidated financial statement note 7). GRI:EU11 Average generation efficiency The table below shows that generation efficiency decreased for the small-scale power stations. This mainly Generation efficiency is a constant focus in operating all reflected special generation conditions at Severn power the company’s electricity and heat generation facilities. station in 2010 during the commissioning of the plant. Average generation efficiency is defined as the energy These factors meant that, according to the records, the generated from the energy input into the heat and elecplant had a generation efficiency in excess of 100 percent tricity generation facilities. The indicator is broken down in 2010, which is not technically feasible. by central and small-scale power stations. Generation efficiency Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 Average generation efficiency Total for power stations % m/c 62 66 62 61 Average generation efficiency Central power stations % m/c 62 63 59 58 Average generation efficiency Small-scale power stations % m/c 63 82 81 82 M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated Responsibility 2011 | 69 Indicator Economic indicators GRI:EU12 Transmission and distribution efficiency Loss in electricity distribution networks Unit Method 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 The electricity loss in transmission and distribution reflects the efficiency associated with the operation of the Distribution loss % m 4 4 4 4 4 networks. It is important to operate with high efficiency M = Measured, C=Calculated, E=Estimated for both financial and environmental reasons. DONG Energy only operates distribution networks. Calculation of distribution loss Distribution network efficiency is calculated as gross deliveries divided by net deliveries of electricity (incl. loss). No distinction is made between technical and nontechnical losses in this connection. Assurance Statement Responsibility 2011 | 70 Independent auditor’s Assurance Statement for The obtained assurance is limited as our engagement has been GRI G3.0, application level B+, including the Electric Utilities DONG Energy’s stakeholders limited compared to an audit engagement. Based on an assessSector Supplement. ment of materiality and risk, our work has first and foremost We have reviewed DONG Energy’s non-financial statements for comprised inquiries regarding applied instructions, registraWe have furthermore assessed if, and can confirm that DONG En2011 for the purpose of expressing a conclusion on CSR data. tion and reporting systems, procedures with focus on internal ergy in its reporting complies with the requirements for presentcontrols, auditing analyses of the data basis used to prepare the ing a social responsibility statement as set out in section 99 a of Criteria used to prepare the non-financial statenon-financial statements, sample testing of data and underlying the Danish Financial Statements Act. ments documentation, including visits at selected local entities, and control of compliance with the description of accounting policies Copenhagen, 9 March 2011 The criteria used to prepare the non-financial statements are set for the 2011 non-financial statements. out in the description of accounting policies on pages 152-155 PricewaterhouseCoopers in the Annual Report. These contain information on which of the Conclusion Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Group’s business areas and activities are included in the reporting and Management’s reasons for choosing the data included. Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention causing us Data are recognised in accordance with the description of applied to believe that the CSR data presented on page 6 of the Group accounting policies for non-financial data. Annual Report and the Annual Report for 2011 have not been recognised in accordance with the criteria used to prepare the Mogens Nørgaard Mogensen Fin T. Nielsen Responsibilities non-financial statements. State Authorised State Authorised Public Accountant Public Accountant Company Management is responsible for preparing the nonSpecial statement on reporting in accordance with GRI’s financial statements, including for establishing registration and Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and opinion on social internal control systems with a view to ensuring a reliable reportresponsibility statement ing basis, specifying acceptable reporting criteria and choosing data to be collected. Based on our review, it is our responsibility We have assessed the extent to which DONG Energy has applied to express a conclusion on the CSR data in the non-financial GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G3.0), application statements. level B+, including Electric Utilities Sector Supplement, for the financial year 2011. Our work has primarily comprised a review Scope of the documentation presented, including chosen inquiries and sample testing of information and data, to determine whether the We have planned and performed our work in accordance with the documentation meets the requirements of GRI G3.0. Based on international standard on assurance engagements ISAE 3000 our work, nothing has come to our attention contradicting DONG (assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historiEnergy’s self assessment of the extent to which it in its reporting cal financial information) for the purpose of obtaining limited complies with GRI G3.0, including the Electric Utilities Sector assurance that the CSR data presented on page 6 have been Supplement. We are thus able to state that nothing has come to recognised in accordance with the criteria used to prepare the our attention causing us to believe that DONG Energy has not non-financial statements. reported in a reasonable and balanced manner in accordance with Compilation method overview Responsibility 2011 | 71 GRI:2.8/EU2 Production comprises the volume of energy supplied by the production waste at power stations. In that connection, half of the electricity and heat assets in which DONG Energy has an ownership interest. For jointly generated from waste is recognised as green, while the other half is controlled entities, production is recognised in proportion to the legal recognised as fossil. The proportion of generation from power stations that ownership interest. is based on biomass and waste is calculated as the ratio of the energy content of the fuels concerned to the total energy content of the fuels used Electricity generation has largely been measured as net output sold based at each plant. To allow a compilation of generation at power stations that on settlements from the official Danish production database, Panda. Data on generate both electricity and heat, and for the Group as a whole, heat generation from foreign, non-operated renewable energy facilities are generation is converted to equivalent electricity generation, i.e. the provided by the operators. For the hydroelectric station Indalselven, the electricity that could have been generated if the power station(s) had not ownership interest has been converted to an annual withdrawal right from been generating heat. the plant, and the reporting is consequently based on annual withdrawals and not on consolidation principles for accounting purposes. Natural gas and oil production is measured on the basis of meter readings on delivery to shore. Heat generation is compiled as net output sold. Heat generation from renewable sources is measured on the basis of monthly heat withdrawals Residual products comprise the annual volume of products generated and from geothermal water. The Margretheholmen geothermal plant is not are measured using plant-specific compilation methods. For each type of recognised, as DONG Energy does not have a share in the production, but residual product, the recycling rate is also measured. The recycling rate is instead owns the substrata in which the facility lies. measured as the ratio of recycled residual products to the sum of recycled residual products and residual products taken to landfill. The green proportion of electricity and heat generation is measured as generation from renewable energy, including generation from biomass and GRI:EU1 DONG Energy’s thermal capacity is made up of central and small-scale power stations and waste-fired facilities. Renewable capacity is made up of DONG Energy’s onshore and offshore wind farms and its stakes in hydro electric stations and geothermal plants. GRI:EU3 Number of customers DONG Energy has end customers in Denmark, the Netherlands and Sweden. In Denmark and the Netherlands, we sell both electricity and gas directly to end users, whereas our Swedish subsidiaries only sell to wholesale and major customers. In Denmark, electricity and gas customers are measured as the number of supply points. In Sweden, the number of customers is calculated as business-to-business (B2B) customers, i.e. wholesale and industrial customers. In the Netherlands, the number of customers is calculated as the number of grid connections. Compilation method overview Responsibility 2011 | 72 GRI: Consumption of raw materials Recycled input materials translated into usage of these sources based on knowledge of the composiAccording to the GRI definition, materials used comprise raw materials, DONG Energy classifies domestic and industrial waste used as fuel at waste tion of the electricity and heat sources in the regions in which DONG Energy EN1/EN2/ associated process materials and packaging materials used in manufacturincineration plants as recycled input materials. Waste incinerated at waste has activities. The translation into primary sources is only carried out for EN3/EN4 ing the company’s products. incineration plants is recycled material that replaces other raw materials in administration and facilities that do not generate electricity and heat, as the the generation of electricity and heat. Waste incineration is not considered resource usage for electricity and heat generation is included in the direct The GRI distinction between direct and indirect material consumption, to be recovery as defined in the Danish Executive Order on Waste Manageconsumption of raw materials. according to which direct consumption is defined as the use of materials that ment. However, as waste generation generates energy that has first priority are part of the final product, is not applied, as this would not make sense in in the grid, it replaces the potential consumption of other sources of energy, In the preparation of a breakdown of electricity consumption in Denmark relation to DONG Energy’s products. DONG Energy distinguishes between such as coal, oil and gas. This is normally called recovery of waste. Therefore, by primary energy source, the electricity declarations for East and West the consumption of raw materials, i.e. energy resources, including biomass DONG Energy considers recovery of waste as the most significant contriDenmark from Energinet.dk are used. As Energinet.dk’s declaration for 2011 and waste incinerated to generate electricity and heat, and the consumption bution in terms of reporting on the GRI indicator. The purpose of the GRI was not available in time for inclusion in this reporting, the declarations of associated process materials, i.e. chemicals. With respect to the indicator is to show the extent to which the enterprise seeks to avoid the use from 2010 have been applied. This also applies to previous years. If there is consumption of natural gas, flaring and venting carried out for safety or of virgin natural resources. The level of recycling in DONG Energy has been a specific composition of electricity supply sources for a location, a specific similar purposes are reported in addition to total consumption. Venting does calculated on the basis of the consumption of raw materials and not the total declaration suitable for that location is used. This applies, for instance, not include natural gas emitted to the atmosphere through pipes opened in consumption of materials (raw materials and chemicals). to locations that use ‘Natural Power’ (“Naturstrøm”), which is generated connection with maintenance work etc., because such venting is deemed to exclusively from wind energy. be negligible. The volume of recycled raw materials has been calculated as total waste in relation to total consumption of raw materials by weight. For 2006 and In the preparation of a breakdown by primary energy source for heat Total consumption of fossil raw materials is calculated as the sum of coal, 2007, landfill gas consumed as raw material was also included as a recycled consumption and electricity consumption outside Denmark, 2007 statistics oil, natural gas and refinery gas consumption based on energy content. raw material. from the International Energy Agency (IEA) are used. For oil and gas production, the consumption of raw materials is calculated Energy consumption The volume of fossil energy sources is calculated as the consumption of coal, either as the fired volumes of natural gas, the amount of diesel oil supplied DONG Energy buys, sells and generates primary energy. DONG Energy’s oil and natural gas, excluding consumption relating to transportation. to a platform or the volume of natural gas flaring measured ultrasonically. total direct energy consumption equals the energy purchased and generated less the amount of energy sold on. DONG Energy primarily uses direct The volume of renewable energy sources is calculated as the share of fuels For power stations, consumption is, as a main rule, determined as energy for generating electricity and heat. The consumption of direct energy burned at CHP plants that are considered to be CO2-neutral. This includes incinerated volume. Some facilities calculate biomass and waste as therefore depends on consumer demand for electricity and heat. The biomass and waste that are considered to be CO2-neutral under the Danish materials supplied to the plant. The calculation principles for the power interesting aspect in relation to direct energy consumption is the ratio CO2 Allowances Act. stations have been approved by the Danish tax authorities and thus cover between renewable and fossil energy sources and thus the focus on more most of the consumption. The amount of renewable energy sources is sustainable energy consumption. DONG Energy’s indirect energy consumption is calculated as electricity and calculated as the share of fuels burned at CHP plants that are considered to heat consumption in administration buildings, at pumping stations, gas be CO2-neutrale. This includes biomass and waste that are considered to be The consumption of energy (electricity and heat) at power stations is installations, etc., i.e. the electricity consumption we purchase from the grid. CO2-neutral under the Danish CO2 Allowances Act. calculated based on technical readings. Consumption of electricity and heat in administration buildings and at For gas distribution, the consumption of natural gas is calculated based on The consumption of electricity in the power distribution operations is facilities that do not generate electricity and/or heat is calculated and meter readings. Gas flaring volumes are calculated based on pressure and calculated based on the Danish public meter reading system, Elvis, at the translated into primary energy sources (coal, oil, gas, biomass, biogas, dimension of the emptied process plant. facilities where meters have been installed. For meter and regulator stations waste, wind, hydro, solar, nuclear power or other). in the gas distribution network, a very loose estimate is provided. For consumption related to administration and other processes, DONG Energy calculates direct consumption on the basis of settlements. For the remainder of DONG Energy, direct consumption is calculated based on settlements. Consumption of associated process materials is not calculated, as it is not currently possible to determine the consumption of chemicals at group level. To illustrate what electricity and heat consumption entails in terms of usage The volumes of associated process materials are therefore not included in of primary energy sources, including renewable sources, consumption is the Group’s overall reporting of responsibility data. Compilation method overview Responsibility 2011 | 73 GRI:EN5/EN18 Energy savings due to process redesign, conversion and retrofitting of Research Institute in Denmark (DMU) for stationary sources. Data are equipment and changes in personnel behaviour are all included, whereas compiled based on savings in the consumption of natural gas and oil reduced energy consumption due to lower production or due to outsourcing products. This means that the same conversion factors are used as for are not included in the report. emissions to air in general. DONG Energy undertakes extensive conversion and process redesign at its For electricity and heat savings, only the reduction in CO2 emissions is locations, with improvements in energy efficiency being an added bonus that calculated, using centrally defined standard factors for all non-electricity is not focused on in the conversion projects. These are not included in this and non-heat-generating plants. For electricity and heat-generating plants, reporting, as they are too complex to compile data for. savings are computed based on specific emissions for the specific plant’s generation. Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from processes at offshore oil and gas production installations, electricity and gas distribution, etc., are determined using emissions factors from the National Environmental GRI:EN8/EN21 For most locations, water consumption and wastewater discharge are When oil is extracted on offshore production platforms, significant volumes reported based on meter readings and calculations. of water are produced along with the oil. This so-called produced water is not consumed, but, after cleaning, is discharged to sea or reinjected into the For offshore operations, water is loaded directly at the docks. This reservoir. Produced water is therefore not included in water consumption, consumption is not measured. For facilities, wastewater discharges are but is calculated as wastewater discharge. recorded based on meter readings or, where wastewater is removed by road tanker, based on invoices. For offices and warehouses, wastewater Oil discharged with produced water is calculated for DONG Energy-operated discharges are deemed to be equivalent to water consumption. installations on the basis of three daily random samples that are analysed for oil content and one sample every 24 hours based on ballast water. The oil For DONG Energy, groundwater consumption from facilities and content of produced water containing oil residues discharged to sea does administration is measured based on whether the withdrawal is direct (from not exceed 30 mg oil/litre on average per month. Reinjection of produced own source) or indirect (from waterworks), as this total reflects the impact water is determined on the basis of pump capacity, pressure and time. on drinking water resources. Other forms of water consumption, such as Reinjection of natural gas is measured using daily flow measurements. cooling water and rainwater, are not calculated, as they are considered to be less significant. Waste water from DONG Energy’s administration buildings in Denmark is of a quality similar to ordinary domestic waste water and is received by public The power stations use large volumes of water, partly for cooling water. The treatment plants. No overall figure for this is available, but the volume is cooling water is ’borrowed’ from lakes, streams or the sea and circulated presumed to equal the volume of water used in administration buildings. through closed systems at the power stations, after which it is discharged. A statement of water consumption and wastewater discharges is given in the Any temperature increases in the recipient after circulation are officially table below. regulated and subject to control. The water consumption from direct withdrawal, e.g. at electricity and heat-generating plants is officially regulated through permits. Compilation method overview Responsibility 2011 | 74 NOx og SO2 Carbon dioxide CO2 – EU ETS CO2 emissions This applies to, for example, locations that use ‘Natural Power’ Other emissions CO2 emissions are calculated for facilities that are subject to CO2 allowances (“Naturstrøm”), which is generated exclusively from wind energy. For power stations, a number of significant emissions of trace elements and and for which DONG Energy has the operator ownership in accordance with metals are calculated using a model developed by DONG Energy. Emissions the approved monitoring plans. For Danish locations, CO2 emissions from heat consumption are determined of other greenhouse gases are also calculated for power stations, using using the Danish Energy Agency’s standard factor for emissions from heat. DMU’s standard factors. Carbon dioxide CO2 – non-EU ETS CO2 emissions As the report for 2011 had also not been published in time for inclusion in Non-EU ETS CO2 emissions from processes at offshore oil and gas production this report, 2010 has been used instead. The same ’displacement’ applies to Emissions of methane (CH4) and other volatile organic compounds (NMVOC) installations, electricity and gas distribution, etc., are determined using previous years. from processes at offshore oil and gas production installations, electricity emissions factors from the National Environmental Research Institute in and gas distribution, etc., are determined using emissions factors from the Denmark (DMU) for stationary sources, as the International Association of For locations outside Denmark, country-specific emission factors from the National Environmental Research Institute in Denmark (DMU) for stationary Oil & Gas Producers (OGP) has recalled the sector-specific emission factors IEA’s report on CO2 emissions from fuel consumption 2009 have been used. sources, as the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (OGP) has previously used. Data are based on the consumption of natural gas and oil recalled the previously used sector-specific emission factors. Data are based products. Nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulphur oxide (SO2) on the consumption of natural gas and oil products. For power stations, emissions are mainly determined on the basis of CO2 emissions from electricity and heat consumption are reported continuous measurements. A few plants use plant-specific emission factors SF6 gas used in the electricity distribution network is calculated on filling as separately from direct emissions as indirect CO2 emissions. to calculate emissions. discharged emissions. For Danish locations, CO2 emissions from electricity consumption are NOx emissions and SO2 emissions from processes at offshore oil and gas Fugitive emissions from, for example, coal bunkers, are not included, as determined using Energinet.dk’s electricity declaration for Denmark. As production installations, electricity and gas distribution, etc., are determined such emissions are considered to be less significant. According to the IPCC Energinet.dk’s declaration for 2011 was not available in time for inclusion in using emission factors from the National Environmental Research Institute guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, fugitive emissions of this reporting, the declarations from 2010 have been applied. The same in Denmark (DMU) for stationary sources, as the International Association of methane from stocks of coal should be included in the country in which the ‘displacement’ applies to previous years. If there is a specific electricity Oil & Gas Producers (OGP) has recalled the previously used sector-specific mining takes place. Therefore, they are not relevant to DONG Energy, as the composition for a location, the specific declaration for that location is used. emission factors. Data are based on the consumption of natural gas and oil company’s activities do not include mining. However, fugitive emissions of products. methane and NMVOC from oil tanks at Fredericia crude oil terminal are included, as DONG Energy regards these emissions as significant. GRI:EN22/EN24 Waste is determined on the basis of invoices received and unloading lists from waste recipients or using plant-specific measuring methods. For power stations, the reporting also includes projects at facilities, as waste data from projects form part of the overall waste data for the plants. For offshore installations, waste data are only reported for installations operated by DONG Energy. GRI:EU11 Generation efficiency is calculated as total efficiency for electricity and heat generation at the power stations. Efficiency is calculated as the ratio of electricity and heat generated to the energy content of the fuels consumed. The waste-fired plants are included in the figures for small-scale plants in the table above. Responsibility 2011 | 75 DONG Energy A/S Kraftværksvej 53 7000 Fredericia
